FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 2 Table of Contents In brief 49 Corporate finances, financing and risk management 4 Contents of the annual report and reporting 58 Power system principles 64 Electricity market 5 Review of the CEO 70 Grid development and maintenance 7 Fingrid in brief 76 Environment 9 Power transmission grid 79 Research, development and innovation Strategy and Management System GRI index 12 Operating Environment Governance Climate change and transformation of the energy system 110 Board of Directors Security of energy supply and electricity dependency 115 Executive management group Globalisation and sustainability 121 Corporate Governance Statement Digitalisation 1. General 18 Stakeholder co-operation 2. Description of Fingrid’s administrative bodies 21 Mission and business model 3. General meeting 22 Strategy 4. Board of Directors Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators 5. Board committees Management system 6. President & CEO 35 Personnel 7. Company management 40 Corporate responsibility 8. Advisory committee 9. Internal control and risk management Business operations 10. Financial audit and internal audit 11. Related party transactions 44 Customers 12. Main procedures relating to insider Customer committees and Advisory administration Committee Remuneration statement 145 Stock exchange releases 2016 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 3 Annual Review 3.4 Revenue-related receivables and credit risk management 146 1 Annual Review 3.5 Operating expenses, liabilities and credit risk management for purchases 1.1.1 Financial result 3.6 Inventories 1.1.2 Capital expenditure 3.7 Management of electricity price and 1.1.3 Power system volume risk and commodity risks 1.1.4 Electricity market 3.8 Personnel the cornerstone of our 1.1.5 Financing operations 1.1.6 Share capital 3.9 Taxes 1.1.7 Personnel and remuneration systems 209 4 Long-term Investor 1.1.8 Board of Directors and corporate 4.1 Grid assets management 4.2 Tangible and intangible assets 1.1.9 Internal control and risk management 4.3 Lease agreements 1.1.10 Foremost risks and uncertainty 222 5 Strong Financial Position factors for society and Fingrid 5.1 Capital management 1.1.11 Corporate responsibility 5.2 The aims and organisation of financing 1.1.12 Environmental matters activities and the principles for financial 1.1.13 Legal proceedings and proceedings risk management by authorities 5.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and 1.1.14 Events after the review period and managing the financial risks of liabilities estimate of future outlook 5.4 Cash and cash equivalents and other 1.1.15 Board of Directors’ proposal for the financial assets distribution of profit 5.5 Equity and dividend distribution 1.1.16 Annual General Meeting 2017 5.6 Summary of financial assets, financial 1.2 Consolidated Key Figures liabilities and derivatives 174 2 Consolidated Financial Statements (IFRS) 249 6 Other Information 2.1 Income statement 6.1 Group companies and related parties 2.2 Consolidated balance sheet 6.2 Other notes 2.3 Consolidated statement of changes in 258 7 Parent company financial statements (FAS) equity 7.1 Parent company income statement 2.4 Consolidated cash flow statement 7.2 Parent company balance sheet 187 3 Benchmark for TSO Operations 7.3 Parent company cash flow statement 3.1 General information about the Group 7.4 Notes to the financial statements of and general accounting principles parent company 3.2 The company's general risk 293 8 Signatures for the Annual Review and for management processes and policies the Financial Statements 3.3 Formation of turnover and financial result This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / IN BRIEF 4 Contents of the annual report and reporting principles Fingrid’s annual report for 2016 will be published in Standards Board concerning the preparation of electronic format on the company’s website. The annual reviews. The environmental data is collected annual report also includes Fingrid’s corporate from the information reported to the authorities and responsibility reporting and the corporate from our own data collection systems. An external governance statement. emissions trading verifier has verified the company’s carbon dioxide emission report. Fingrid draws up the consolidated financial statements and interim reports in accordance with Corporate responsibility reporting focusses on the IFRS reporting standards accepted by the European main economic, social and environmental impacts of Union and in accordance with the Finnish Securities Fingrid Group’s operations. In its reporting, Fingrid Market Act. The consolidated financial statements applies the international GRI G4 (Global Reporting include the parent company Fingrid Oyj and its Initiative, Core) reporting guidelines such that wholly owned subsidiaries Finextra Oy and Fingrid standard disclosures required by the guidelines and Datahub Oy. The consolidated associated indicators required by sector disclosures for the companies are Nord Pool AS (ownership 18.8%) and energy industry are reported. The boundaries of the eSett Oy (ownership 33.3%). The annual review and social and environmental data do not include the the financial statements of the Group’s parent associated companies. The reported data is company and its subsidiaries are prepared in compiled in a GRI Content Index. Requirements for accordance with the Finnish Accounting Act and the corporate responsibility reporting by state-owned guidelines and statements of the Finnish Accounting companies are also taken into account. The annual Standards Board. The information on personnel is report stands for a Communication on Progress based on the calculation systems used by human (COP) report in compliance with the UN’s Global resources management, and the calculation of the Compact initiative. relevant information is in compliance with the general guidelines of the Finnish Accounting This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / IN BRIEF 5 Review of the CEO Major steps towards a new rapid changes in the production or consumption of electricity, even within seconds. energy system Fingrid plays an active part in this development. The journey towards a new, more electricityPilot schemes are rapidly advancing to practical, dominated energy system continues to gain commercial solutions. Roughly half of our new momentum. During 2016, two important records frequency controlled reserves for disturbances were broken in the Finnish electricity system. In come from demand side management and the other early January, the consumption of electricity half from electricity production. This doubles the throughout Finland reached the level of 15,100 amount of demand side management compared megawatts. with the previous year. We seek to promote consumers possibilities to actively participate in the Another national record was broken in August, when electricity market by developing a real-time market, the production of wind power in Finland exceeded by building the datahub to support the markets and 1,200 megawatts. Later in the year, it even reached by actively participating in the work of the national 1,300 megawatts. This is concrete proof of how smart grid working group. wind power is gaining importance in our power system. Wind forecasts are an increasingly Fingrid has carried out capital investments at a brisk important daily tool for Fingrids control room. pace. In 2016 we had 27 substation and 13 transmission line projects underway. It is an All in all, 2016 was a very busy and successful year indication of the organisations excellent capabilities for us. System security of the transmission grid that all the projects have progressed according to stayed at an excellent level. We also succeeded in the set schedules and budget. Furthermore, we serving the electricity market by securing the have maintained excellent cost effectiveness, as efficient use of transmission capacity. Power flowed proven by the great results in international freely from one country to another, driven by price benchmarking studies. The flagship of our capital signals. We have made major efforts to improve the investments is the 400 kilovolt Coastal Power Line reliability of cross-border transmission connections, from Pori to Oulu, Fingrids all-time biggest and now this work is bearing fruit. The number of investment, costing EUR 260 million and completed disruptions was decreased significantly and they are at the end of the year. This transmission connection also shorter. will play a key role when building up a more environmentally sustainable power system not just We have put forth ideas about how to control the in Finland, but in all of the Baltic Sea area. The next future power system. We are strong proponents of a mega project is already ahead of us: in late 2016 we market-based system, and we believe the best agreed with our Swedish colleagues on building an solutions will be found when the operators, driven AC transmission connection between our countries. by market prices, can make decisions based on their This is a project of great national importance. own priorities. Demand side management is one area where answers are being sought to respond to Transitioning to the new energy system of the future requires international cooperation, where the overall This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / IN BRIEF 6 rules are being laid down in Brussels. Concrete cowhole. Fingrid celebrated its 20th anniversary with operation with the other Nordic countries and the our customers in September. To mark the Baltics is reflected daily in our operations. Even if anniversary, our visual image received a facelift to there are bumps in the road at times, the communicate openness, activeness and a modern collaboration constantly produces new solutions feel. Judging by the feedback we have received, it that help to maintain high levels of system security can be said that our clients are as happy as ever and promote well-functioning markets. In the Baltic with our operations and we enjoy their continued Sea region, this has for some time been based on trust. At the same time, the expectations placed on close inter-TSO co-operation. In future, political us and our services are becoming increasingly decision makers should bear their responsibility for demanding. We are happy to accept this challenge this work better. as part of our own development work. In future, you will be served by Fingrid personnel with even more In a changing and increasingly global operating insight into customers needs and a strong drive to environment, the sustainability of TSO operations is find new solutions. crucial. Our commitment to the UNs Global Compact initiative in 2016 is a testimony to how Fingrid delivers – now and into the future. important sustainability and transparency are to Responsibly. Fingrid. We implement our strategy in strict compliance with the principles of corporate Jukka Ruusunen sustainability. President & CEO Our finances are in good shape, despite significant capital expenditure and operational development in recent years. Fingrids profitability was stronger than projected. The consolidated turnover amounted to EUR 586.1 (600.2) million and profit for the financial period to EUR 138.7 (103.6) million. The financial result was positively impacted by raises in grid pricing, increased consumption of electricity and cross-border transmission as well as decreased loss power and reserve costs. Nevertheless, we have never forgotten that Fingrid exists for our customers and for Finnish society as a This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / IN BRIEF 7 Fingrid in brief • Fingrid Oyj is a Finnish public limited company electricity transmission system and for responsible for electricity transmission in the maintaining and developing the system. The high-voltage transmission system in Finland. company also participates in the work of • Fingrids nationwide grid is an integral part of the ENTSO-E, the European Network of power system in Finland. The main grid is the Transmission System Operators for Electricity, high-voltage trunk network that covers all of and in preparing European network codes and Finland. Major power plants, industrial plants network planning. The Nordic TSOs additionally and electricity distribution networks are have an unofficial co-operation forum called the connected to the grid. Nordic CEO meeting. • Fingrid guarantees a disturbance-free electricity • Fingrid develops new services to improve market supply in Finland. Fingrid ensures that the efficiency. In spring 2015, Fingrid launched a generation and consumption of electricity are project that will centralise information exchange always in balance and will build some 2,500 between electricity retail sellers and TSOs into kilometres of new transmission lines and eight one service, called the datahub. The project also substations between 2017 and 2026. aims to clarify and enhance the business • Fingrids customers include grid companies, processes of electricity retail markets. electricity producers, electricity consumers and • Fingrid is owned by the State of Finland (direct electricity market parties. The company provides holding 28.2%), the National Emergency Supply these groups with various services, such as Agency (24.9%), Aino Holding Ky (26.4%), connecting consumption and production to the Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company main grid, transmission system security, (19.9%) and other institutional investors (0.6%). imbalance power trade and imbalance Aino Holding Ky is owned by OP Insurance and settlement, well-functioning electricity markets, pension entities (Pohjola Insurance Ltd, OP Life the production and exchange of electricity Assurance Ltd., OP Pension Fund and OP market information, and guarantee-of-origin Pension Foundation), the State Pension Fund certificates. and Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company. • The Finnish power system is part of the common • The company was established on 29th Nordic power system. The Nordic system is November 1996. connected to the system in Central Europe via • Operations started on 1st September 1997. high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission • Turnover EUR 586 (600) million. links. Finland also has HVDC links with Russia • Balance sheet total EUR 2.1 (2.1) billion. and Estonia. • The bonds issued by Fingrid in the capital • The transmission system owned by Fingrid markets are listed on the London Stock encompasses approx. 14,600 kilometres of 400, Exchange. 220 and 110 kilovolt transmission lines, plus 118 • Fingrid owns 18.8 per cent of electricity substations, four HVDC connections and 10 of exchange Nord Pool AS. the companys own reserve power plants. • Fingrid owns the balance services company • Fingrid is responsible for planning and eSett Oy together with Statnett and Svenska monitoring the operation of the Finnish Kraftnät. The company will offer imbalance This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / IN BRIEF 8 settlement services to parties on the Finnish, Nordic RSC (Regional Security Coordination), in Norwegian and Swedish electricity markets as of Copenhagen, Denmark in late 2017. spring 2017. • Number of personnel at year-end: 334 (315), • The Finnish, Swedish, Norwegian and Danish with 291 (280) permanent employees. TSOs have decided to establish an organisation • Fingrid is headquartered in Helsinki, and the in charge of joint Nordic operational planning, company also has offices in Hämeenlinna, Oulu, Petäjävesi, Rovaniemi and Varkaus. Fingrid Oyj, organisation This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / IN BRIEF 9 Power transmission grid This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / IN BRIEF 10 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / IN BRIEF 11 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 12 Climate change and transformation of the energy system Greenhouse gas emissions must be rigorously and develop new forms of technology in the areas limited through global measures. The EU’s energy of, for instance, electricity storage, low-emissions and climate policy, which is effective until 2030, is production and emissions sequestration. The based on significant reduction targets for emissions, growth of renewable energy will bring new operators an increase in the share of renewable energy, and an into the market. With the increase of decentralised improvement in energy efficiency. The climate production, the role of distribution network agreement concluded in Paris is seen as a companies will grow in controlling the system. Cobreakthrough in abating climate change. The energy operation between TSOs and distribution network industry plays a key role in combatting climate companies will be increasingly important in future. change. The transformation in the structure of electricity The structure of electricity production will change generation due to efforts to mitigate climate change as the share of renewable energy grows and will result in a scarcity of power, flexibility and adjustable fossil-fuel condensing power production system inertia (the force that keeps the power decreases. Balancing supply and demand will be a system from disintegrating and evens out rapid challenge as condensing power declines, since its fluctuations in the system). The significance of replacement power sources – wind and solar – do demand-side management is increasing. Storms not react to market price signals. Various national intensified by climate change may cause widespread subsidy mechanisms will disrupt the operations of and sustained damage to electrical networks. This the European electricity market. requires a high level of preparedness from Fingrid, as part of continuity management. Clean energy technology is globally one of the fastest growing industries. The target of a carbonneutral society introduces opportunities to invest in This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 13 Security of energy supply and electricity dependency Growth in electricity consumption is projected to be Grid development takes place as a collaborative moderate in the Nordic countries. Consumption is effort in the Baltic Sea region, and transmission growing in services and households. The availability connections to northern continental Europe are and affordability of electricity is extremely important being reinforced, which increasingly integrates the for energy-intensive industries. Nordic countries with the rest of Europe. More than half of the energy consumed in the In addition to the increasing risks linked with the European Union comes from imported sources. The changing structure of power generation, society’s main themes of the EU’s Energy Security Strategy capability to sustain disturbances in the supply of are the diversification of external energy supply, electricity is decreasing. Severe disturbances in the improvement of the energy market design, power system are among the most serious security completion of the internal energy market, and threats to a modern society. Even in this respect, energy savings. The EU member states each have transmission system operators (TSOs) are expected their own energy strategies, with the starting points to co-operate closely across national borders. being their national targets pertaining to the climate, competitiveness and self-reliance. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 14 Globalisation and sustainability China is becoming the worlds largest economy and of the workforce makes energy companies Asia the most important economic area in the world. international players. Political and economic power is shifting from the West to the East, and from North to South. Europes The global financial market offers a well-managed relative competitiveness is weak, which poses a company with a high credit rating good threat to the implementation of climate and energy opportunities for flexible and affordable financing. policies dependent on capital investments. On the Instability in the financial markets, particularly in the other hand, the EU has successfully created the euro zone, continues, and global volatility is also worlds largest electricity market. affecting Finland. Regulations concerning corporate finance and social corporate responsibility are Major climate and energy programmes will attract increasing on both a national and global scale. more operators in the equipment and contractual Transparency is more and more important, market from outside of Europe. Global sourcing environmental awareness continues to grow in means longer international supply chains and importance, and environmental regulation becomes increasing sustainability requirements. The mobility ever more stringent. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 15 Megatrends and key issues for Fingrid's operations and the areas affected This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 16 Digitalisation According to some estimates, by the end of the Digitalisation brings opportunities to improve the current decade, seven billion individual devices and profitability of operations and creates a wide range 30 billion industrial, logistics and monitoring and of new e-services. As retail markets become control system devices will be connected via the digitalised, the need to compile and transfer internet. The internet that previously connected measurement and control data for consumer-based people to each other and to services is becoming decentralised production and consumption will grow the internet of everything. significantly. Growing solar power and other modes of decentralised small-scale production and Mobile-integrated, deviceand individual-based consumption will become an essential tool in power information technology is changing peoples day-tobalance regulation. This, combined with the smart day lives, corporate management and business grid technologies enabled by digitalisation, will give models. Digitalisation is changing the nature of work rise to new business models. On the other hand, and enhancing the efficiency of data acquisition and business continuity is increasingly dependent on ITC processing. Digital production processes are systems and requires constant vigilance in replacing human workforce in people-dominated combatting cyber threats, as well as comprehensive industries. data security solutions. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 17 Fingrid's role from electricity production to consumption This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 18 Stakeholder co-operation We maintain daily contact with our stakeholders, particularly important for Fingrids suppliers. Land and being open to their expectations is an essential owners and people living close to our transmission part of our sustainability approach. The operations lines expect us to operate sustainably as regards of a transmission system operator are bound to land use and environmental issues. affect several third parties. Customers and Finnish society as a whole expect Fingrid to secure a In our stakeholder engagement, we operate openly, reliable supply of electricity and to enable a wellhonestly and equally. An appointed executive is in functioning electricity market. Our customers charge of our customer perspective, and the heads expect affordable services that meet their needs. of functions oversee stakeholder activities within The key issues for Fingrids owners include their own areas of responsibility. We engage in corporate responsibility, cost-effectiveness and dialogue, regularly survey the opinions of our shareholder value. Our personnel values equal stakeholders and publish material on our operations treatment, the well-being of the work community, as openly as possible for all to see. occupational safety and opportunities for developing their expertise. Occupational safety is This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 19 Fingrid's key stakeholders and channels of engagement This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 20 Fingrid's vision and values The task of a transmission system operator is to work for the benefit of its customers and society. Fingrids vision is to be a forerunner in transmission system operation on the increasingly international electricity market. Our corporate values – transparency, impartiality, efficiency and responsibility – guide our practical operations and choices every day. Fingrid delivers. Responsibly. To be a forerunner in transmission system operation (Vision) Transparency, Impartiality, Efficiency, Responsibility in all our operations (Values) Our way of working We set ambitious goals for our operations. Our corporate culture is open, collaborative, renewing and target-oriented and complies with good governance practices. We develop our operations in a balanced way and with a long-term approach, from the perspectives of our customers, society, finances and personnel. We seek efficiency by combining our core expertise with that of the best operators in the industry. This is how we earn the trust of our customers, society, shareholders and the work community. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 21 Mission and business model Fingrid ensures disturbance-free availability of electricity in Finland now and in future. We are involved in developing Finnish society and the well-being of all citizens. We have a positive effect on the daily lives of Finns via our mission: to transmit electricity reliably, to actively promote the electricity market, and to develop the transmission system over the long term. Fingrid's business model This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 22 Strategy In preparing and executing Fingrids strategy, we • Managing system security requires proactive have examined the requirements set by our vision as and reliable electricity transmission. Our fairly as possible from four different perspectives. objective is to keep the nation powered and to Our organisation model is based on a matrix ensure that the consumption and production of structure which supports effective implementation electricity in Finlands power system is always and comprehensively engages the personnel. We balanced. We work around the clock, seven days set ambitious targets for everything we do. Our a week to ensure this. corporate culture is engaging and innovative and • We promote the functioning of the electricity target-oriented. We develop our operations in a market by taking active part in its maintenance balanced way and with a long-term approach, from and development. We strive to ensure adequate the perspective of our customers, finances, international transmission connections, we processes and personnel. We seek efficiency by provide sufficient information about the market combining our core expertise with that of the best and we manage balance services efficiently. We operators in the industry. This is how we earn the actively participate in the preparation and trust of our customers, society, shareholders and implementation of European grid legislation. We the work community. build functional wholesale and retail markets and develop real-time markets. Our customers and stakeholders expect us to • In order to ensure transmission capacity, our secure a reliable electricity supply for the nation, as goal is to make investments in the grid well as a well-functioning electricity market. We effectively and, from the perspective of the develop our services based on our customers needs, national economy, at the right time, and to look and at the same time we ensure affordable grid after the condition of the grid. We build and transmission pricing. We are an active maintain the grid safely and in a flexible manner communicator to our customers. in order to meet societys electricity production and consumption needs. Capital expenditure Fingrids financial management is based on the over the ten-year period of 2017–2026 will premise that we respond to the expectations of amount to approximately EUR 1 billion. society in the long term, that we operate cost• We develop our personnel and expertise to effectively and that we provide value to our owners. ensure that our work community is productive, We are a forerunner in transmission system innovative and healthy. An HR point of view is operation on the increasingly international included in the development and transformation electricity market. That means continuously of business operations, strategy and corporate developing our operations and our productivity. culture to ensure that the entire organisation Successful financing activities secures our capital bears its responsibility. We ensure the expertise investments and operational maintenance. and progress of personnel through clearly Our internal processes are described according to outlined managerial and expert career paths and Fingrids main duties. by developing know-how to support these. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 23 The perspectives of Fingrid's strategy Strategic projects • Smart grid solutions that promote retail markets and transmission reliability • Digitising business At the core of Fingrids strategy implementation are • Renewing Fingrids corporate culture the following multi-year, company-level strategic projects: Each strategic project is assigned a person responsible on the executive management group • Responding to the transformation of the Nordic level. We carry out strategic projects in the electricity system organisation as part of the annual action plan. The • Improving the reliability of cross-border Board of Directors and executive management connections group regularly monitors the progress of the • Implementing European network codes projects as part of its work. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 24 We have set key targets by identifying matters that environment and stakeholder analysis and on the are essential to Fingrids strategy and the companys strategy update. Fulfilment of the targets serves as basic operations. Any needs for updates to the the basis for executive managements and materiality analysis are assessed annually as part of personnels remuneration. the strategy process, based on an operating Strategy process, materiality analysis and target monitoring as an integrated whole This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 25 Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators = the set target was achieved / exceeded = close to the set target = below the set target level, but still a good result = below the set target, but result close to that of previous years = result clearly below the set target UN SustaiWhat are our Our target in nable DeHow did we do? targets in 2016 velopment 2017? Goals CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY Calculation Economic dimethod chansadvantage of Impact of disged due to redisturbances in The economic turbances on gulation, target the transmisdisadvantage the national less than EUR sion grid to was EUR 3.1 economy and 7.5 million; EUR customers less million. customers 3.5 million acc. than EUR 3.5 to the previous million. method. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 26 Target grade in The achieved Trust KPI in the Customers the customer grade customer surtrust in Fingrid survey 3.7 was 4.0. vey 4.0. (scale 1–5). ENTSO-E Overview of Transmission Tariffs in EuroFingrid ranked Target unchanTariff level pe: top three in 4th. ged. the benchmark group of 16 countries. FINANCES To maintain Fingrids credit Fingrids credit rating improTarget unchanCredit rating rating at least ved during ged. at the Alevel. 2016. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 27 Dividend incoDividend income in line with Dividend payme in line with Target unchanshareholders out capacity shareholders ged. targets was targets. achieved. To maintain the current solid Good cost-efcost-effectiveCost-effectivefectiveness Target unchanness and to ness was maintaiged. continuously ned. improve productivity. INTERNAL PROCESSES ImplementaImplementaThe capex tion of the caTarget unchantion of capital projects pital investged. investments proceeded on ment programThis PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 28 me concerning the transmission grid to support the Finnish climate schedule and and energy within budget. strategy: investment projects on schedule and within budget. The key electThe projects ricity market were impleThe grade for development mented mostly developing the Promoting the projects and on schedule, electricity marelectricity marservices deveand the key ket in the cusket loped were services met tomer survey realised as the quality was 3.8. planned. standards. Timing of outages in the transmission connections with Sweden to decrease the impact on the electricity market. Target: > 56%. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 29 No significant No significant deviations or deviations or problems in problems in Procurement contractor contractor Target unchanchain obligation or obligation or ged. employment employment relationship relationship matters. matters. LTIF less than 5 by the end of Occupational 2018 (both Target unchanLTIF was 8. safety Fingrid personged. nel and service providers). No significant One major enLand use and environmentvironment-reTarget unchanenvironment related devialated deviation ged. tions. occurred. The general General grade grade for the of ‘good’ in lanTarget unchanthree compledowner surged. ted transmisveys. sion line proThis PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 30 jects was around 4, i.e. ‘good’. Top three in inEfficiency in ternational maintenance benchmark Placed in the Target unchanand physical studies top three. ged. asset manage(ITOMS, ment ITAMS). System security: System Top three in inAverage Interternational Very close to Operational efruption Duraoperational placing in the ficiency tion Index in benchmark top three. connection studies. points less than 3 minutes. Sufficiency of the system reserves at least 99.99%. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 31 PERSONNEL AND EXPERTISE Top grade in The best graWorkplace atTarget unchanthe personnel de was achiemosphere ged. survey. ved. Great Place to Work Finland survey, general Target unchanLeadership series: Among No survey in 2016. ged. the top 10 (survey every two years). 100% of 96% of Grade ‘good’ Fingrid’s perFingrid’s perfor responsible Responsible sonnel has sonnel has operating metoperating metpassed the passed the hods in the hods Code of ConCode of Conpersonnel surduct online duct online vey. training. training. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 32 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 33 Management system The aim of Fingrid’s management and leadership is of responsibility and of implementing the action to implement the strategy approved by the Board of plans according to the business target set in the Directors and achieve the business goals effectively, strategy. responsibly and sustainably. Internal control procedures enforcing corporate governance are The heads of functions are in charge of ensuring applied in management and leadership. appropriate governance and decision-making procedures for their functions, as well as corporate responsibility, quality and cost effectiveness, Matrix correctness of the information required for monitoring the operations, controls, risks and Fingrid’s operations are managed in a matrix of four implementing practical risk management measures perspectives: customers & society, finances, internal in compliance with the principles of internal control processes, and personnel & expertise. The internal and risk management and Fingrid’s other guidelines. processes consist of: ensuring transmission capacity, managing system security and promoting the electricity market. Instruction system The target setting and operational control for each Fingrid’s instruction system is composed of three strategic perspective is managed by an owner levels: policies approved by the executive appointed by the President & CEO, supported by a management group specify the principles approved steering group approved by the executive by the Board of Directors and are complemented by management group. The perspective owner acts as the more detailed guidelines given by the chair of the steering group and rules over any perspectives and the business areas. necessary teams and working groups under the control of the steering group. The targets and guidelines for each perspective are based on Management principle Fingrid’s strategy and require the executive documents approved by management group’s approval. Fingrid’s Board: The perspective owner is responsible for all major cost, revenue and investment forecasts related to • Fingrid’s Code of Conduct the perspective, risk management, communications • Management principles and stakeholder relations as well as for ensuring the • Corporate Finance and Financing Principles quality and cost effectiveness of the IT system, • Internal control and risk management principles information management and business solutions • Main grid development and maintenance supporting the operations. management principles • Principles for managing system security Personnel is organised according to function such • Principles for promoting the electricity market that managers are in charge of the annual planning and budgeting of the tasks in their respective area This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 34 Key events of 2016 Fingrid among the top four in an energy industry brand ranking Corporate brands are a topic of increasing interest amid the transformation of the energy inustry. An international branding conference for the energy industry was arranged for the first time in Iceland during autumn 2016, where the industry’s top brands competed for CHARGE awards. Fingrid made it to the final stages and eventually ranked among the top four brands in the transmission and distribution category. The participating companies were assessed by various criteria in the CHARGE competition, including segmenting, uniqueness and business models. The candidates included both retailer companies engaged in direct trade with consumers and transmission and distribution companies. A total of 80 different brands from 20 countries were scrutinized. Of these, 15 were nominated in three categories (best energy brand, best green energy brand and best transmission or distribution brand). Fingrid was nominated in the ‘best transmission or distribution brand’ category. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 35 Personnel The leadership and development of Fingrids work atmosphere is open and engaging, and encourages community aim at an open, social, innovative and bold action, presenting new varied ideas and goal-oriented corporate culture. Considerable constructive feedback and improvement demands are placed on personnel in an expert suggestions. organisation, but on the other hand, people also have opportunities to take charge and accomplish In our work community management, we continued goals in an industry that has a major impact on to invest in the development of supervisors and Finnish society. Engaging and responsible leaders, for example by providing personal coaching leadership aims at increasing the skills of leaders and sparring and by creating default training paths and promoting self-management. for supervisors. Focal areas in the training of supervisors and leaders included change Fingrids human resource management is based on management & leadership as well as emotional the companys corporate values, management skills. A key area in 2016 in particular was the principles, HR policy and responsible operating development and self management of experts. The methods. The companys long-term HR approach entire expert staff completed so-called 270-degree incorporates the personnel perspective in a appraisals, which were used as a basis for personal balanced manner in the companys strategy and development plans. Personnel was also engaged in decision-making. Fingrid takes an engaging defining common rules for our work community: management approach in its flat matrix organisation what type of expert work people would like to do at in which a broad group of Fingrid employees are Fingrid and how everyone can develop further as a able to influence the strategy process. member of the work community. Fingrids corporate values were also updated during this process. A new HR policy was drawn up in autumn 2016. The Future updates will include the criteria of expert HR policy defines the principles for practical career paths to better comply with the demands of implementation of the personnel & expertise changing work life and our new work community perspective of the strategy in various areas of HR rules. management. Management and leadership in the work community aims at continuously improving Fingrids equal opportunity and non-discrimination Fingrids performance. Core tasks should be taken plans were updated jointly with personnel care of effectively and productively, while also representatives. The companys current status in finding new and better ways of working and equal opportunity and non-discrimination issues improving productivity. Talent management aims at and the corresponding plan and its implementation meeting any future challenges by setting learning are monitored annually during the HR reporting targets and by continuously developing a multiprocess. The surveys include various methods and skilled workforce. The management of workplace channels, such as workplace atmosphere wellbeing aims at creating a continuously selfquestionnaires, equal opportunity studies as well as renewing work community at Fingrid which offers feedback from management, supervisors and all meaningful jobs and ensures the safety and employees. wellbeing of its members. Fingrids workplace This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 36 Criteria of the Fingrid work community • I understand the importance of my work to the customer and society • I work as a part of the team – I value, help and support others • I take responsibility for my work, efficiency, innovation and achieving results • I actively share my knowledge and skills and communicate so that others can understand me • I am courageous and open to new ideas – I question the status quo and bring new solutions to the table • I give and accept feedback – in a constructive way Fingrids talent management efforts in 2016 included fitness and cultural events arranged by the continued investments in continuous learning and personnel association. Fingrids employees have competence development. Action was taken to access to a wide range of comprehensive support work rotation and several experts swapped occupational healthcare and well-being services their duties within the company. Good experiences that aim to support their work capacity and wellof peer interaction between supervisors encouraged being, regardless of the location. The starting point us to support mentoring among all other employee for well-being at work is to maintain the current groups as well. favourable situation. The number of absences due to illness has been remarkably low for many years Employees were offered joint training co-ordinated now, and the high age of retirement among the at the company level, such as language courses, and employees bears further testimony to their wellindividual proposals for supplementary training were being. As in previous years, the number of also welcomed. Several people completed occupational accidents at Fingrid remained low. A additional qualifications to enhance their expertise. total of 2 (7) accidents took place, neither of which Online training programmes were used throughout resulted in lost working time. Absences due to Fingrid on subjects such as data security and other accidents or illnesses accounted for 1 (2) per cent of security topics. The entire personnel received working time during the year. training on various IT systems and specialised tools. In 2016, each Fingrid employee received an average Open communication and personal interaction are of 36 (37) hours of training. Fingrids ongoing broad also part of supporting the well-being of personnel. and intensive projects also serve as training forums. A document management system was introduced to improve Fingrids information management and to Innovation activities became a more and more better facilitate knowledge sharing and the integrity integral part of Fingrids management system during of information. Fingrids entire workforce came 2016. An active innovation culture was promoted by together on two personnel days. One took place in encouraging all employees to actively participate in the spring and focused on physical well-being and these activities. Examples of this include six encouraged people to try new workouts, while in the brainstorming competitions to develop solutions for autumn we celebrated Fingrids 20th anniversary Fingrids key challenges and a virtual workshop and reminisced about the history of Finlands where all employees were able to contribute, transmission grid. The President & CEO additionally regardless of time and place, to the recognition and gave briefings at all of the companys business assessment of changes in Fingrids operating locations during the spring and autumn. environment. Fingrids personnel increased slightly during the year Workplace well-being was maintained through due to the companys new responsibilities and various campaigns and by supporting the physical growth in the volume of its operations. New This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 37 professionals were hired both in grid operation Towards a better working community business processes and in corporate administration. (ParTy) and PeoplePower key Various studies and surveys are carried out annually indicators to support the development of the work community, including regular personnel surveys to gauge the workplace atmosphere. In 2016, we chose to replace the previous method with the PeoplePower® concept by Corporate Spirit. We wanted a new survey partner in order to gain new insights into HR development in areas such as personnel commitment and motivation regarding both their jobs and the company. The excellent response rate of 93.2% indicates that Fingrids personnel is interested in actively contributing to the development of the operations. Indices from the personnel survey The results of Fingrids personnel survey score were significantly above the standard level in Finnish Picture: Fingrid scored significantly above the expert organisations in 2016. The PeoplePower® standard results in all the basic indices of the index for overall job satisfaction was at 80.9 (scale PeoplePower® survey. Indices of the personnel from 0 to 100) and the PeoplePower® rating was survey: personnel commitment, managerial work, AAA (excellent). Only around six per cent of all the performance, dedication and the PeoplePower® surveyed organisations annually achieve AAA, the index. highest rating. In order to attract new skilled employees, we took several measures to maintain and develop our employer image. For example, we invited for the first time ICT students to visit Fingrid and we participated in the Responsible Summer Job campaign competition, coming in fifth place this time. Fingrids recruiters made broad use of social media. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 38 Key events of 2016 Fingrid 20 years On the penultimate day of November 1996, Imatran Voima, Pohjolan Voima and the State of Finland signed the charter to found the transmission system operator. The deal signed on the last day of August in the following year, 1997, was the largest in Finnish history at that time. This is how Fingrid got its start. On 6th September 2016 Fingrid celebrated its 20 years of serving as a model of main grid operations. To mark the anniversary, Fingrid completely updated its visual image, replacing the electric blue with a dynamic red. The new logo helps us create a streamlined and consistent image for Fingrid. We want to be transparent, active and modern. The new visual design is a key component of Fingrids public image and communicates our trustworthiness, proficiency, co-operative spirit and capability to innovate. Dozens of young people got summer jobs at Fingrid The chilly and rainy summer of 2016 did not bother our young summer staff. We offered a wide range of demanding jobs to more than 40 students from various disciplines. The jobs attracted a great deal of interest: we received more than 1,400 applications. Nearly all our business locations throughout Finland and also all functions, from technical tasks to Group administration, had summer employees. Teens less than 18 years of age also had a chance to experience working life for two weeks at Fingrid. After a victorious 2015 in the Responsible Summer Job campaign, Fingrid scored well in a tough competition also in 2016, taking the fifth place. The young summer employees particularly appreciated Fingrids fairness as an employer: we got the top score in this category. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 39 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 40 Corporate responsibility Fingrids operations have a direct impact on the wellmaking and when assessing operations. Corporate being of Finns. We understand how significant our responsibility is co-ordinated at the company level work is for society and how important it is to ensure by the steering group for Fingrids finance and the responsibility of our business practices. For us, business development perspective, which is headed corporate responsibility means that in securing a by the Chief Financial Officer. The steering group is reliable supply of electricity for society, we are also supported by the companys business development taking care of people and the environmental working group, which is composed of development impacts of our operations, and complying with good managers. A development manager is appointed to governance practices. co-ordinate corporate responsibility work. Fingrids strategy and its various perspectives form Each Fingrid employee commits to abiding by our the starting point for our corporate responsibility common values and our Code of Conduct, which we work. Corporate responsibility is a key element in have updated taking into account the renewal of our the implementation of our strategy and in our corporate culture. Our Code of Conduct is based on business expertise. By operating responsibly in all the United Nations Global Compact initiative and areas of sustainability we can best bring value to our the principles guiding business operations and stakeholders and ensure the acceptance of our human rights. Our managers and the entire work projects by society. community ensure that behaviour is in line with the Code of Conduct. A whistle-blower system We manage corporate responsibility as an managed by an independent third party is also integrated part of Fingrids management system. available to personnel for reporting possible Corporate responsibility is a systematic, targeted misconduct etc. We help new employees assimilate component of our basic operations and annual cycle the Code of Conduct through online orientation. of management. Corporate responsibility is part of our planning of operations and an integral, strategyFingrid committed in 2016 to the United Nations based component when we assess development Global Compact initiative. Our Code of Conduct is in opportunities and risks and devise measures for the line with the principles of this leading corporate subsequent year. Corporate responsibility risks are responsibility initiative on human rights, labour, part of our risk management. environment and anti-corruption. Our commitment to a voluntary global initiative further strengthens Fingrids Board of Directors approves the companys the strategic and operational integration of Code of Conduct and monitors the companys corporate social responsibility in our operating compliance in operating responsibly. The Board is methods and supports the co-operation with responsible for the CSR management systems and agreement partners in promoting CSR. We require their integration into business operations. The CEO our contract partners to commit to our corporate and the heads of functions are each responsible for responsibility requirements, and we monitor their corporate responsibility issues within their area of fulfilment through a risk-based approach. We are responsibility. Alongside profitability issues, social likewise prepared to commit to the corporate issues and environmental impacts are taken into account in a well-balanced way in all decisionThis PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 41 responsibility requirements set for Fingrid by our shortcomings in accordance with the action plans contractual partners. drawn up by the suppliers and achieved concrete improvements in the responsibility of our supply chain. In order to ensure the transparency and comparability of our operations, we have reported on our corporate responsibility in accordance with the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework since 2011. We apply the GRI G4 reporting framework using the Core in accordance option. The matters we have prioritised are Responsible procurement practices play a key role presented in the figure, and our reported data is in our business model based on outsourcing. We compiled in a GRI Content Index . ensure that we meet our obligations to investigate and our responsibility when using external Human rights and the tax footprint continued to be workforce. Grid infrastructure construction and current corporate responsibility topics in 2016. To maintenance is subject to competitive bidding, and ensure we understand our impacts on human rights, our work sites around Finland employ competent we made an assessment in compliance with the due workforce also from abroad. We audit our work sites diligence process recommended in the UNs Guiding to verify compliance with contractor obligations, Principles on Business and Human Rights. Based on occupational safety and environmental the assessment, we updated our Code of Conduct management. The audits carried out during 2016 and corporate responsibility requirements and made proved that the operations at our work sites are Fingrids human rights commitment a part of our generally at a high level and that use of the Code of Conduct. We ensured that our personnel electronic reporting system is extensive. The practices meet the human rights responsibility and development areas identified in the altogether 15 developed further our operating models for audits performed were typically related to risk informing and engaging landowners in power line assessment and documentation. The progress made projects. We also published a new brochure where in rectifying them was monitored in work site we answer landowners frequently asked questions meetings. concerning power line construction. We performed seven corporate responsibility audits As regards tax footprint reporting, Fingrid only related to our international procurements. In three of operated in Finland and did not make any special these, our experts audited our direct contractual arrangements to minimise its taxes. Our tax partners and the other audits were conducted by a footprint is presented in the annual reports third party. In addition, we performed one subCorporate finances, financing and risk management supplier audit jointly with our direct contractual section. Dividends are mainly paid to the State of partner. The most important non-conformities Finland and to Finnish pension and insurance identified during the audits were related to the companies. The Social Enterprise Mark granted to working hours and pay of subcontractors, chemicals Fingrid by the Association for Finnish Work bears storage and the use of personal protective testimony to Fingrids responsibility in handling its equipment, identification of environmental risks and socially important task. proactive measures. We addressed the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 42 Key events of 2016 Impact of Fingrid’s operations on the UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2016, we defined how Fingrids operations are linked to the UN Sustainable Development Goals published in 2015. Of the 17 goals, we contribute especially to the following: • Affordable and clean energy. We secure reliable electricity and affordable grid transmission pricing for society. Societys demands for a reliable electricity supply are increasing and serious disturbances in electricity supply are the greatest safety threats. Our investment programme improves the reliability of electricity transmission. We also secure a well-functioning electricity market and we are forerunner in electricity market services. • Industry, innovations and infrastructure. We maintain and develop vital electricity transmission infrastructure for the needs of our customers and society. The extensive investments included in our grid development programme create jobs worth hundreds of man-years of labour for our service providers. We are actively engaged in international co-operation and innovation, developing future technologies for our sector. • Climate action. The transformation in the structure of electricity generation due to the efforts to mitigate climate change results in changes in the electricity system. We make it possible to connect new forms of energy production to the grid. We ensure the sufficiency of system reserves also in the future and prepare for a decline in flexible production capacity while at the same time developing the electricity market to meet the needs of a carbon-neutral electricity system. We minimise power losses that have a climate impact in our electricity transmission. Our business also supports the following UN Sustainable Development Goals: • Gender equality. We treat everyone with respect and fairness in accordance with Fingrids Code of Conduct and we ensure equal ways of operating for both genders. • Decent work and economic growth. We do our part to promote technology renewal, innovation and resource efficiency. We want to be one of Finlands greatest workplaces, with a thriving work community as our pillar. We promote responsible business practices throughout our supply chain. • Responsible consumption and production. We ensure sustainable consumption and practices in our own operations and strive to set an example for others. In our power line projects, we primarily utilise existing right-of-ways. We recycle the waste of our work sites almost to 100%. • Life on land. We want to reduce the harmful effects of our power line projects on biodiversity, landscape and land use. We encourage our service providers and suppliers to commit to environmentally responsible practices. • Partnerships for the goals. As a transmission system operator, our operations impact many stakeholders and interaction for the benefit of customers and society is important. We combine our core competence with the best players and promote sustainable development and responsible practices globally through our procurements. We engage in international co-operation networks and sectoral co-operation as well as in research and development and school partnerships. We promote public-private partnerships. Fingrid is a member of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employments smart grid working group, whose mission is to look into the opportunities smart grids can offer the electricity markets. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6/S STRA TRATE TEGGY AND MANA GEMENT S MANAGEMENT SYYSTEM 43 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 44 Customers Openness and trust and active interaction with our The entry into force of European network codes customers are important elements in our operations. pertaining to the transmission system and electricity They have become all the more important as the market kept Fingrid and its customers busy during electricity market is undergoing a shift and the 2016. To clear the jungle of network codes, we operating environment is changing at a face pace. created a network code forum, which is open to all players. In May, we published a discussion paper to open up a dialogue on the future of the electricity market. Its The new reactive power delivery terms that entered purpose was to express our concern about the into force at the start of the year were a hot topic weakening viability of the electricity market and to among grid customers. Due to the cabling of the present concrete measures to stimulate the distribution network, among other things, the electricity market in order to ensure that the switch volume of reactive power in the grid has grown to to a low-carbon electricity system is achieved costthe extent where it is fair to allocate the costs for effectively for society as a whole. Customers compensation to those who give rise to the need for embraced Fingrids initiative, and we received more compensation on a connection-point-specific basis. than 30 instances of written feedback from For some customers, complying with the new electricity market players. The topic was also delivery terms has proven to be a challenge, and we discussed in several bilateral meetings, in Fingrids have teamed up with our customers to devise customer committees and at customer events solutions for this. In December, we also organised a throughout the year. We wish to continue the Reactive Power Day where we presented the discussion going forward. In addition, we have monitoring and invoicing principles for reactive already launched pilot projects and concrete power, and customers recounted their experiences measures to reach the goals together with the with practical compensation solutions. players in the sector. In 2016, we consulted with customers through a Our co-operation with our customers in the data number of interviews and surveys in order to hub development project has been very lively. This develop our operations. The results of these surveys project, related to a future information exchange show that our customers are fairly satisfied with us, solution for the electricity retail market, has received but that their expectations are growing. Fingrid is a lot of positive feedback for being open and for expected to have greater insight into and a better engaging stakeholders in defining the processes. understanding of its customers business, costCustomers are also aware of the magnitude of the effectiveness and services that meet customer change and the tight schedule. This has also raised needs. some concern. Customers are primarily interested in the improvement in the quality of information One key development area in our operations is preceding the rollout of the data hub. Webinars, electronic services, which is why we launched guidelines and info sessions on preparing for the several new services during the year. We launched data hub are in the pipeline for next year. the ediel.fi portal, which enables the electricity retail markets information exchange operators to exchange information and ensures the effective This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 45 functioning of their communications. We made easy access to all of the information they require in electricity quality measurement services available to one location. TSOs to help them identify quality deviations and investigate detected fault situations. In the summer, Customers' trust in Fingrid we launched the most popular service on our website, the State of the power system, in the form of the Fingrid Online mobile app. In early 2017, the measurements describing the state of the power system will also be made available in the applications of our customers and third parties through an open interface. Going forward, electronic services will continue to be one of our development priorities. Our objective is to harmonise and clarify them further to ensure that our customers have Price of electricity service Picture: Costs related to transmission system operation, such as investments, loss power, system services, but not directly related to transmission system operation, such as public service obligations, feed-in tariff for renewable energy, and peak load capacity. The comparison includes the EEA countries with a grid company in charge of both 110 kV and 400 kV structure. The 15 countries included in the comparison are: Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and the UK. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 46 Key events of 2016 Customers praise smooth co-operation and willingness to develop the electricity market We measure the development of customer satisfaction annually. In our 2016 survey, our customers praised us for, among other things, the smoothness of co-operation and our strong efforts to develop the electricity market. However, there is still room for improvement in understanding our customers’ business and their needs. Customers’ familiarity with Fingrid’s operations increased clearly from the previous year. Seventy-one per cent of respondents know Fingrid’s operations fairly well or very well, compared to 59 per cent a year earlier. At the same time, expectations towards Fingrid have increased. Customers expect Fingrid to have greater insight into and a better understanding of its customers’ business and provide them with services that meet their needs. Seventy-three per cent of respondents would recommend our way of working with customers, compared to 75 per cent in the previous year. According to the survey, the aspects that are most important to customers in Fingrid’s operations are the equal treatment of customers, the cost-effectiveness of the solutions, services that meet customers’ needs and Fingrid’s willingness and ability to co-operate. Compared to the previous year, our customers were slightly more critical about Fingrid’s performance in these areas. However, our customers gave Fingrid’s operations a good overall score of 4.0 (on a scale of 1–5). The data was gathered in the form of an email survey carried out by Innolink Research Oy. The response rate was 27 per cent. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 47 Customer committees and Advisory Committee Fingrid has an Advisory Committee and three Advisory Committee customer committees. The Advisory Committee serves as a channel of interaction between the company and its customers. Fingrid uses the committee to distribute information on its current affairs and plans. The representatives of the customer groups, in turn, can take a stand on the matters discussed within the committee and also introduce their own proposals to the agenda. The Advisory Committee deals with the company's entire field of operations and services offered to customers. The information dealt with by the Advisory Committee is openly available to all stakeholders. In 2016, the topics discussed in the Jukka Ruusunen (Fingrid Oyj), Juhani Advisory Committee included, in particular, the shift Järvelä, chairman (Oulun Energia Oy), Riikka taking place in the electricity system and electricity Hirvisalo-Oja (Caruna Oy), Esa Hyvärinen (Fortum market and the opportunities brought by Oyj), Raimo Härmä (Kymenlaakson Sähköverkko digitalisation and smart grids. Oy), Jarmo Kurikka (Nurmijärven Sähkö Oy), Ilkka The customer committees deal with matters in their Latvala (Metsä Board Oyj), Jarmo Myllymäki (Elenia respective sectors. The Operations Committee Oy), Stefan Sundman (UPM-Kymmene Oyj), Tuomas discusses and expresses opinions on matters Timonen (Kemijoki Oy), Jussi Jyrinsalo, secretary related to the development of procedures used for (Fingrid Oyj), Pekka Manninen (Helen Oy), Jarmo the operation of the power system and maintenance Tanhua (Teollisuuden Voima Oyj). of system security. The Market Committee is an Missing from picture: Jukka Mikkonen (Stora Enso). advisory discussion forum which assists Fingrid in the development of the Nordic and European electricity markets. The Grid Committee serves as a co-operation body in system development and in the management of system-related property. Names are not in the same order as persons in question are presented in the pictures. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 48 Grid Committee Operations Committee Jyrki Havukainen (Kilpilahden Sähkönsiirto Oy), Hannu Halminen (Boliden Harjavalta Oy), Teppo Ismo Heikkilä (Kemijoki Oy), Jorma Heikkilä (MetsäHärkönen (Helen Sähköverkko Oy), Turo Ihonen Fibre Oy), Risto Lappi (Vantaan Energia (Elenia Oy), Reima Päivinen, chairman (Fingrid Oyj), Sähköverkot Oy), Arto Nikkanen (LE-Sähköverkot Jonne Jäppinen, secretary (Fingrid Oyj), Teuvo Oy), Matti Ryhänen (Savon Voima Verkko Oy), Jouhten (PVO-Vesivoima Oy), Jussi Karttunen Henrik Suomi (Caruna Oy), Seppo Tupeli (Herrfors (Fortum Power and Heat Oy), Ismo Reinikka (Loiste Nät-Verkko Oy Ab), Kari Kuusela, chairman (Fingrid Sähköverkot Oy), Harri Salminen (Turku Energia Oyj), Meri Viikari, secretary (Fingrid Oyj), Petri Sähköverkot Oy). Parviainen (Fingrid Oyj). Market Committee Asta Sihvonen-Punkka, chairman (Fingrid Oyj), Mika Laakkonen (Kymppivoima Hankinta Oy), Satu Viljainen, secretary (FIngrid Oyj), Janne Laine (Enegia Oy), Mikko Lepistö (SSAB), Sami Oksanen (Nord Pool Finland Oy), Raimo Peltola (Fortum Power and Heat Oy), Ari Sormunen (Kuopion Energia), Anne Särkilahti (UPM-Kymmene Oyj), Harri Tiittanen (Power-Deriva Oy). Kuvasta puuttuu Jouko Isoviita (Oulun Energia). This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 49 Corporate finances, financing and risk management The main long-term goals for our financial guidance single year. A considerable share of the income are: collected by Fingrid is used for domestic investments. In addition to this, other types of • Good cost-effectiveness and continuous expenditure covered by the companys income improvement of productivity in order to keep include services procured from suppliers, payroll, service prices at a moderate level. Our goal is to compensations for landowners and financers, taxes keep our cost-effectiveness on a par with the and, finally, reasonable dividends to the owners, i.e. best in Europe and grid pricing in the best 25 per the State of Finland and domestic pension and cent of the comparison group. insurance companies. In managing the companys • A high credit rating to ensure the availability of finances, the Corporate Finance and Financing diversified long-term financing, low financing Principles approved by Fingrids Board of Directors costs and good debt-service capacity. are complied with. • Creating shareholder value by keeping the companys adjusted income at the level permitted by regulation and by paying dividends Financial position in compliance with shareholders profit targets. Groups turnover was EUR 586.1 (600.2) million. Grid We aim to guarantee the stable pricing development service income increased to EUR 382.4 (333.0) of our services through long-term planning of the million, as a result of the change in grid pricing companys finances, capital expenditure, risk enacted at the start of the year and due to the management and financing. Short-term financial growth in electricity consumption. Electricity targets do not guide our investment decisions or consumption totalled 85.1 (82.5) terawatt hours. other decisions. The companys consistently high Fingrid transmitted 68.6 (67.9) terawatt hours of rankings in annual international comparison studies electricity in its grid, which represents 77.5 (77.1) per on the cost-effectiveness and quality of grid cent of all electricity transmitted in Finland. operators, and the international certification for the Imbalance power sales amounted to EUR 153.9 management of physical assets (ISO 55001) (137.1) million. The growth in imbalance power sales granted to Fingrid serve as proof of the costresulted from an increase in the volume of effectiveness of our operations and our effective imbalance power and higher imbalance power management of costs and other risks related to grid prices. Cross-border transmission income from the assets. connection between Finland and Russia increased to EUR 24.0 (11.2) million. This was due to the new We set the pricing for our services one year at a dynamic tariff structure that was introduced as well time, striving for development that is as consistent as to increased imports from Russia. Fingrids as possible, regardless of uncertainty in the congestion income from connections between markets. However, major volatility on the market Finland and Sweden declined to EUR 37.5 (86.8) may necessitate price adjustments even within a This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 50 million due to weakened hydrological conditions, Net financial costs in accordance with IFRS were which significantly decreased the number of EUR 18.7 (33.7) million, including a change of EUR congestion hours. Fingrids congestion income from -0.3 (-13.3) million in the fair value of financial the links between Finland and Estonia amounted to derivatives. EUR 2.4 (4.2) million. Congestion income will no longer be reported in Fingrids turnover as of the The Groups profit before taxes was EUR 173.9 beginning of 2016. Other operating income totalled (129.3) million. The biggest differences from the last EUR 12.7 (5.2) million. The growth in other operating year are explained by changes in the market value of income mainly resulted from the EUR 6.3 million in derivatives (EUR +72.7 million), the growth in grid recognised congestion income, in compliance with service income (EUR +49.4 million), and a change in the regulation concerning the costs from the reporting of congestion income (effect EUR maintaining cross-border capacity and -84.6 million). The profit for the year was EUR 138.7 countertrade. (103.6) million. The equity to total assets ratio increased and was 36.4 (33.5) per cent at the end of The Groups total costs amounted to EUR 442.2 the review period. (418.6) million. Imbalance power costs increased from the previous years level to EUR 121.7 (98.2) The parent companys turnover was EUR 581.4 million, due to the increase in the volume and price (592.4) million, profit for the financial year EUR of imbalance power. Loss power costs amounted to 103.9 (123.7) million and the distributable funds EUR 57.6 (68.6) million. The declining loss power EUR 176.0 million. costs have been affected by the lower price of loss By the companys own calculations, the return power procurement and the slightly lower volume of according to the regulatory model that governs grid loss power. The average price of loss power operations amounts to a deficit of around EUR 40 procurement was EUR 43.87 (48.22) per megawatt million for 2016. hour. The cost of reserves to safeguard the grids system security decreased to EUR 50.5 (54.7) million. The reason for the decreased cost was an Profit before taxes interruption in the procurement of the automatic frequency control reserve until August, as well as the lower procurement cost of frequency controlled reserves for normal operation and disturbances due to high availability on the markets. Depreciation amounted to EUR 99.2 (94.1) million. Grid maintenance costs grew to EUR 24.1 (19.2) million. The maintenance costs were increased by the periodical felling of trees around substations and the trimming of trees at the edges of transmission line right-of-ways. Personnel costs increased as the payroll expanded, due to new operations and increased statutory duties and due to higher employer contributions in additional personnel expenses, and amounted to EUR 28.6 (25.8) million. The Groups operating profit was EUR 192.0 (162.6) Our tax strategy is to be a responsible and million. To recognise changes in the fair value of exemplary tax payer. In accordance with our main electricity derivatives and the currency derivatives principle, we pay and report the companys taxes related to capital expenditure and other operating and tax-based payments on time and without the expenses, EUR 35.4 (-24.3) million was recorded in use of tax planning. Our goal is for the companys operating profit. taxes and tax-based payments to reconcile with the companys operations in terms of time. Operational This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 51 tax matters are handled by the Groups finance making decisions. In handling tax matters, we function, which reports to the Groups Chief comply with applicable legislation and regulations, Financial Officer. In addition to our in-house and we communicate with the tax authorities in a resources, we also use external experts when professional manner in keeping with Fingrids values. necessary for assistance in tax matters and in This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 52 Direct economic value generated and distributed (€) This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 53 Fingrid's tax footprint, EUR 2016 2015 2014 Taxes payable Income tax 25,780,172 30,807,079 20,202,952 Unemployment insurance 853,024 482,819 580,287 contributions Social security 460,905 438,785 436,274 contributions 409,145 Real estate tax 393,259 427,408 Electricity tax on auxiliary 18,978 9,858 9,766 power Taxes payable 27,522,224 32,131,799 21,656,685 total Taxes to be collected and remitted Value added tax, net 50,406,643 38,876,622 36,847,515 remitted This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 54 Electricity tax (incl. emergency-preparedness 38,471,425 36,245,597 33,508,431 contribution) 6,968,506 Tax prepayments 6,775,996 6,525,519 Taxes to be 95,846,574 81,898,216 76,881,465 remitted total The summary includes taxes and charges that Fingrid is under legal obligation to pay or to collect the tax or payment in question. However, taxes that are included in the purchase price of a product or service and which Fingrid is not under legal obligation to declare are not included in the summary data. For 2016, all taxes and similar charges have been paid in Finland. The Group did not have any operations outside Finland during the periods presented here. Foremost uncertainty factors and risks to Fingrid and society Since the company plays a significant role in Finnish society, the impact of risks is assessed from both the companys and societys perspective. The following have been identified as strategic risks: This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 55 Strategic risks risks to society and to Fingrid One of the companys biggest business risks and the financial claims liability in all cases of disturbances biggest risk where society is concerned is a major through contracts and insurance policies. disturbance related to the functioning of the power system. A widespread disturbance in the power A poorly functioning electricity market is a system may be caused by several simultaneous significant risk for Fingrid and society. The reasons faults in the grid or in electricity production. A that may lead to the materialisation of this risk are a disturbance can also result from the combination of lack of regional energy policy co-ordination, marketa technical fault and human operating error, from an distorting state subsidies and problems in the unexpected meteorological phenomenon, work formation of the price of electricity. The impacts can error, accident, vandalism or deliberate intrusion in be seen as a lack of investments and the exit of critical IT systems. The extent or duration of the adjustable capacity from the markets due to disturbance can be increased by a severe fault, unprofitability. In electricity market disturbances, a appearing in the companys operation control price cannot be calculated for electricity on the system or other system, that hinders the operation electricity exchange to guide production plants and of the grid. A major disturbance can cause electricity consumption. Efforts are being made to significant financial and physical damage to Fingrid manage the risk by promoting market integration on and society in general. Through capital investments the domestic and Nordic level. Promoting demandin the transmission grid and reserve power, we are side management, developing smart grid solutions prepared for a widespread disturbance affecting for the retail market, increasing cross-border Finland or the Nordic power system. We develop the transmission capacity and carrying out investments operations together with other transmission system that make it possible to maintain Finland as a single operators. In our strategy, we focus on the diverse bidding area reduce the risks faced by the electricity utilisation of the operation control system, market. expedited disturbance clearing and management of From the point of view of society and Fingrid, the power shortages. We prepare for disturbances most significant environmental risks are related to through continuity management, procedural environmental damage and the failure to anticipate guidelines, continuity plans and exercises, and by the environmental obligations set for the companys building up various reserves. Fingrid limits its operations. We consider fuel and oil leaks and tank and transformer fires to be the most concrete risks. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 56 The key contingency measures for these operators. Restrictions and outages in power environmental risks are proactive assessment of transmission may cause financial harm to customers environmental impacts, monitoring of changes in and society. We manage the risk by securing the legislation, prevention of accidents by technical critical parts of the transmission grid and crossmeans, contractual terms related to environmental border connections and by means of efficient issues and auditing. outage planning. We maintain disturbance-clearing readiness by ensuring know-how and developing Electrical and occupational safety risks are linked to back-up systems. For example, outages are timed the electrical safety of the transmission grid, so that they have minimum financial harm to society. especially in connection with construction and repair work. Electrical safety risks may also affect A problem or error in the production of a service or by-standers. The reason for a risk being realised the functioning of technology can cause significant may be, for example, human error or an accident harm to a customer. The consequences may be seen close to live components, an error occurring in as a disturbance in the services produced by the construction work, damage or vandalism to live power system or in the electricity market. Errors in structures or carelessness close to live components. Fingrids guidelines or decisions may also cause Consequences of the materialisation of such a risk harm. For the customer, this harm may take the form can include a severe hazard to people, serious injury, of loss of income, material damage, personal injury, periods of sick leave, inability to work, disability or or unnecessary investments. Fingrid has limited its death. An accident may also cause electricity liability in the grid service contract in situations outages. We constantly improve the safety of the where the customer may have suffered harm. transmission grid by promoting safe ways of working and developing, for example, technical solutions, work methods, skills and communications. Risks to Fingrid Fingrids operations are subject to official regulation Risks to society and supervised by the Energy Authority. Risks related to the unfavourable development of official Investments can sometimes take place at the wrong regulation, such as changes in Finnish or European time. The reasons for incorrect timing of capital regulation or legislation, can weaken the companys investments may be, for example, changes in the financial position or its opportunities to pursue the overall economic situation, regulation, or in objectives related to the development of the electricity consumption and production, a electricity market. We aim to establish effective copostponement of a permit process, lack of operation and interaction models with the various resources or strike. Changes in energy policy goals stakeholders and to contribute actively to the can affect investments. Unsuccessful timing may reports and working groups of authorities and to cause restrictions in the electricity market whereby increase understanding of grid operations. the market fails to operate efficiently. We carefully plan and build key projects to strengthen the crossFinancing risks include currency risks, interest rate border transmission connections and the grid, and risks, commodity price risks, liquidity and take into account the long-term effects on the refinancing risks, and credit risks. Financing risks market through regularly updated grid plans. Cocan be caused by a major deviation in our operating operation with customers, Nordic transmission environment or business, disturbances in the capital system operators, other stakeholders and crossand money markets, by the realisation of national decision-making bodies reduces the risk of counterparty risks in terms of derivatives or incorrect timing. investments, by the realisation of credit risks in operations or disturbances in payment transactions. Long-term transmission capacity restrictions may Liquidity risks can be caused by, e.g., an unexpected be caused by, for example, technical failures or increase in market-based costs or an unexpected limitations related to system security and other decrease in income. The goal is to limit risks through This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 57 internal control, a high and stable credit rating, and a Asset risks cover significant damage to Fingrids diverse financing structure with an even maturity assets, such as widespread failures or failures profile. We aim to restrict unanticipated increases in rendering significant assets beyond repair. A costs or decreases in income by enhancing the permanent failure of significant assets, such as the Groups financial guidance and forecasting, and by grid, a reserve power plant or a submarine cable, assessing its financial latitude. We use derivative may cause extensive damage. Other causes of contracts to hedge against changes in the price of damage may include other significant and electricity. The counterparty risk related to unanticipated events such as storms, protests or obligations of parties having a contractual war. We manage asset risks through grid safety relationship with Fingrid is limited contractually, by planning, geographical diversification, preventive defining limits and by regularly monitoring the maintenance management, comprehensive financial position of the counterparties. More insurance policies for the key grid components, information about financing risks can be found in detailed specifications for projects and maintenance section 3.3. of the consolidated financial management, quality control and the use of proven statements. technology and suppliers. Personnel risks concern the maintenance of Reputation risks can be caused by, for example, expertise. We strive to limit personnel risks by the serious disturbances or accidents, changes in companys strategic long-term personnel planning, prices, redemption of land areas or delayed grid targeted training programmes for personnel and investments. Serious accusations directly linked to high-quality communication with stakeholders. the companys operations or various reputation risks Developing deputy systems and occupational safety in the media may increase critical discussion about is part of our personnel planning. We strive to the companys operations. We strive to reduce these develop competence in the energy industry. risks by means of effective risk and change management as well as responsible, transparent ICT risks can materialise as a result of an accident in and impartial operations, high-quality ICT hardware facilities, long-term inoperability of communication and active stakeholder dialogue. telecommunications or a serious ICT system failure. Such a situation may also be caused by a work error Fingrids associated companies are long-term or breach of data security. The incident may holdings and are covered by the companys overall immediately and significantly harm the companys risk management system. The associated operations and also affect societys functioning if companies only slightly increase the risks to Fingrid the grids operation or the electricity markets Oyjs financial position, result and cash flow, as their functioning are disturbed. We prepare for these operations are minor compared to the operations of risks through sufficient and solid ICT expertise and the parent company. Risks related to associated by ensuring that the operations are secured in terms companies include unfavourable regulatory of hardware facilities, telecommunications and development, incorrect timing of investments, systems. We also ensure sufficient expertise in financing risks, poorly functioning electricity market terms of service providers. We have drawn up and ICT loss. continuity plans for the most critical systems and we monitor and anticipate possible data-security and cyber-security threats. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 58 Power system Interruptions at connection points due power plants and hydro power plants still had to grid disturbances available capacity during the periods of peak consumption. The availability of electricity in Finland was thus not in danger even during peak consumption periods and the power system functioned reliably also during the peak. Peak-load capacity was not used during the period of peak consumption. Electricity transmissions between Finland and Sweden consisted mostly of large imports to Finland during the year under review. In the early part of the Finlands electricity consumption rose 3.2 (-1.1) per year, the electricity transmission between Finland cent on the previous year and totalled 85.1 (82.5) and Estonia was dominated by exports from Finland terawatt hours in 2016. Fingrid transmitted a total of to Estonia, and towards the end of the year, by 68.5 (67.9) TWh of electricity in its grid, representing imports from Estonia to Finland. Electricity imports 77.3 (77.2) per cent of the transmission volume in from Russia to Finland grew slightly compared to Finland (consumption and inter-TSO). the previous year. There are major intraday variations in import volumes, however. The The electricity import and production capacity was maximum transmission capacity was available sufficient to cover the peak consumption during the almost throughout the year, with the exception of year. According to our measurements, electricity the annual maintenance work carried out at the consumption peaked at 15,100 (13,500) megawatts Vyborg DC station and on the Russian grid. on 7 January 2016 between 5 and 6 p.m. During that peak consumption hour, Finland generated 10,800 The planned maintenance shut-downs of megawatts of electricity and the remaining 4,300 transmission connections between Estonia, Sweden megawatts was imported from neighbouring and Russia were on a normal level in 2016. countries. In peak consumption situations, Finland Transmission capacity between Sweden and Finland was dependent on electricity imports. During the was partly limited due to, among other things, the peak consumption period, electricity was imported construction of a new 400 kilovolt power line and from Sweden (2,414 MW) and Russia (1,468 MW) substations in northern Finland. using nearly full transmission capacity. At the same time, electricity was also imported from Estonia (435 MW) to Finland. Domestic combined heat and This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 59 1-12/ 1-12/ 10-12/ 10-12/ Countertrade 16 15 16 15 Countertrade between Finland and Sweden, €M 2.5 0.8 0.3 0.2 Countertrade between Finland and Estonia, €M 0.1 0.8 0.0 0.0 Countertrade between Finlands internal 1.2 2.2 0.3 0.6 connections, €M Total countertrade, €M 3.9 3.8 0.6 0.9 Our mission is to supply the electricity generated by Countertrade costs totalled EUR 3.9 (3.8) million. power plants that are connected to the grid to our Countertrade refers to special adjustments made to customers reliably and in a state of high quality. We manage electricity transmission which are used to continuously monitor the reliability of electricity eliminate short-term bottlenecks i.e. areas where transmission. As in the previous year, our electricity transmission is congested from the grid. transmission reliability rate remained at an excellent Fingrid guarantees the cross-border transmission it level during the year under review and was 99.999 has confirmed by carrying out countertrades, i.e. (99.999) per cent. The importance of our electricity purchasing and selling electricity, up until the end of transmission reliability is illustrated by the fact that the 24-hour usage period. The need for the cost of a nationwide major disturbance to countertrade can arise from, for example, a power customers and society at large would be in the outage or disruption in a power plant or in the grid. region of EUR 100 million for each hour of outage. An outage in a connection point in the grid caused During summer, the number of disturbances due to by a disturbance in Fingrids electricity network thunder exceeded the average, and the resulting lasted an average of 1.4 (2.1) minutes, which is multi-phase disturbances caused harm to the clearly shorter than the ten-year average. The process industry. Otherwise the number of estimated cost of the disturbances was EUR 3.1 disturbances remained at the normal level. We (3.5) million. allocated increased resources to determining the DC transmission links susceptibility to disturbances. Transmission outages in connection with investment DC transmission link failures declined slightly, and projects mostly affected Ostrobothnia and northern the time required for investigating the disturbances Ostrobothnia. The outages were challenging and was substantially shortened. We raised the grids required careful advance planning and good disturbance-clearing readiness a total of three times cooperation with our customers. The outages were in 2016, mainly due to the prolonged cold period in handled successfully. January. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 60 Reserves required to maintain the power balance of which Fingrids share was up to 70 megawatts, was the power system were procured from Finland, the maintained for the selected hours. other Nordic countries, Estonia and Russia. More reserves were sold to Sweden than in the previous The volume of transmission losses in the Finnish years. The availability of reserves was mostly good, grid decreased from the previous year and was but challenging situations arose, for example, during 1.3 (1.4) terawatt hours. This is 1.5 (1.6) per cent of floods, when hydro power plants could not be the total volume of transmitted electricity. The utilised as they normally can. The costs of reserves decrease is attributable to declined electricity remained clearly below the budgeted level. New imports from Sweden compared to the previous operators have entered the reserve procurement year, and lower ITC volumes. The annual variation of scene, and consumer participation in the reserve losses is affected by the Nordic electricity market has increased. Nordic grid companies production situation, such as sufficiency of continued using the automatic frequency control hydropower. reserve to restore the deteriorated frequency quality. A maximum reserve of 300 megawatts, of Centralised electricity Decentralised electricity system system This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 61 Power system operation 2016 2015 2014 Electricity consumption in Finland, TWh 85.1 82.5 83.4 Fingrids transmission volume, TWh 68.6 67.9 67.1 Fingrid's loss power volume, TWh, G4-EU12 1.3 1.4 1.3 Electricity transmission Finland–Sweden exports to Sweden, TWh 0.3 0.2 0.15 tImports from Sweden, TWh 15.7 17.8 18.1 Electricity transmission Finland–Estonia exports to Estonia, TWh 3.1 5 3.6 imports from Sweden, TWh 0.7 0.05 0.05 Electricity transmission Finland–Russia imports from Russia 5.9 3.9 3.4 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 62 Key events of 2016 The balancing power price rose momentarily to a high level early in the year The price of balancing power reached the level of €3,000/MWh for one hour on 22 January 2016. This the highest balancing power price ever in Finland. Colder-than-anticipated weather increased electricity consumption during the morning hours and substantially increased the need to balance the power system. We take care of maintaining the balance between electricity consumption and production in Finland’s power system through balancing power and power system reserves. Electricity market operators participate in the balancing power market and can freely price their balancing power bids. During the balancing power price peak, all available market-based balancing power bids were utilised to balance the power system. However, a high balancing power price has no direct impact on the electricity bill of households. Those balance responsible parties whose power balance was out of balance during the hour in question must pay the higher price. Power and District Heat Pool turned 60 The Power and District Heat Pool celebrated its 60th anniversary in spring 2016. The Power and District Heat Pool can be deemed to have been established on 12 April 1956, when the Power and District Heat Section (currently Power and District Heat Pool) held its first meeting. Its task is to guide and promote company-specific preparations and readiness plans for power supply, i.e. energy production, transmission and distribution. The Pool is a voluntary co-operation body of authorities and energy companies, whose role is to ensure the operational readiness of the nation’s power supply in normal circumstances, during serious disturbances and in exceptional circumstances. We play a significant role in the Power and District Heat Pool, as its president and secretary are from Fingrid. The operational readiness of the Pool has been tested through various exercises during its existence. The VALVE (Valot verkkoon 2014) major disturbance exercise organised to test the nationwide restoration of electricity supply in the event of an outage covering the whole of Finland gained high visibility. For the exercise, the power was cut off momentarily in the city of Rovaniemi in autumn 2014. The exercise will be resumed in 2017, when the national JÄÄTYVÄ 2017 exercise will test contingency plans and co-operation in Northern Savo in the form of a fictional two-day drill. The set-up for the exercise is a widespread and longlasting disturbance of the grid and distribution networks following a serious meteorological phenomenon. Nordic Regional Security Coordinator (RSC) set up in Copenhagen The organisation in charge of joint Nordic operational planning was set up in 2016 to further deepen Nordic TSO cooperation in the changing power system and operating environment. The organisation benefits the electricity market operators by optimising and maximising transmission capacities and helps identify operational situations that could potentially weaken system security in advance on the Nordic level. The organisation of transmission system operators’ regional operational planning will also become binding in the network codes and by the decision of ENTSO-E, which represents’ the EU’s transmission system operators responsible for transmission grids. The joint organisation of Finnish, Swedish, Norwegian and Danish transmission system operators has five tasks: transmission capacity calculation, regional system security analyses, maintenance and development of joint grid models, co-ordination of cross-border transmission outages and regional short-term electricity This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 63 sufficiency reviews. The RSC operates as a service provider. Each transmission system operator will be responsible for its system security and will continue to decide on operational measures in its own area. The operations will start by the end of 2017 and employees from all Nordic Transmission system operators, a total of 10 persons, will work at the office. The number of Finnish employees will initially be two. We released the new Fingrid Online mobile app Our new mobile app Fingrid Online provides its users with real-time information about the state and the disturbances of the power system. The app has three functions: state of the power system, operational disturbances and disturbance reports. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 64 Electricity market An electricity market that functions at its best be reduced and the mechanisms harmonised in the benefits everyone: a common regional market and entire Baltic Sea area. The bulk and retail electricity strong transmission connections boost competition markets must be more closely linked than they and ensure that electricity is produced in the most currently are, and demand-side management in the efficient way. Reinforcing the domestic and crossretail markets must be introduced to balance the border transmission systems in Finland will improve power system. the operations of the electricity market. In a strong transmission network, electricity can freely flow to Growth in renewable electricity production has where demand is highest. A disturbance in a considerably weakened the profitability of other transmission link between Finland and Sweden, for electricity production, which in turn has led to the example, may cost consumers several million euros removal of flexible generation capacity from the a day. market. While the need for regulating capacity required to ensure variable electricity generation The European Unions climate policy and national has grown, flexible generation capacity has been energy and climate targets aim to reduce the simultaneously shut down. emissions from electricity production and move towards a low-carbon power system. As a result, the We believe that well-functioning electricity markets structure of electricity production is changing. will ensure a cost-effective transition to low-carbon Weather-dependent, renewable energy generation electricity system and will ensure sufficiently reliable has grown considerably in the European electricity supply. A prerequisite for a well-functioning market. National support mechanisms targeted at electricity market is doing away with marketrenewable energy have accelerated the change. distorting state support schemes at least regionally, as in common market areas, the impacts of the In 2016, the energy industry intensively sought new support schemes cross state boundaries. The solutions to repair the electricity market. The emissions trade mechanism is the most costelectricity market has faced major challenges as a effective and technology-neutral tool for promoting consequence of the renewable energy support a low-carbon energy system. schemes. The energy surplus of the northern European electricity market can be seen throughout A low-carbon electricity system demands cothe Baltic Sea area and has artificially pushed down ordination between the wholesale and retail prices. The market price of bulk electricity has markets. The retail market is required as a source of plummeted, which has forced production capacity demand-side management, which will play an out of the market. important role in balancing the electricity system in future. It lowers electricity consumption during The support schemes in Europe have caused periods of high consumption and price levels, or problems in terms of the sufficiency of electric transfers it to a period with a lower cost. Demandpower. Achieving a reliable, cost-effective and lowside management helps keep the electricity system carbon energy system requires an increasingly in balance, while at the same time having a positive market-based approach. In order for the markets to impact on consumers electricity bills. Electricity function, the impacts of the support schemes must This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 65 market structures and the roles of market operators the transition to a low-carbon electricity system. are still not established in that respect. The strategy states that in order to promote a third alternating current (AC) connection between The Finnish government published a new energy Finland and Sweden, it is important to get it on the and climate strategy at the end of the year. The EUs list of key projects in 2017. Fingrids objective is strategy presents a package of policies and to complete the new connection by 2025. At yearmeasures that concern the electricity markets and end, the European Commission published a sothe power system. The policies underscore the called Winter Package that takes a stand on, among active role of electricity consumers in the markets, other things, issues related to the development of a price signals in the real-time markets, and the interfuture electricity market model. Fingrid considers Nordic retail markets. It also highlights the transition the commissions development proposals for an to a smart grid system, which will help lay the electricity market model to be headed in the right groundwork for the rise of electric cars. Electric cars direction. will enhance the systems flexibility and contribute to Electricity market 2016 2015 2014 Day-ahead system price €/MWh 26.91 20.98 29.61 Area price Finland, average €/MWh 32.45 29.66 36.02 Congestion income in Nordic countries, €M 276.8 380.3 255.1 Congestion income between Finland and Sweden, €M 74.98 173.5 97.7 Congestion hours between Finland and Sweden % 32.7 47 47.8 Congestion income between Finland and Estonia, 4.74 8.4 4.8 million €M Congestion hours between Finland and Estonia % 9.7 12 8.2 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 66 Nordic price level rose at the Nordic congestion income and end of the year congestion income between Finland and Sweden The average market price of spot electricity on the electricity exchange (system price) was EUR 27 (21) per megawatt hour. The price level in the Nordic electricity markets trended downwards for an extended period during the first half of 2016, but rebounded during the summer. The drivers behind the price increase include the weakened hydrological situation, as well as price hikes in fossil fuels and emission rights. In 2016, prices on the Finnish wholesale market were higher than they were in other Nordic countries. The overall increase in Nordic prices made the price disparity between Finland and Sweden less pronounced and, as a result, congestion hours between Finland and Sweden decreased significantly during the latter half of the year. In addition to the increased Nordic price level, another reason for the decrease in congestion hours Continued development in the and decreased price disparity was the completion of market and transfer the NordBalt transmission link between Sweden and Lithuania during the first half of 2016. connections Fingrid accrued EUR 37.5 (87) million in congestion In order to clarify the electricity market debate, in income from the cross-border power lines between spring we published a discussion paper on the Finland and Sweden. EUR 29.9 (24.3) million of this challenges faced by the electricity market and was accrued during the first half of 2016 and EUR various solutions to them entitled Electricity market 7.6 (62.5) million during the second half of the year. needs fixing – What can we do?, which sparked a In addition, the links between Finland and Estonia lively debate. Our consultation request was generated EUR 2.4 (4) million in congestion income responded to by a total of 36 industry operators, for Fingrid. Congestion income is used to maintain associations, research institutions and private cross-border transmission capacity and for citizens. During the second half of the year, we additional investments, as is also required by law. published a summary of the feedback on the paper, as well as our conclusions, in which we outline Imports from Russia increased to 5.9 (3.9) terawatt various routes to a green electricity system based hours. Despite the increase, electricity imports from on market terms. Russia to Finland have decreased significantly in recent years, and the hourly import volumes from The operating capacity of the electricity market and Russia have varied considerably. In addition to the sufficiency of electricity supply became national Russias capacity mechanism, the reduction in topics due to the bitter cold of January 2016. As the electricity trade is attributed to increased electricity consumption of electricity broke records, the topics prices in the country. of meeting consumption needs and national selfsufficiency in terms of electricity were widely debated. Roughly half of the cross-border transmission capacity between Finland and Sweden is provided This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 67 by the Fenno-Skan link, i.e. high-voltage DC Finland. We established a network code forum that connections. Early in the year, we launched several is open to all market parties. The forum promotes measures to improve the reliability of cross-border public debate on all matters related to network transmission capacity. Thanks to the improvements, codes and aims to gather the views of stakeholders it was possible to keep interruptions very brief, and as well as to complement the public hearing the availability of the connections has been clearly processes related to implementing the network better compared to previous years. codes. The network code forum convened three times during the year under review. We established Fingrid Datahub Oy, a company focused on the transfer of retail market information, The Finnish, Norwegian and Swedish TSOs on 16 February 2016. The task of the company, our continued with the switchover to shared Nordic wholly owned subsidiary, is to implement a balance settlement. The jointly owned company centralised information exchange system for the eSett Oy, which Fingrid owns one third of, aims to electricity markets, i.e. a datahub, in which the start up operations in spring 2017. exchange of information between retail sellers and transmission system operators is concentrated into In September, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and a single service. This makes the exchange of Employment set up a working group to look into the information in the retail electricity market more opportunities of smart grids in the electricity straightforward and efficient. Data exchange among market. The aim of the working group is to forge a retail markets is needed in managing the various common vision of future smart grids and to propose business processes of the electricity markets, such concrete measures for using smart grids as a means as balance settlement, an end users change of of increasing customers opportunities to participate address and a change of seller, for example. The in the electricity market and contribute to system will facilitate the processing of measurement maintaining a secure supply of electricity. The data, simplify and speed up client agreement events members of the working group broadly represent and improve the reliability of the service. the stakeholders in the sector, including active participation by Fingrid. The implementation of European network codes required by the European Union proceeded in This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 68 Key events of 2016 Decentralised household consumption on the reserve market for the first time For the first time in the Nordic countries, decentralised electricity consumption of households was approved for the frequency controlled reserve for normal operation. This marks a first for the Nordic countries – and probably even for Europe – with households, together with the electricity seller, participating in maintaining rapid and continuous power balance. Previously, only industrial electricity consumption, in addition to the traditional power plant reserve, participated in the frequency controlled reserve market. Now the hot-water tanks in households serve as a reserve, and are switched on and off according to the frequency variations. We oversee the reserve market, which is used to maintain a balance between electricity consumption and production in the power system. Frequency controlled reserves react automatically to variations in the frequency of the electricity system by adjusting their electricity production and consumption. Balancing power market starts up During the year, we introduced a new reserve market, the balancing power market. On the balancing power market we ensure that we have a sufficient volume of fast-disturbance reserve available, including in disturbance situations affecting reserve power plants and the transmission system. In the first competitive bid we received offers of 236 megawatts. We procured 57 megawatts for the targeted time period from the balancing power market. We additionally purchase fast disturbance reserve power from Estonia, through an agreement between Fingrid and Elering. Aggregation development projects We launched two aggregation pilot projects. On 1st September 2016, we initiated a five-month-long pilot project on a frequency containment reserve for the hourly market. In the project, we are examining the participation of a reserve seller outside the electricity supply chain in the reserve market and aggregating reserve bids from regulation-capable sites belonging to different balances. We are also looking into what such an aggregation model would mean in practice, how the energy resulting from the activation of the reserves is processed in the imbalance settlement and what changes would be required to the IT system in order to implement the model. Fingrid is also preparing a similar aggregator pilot project on the balancing power market. The results of our pilot projects will be completed during 2017 and 2018. New aggregation models will help enable the participation of small electricity producers and consumers in the reserve market in future. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 69 Wind energy exceeded the average hourly production of 1,000 megawatts Finland’s total wind power production exceeded for the first time the hourly average production of 1,000 megawatts during the Rauli storm on the 27th of August 2016. During that measured peak production hour, wind power made up some 16 per cent of Finland’s electricity production and was used to cover roughly 14 per cent of the total consumption. The volume of wind power production has increased and new power production capacity was taken into use towards the end of the year. At the end of 2016, Finland had over 1,400 megawatts of installed wind power production capacity. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 70 Grid development and maintenance Fingrid’s all-time biggest investment, the 400 upgrade will also decrease transmission losses. kilovolt transmission connection from Pori to Oulu With the higher voltage, we are enabling an annual was completed at the end of 2016 in western reduction in transmission losses by an amount Finland. With the completion of this power line, corresponding to the electricity consumption of called the Coastal Power Line, there are now three roughly 2,500 electrically heated households. We 400 kilovolt transmission links connecting the have prepared for disturbance and maintenance northern and southern parts of the country . The situations by building more loops, i.e. alternative project, which cost a total of EUR 260 million, was routes, to the grid. carried out according to plan over a span of ten years. This multi-year project was a major challenge for both Fingrid’s entire personnel and our suppliers. The transmission link serves the wind farms that The employment impact of the project amounted to have been built in western coastal areas and which approximately 1,000 man-years. We completed the will be followed by many more in the future. Several project with excellent results. Our success was existing and planned nuclear power stations are also reflected in our ability to keep on schedule and located close to this line. We upgraded the line’s low within budget, and in the comprehensive capacity and the power lines that had reached the environmental impact assessment that was carried end of their lifetime with new structures and out on the power line projects: Seinäjoki–Tuovila, boosted the transmission lines between the north Ulvila–Kristinestad and Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä. The and south. As a result, Finland’s future as a single Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä project received the national price region is now more secure. The voltage EIA award in 2011. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 71 The total project consisted of three extensive subprojects: • A 400 and 110 kilovolt transmission line connection from Seinäjoki to Vaasa, and a new transformer substation in Nivala were completed in 2011. • A 400 kilovolt connection from Ulvila to Kristinestad was completed in the second stage of the power line project in October 2014. • In the final phase, a 400 kilovolt power line connection from Kokkola (Hirvisuo) to Muhos (Pyhänselkä) was completed in late 2016. Coastal Power Line 2007–2016 • 380 kilometres of 400 kilovolt power lines • 9 new substations and several smaller substation extensions • 600–800 megawatts of new transmission capacity between northern and southern Finland The roughly EUR 130 million modernisation project Over the last two years, we have made major on Finland’s oldest transmission line, dubbed the investments to develop the transmission grid in ‘Iron Lady’ and running from Imatra to Turku, Lapland by building or upgrading a total of six proceeded as planned during the year under review. substations. These measures were necessary due to The Hikiä–Forssa section of this major project was increasing local consumption and due to new wind completed and commissioned in March. power capacity. During the year under review, the Modernisation of the Iron Lady continues between substations at Vajukoski and Petäjäskoski received Lieto and Forssa. We also began to upgrade the new transformers and the existing systems were Yllikkälä–Koria section between Lappeenranta and upgraded and extended. The Vajukoski transformer Kouvola and decided to upgrade the transmission substation, north of Sodankylä, serves both line between Hikiä and Orimattila and to build a new hydropower production and mining industry and substation in Orimattila. The Iron Lady project is links up with the Norwegian transmission grid via expected to be fully completed by 2020. Ivalo. The Petäjäskoski transformer substation, a major link between Laplands 220 kilovolt and 400 With the aim of securing the electricity supply for kilovolt main transmission networks, also received both residents of the Helsinki region and functions an entirely new 220 kilovolt gas-insulated that are vital to society, we will reinforce the Espoo switchgear. Extensive upgrades were additionally substation and the Länsisalmi substation in Vantaa. carried out at the Taivalkoski and Ossauskoski The substation upgrades and extensions started in substations. 2016 and will be completed in 2017. The supply of electricity from the main grid to Helsinki and Vantaa We made several investment decisions during the takes place via the Länsisalmi and Tammisto year, many of which proceeded to the transformer substations, serving around 800,000 implementation stage. people. Increasing electricity consumption and changes taking place in the production of electricity The Inkoo substation that was built in the 1970s in Helsinki necessitate upgrades in supply capacity. secures the electricity supply in western Uusimaa. The extension of the Espoo substation will improve We made an investment decision concerning the the system security of the transmission facilities in modernisation of the ageing station. The project is western Uusimaa, the region west of the capital due for completion in 2018. area. In addition, local electricity production has decreased while consumption is increasing. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 72 To secure the supply of electricity in the obsolete systems to secure reliable operation for Hämeenlinna and Valkeakoski areas, we decided to the next 20 years as well as significant modernise a 51-kilometre transmission line between environmental investments. The systems to be the cities. We will dismantle the aged and worn out modernised include fuel tanks and fuel systems, pylons and transmission lines and replace them with extinguishing systems, the plants internal electrical a new line in the same place. The project is due for and automation systems as well as the plants own completion in 2018. reserve power systems. The modernisation project on the Huutokoski reserve power plant will improve Fingrid's capital expenditure in the environmental safety. main grid The grid is kept in good condition and developed continuously. Several IT systems for asset management and utilisation are needed to support grid operations at every stage of the process, from long-term asset planning to the daily planning and maintenance of operations. In 2006, we launched a project aimed at building a complete, modern IT system to support asset management operations. In 2012, we decided on a solution that comprises eight IT system products. Many of our investments are related to enabling or We have integrated the products such that now the improving the operating conditions of industry. We master data of the transmission grid assets is are planning to build a new Vuoksi substation and a contained in a single application. This new IT system roughly 24-kilometre-long Lempiälä–Vuoksi package that supports asset management and transmission line between Lappeenranta and utilisation is called ELVIS. In this major overall Imatra. The investment will be carried out sooner project, we combined both the latest information than originally planned, due to an extension to technology and in-house knowledge and Kemiras industrial plant in Joutseno, and it is due for transformed operational procedures. The project completion in 2018. We are securing the electricity was completed in 2016. Industry operators have supply for the new bioproduct mill in Äänekoski with followed our multi-dimensional and challenging the construction of a new 110 kilovolt transmission project with great interest. We presented the project line between Äänekoskis Koivisto and Laukaas at the ELVIS Event held in Helsinki in the autumn; Vihtavuori substations, due for completion in late the event gathered representatives of TSOs from 2017. We are also modernising Olkiluotos 400 close to 20 countries. kilovolt switching station, which is outdated and has insufficient system security. The Olkiluoto Fingrids assets are carefully managed. In August, substation is one of the most important grid nodes, Lloyds Register audited Fingrids asset management with three nuclear power plants connected to it. The operations over a two-week period, and awarded us project is due for completion in 2019. a certificate for compliance with the ISO 55001 standard. Fingrids Huutokoski reserve power plant will undergo a EUR-15-million upgrade. The Huutokoski We have implemented significant revisions to the plant, located in Joroinen, is one of the ten reserve operating model to improve the reliability of crosspower plants owned by Fingrid which are tasked to border transmission connections, and we have support a sufficient supply of electricity in Finland increased our expert resources on DC transmission during major disturbances in the power system. The connections. A 24/7 back-up system was also taken six gas turbine units of the Huutokoski reserve into use in HVDC operations as of the beginning of power plant were built in 1971–73, and they have a 2016. During the year under review, we were able to, combined power rating of 180 megawatts. The above all, accelerate disturbance clearing, prevent upgrade project includes the modernisation of individual disturbances and implement measures to This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 73 secure the reliability and availability of the HVDC determined, and measures to develop safety at work connections much faster than in previous years. have been defined. Disturbances in HVDC connections did not affect the operations of the electricity market in 2016, The occupational safety development project which is partly thanks to the measures that were continued, with a focus on implementing carried out. No disturbances requiring extensive occupational safety models and tools and improving repairs occurred in 2016, and less significant safety attitudes. We trained the project and site disturbances were cleared more quickly than in managers and employees of our service providers, previous years. The total duration of interruptions in as well as Fingrids own personnel, in occupational 2016 was as low as around 10% of the 2014 and safety matters. We introduced online training in 2015 levels. The number of interruptions was halved early 2016 and it was used by more than 1,700 from 2014 and 2015. people during the year. We organised a safety observation campaign for our service providers and our own personnel. Work was also continued to HVDC disturbances, total duration and develop a mobile reporting system for occupational quantity safety, quality and environmental issues, online training and Fingrids safety management system. The figures in the tables are based on international practices that are established in defining the availability of HVDC connections. Fingrids maintenance management is, by international standards, still world-class. We were rated one of the best operators in the International Transmission Operations and Maintenance Study (ITOMS) for the 11th consecutive time. Occupational safety is a priority in our company. It is important for us that our companys and our service providers personnel make it home safe and sound at the end of every work day. In 2016, Fingrids personnel had no accidents resulting in absence from work (2015: 1), in other words, the zero accidents target was achieved. Our suppliers personnel had 12 (13) accidents resulting in absence from work, three of which resulted in an absence of more than 30 days. The suppliers and Fingrids combined accident frequency rate decreased somewhat from the previous year. Accidents and near-misses that occurred during the year have been analysed, the reasons for them have been This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 74 LTIF and severity of accidents Key events of 2016 Cross-border capacity upgrade between Finland and Sweden Fingrid and Svenska Kraftnät decided to proceed with the realisation of a third AC connection between Finland and Sweden. Fingrid’s Board of Directors decided on the matter on 15th December 2016, while Svenska Kraftnät’s Board had decided on the matter earlier. The target completion date for the project is by 2025. The next stage of the project is more detailed planning that will seek to find a route for the new power line that is suitable in terms of the environment. Electricity transmission between Finland and Sweden is among the most congested in Europe. Electricity imports from Sweden have increased, and in recent years the cross-border capacity has been sufficient to meet market needs only over half of the time. Congestion between Sweden and Finland has resulted in differing prices of electricity in the countries. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 75 In 2016, Fingrid and Svenska Kraftnät conducted a study on the need to develop cross-border capacity. According to the study, congestion situations are also probable in future, and there will be a need for a new transmission connection. The most significant benefit brought by the new connection is the balancing of the price difference between the countries, but a third AC connection is also very important for Finland’s system security, sufficiency of electricity and boosting the reserve markets. The new line will upgrade the transmission capacity from Sweden to Finland by 800 megawatts, an increase of approximately 30% over the current capacity. The planned route for the transmission line runs from Messaure in Sweden to Keminmaa and Pyhänselkä in Finland, and will thus be roughly 370 kilometres long. The cost of the project is estimated at just under EUR 200 million. Open door event attracts visitors in Petäjävesi We organised an open-door event at the Petäjävesi substation in August, and the event attracted more than 120 local residents and cottagers. An introduction to the substation was arranged before voltage was connected to the new power lines. Guests enjoyed a rare tour of the switching station and the concrete transformer bunker. The new 400 kilovolt substation that was started up in Petäjävesi in autumn replaced the 220 kilovolt substation that was built in the 50s and which had reached the end of its service life. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 76 Environment When we build and maintain power lines, maintenance and by looking into ways of limiting the substations and reserve power plants, we make sure environmental impacts of transformer fires. We that environmental and land-use issues are taken drew up oil spill response plans and updated our into account for the long term. We also relate our emergency response plans at all reserve power principles for reducing our environmental impacts in plants. One significant environmental deviation was our land use and environmental policy, which we detected in our operations during the year, however, made sure was up to date during the financial year. when an oil leak of roughly 180 litres occurred at the Key aspects include a thorough environmental Isokangas substation construction site. impact assessment (EIA) and preparedness for environmental risks. During the year we further Fingrid actively participates in land-use planning to developed our environmental management by ensure safety and land-use reservations for the grid. establishing a management system in compliance In 2016, we issued around 260 statements on landwith the ISO 14 001 standard for the reserve power use plans and EIAs. In addition, we directed the plants. construction taking place near grid installations by issuing safety instructions and statements including We also encourage our contractors and service land use restrictions. Some 420 such statements suppliers to commit to our operating practices with were issued. the help of contractual terms, environmental training and auditing related to environmental matters. We were active in, among other things, reforming During the financial year we introduced an online radiation legislation. We commissioned environmental training course intended for those measurements at substations and drew up working on our construction sites. We also provided guidelines related to the entry into force of the environmental training during the kick-off meetings directive on workers exposure to electromagnetic for investment projects, and we organised training fields. We were also part of the Ministry of Social on the use of chemicals, the management of safety Affairs and Healths working group preparing data sheets and oil spill response for the providers legislation on exposure to non-ionising radiation. We of maintenance services at substations and reserve continued to commission status reports by the power plants. On our construction sites, Tampere University of Technology on global, environmental aspects were monitored as part of medically oriented research reports on work site monitoring. Compliance with electromagnetic fields. There was no new evidence environmental requirements, occupational safety of the health impacts, but we understand that and contractor obligations was verified in 15 audits. people are concerned about the electromagnetic fields of power lines. Our goal is to complete grid investment projects and maintenance without any environmental deviations. Depending on the project, the environmental At substations and reserve power plants, we impacts of transmission line projects on people and improved chemical safety through several nature are analysed either through an environmental development projects, such as by determining the impact assessment (EIA) or an environmental study environmental impacts of the chemicals used in in compliance with the Electricity Market Act. Consultations with landowners are very important in This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 77 terms of ensuring that the power line adapts to the active and accurate communication from Fingrid as environment, taking into account various the construction work progresses, and they perspectives and stakeholders. In our power line highlight the importance of agreeing in advance on projects, we primarily utilise existing right-of-ways, the use of roads and moving about in fields and yard in accordance with the nationwide land-use areas. We are further developing our communication objectives stipulated in the Land Use and Building practices and channels on the basis of the Act. When planning transmission line routes in a feedback. new right-of-ways, a key aspect is to avoid residential areas and other significant sites. Our service providers who carry out maintenance work and trim vegetation along power line right-ofEIAs were carried out for six transmission line ways are always instructed to take land owners and projects in 2016. Two events were arranged to environmental matters into account. The inform the public about the environmental impacts transmission line right-of-ways that are kept of the power lines required to connect the Hanhikivi permanently open by regular clearing transform the 1 nuclear power plant to the grid; the EIA process local land use and landscapes. The impacts on for the project was completed in October 2016. A biodiversity can also be positive, as transmission Natura assessment update was carried out and a line areas can act as a replacement habitat for considerable bird population database was species threatened by disappearing meadows or the compiled for this project in compliance with the drainage of peatlands. In 2016, we looked into how Nature Conservation Act. An EIA was completed for to take better advantage of power line areas to five transmission line projects promote the well-being of nature and people. With (Hämeenlahti–Hännilä, Kontiolahti–Pamilo, the help of studies conducted together with our Kontiolahti–Uimaharju, Siikajoki–Raahe and the line stakeholders and representatives of various rearrangements for the Olkiluoto substation). Three professions, we have prepared so-called idea cards projects involved archaeological inventories. for land owners, explaining the possibilities of using power line right-of-ways. Municipalities land-use In order to be able to build, operate and maintain a planning is also a good opportunity to promote the transmission line, Fingrid redeems a right of use to sustainable use of power line areas. This is the transmission line area. Redemption permits were something we have underscored in our updated obtained for the re-routing of transmission lines guidelines intended for land planners and from Multisilta and Kangasala to Lavianvuori and for construction supervisors. Efforts to protect the the transmission lines Vanaja–Tikinmaa, endangered false heath fritillary butterfly continued Vihtavuori–Koivisto and Koria–Yllikkälä. A in a power line area in the region of Pirkanmaa, and redemption permit application was filed for the in Nokia grazing sheep revived the disappearing transmission line project Hikiä–Orimattila. The meadow flora. redemption compensation procedure was completed in seven transmission line projects. Eight Fingrid is responsible for the functioning and safety hearings in accordance with the Finnish Act on the of the electricity supply system in all circumstances. Redemption of Immoveable Property and Special During the financial year, we had to apply for a Rights were held with landowners. A residential special permit under the Nature Conservation Act property was purchased in order to ensure due to a flying squirrel habitat on a power line rightappropriate line planning. of-way in Äänekoski and the substation in Jyväskylä. We also had to remove an osprey nest from a Co-operation with land owners in important in transmission tower for safety reasons. power line projects. In a questionnaire given to landowners on the three completed transmission Power losses caused by climate impacts take place line projects, we received a grade of around 4 on a during electricity transmission amount to roughly scale of 1 to 5, i.e. good. With 247 landowners one per cent of Finlands total electricity responding to the questionnaire, the response rate consumption. We minimise losses by keeping the was 54%. Landowners would like to see more provoltage of the transmission grid as high as possible This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 78 and by making grid investments and equipment in 2016 were 21 (64) kg. At the end of 2016, there procurements that promote energy efficiency. was a total of approximately 37 (34) tonnes of SF6 During 2016, Fingrid signed the energy efficiency gas at our substations, and the annual leakage rate agreement of Finnish industries 2017–2025 and in the long-term has been on average less than 0.2 committed to the target of cutting energy use by six per cent. Fingrids methods of monitoring SF6 gas per cent by 2025. Climate impacts also result from are of an internationally high level. Gas facilities are our reserve power plants and from sulphur monitored using online maintenance monitoring hexafluoride (SF6), a powerful greenhouse gas used technology to help catch even minor leaks rapidly. in our substation equipment. Our SF6 gas emissions Fingrid's main environmental impacts This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 79 Research, development and innovation The goal of innovation efforts is to improve the perspective in European R&D activities and to profitability and quality of operations and respond collaborate in R&D projects. to changes in the operating environment. R&D projects are often a prerequisite for processing an Positive communication, for its part, supports the idea into an innovation. In addition, by predicting the development of a successful innovation culture and coming changes in the operating environment, good collaboration. During the financial year, we brainstorming and R&D projects can be targeted to published an R&D and innovation magazine aimed the right business areas and the necessary at our stakeholders and our own personnel. The measures can be implemented in good time. magazine presents the most interesting R&D projects throughout the years as well as an overview During the financial year, a record EUR 2.1 million of future innovation activities. was invested in R&D operations. Most (67%) research work was outsourced to universities, R&D co-operation brings synergy benefits to the research institutes and other parties, with Fingrids different parties. The collaboration with technology in-house work consisting mostly of thesis projects companies, service providers and startups creates (8) and steering R&D projects. Digital-related new business opportunities for companies, and development projects have become a new focal gives them the opportunity to pilot innovations in a point alongside traditional development areas real environment and using real data. Fingrid, for its (system security, electricity markets and part, receives the methods and services it requires transmission system). on market terms and with the efficient use of resources. In addition, customer needs are taken Developing competence in the industry, taking into into account in projects carried out jointly with account the future needs of Finland, is also in customers. In order to further the collaboration, we Fingrids benefit in terms of ensuring both highpublished Fingrids R&D roadmaps on our website quality R&D work and competent staff. The and we updated our guidelines in order to make programmes and chairs supported by Fingrid practical co-operation run more smoothly. We had a included the Lappeenranta University of positive experience during the year with our open Technologys Doctoral Programme in Energy innovation competition , which led to collaboration Systems (2014–2016), the University of Vaasas with four companies. The winning ideas – an smart electricity grid professorship (2016–2021), acoustic camera, smart glasses, crowdsourcing and and the development of the University of Vaasas sensor technology – will be jointly developed into education services related to bus systems for functional solutions for grid maintenance. Another substation automation (2015–2016). good example of R&D co-operation is the electricity storage pilot project in Helsinkis Suvilahti that was As international, especially Nordic, collaboration launched together with the customer and service intensified, we concluded an R&D collaboration provider. With the assistance of the Lappeenranta agreement with the Nordic TSOs (Statnett, Fingrid, University of Technology, the project involves Svenska Kraftnät, Energinet.dk and Landsnet). The developing a solution that enables the use of a goal is to, among other things, promote the Nordic battery storage facility to meet the needs of the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 80 electricity seller, TSO and distribution company in a market environment. Actual R&D expenditure by account Breakdown of R&D costs This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 016 201 6/B BUSINESS USINESS OPERAOPERATIONS TIONS 81 Key events of 2016 Fingrid’s competition results in four new development ideas We held an open competition to brainstorm development ideas for improving the grid system’s maintenance and repair work. Four of the proposed ideas advanced to the implementation stage. The ideas support the trend toward maintenance based on condition and measurement data. Through the competition, we also sought approaches for developing innovation activities. Our objective with the brainstorming competition was to introduce outside competence and ideas in the efforts to develop the company’s operations. The winning ideas were: Empower – using smart glasses in maintenance. The idea is based on virtual documentation technology that can bring benefits in grid maintenance, planning and asset management. Noiseless Acoustics – acoustic camera for detecting and locating deviating sounds. The idea is based on a new kind of acoustic camera technology, which enables the location of equipment faults, for example. Scoopshot – utilising crowdsourcing with targeted photo tasks. The idea is based on information collection with photos using crowdsourcing. The method can be used, for example, for locating faults by people participating in the task. Vaisala – a new measurement technology. The idea is based on a simple sensor and a new kind of measurement technology. The method can be used to detect faulty components without an inspection that requires an outage, thus bringing savings in maintenance costs. The winning ideas may not be implemented exactly as they are, as they need further joint research. The winners were announced in May 2016 at Fingrid's Maintenance Management 2020 event. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 82 GRI index CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDICATORS GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Additional Global Designation GRI content Location information Compact Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement by the President & CEO Review by the President & CEO Strategy and management system Operating environment Description of key impacts, risks, and Governance G4-2 opportunities Report of the Board of Directors Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the reporting organisation Fingrid Oyj G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Fingrid in brief Fingrid’s headquarters are located G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters in Helsinki. Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics G4-6 covered in the report. Fingrid in brief Nature of ownership and legal form of the G4-7 organisation Fingrid in brief G4-8 Markets served Fingrid in brief G4-9 Scale of the organisation Fingrid in brief Number of employees by employment type and G4-10 employment contract, by region and by gender 6 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 83 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2016 Men Women 2015 Men Women 2014 Men Women Permanent 291 220 71 280 211 69 282 215 67 87 % 76 % 24 % 89 % 75 % 25 % 90 % 76 % 24 % Temporary 43 30 13 35 27 8 31 26 5 13 % 70 % 30 % 11 % 77 % 23 % 10 % 84 % 16 % Full-time 302 226 76 293 220 73 290 222 68 90 % 75 % 25 % 93 % 75 % 25 % 93 % 77 % 23 % Part-time 32 24 8 22 18 4 23 19 4 10 % 75 % 25 % 7% 82 % 18 % 7% 83 % 17 % Total 334 250 84 315 313 Average 336 318.9 305.3 PERSONNEL BY LOCATION 2016 2015 2014 Helsinki 285 267 260 Hämeenlinna 16 15 17 Oulunsalo 9 9 10 Petäjävesi 13 12 13 Rovaniemi 2 2 2 Varkaus 9 10 11 Number of contractors’ employees by employment type, Reporting covers the service providers’ working hours included in Fingrid’s G4-10 contract internal monitoring. In 2016, grid building and maintenance operations (add.) and region amounted to 976,650 work hours, equalling 575 man-years. 6 PERSONNEL AND SERVICE PROVIDERS, MAN-YEARS 2016 2015 2014 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 84 Manyears, Fingrid’s personnel 300 287 275 Manyears, service providers 575 593 533 Manyears total 876 880 808 Personnel covered by Fingrid complies with the collective labour agreement for salaried collective employees and senior professional employees in the energy industry. bargaining These agreements cover the entire personnel excluding top G4-11 agreements management. 3 Fingrid’s contractors’ personnel covered by According to the Act on the Contractor's Obligations and Liability when the collective Work is Contracted Out, the entire chain of contractors at Fingrid’s work labour sites is obligated to operate in compliance with applicable Finnish G4-11 agreements collective labour agreements both regarding Finnish and non-Finnish (add.) by country workforce. Fingrid requires that its service and goods suppliers commit to Fingrid’s Supplier Code of Conduct or with their own similar code. The Code covers issues such as business practices, human rights, labour rights, occupational safety and the environment. The Supplier Code of Conduct is applied for procurements worth at least EUR 30,000 and they are linked, e.g., to material, equipment or ICT purchase agreements. Fulfilment of the requirements is monitored on a risk basis. The Code of Conduct is a condition for being included in supplier registers used in recurring substation and power line procurements. In addition, contractual partners are subject to separate contract conditions related to the use of subcontractors and workforce, and to occupational safety and environmental matters. Building work on the grid is carried out on a project basis, in separate substation and transmission line projects as well as in turn-key contracts. The main contractor, acting in the role of Fingrid’s contractual counterparty, is in charge of the detailed design, the procurement of material and equipment as well as building and installations until Organisation’s commissioning. The main contractor on a specific project may have G4-12 supply chain several subcontractors. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 85 The qualifications of the contractors and service suppliers carrying out grid construction and maintenance are verified primarily by means of various supplier registers and shortlisting procedures. A validation system to ensure the proper qualifications of employees for performing basic maintenance on power lines and substations is also in place. Fingrid has around 60 direct contractual partners, 12 of which account for roughly 90 per cent of the total financial value of the procurements. There are two companies with regional contracts on transmission line maintenance and four companies with regional substation maintenance contracts. Both the contractors’ and subcontractors’ use mostly Finnish workforce for grid building work. A substantial number of non-Finnish workers, hailing from countries such as Poland, Croatia, the Baltics, Germany and Italy work mainly on transmission line work sites. Grid maintenance suppliers and their suppliers use Finnish workforce. Some non-Finnish personnel is used in vegetation trimming at transmission lines and in areas requiring special expertise. Significant changes regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply Report chain during of the the reporting Board of G4-13 period Directors No significant changes Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory EU-1 regime Not applicable to Fingrid. Fingrid does not produce its own energy. Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory EU-2 regime Not applicable to Fingrid. Fingrid does not produce its own energy. Number of EU-3 residential, This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 86 industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts CUSTOMERS CONNECTED TO THE GRID December 2016 December 2015 December 2014 Connection Connection Customers points Customers points Customers Connection points Distribution networks 62 412 62 414 60 409 Production 32 56 29 54 25 50 Industry 24 48 25 49 28 40 Institutional customers 1 43 1 44 1 44 Total 119 559 117 561 114 543 Length of above and underground transmission and The transmission grid owned by Fingrid encompasses approx. distribution 14,600 kilometres of 400, 220 and 110 kilovolt transmission lines, EU-4 lines plus 118 substations and four HVDC substations. Allocation of Fingrid’s reserve power plants are included in the European Union's CO2e emissions trading system. The accuracy of the measuring and emissions reporting systems for fuel consumption is verified by an accredited allowances or emissions trading verifier. A total of 10,326 (6,697) units (tCO2) of equivalent, emission allowances were returned, all of which consisted of broken down acquired emission rights units. Fingrid has not been granted free-ofby carbon Report of the charge emission rights for the emissions trade period 2013–2020. trading Board of No emissions rights were purchased in 2016. Emissions trading had EU-5 framework Directors minor financial significance for Fingrid. Whether and how the The precautionary principle is included in Fingrid’s Code of Conduct precautionary and the UN’s Global Compact initiative, which Fingrid has committed approach or to. The environmental impacts of new transmission line projects are principle is analysed through an environmental impact assessment (EIA) or an G4-14 addressed by environmental study in compliance with the Electricity Market Act. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 87 the Fingrid’s reserve power plants are subject to an environmental organisation permit. Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or Global Compact initiative which it Energy efficiency agreement of Finnish industries 2008–2016 and G4-15 endorses 2017–2025 Memberships in ENTSO-E (European Network of Transmission System Operators – associations Electricity), Finnish Energy Industries, Cigré (International Council on and advocacy Large Electric Systems), FIBS Corporate Responsibility Network, G4-16 organisations Association for Finnish Work Identified material aspects and boundaries Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Contents of financial the annual statements or report and equivalent reporting G4-17 documents principles An assessment of the substantial financial, social and environmental impacts of Fingrid’s operations, as well as the impacts on stakeholders’ decision-making was updated in 2016, taking into account the strong connection between sustainability and strategy and business and its impact on Fingrid’s ability to create value, as well as the requirements of the GRI reporting guidelines, which extend throughout the value chain. The starting point for the update was a thorough materiality analysis conducted in 2014, which included a broad background analysis, meetings attended by dozens of experts from Fingrid, and a stakeholder survey sent out to roughly 700 individuals. In 2016, the need to update the materiality analysis Process for was evaluated by Fingrid’s development managers and the executive defining the management group confirmed the most important issues concerning report Fingrid’s operations as well as the adequacy of how such issues are G4-18 content managed. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 88 Material aspects identified in the process for defining The matters prioritised for Fingrid as being key issues and their report Operating corresponding GRI G4 reporting aspects are presented in the G4-19 content environment section ‘Operating environment’ and in the GRI Content Index. Aspect boundary within the Contents of organisation the annual for each report and material reporting G4-20 aspect principles Aspect boundary outside the Contents of organisation the annual for each report and material reporting G4-21 aspect principles Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous Significant changes to information from previous reports are stated G4-22 reports in connection with the relevant information. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in G4-23 boundaries the scope and aspect boundaries. Stakeholder engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder G4-24 organisation engagement Basis for identification Stakeholder G4-25 and selection engagement This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 89 of stakeholders Organisation’s approach to stakeholder Stakeholder G4-26 engagement engagement Key topics and concerns raised Customers through Corporate stakeholder responsibility G4-27 engagement Environment Report profile Reporting The reporting period covers the financial period 1 January to 31 G4-28 period December 2016. Date of most recent previous G4-29 report The previous annual report was published on 6 April 2016. Reporting G4-30 cycle The annual report is published every year. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Feedback and questions about the annual report and Fingrid’s G4-31 contents corporate responsibility can be sent to viestinta@fingrid.fi. Corporate responsibility GRI content GRI Fingrid’s corporate responsibility reporting is realised in accordance G4-32 index indicators with the Core requirements of the GRI guidelines. Organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Corporate responsibility information has not been assured externally assurance for except for the account for carbon dioxide emissions which has been G4-33 the report assured by an external emissions trading verifier. Governance Governance structure and Corporate governance Governance G4-34 committees Statement This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 90 Corporate Governance Process for Statement delegating Corporate G4-35 authority responsibility Positions with Corporate G4-36 responsibility responsibility Composition Corporate of the Board Governance The report includes the composition of the Board of Directors and G4-38 of Directors Statement independence of Board members. Position of Corporate the Chair of Governance G4-39 the Board Statement Nomination and selection processes for Corporate the Board of Governance The report accounts for the selection of Board members and the G4-40 Directors Statement related criteria. Avoidance of Corporate conflicts of Governance The report accounts for the selection of Board members and the G4-41 interest Statement related criteria. Board of Directors’ role in the formulation of the Corporate organisation’s Governance purpose, Statement values and Corporate G4-42 strategy responsibility The Board of Directors’ role Corporate in the Governance identification Statement and Report of the management Board of Describes the Board of Directors’ responsibilities in the arrangement G4-45 of risks Directors of risk management. Review of the Corporate effectiveness Governance of the Statement organisation’s Report of the risk Board of G4-46 management Directors This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 91 Corporate Governance Statement Report of the Describes the Board of Directors’ role in the approval of risk Frequency of Board of management principles and in the definition of risks and their G4-47 risk reviews Directors management measures as well as implementation. Remuneration policies for the Board of Directors and senior Remuneration Describes the principles of remuneration policies and systems for G4-51 executives statement the Board of Directors and senior executives. Remuneration Remuneration The report describes the approval process of remuneration systems G4-52 systems statement and forms of remuneration. Ethics and integrity Fingrid’s vision and Values and values codes of Corporate G4-56 conduct responsibility 1-10 Mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful Fingrid’s employees can receive advice in applying Fingrid’s Code of G4-57 behaviour Conduct from the company’s legal services. 1-10 Suspicions of behaviour that goes against Fingrid’s Code of Conduct must be reported to a supervisor, Fingrid’s management or internal Mechanisms audit without delay. An independent so-called whistleblowing for reporting channel is also in use. No reports were made via the whistleblowing concerns Report of the channel during the year. Suspected breaches are investigated with about Board of confidentiality and discretion, ensuring that no negative unethical or Directors consequences befall the person reporting the behaviour. Behaviour unlawful Corporate that goes against the Code of Conduct will lead to a discussion with G4-58 behaviour responsibility the supervisor and, if necessary, other disciplinary measures. 1-10 Material aspects FINGRID’S MATERIAL GRI MATERIAL MANAGEMENT FINGRID’S ASPECT FOR TOPICS FOR APPROACH MANAGEMENT FINGRID’S MATERIAL GRI INDICATOR FINGRID (G4 DMA) INDICATORS OPERATIONS FOR FINGRID’S OPERATIONS Reliability of the Principles for Grid disturbances: Indirect economic G4-EC8 Significant indirect electricity system managing financial harm to impacts economic impacts and their This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 92 extent EU12 Transmission and distribution losses EU28 Power outage frequency EU29 Average power outage duration G4 EN3 and G4 EN4 Energy consumption EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions EU12 Transmission and Electricity distribution losses availability and EU28 Power outage frequency transmission EU29 Average power outage reliability duration Demand-side management G4 EN3 and G4 EN4 Energy System efficiency consumption Availability EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework Research and G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas development: R&D (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) and expenses G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas system security customers related to electricity (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Reserve policy Operational supply G4-EN17 Other indirect Preparedness efficiency: ranked in Energy greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions policy for international consumption (Scope 3) managing operational G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other system security benchmarks Emissions significant air emissions Fingrid’s Code of Customer survey Stakeholder G4-26 Organisation’s approach to Stakeholder Conduct grade engagement stakeholder engagement engagement Land use and ENTSO-E: ranked in G4-27 Key topics and concerns This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 93 raised through stakeholder engagement G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction environment price level Product and service EU22 Number of people policy comparisons labelling physically or economically Communications Landowner survey displaced and/or compensation policy grade Local communities broken down by type of project Management principles Corporate Finance and Credit rating G4-EC1 Direct economic value Financing Dividend payout generated and distributed Principles capacity Economic G4-EC4 Financial assistance Financial result Financing policy Cost-effectiveness performance received from government Fingrid’s corporate responsibility Deviations or G4-12 Description of the supply requirements for problems in chain suppliers contractor obligation Fingrid’s own indicator: Deviations Procurement Procurement or employment Procurement in contractor obligation or practices policy relationship matters practices employment relationship matters G4-LA6 Accidents and lost days EU18 Proportion of suppliers’ and contractors’ employees who have taken part in occupational safety training EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal Main grid judgments, settlements and development pending legal cases of diseases and Occupational health Fingrid’s own indicator maintenance and safety Environmental deviations management G4-EN29 Monetary value of principles Employment significant fines and total number System security Implementation of of non-monetary sanctions for management capital investments Customer health non-compliance with policy Maintenance and safety environmental laws and Company efficiency: ranked in regulations security policy international Compliance G4-EN11 Operational sites Grid planning, benchmarks (ITOMS, (environment) owned, leased, managed in, or construction, ITAMS) adjacent to, protected areas and Development and maintenance LTIF Biodiversity areas of high biodiversity value safety of the management Environmental outside protected areas transmission grid policies deviations Waste G4-EN23 Waste This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 94 Principles for promoting the electricity market Loss power procurement policy Transmission capacity G4-PR8 Total number of allocation and Implementation of substantiated complaints congestion key electricity regarding breaches of customer Well-functioning management market development privacy and losses of customer electricity market policy projects and services Customer privacy data G4-10 Number of employees and contractors by employment type and employment contract, by region and by gender, including EU17 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region EU15 Percentage of employees retiring within the next 5 and 10 years G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning G4-LA11 Performance and career Management development reviews principles G4-LA12 Composition of HR policy Workplace Employment governance bodies and An open, Equal atmosphere: result of breakdown of employees per collaborative, opportunity and personnel survey Education/Training employee category according to renewing and nonManagement: ranked gender, age group, minority group target-oriented discrimination in the Great Place to Diversity and equal membership, and other indicators work community plan Work Finland survey opportunities of diversity Fingrid’s Code of Business ethics G4-56 Values and codes of Conduct conduct Management Non-discrimination G4-57 Mechanisms for seeking principles advice on ethical and lawful Internal control Passing the online Anti-corruption and behaviour The company’s and risk Code of Conduct anti-bribery G4-58 Reporting concerns about Code of Conduct management training unethical or unlawful behaviour This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 95 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Public policy behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Anti-competitive outcomes principles behaviour G4-SO8 Significant fines and HR policy non-monetary sanctions for nonData security Compliance compliance with laws and policy (society) regulations SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Additional Designation GRI content Location information Management approach Strategy Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators Personnel Corporate responsibility Environment Disclosures on Management Corporate Governance Statement G4-DMA Approach Report of the Board of Directors ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Economic impacts Direct economic value generated G4-EC1 and distributed, € Income from customers 2016 2015 2014 Turnover 586,119,500 600,224,476 567,155,225 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 96 Other operating income 12,688,847 5,199,164 4,619,211 Contributions received -282,023 -199,475 -199,534 Dividend income 564,840 555,518 345,805 Income from investments and loans 688,991 623,881 1,035,098 Total 599,780,155 606,403,565 572,955,805 Payments to suppliers Purchases, materials and services 248,358,502 240,642,741 264,304,258 Electricity tax on auxiliary power -18,978 -9,858 -9,766 Other costs 30,585,523 82,287,655 48,148,708 Changes in fair value 35,444,373 -24,275,675 6,171,081 Voluntary additional personnel expenses and compensation for expenses (excl. training) -1,533,407 -1,406,409 -1,323,771 Real estate tax -409,145 -393,259 -427,408 Contributions -32,424 -79,538 -190,656 Total 312,394,445 296,765,659 316,672,447 Remuneration to personnel Salaries, remunerations, social security contributions 28,597,902 25,804,350 24,992,709 Voluntary additional personnel expenses and compensation for expenses (excl. training) 1,533,407 1,406,409 1,323,771 Total 30,131,309 27,210,758 26,316,480 Remuneration to financers and shareholders Dividend* 97,999,992 90,000,004 65,000,001 Finance costs 21,058,652 22,738,413 24,021,610 Total 21,058,652 112,738,417 89,021,611 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 97 Support in public interest and taxes Income tax for the financial year 25,780,172 30,807,079 20,202,952 Real estate tax 409,145 393,259 427,408 Electricity tax on auxiliary power 18,978 9,858 9,766 Contributions and sponsoring 32,424 79,538 190,656 Total 26,240,719 31,289,733 20,830,781 Undistributed added value for developing Fingrid’s operations 209,955,030 138,398,998 120,114,486 *The dividend for 2016 is the Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting Financial assistance received from Financial statements, note 2, other operating income, G4-EC4 government Financial statements, consolidated cash flow statement 2016 2015 2014 Tekes 75,714 34,475 66,181 National Emergency Supply Agency 145,000 145,000 130,000 Real-Smart (EU) 3,353 EU investment grant 15,000,000 19,935,000 Other financial assistance Total 262,023 15,179,475 20,134,539 Indirect economic impacts Significant indirect economic G4-EC8 impacts and their extent Power system Procurement practices This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 98 Report of the Board of Directors Strategy Corporate responsibility G4-DMA Corporate responsibility GRI indicators See G4-12. Electricity availability and transmission reliability G4-DMA Grid development and maintenance Demand-side management Power system G4-DMA Electricity market Research and development G4-DMA Research, development and innovation System efficiency Transmission and distribution EU12 losses Power system See also G4-EN4. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Energy G4-EN3 and Energy consumption within and 7, G4-EN4 outside of the organisation 8 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Direct 2016 2015 2014 Light fuel oil t 3,217 2,068 3,289 GJ 138,320 88,905 140,757 Indirect Electricity transmission energy losses GWh 1,270 1,380 1,266 GJ 4,572,000 4,968,431 4,558,700 Fast disturbance reserve electricity procured GWh 1.3 3.4 0.5 GJ 4,676 12,700 1,937 Reserve power plants’ auxiliary energy GWh 9.9 9.4 9.2 GJ 35,724 33,719 33,195 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 99 Reserve power plants’ district heating GWh 0.6 0.6 0.7 GJ 2,319 2,242 2,610 Fingrid’s environmental data reporting encompasses the entire company except for the data on substation electricity consumption, electricity and heating for premises, and the related carbon dioxide emissions. The compilation of this data will be developed in the coming years. Reporting does not include emissions data from transportation carried out by service providers. Fingrid does not own any motor vehicles. Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high G4-EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas 8 2016 2015 2014 Grid transmission lines in protected areas and Natura sites1 km 257 260 240 Reported transmission line kilometres in protected and Natura areas. 1 Approx. 2% of Fingrid’s transmission lines are located in nature reserves or Natura sites. Protected areas amounted to around 9 per cent of Finland’s total area in 2016. Emissions Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN15 (Scope 1) 7, 8 Direct emissions (Scope 1) 2016 2015 2014 Reserve power plant fuels, tCO2 10,326 6,502 10,660 Substations’ sulphur hexafluoride, tCO2e 479 1,459 342 Total, tCO2e1 10,805 7,961 11,000 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 100 1 According to Statistics Finland, the total CO2 equivalent emissions in Finland in 2015 were 55.6 million carbon dioxide tonnes. Fingrid’s share of all Finnish CO2 emissions amounted to approximately 0.1‰ in 2015. Fingrid’s carbon dioxide emissions calculations are based on the EU emissions trading system (EU-ETS) and on the international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol standards. The emission factors used in Fingrid’s CO2 calculations are based on the latest factors from Statistics Finland, the average emission factors of electricity procurement and district heat production for Finland, and IPCC 2007 (AR4) Global Warming Potentials (GWPs). The calculation of electricity CO2 emissions applies a rolling average of the last five years recorded in statistics. Emissions in 2016 were calculated using Statistics Finland’s emissions factor of 209 kg CO2/MWh. District heating CO2 emissions were calculated using the emissions factor of 183 kg CO2/MWh published by the Finnish Energy Industries for the last three statistical years. 7, G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 8 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) 2016 2015 2014 Transmission losses, tCO2-e 265,430 303,626 354,800 Fast disturbance reserve electricity procured, tCO2-e 775 897 122 Reserve power plants’ auxiliary energy, tCO2e 2,074 2,061 2,096 Reserve power plants’ district heating, tCO2-e 118 116 152 Total, tCO2e 268,397 306,700 357,170 1 2015 calculation includes CH4 and N2O emissions. Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN17 (Scope 3) 7, 8 Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 2016 2015 2014 Business travel (flights and kilometre-reimbursed business trips), tCO2-e 694 752 552 Total, tCO2e 694 7521) 552 1 2015 calculation includes CH4 and N2O emissions. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 101 NOx, SOx and other significant air G4-EN21 emissions 8 Reserve power plants’ sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions 2016 2015 2014 tonnes tonnes tonnes Sulphur dioxide, SO2 0.80 0.48 1.45 Nitrogen oxide, NOx 61 40 62 Effluents and waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal G4-EN23 method 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 2016 2015 2014 tonnes tonnes tonnes Total waste volume 7,397 6,052 3,678 Hazardous waste 481 333 412 Recycling and reuse 5,275 4,770 3,128 Other utilisation, e.g. for civil engineering 1,195 955 430 Combustion in a power plant 40 37 3 Final disposal, e.g. landfill 887 290 117 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 102 Total number Report of and volume of the Board of significant Directors One major environment-related deviation occurred in the company’s G4-EN24 spills Environment operations during the year Compliance 8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and G4-EN29 regulations No fines or sanctions during the reporting period. SOCIAL IMPACTS, LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment 6 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and G4-LA1 region TYPES OF EMPLOYMENT 2016 2015 2014 New permanent employment contracts 15 10 23 Number of expired employment contracts 7 7 5 Retired 3 8 3 Average retirement age 65 65 63 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 103 Average length of employment* (y) 10.3 8.3 8.9 Number of persons made redundant 0 0 0 Incoming turnover rate 5.15% 3.57% 8.16% Outgoing turnover rate 3.44% 4.64% 2.84% Incoming and outgoing turnover rates not reported by age group and gender. The report accounts for absolute values; percentage rates not reported due to a low turnover rate. *Fingrid was established in 1996 and its operations started in 1997. The personnel were transferred to the company as serving employees. NEW, PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS, BY AGE GROUP 2016 2015 2014 No. of No. of No. of people people people Under 29 yrs. 2 3 5 30–39 7 4 12 40–49 5 2 6 50–59 1 1 0 60–69 0 0 0 NUMBER OF EXPIRED PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS BY AGE GROUP 2016 2015 2014 henkilöä henkilöä henkilöä Under 29 yrs. 1 0 30–39 5 3 3 40–49 1 2 2 50–59 0 2 0 60–69 3 6 3 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. Percentage of employees retiring within the next 5 and Percentage of employees retiring Senior salaried EU15 10 years within the next 5 years, %: 13 % Salaried employees 3 % employees 97 % Percentage of employees retiring Senior salaried within the next 10 years, %: 24 % Salaried employees 4 % employees 96 % *The estimate is based on the lowest age that one can retire on old-age pension according to the statutory pension system. The report accounts Days worked by for the ANNUAL FINGRID ANNU AL REPORT2 REPORT 201 0166 / GRI INDEX This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. contractor and total subcontractor working employees involved hours of in constuction, service operation & providers. maintenance See G4-10 EU17 activities. (add). Percentage of contractor and The source subontractor of the employees that have report is undergone relevant the OHS health and safety Grid development development EU18 training. and maintenance project. Occupational health and safety 6 Type of injury and Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. rates of injury (LTIF), occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Grid development and total number of and maintenance work-related Personnel fatalities, by region Report of the Board G4-LA6 and by gender of Directors 104 FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 105 NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS AND ABSENCES DUE TO ILLNESS 2016 2015 2014 Absences due to illness 1% (3.4 days/person) 2% (3.6 days/person) 2% (3.6 days/person) Business Business Workplace trip Workplace trip Workplace Business trip Accidents resulting in absence from work 0 0 1 0 0 0 Accidents not resulting in absence from work 1 1 3 3 3 1 LTIF (accidents/million work hours)* 0 0 2.1 0 0 0 Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational diseases No cases No cases No cases *LTIF in line with Zero Accidents criteria. No occupational diseases diagnosed in 2016. The report accounts for the number of accidents, LTIF, fatalities and percentage of absences due to illness. Contractors’ and Grid suppliers’ development G4-LA6 OHS-related and The report accounts for the number and seriousness of accidents, LTIF (add.) performance maintenance and fatalities. Training and education 6 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee G4-LA9 category NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS BY PERSONNEL GROUP AND GENDER 2016 2015 2014 h h h Number of training hours by gender, Women 40 32 31 Number of training hours by gender, Men 34 40 32 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 106 Number of training hours by employee group, salaried employees 21 23 26 Number of training hours by employee group, senior salaried employees 38 40 32 PERFORMANCE REVIEWS 2016 2015 2014 Basic and secondary education 21 21 24 Lowest level of tertiary education 34 33 34 Bachelor’s degree 104 101 102 Master’s degree 123 116 114 Second stage of tertiary education 9 9 7 Training days per person 5 5 4 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career G4-LA10 endings 6 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development G4-LA11 reviews PERFORMANCE REVIEWS 2016 2015 2014 % who participated 99 99 99 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 107 Performance reviews apply to all permanent employees. Performance reviews conducted twice a year include a discussion on personal goals and results as well as an individual long-term and short-term development plan. Total percentage reported. Diversity and equal opportunities 6 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other Corporate indicators of Governance G4-LA12 diversity Statement AGE DISTRIBUTION OF PERMANENT PERSONNEL 2016 2015 2014 Under 29 yrs. 25 22 19 30–39 80 81 86 40–49 91 86 83 50–59 76 75 75 60–69 19 16 19 Average age 44 44 44 GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY EMPLOYEE GROUP 2016 2015 2014 Men Women Men Women Men Women This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 108 Board of Directors 3 2 3 2 3 2 Management 6 2 7 1 7 1 Senior salaried employees 213 57 203 56 207 54 Salaried employees 1 12 1 12 1 12 The Board of Directors and personnel groups reported by gender. The age distribution of permanent personnel reported. (number of people) SOCIAL IMPACTS, HUMAN RIGHTS Non-discrimination 6 No incidents of Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective discrimination during the G4-HR3 actions taken reporting period. SOCIAL IMPACTS, SOCIETY Local communities 1 A residential property was purchased in order to Number of people physically or economically displaced and/ ensure appropriate EU22 or compensation broken down by type of project transmission line planning. Anti-corruption 10 No incidents of corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken during the reporting period. Public policy 10 Fingrid does not provide any direct or indirect support, including nonmonetary support, to Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ religious or political G4-SO6 beneficiary activities. Anti-competitive behaviour No legal actions regarding Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-competitive behaviour G4-SO7 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes during the reporting period. Compliance Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for nonNo fines or sanctions during G4-SO8 compliance with laws and regulations the reporting period. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GRI INDEX 109 SOCIAL IMPACTS, PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving Two known cases of company assets, including legal judgments, settlements and Power damage during the EU25 pending legal cases of diseases system reporting period. Access Power EU28 Power outage frequency system Power EU29 Average power outage duration system Product and service labelling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customers Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches No fines or sanctions during G4-PR8 of customer privacy and losses of customer data the reporting period. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 110 Board of Directors This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 111 Juhani Järvi, Chair M.Sc. (Finance), born in 1952 Main position: Board work This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 112 Juha Majanen, Deputy Chair Anu Hämäläinen LL.B, born in 1969 Master of Science (M.Sc.), Economics, Board member since 22 March 2012 born in 1965 Board member since 6 April 2016 Main position: Budget Counsellor, Deputy Director General, Main position: Ministry of Finance, Budget Department, Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Fiscal Policy Unit 2014Group Treasury and Financial Services & Support. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 113 Sanna Syri Esko Torsti Doctor of Science in Technology, Lic.Pol., born in 1964 b. 1970 Board member since 22 March 2012 Board member since 14 April 2015 Main position: Main position: Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company, Aalto University, Professor, Head of Non-listed investments 2006Energy Technology and Energy Economics, School of Engineering 2010Secretary of the Board Marina Louhija LLM, born in 1968 Leagal Affairs, Fingrid Oyj This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 114 See full introductions of the Board members on Fingrid's home page. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 115 Executive management group This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 116 Jukka Ruusunen Doctor of Technology, born in 1958 President & CEO since 2007 Member of the executive management group since 2007, employed by Fingrid since 2007 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 117 Kari Kuusela M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1955 Executive Vice President since 2007, Asset Management Member of the executive management group since 1999, employed by Fingrid since 1997 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 118 Jussi Jyrinsalo Tiina Miettinen Licentiate in Technology, M.Sc (Politics), M.Sc (Knowledge born in 1964 Management), Senior Vice President since 2005, born in 1963 Customers and Grid Planning Senior Vice President since 2013, Member of the HR and communications executive management group since 2005, Member of the employed by Fingrid since 1997 executive management group since 2013, employed by Fingrid since 2007 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 119 Jan Montell Reima Päivinen M.Sc. (Finance), born 1968 M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1958 Chief Financial Officer (CFO), since 2013 Senior Vice President since 2005, Member of the Power System Operations executive management group Member of the starting since 2013 executive management group since 2005, employed by Fingrid since 1997 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 120 Asta Sihvonen-Punkka Kari Suominen Licentiate in Economics, M.For, M.Sc. (Tech.), MBA, born in 1964 born in 1962 CIO since 2013, Senior Vice President since 2016, ICT Markets Member of the Member of the executive management group since 2013, executive management group since 2016, employed by Fingrid since 2013 employed by Fingrid since 2016 See full introductions of the Executive management group on Fingrid's home page. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 121 1. General Fingrid is a public limited company whose reasonableness of the prices of Fingrid’s electricity governance is based on the Finnish Limited Liability transmission operations, as well as its capabilities to Companies Act, the Securities Market Act, its make sufficient investments in its grid and cover its articles of association and its shareholder costs. The Energy Authority confirms the allowed agreements. Fingrid complies in its operations with earnings for each regulatory period. The current the 2015 Corporate Governance Code for Finnish regulatory methods for the regulatory periods listed companies (“Corporate Governance Code”) 2016–2019 and 2020–2030 entered into force on 1 published by the Securities Market Association January 2016. because the company has issued bonds listed on the London Stock Exchange. This Corporate Fingrid’s corporate governance statement has been Governance Statement has been drawn up in drawn up in accordance with the reporting accordance with the recommendations of the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code. Corporate Governance Code. Fingrid's shares are The statement was drawn up as a separate report not subject to public trading. from the annual report and has been processed by Fingrid’s Board and the Board’s audit committee. The company’s activities are primarily regulated by Fingrid’s auditing organisation the Electricity Market Act. The Electricity Market PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has verified that this Act stipulates that Fingrid’s governance and its grid statement has been provided and that the operations must be independent of the production description of the internal control and risk and sale of electricity and natural gas. Fingrid's management systems pertaining to the financial owners must ensure that they keep separate reporting process is consistent with the financial decision-making which concerns Fingrid and statements of the company. decision-making concerning companies which practice the production or sale of electricity or The Finnish Corporate Governance Code is available natural gas. The confirmed regulatory methods in full at www.cgfinland.fi. allow the Energy Authority to monitor the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 122 2. Description of Fingrid’s administrative bodies Fingrids administrative system is described below, and the tasks of the administrative bodies are described later in sections 3–7. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 123 3. General meeting The general meeting is the company's supreme (2) weeks before the meeting by mailing the decision-making body. Each shareholder has the invitation to the general meeting as a registered right to participate in the general meeting and to letter to each shareholder to the address entered in exercise their right to vote. The shares of the the share register of the company. company are divided into Series A shares and Series B shares. Series A shares confer three (3) votes The notice of the general meeting and the following each at the general meeting and Series B shares information is published on the company website at one (1) vote each. When electing members of the least 21 days before the general meeting: Board of Directors, Series A shares confer ten (10) • The documents to be submitted to the general votes each and Series B shares confer one (1) vote meeting each. • Board proposals for decisions Decisions at the general meeting are primarily made • Proposals concerning the composition and with a simple majority vote. Certain changes to the remuneration of the Board articles of association nevertheless require support • The methods complied with while preparing the from a qualified majority. In addition, Series B proposal for the election of the Board shareholders have the right to elect one (1) member • Procedure according to which the Board members of the Board. Up-to-date information on the total are to be appointed in compliance with the articles number of shares and voting rights in each share of association class is published on Fingrid’s website. • Information on the proposed Board members and an assessment of their independence The general meeting adopts the financial • Proposal for the election of financial auditors statements, decides on the distribution of profits • Other proposals made by the shareholders and to and elects an auditor and the company Board, be decided by the general meeting elects a Chair and Deputy Chair of the Board and decides on discharging members of the Board and Each shareholder has the right to have an item the President & CEO from liability. In addition, the falling within the competence of the general general meeting decides on the remuneration paid meeting by virtue of the Limited Liability Companies to the Board of Directors and its committees. The Act addressed by the general meeting. The annual general meeting is held once a year, no later shareholder must submit his or her request to have than in June. An extraordinary general meeting shall the item discussed by the annual general meeting be held if the Board so decides or if the Limited such that the company has sufficient time to Liability Companies Act (Osakeyhtiölaki, 324/2006) process the matter before delivering the notice of so requires. the annual general meeting. The company publishes on its website dates by which shareholders must The general meeting is convened by the company submit their requests to have a specific matter Board. In accordance with the articles of addressed by the annual general meeting and an association, invitations to general meetings and email address to which the requests should be sent. other notifications shall be sent to the shareholders at the earliest four (4) weeks and at the latest two This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 124 The company publishes the minutes of the general member shall participate in the general meeting that meetings on its website no later than two (2) weeks decides on his or her election unless there are wellafter the meeting. founded reasons for the absence. As a rule, Fingrid's President & CEO, Chair of the Fingrid's annual general meeting was held on 6 April Board and other Board members, together with the 2016. The main decisions from the annual general auditor, are present in a general meeting. Also, a meeting have been published on the company's person proposed for the first time as a Board website. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 125 4. Board of Directors Fingrid’s annual general meeting elects a Board association of the company, and guidelines provided once per year. In accordance with the articles of by the annual general meeting. The primary duties association, the Board of Directors consists of five and principles of the Board of Directors are also (5) members. Shareholders who hold Series B specified in the Board’s working order, according to shares in the company are entitled to elect one (1) which the Board: member of the Board through a simple majority decision in accordance with the quantity of Series B • Decides the company strategy. shares held. Individuals who are Board members in a • Approves the annual action plan and budget on company which practices the sale or production of the basis of the strategy and supervises electricity or natural gas, or in a body which its implementation. represents such a company, may not be elected as a • Approves Fingrid’s management system and other member of the Board. The general meeting elects business principles to be determined on the Board one Board member to serve as the Chair of the level. Board and one member to serve as the Deputy • Confirms the values to be followed in Fingrid's Chair of the Board. The Board is convened by the operations. Chair or Deputy Chair of the Board. • Approves the total amount of purchases and capital investments and its distribution on the The Board constitutes a quorum when more than various sectors, and decides separately on half of its members are present, and one of these is budgeted purchases and capital investments in the Chair or the Deputy Chair. The decisions of the excess of 10 million euros and on purchases, capital Board of Directors are made through a simple investments and sales outside the budget in excess majority on the basis of the Board members present of 2 million euros. in the meeting. New Board members are familiarised • Reviews and approves the financial statements, with the company’s operations. A Board member’s interim reports and the related stock exchange period of office expires at the closing of the next releases, the annual review and the management’s annual general meeting following his or her election. reviews. • Annually reviews the risks relating to the company’s operations and the management of such 4.1 Duties of the Board of risks. Directors • Decides on the operating model of the internal audit and reviews the internal audit’s annual plan The tasks and responsibilities of Fingrid’s Board are and audit reports. set out by the Limited Liability Companies Act and • Appoints and dismisses the President & CEO of other applicable legislation, as well as the articles of the company. association. The Board of Directors is responsible • Approves the basic organisation and composition for the administration and appropriate organisation of the executive management group of the company. of the operations of the company. The Board of • Decides on the principles of the remuneration Directors makes sure that the company adheres to system and on the remuneration of the President & the relevant rules and regulations, articles of CEO and the executive management group. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 126 • Holds some of the meeting at least once a year The Board convened 8 times over the course of the without the presence of executive management. year and approved the financial statements and • Holds some of the meeting at least once a year annual review for 2015 and decided on, among other with the auditor things, Fingrid’s strategy for 2017–2021, the budget without the presence of executive management. and annual action plan for 2017, the grid service • Assesses its work once a year. pricing for 2017, grid investments of roughly EUR • Appoints from amongst its own members the audit 120 million, the principles of risk management and committee and remuneration committee. continuity management, and all significant policies • Appoints an advisory committee whose task is to affecting the company. Furthermore, the Board act as a link between the Board and the company made a decision in principle on a third connection management and electricity users and other line between Sweden and Finland. In its meetings, stakeholders. The advisory committee has 10–14 the Board discussed matters which have featured members who represent electricity producers, on committees’ agendas. transmitters, sellers, users and other electricity market actors. The term of office is three (3) calendar years. The Board confirms the advisory 4.3 Diversity of the Board of committee’s regulations. Directors • Deals with other business which the Chair of the Board, a Board member or the President & CEO has The Board of Directors’ diverse composition proposed for inclusion on the agenda. supports the accomplishment and development of the goals and targets set by the company for its operations. An aim of the company is for all Board 4.2 Board of Directors in 2016 members to have adequate and mutually complementary experience and expertise in the Until the annual general meeting held on 6 April areas essential for both the operations and societal 2016, the Board consisted of Helena Walldén role of the company. Fingrid additionally strives to (Chair), Juha Majanen (Deputy Chair), Juhani Järvi, assess the composition of the Board in terms of age Sanna Syri and Esko Torsti. After the annual general and gender and to comply with the gender equality meeting, Juhani Järvi (Chair), Juha Majanen (Deputy targets recommended by the state ownership Chair), Anu Hämäläinen, Sanna Syri and Esko Torsti steering. A proposal on the Board composition is were elected as members of the Board. prepared by significant shareholders. Of the Board’s members, Juhani Järvi, Anu Fingrid Board members possess wide-ranging Hämäläinen and Sanna Syri are independent from business and management expertise, also outside the company and its significant shareholders; the of Finland. The sectors and areas of expertise other members are independent from the company. represented in the Board include industry, energy The company’s President & CEO, CFO and general sector, financing and accounting as well as state counsel, who is the Board’s secretary, participate in administration. 40 per cent of the Board members Board meetings. Board members do not own shares are female and 60 per cent male. The ages of the in the company. Board members range between 46 and 65 years. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 127 Fingrid’s Board of Directors on 31 December 2016 AttenMain position Attendance Year of Educadance at Name and indepenat committee birth tion Board dence meetings meetings Audit committee Board work, inde5/5 Chair pendent from the M.Sc. Remuneration Juhani Järvi 1952 company and sig8/8 (Finance) committee 3/4 nificant sharehol(since 6 April ders 2016) Ministry of Finance, Head of Fiscal Policy Unit, Deputy Chair independent from Audit committee 1969 LL.B. 8/8 Juha Majanen the company, non5/5 independent from significant shareholders Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice PresiM.Sc. dent, Group TreaRemuneration Anu Hämäläinen (Accounsury and Financial committee 3/4 (since 6 April 1965 ting Services & Sup7/8 (Member since 6 2016) and port, independent April 2016) Finance) from the company and significant shareholders This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 128 Fingrid’s Board of Directors on 31 December 2016 Aalto University, Professor, independent of D.Sc. the company, inRemuneration Sanna Syri 1970 (Technodependent from 8/8 committee 4/4 logy) significant shareholders Ilmarinen Mutual Audit committee Pension Insurance 4/5 Company, Vice (since 6 April President, inde2016) Esko Torsti 1964 Lic. Pol. pendent from the 8/8 company and nonRemuneration independent from committee 1/4 significant share(until 6 April 2016) holders Audit committee Board work, inde1/5 pendent from the (until 6 April 2016) Helena Walldén M.Sc. 1953 company and sig1/8 (until 6 April 2016) (Tech.) Remuneration nificant shareholcommittee 1/4 ders (until 6 April 2016) This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 129 5. Board committees The Board has two (2) committees: the audit maintenance management, on the management of committee and the remuneration committee. The customer contracts and customer data and on Board approves the committees’ working orders, financing activities, the principles for risk which are regularly updated. The Board appoints management and continuity management, as well as members of the committees from amongst its own corporate finance and financing principles, and the members. Each committee has at least three (3) corporate governance statement. The committee members. The requirements of the Corporate additionally prepared the company’s financial Governance Code are complied with when reporting concerning matters up for decision by the appointing members of the committees. Board. The committees appointed by the Board assess their operations once a year. 5.2 Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is appointed by the 5.1 Audit committee Board of Directors and it assists the Board. The Board has specified the duties of the remuneration The audit committee is appointed by the Board of committee in its working order in accordance with Directors and it assists the Board. The Board has recommendation 17 of the Corporate Governance specified the duties of the audit committee in its Code. Accordingly, the remuneration committee, working order in accordance with recommendation among other things, prepares for the Board of 16 of the Corporate Governance Code, in addition to Directors the principles of the remuneration system which the audit committee should also assess the applied to the executive management and other audit plans of the auditor and internal auditor, personnel. The committee also prepares for the review the auditor’s and the internal audit reports, Board, on the basis of accepted principles, a supervise compliance with legislation (incl. proposal concerning the remuneration to be paid to requirements set in the EU’s Audit Regulation) and the President & CEO and other members of the with the governance principles set by the Board as executive management group. The committee well as the financial reporting process and prepare furthermore prepares matters concerning the the process for the selection of the auditor. election of the President & CEO and members of the executive management group and successor The audit committee consisted of Esko Torsti (Chair planning. as of 6 April 2016), Juha Majanen, Juhani Järvi and Helena Walldén (Chair and member until 6 April The remuneration committee consisted until 6 April 2016). The committee convened five times in 2016. 2016 of Helena Walldén (Chair), Sanna Syri and The President & CEO, the CFO and general counsel Esko Torsti and since 6 April 2016 of Juhani Järvi participated in the committee’s meetings. In its (Chair), Anu Hämäläinen and Sanna Syri. During meetings, the audit committee dealt with issues 2016, the remuneration committee convened four such as the draft interim reports, the auditor’s times. The President & CEO and the Senior Vice reports, the reports of the internal audit on President, HR and Communications, participated in This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 130 the committee’s meetings. Topics discussed in the CEO as well as management successor planning meetings included the remuneration systems for the and deputising arrangements. executive management group and the President & This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 131 6. President & CEO The President & CEO, in compliance with the is responsible for the operations of the company Limited Liability Companies Act, attends to the and serves as the Chair of the Board of the administrative routines of the company in subsidiaries. The President & CEO is not a member accordance with guidelines provided by the Board of of the company’s Board of Directors. Directors. In accordance with the Limited Liability Companies Act, the President & CEO is responsible Jukka Ruusunen (D.Sc. Tech., born 1958) has acted for ensuring that the company's bookkeeping as Fingrid's President & CEO since 2007. He does complies with legislation and that financial not own Fingrid shares nor does he have sharemanagement is reliably organised. Assisted by the based rights in Fingrid or in a company that belongs executive management group, the President & CEO to the same group as Fingrid. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 132 7. Company management Fingrid holds key responsibility for the transmission company Fingrid. Another subsidiary wholly owned of electricity in the main grid in Finland and thereby by the parent company Fingrid, Fingrid Datahub Oy, the functioning of the entire society. In its is in charge of providing the electricity markets’ operations, Fingrid complies with the applicable centralised data exchange service and related legislation and international conventions as well as services to electricity market parties as well as of the principles approved by the Board of Directors the management of the registered information and the policies approved by the President & CEO required by the electricity market and the and discussed by the executive management group. development of these functions. Fingrid’s Code of Conduct is published on the company’s website. 7.1 Executive management The primary duty of Fingrid’s executives is to ensure that the company’s basic tasks are managed group efficiently. The operations are based on meeting the The executive management group supports the needs of customers and society, taking into account President & CEO. Its tasks are: the obligations laid down in the articles of association, shareholder agreements, electricity • To define, communicate, implement and follow up system license and Electricity Market Act. the strategy. • To draw up an action plan and budget. Fingrid’s operations are managed in a matrix of four • To implement financial control and risk perspectives. These are: customers and society, management. finance, internal processes (adequacy of the • To implement resource planning, procurement and transmission system, system operation and the control. promotion of market functioning), and personnel • To implement external communications and and expertise. stakeholder dialogue. The operational organisation has been organised • To prepare matters for the Board of Directors. into functions. The heads of the functions make up • To develop the work of the executive management the executive management group of the company. group. The Board of Directors approves the basic Each member of the executive management group organisation of the company on the level of is responsible for day-to-day business operations of functions. the organisation in his or her area of responsibility Significant special tasks are separated and and for implementing operative decisions. organised as necessary in a separate company. In addition to Jukka Ruusunen, President and CEO, Such tasks include e.g. special electricity market the executive management group consisted in 2016 services, such as the management of the power of: reserve system and taking care of the guarantees of origin for electricity, which are carried out by Finextra Oy, a wholly owned subsidiary of the parent This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 133 • Kari Kuusela, M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1955, Vice President, power system operation Executive Vice President, asset management • Kari Suominen, M.Sc. (Tech.), MBA, born in 1964, • Juha Kekkonen, M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1950, Chief Information Officer (CIO) Executive Vice President, markets (until 28 February 2016) • Asta Sihvonen-Punkka, Licentiate in Economics, Fingrid’s general counsel additionally participates in M.For, born in 1962, Senior Vice President, markets the meetings of the executive management group. (since 1 March 2016) The members of the executive management group • Jussi Jyrinsalo, Licensiate in Technology, born in do not own Fingrid shares nor do they have share1964, Senior Vice President, system development based rights in Fingrid or in a company that belongs • Tiina Miettinen, M.Sc. (Politics), M.Sc. (Knowledge to the same group as Fingrid. Management), born in 1963, Senior Vice President, HR and communications The executive management group convened 15 • Jan Montell, M.Sc. (Finance), born in 1968, Chief times during the year. Financial Officer (CFO) • Reima Päivinen, M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1958, Senior This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 134 8. Advisory committee Fingrid’s Board of Directors appoints an advisory CEO and Vice President responsible for the committee with 10 to 14 members to serve as a link company’s customer relationships participate in the between the company, its customers and other advisory committee’s meetings. stakeholders. The advisory committee is an advisory body which provides perspectives on the company’s The composition of the advisory committee is set grid operations and customer services from a out on the company’s website. customer point of view. The advisory committee The advisory committee convened four times during widely represents electricity producers, the year. The topics discussed in the advisory transmitters, sellers, users and other electricity committee’s meetings included in particular the market actors. transformation of the power system and the The advisory committee is set out in Fingrid’s electricity market as well as the opportunities articles of association. The Board annually confirms offered by digitalisation and smart grids and the the regulations concerning the work of the advisory impact of these, particularly from the point of view committee. The term of office of the members of the of customers. advisory committee is three years. The President & This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 135 9. Internal control and risk management 9.1 Internal control and risk company’s website at www.fingrid.fi and in the Board of Directors’ annual review. management principles Fingrid’s internal control is a permanent component 9.2 Arrangement of internal of the company’s operations and deals with all those control and risk management operating methods and procedures whose objective it is to ensure and distribution of responsibility • effective and profitable operations that are in line with the company’s strategy, • the reliability and integrity of the company’s 9.2.1 Board of Directors financial and management information, • that the company’s assets are protected, The company’s Board is responsible for organising • that applicable legislation, guidelines, regulations, internal control and risk management, and it agreements and the company’s own governance approves the principles of internal control and risk and operating guidelines are complied with, and management on an annual basis. The Board defines • a high standard of risk management. the company’s strategic risks and related management procedures as part of the company’s Risk management is planned as a whole with the strategy and action plan, and monitors their objective of comprehensively identifying, assessing, implementation. The Board decides on the monitoring and safeguarding the company’s operating model for the company’s internal audit. operations, the environment, personnel and assets The Board regularly receives internal audit and from various threats and risks. Due to the nature of financial audit reports as well as a status update at the company’s basic mission, risks are also assessed least once a year on the strategic risks and from the perspective of society in general. continuity threats relating to the company’s operations and their management and realisation. Continuity management is a part of risk management. Its objective is to improve the organisation’s capacity to prepare and to react in 9.2.2 Line management and other the best possible way should risks occur, and to organisation ensure the continuity of operations in such situations. Assisted by the executive management group, the President & CEO is responsible for executing and Further information on internal control, risk steering the company’s governance, decisionmanagement and the foremost risks making procedures, control and risk management, and factors of uncertainty is available on the and for the assessment of strategic risks and This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 136 continuity threats at the company level, and their responsibility as well as the heads of units and related risk management. functions receive a monthly report of the financial situation. These reports include information on the The heads of functions are responsible for the proceeds, costs and capital investments in the practical implementation of the governance, relevant area of responsibility. In addition to financial decision-making procedures, controls and riskaccounting reports, the reporting covers management for their areas of responsibility, as well comprehensive reports which contain business as for the reporting of deviations and the sufficiency information. These are produced by means of cost of more detailed guidelines. Directors appointed in accounting and the financial control system. charge of the threats to continuity management are responsible for drawing up and maintaining The interpretation and application of the standards continuity management plans and guidelines, and governing financial statements are centralised at for arranging sufficient training and practice. the Group’s financial administration, which monitors the accounting standards (IFRS, FAS), maintains an The CFO is responsible for arranging procedures, account scheme, draws up internal guidelines for controls and monitoring at the company level as the financial statements, and is responsible for the required by the harmonised operating methods of financial reporting process. The process is internal control and risk management. The documented and it specifies how, when and on what company’s general counsel is responsible for schedule the month-end accounts are drawn up. assuring the legality and regulation compliance of internal guidelines, as well as for the procedures Fingrid draws up the consolidated financial these require. Each Fingrid employee is obligated to statements and interim reports in accordance with identify and report any risks or control deficiencies IFRS reporting standards accepted by the European she or he observes and to carry out the agreed risk Union and in accordance with the Finnish Securities management procedures. Market Act. The annual review and the financial statements of the Finnish companies included in the Group are prepared in accordance with the Finnish 9.3 Arrangement of control and Accounting Act as well as the guidelines and risk management related to the statements of the Finnish Accounting Standards Board. financial reporting process The internal control and risk management systems The internal control systems relating to the financial and procedures related to the financial reporting reporting process are part of a more extensive processes, described in more detail below, have overall system of Fingrid’s internal control. been devised so as to make sure that financial reporting by the company is reliable, coherent and 9.3.1 Control environment of financial timely and that the financial reports published provide an essentially true and fair view of Fingrid's reporting process finances. The Group comprises the parent company Fingrid Oyj and its wholly owned subsidiaries Finextra Oy 9.3.2 Roles and responsibilities of the and Fingrid Datahub Oy. The associated companies financial reporting process are eSett Oy (holding 33.3%) and Nord Pool AS (holding 18.8%). The Group has no joint ventures. Fingrid’s Board of Directors is primarily responsible for the specification of the principles for internal The financial administration of the company is control and risk management related to financial responsible for the Group’s centralised financial reporting, and the Board makes sure that these reporting and for the internal control and risk principles are followed in the company. The Board management of financial reporting. The executive reviews and accepts the interim reports, annual management group and those with budget review and financial statement. The audit committee This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 137 assists the Board in this by monitoring the efficiency analyses constitute the primary control and of internal control, internal audit and risk monitoring process in securing the efficiency and management systems of the company. purposefulness of the functions and the accuracy of financial reporting. The analyses compare the The finance department of the Group is responsible realised proceed and cost components with the for developing the financial reporting process budget and to the previous year, and the budget is through means such as monitoring the development compared to the quarterly forecast. The monitoring needs of controls related to financial reporting, by of cash flow and capital investments is part of this supervising the sufficiency and efficiency of these process. controls, and by making sure that external reporting is correct and up to date and that the regulations Verification of the accuracy of monthly reporting pertaining to reporting are followed. employs the company’s financial control system, which the controllers and heads of units of the The company’s financial auditor and internal auditor company can use to find essential errors and carry out inspections relating to financial reporting deviations. The accuracy of financial reporting is in accordance with the plan approved by the board. also ensured through good data security and data protection. The goal is to avoid risky work 9.3.3 Risk management, control combinations wherever possible. User rights are procedures and monitoring of the checked regularly, and user rights are determined by the position of a person in the organisation. financial reporting process Backups are taken regularly of the databases used in the financial control system and accounting Controls pertaining to risk management are set system. The company has a data security manager throughout the Group, at all levels and units of the who is responsible for the management and Group. Examples of the controls include internal development of data networks and data security, as guidelines, acceptance procedures and well as for providing personnel with guidance authorisations, cross-checking with cost concerning data security matters. accounting, matching, verifications, assessment of operative efficiency, securing of assets, and Controls for the financial reporting processes are differentiation of tasks. The financial administration developed as part of internal control. Personnel is of the Group is responsible for the control structures given training in how to monitor the correctness of relating to the financial reporting process. the information produced by the financial reporting process of the company, concerning cost allocation, The control of the budgeting process is based on posting, acceptance procedures for invoices and the budgeting guidelines, with the financial receipts, as well as for budgeting and actual result administration of the Group being responsible for follow-up. their specification, centralised maintenance, and for monitoring compliance with them. The principles are The company’s auditor and internal auditor carry out applied uniformly throughout the Group, and there is regular inspections on the functionality of controls a common reporting system in use. concerning the financial reporting process and on the accuracy of information. The monthly financial reporting to the executive management group together with the related This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 138 10. Financial audit and internal audit 10.1 Financial audit authorisation-related tasks commissioned by the Board or management. An authorised public accounting company selected The annual general meeting of 2016 elected by the general meeting acts as auditor for the authorised public accountants company. The company’s financial auditor inspects PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as the auditor of the the accounting, financial statements and financial company. Authorised public accountant Jouko administration for each financial period and Malinen serves as the company’s responsible provides the general meeting with reports required auditor. The general meeting decided that the by accounting legislation or otherwise stipulated in auditor’s fee and expenses are paid on the basis of a legislation. The financial auditor reports on his or reasonable invoice accepted by the company. her work, observations and recommendations for the Board of Directors and may also carry out other Auditor Audit or’’s ffeees, EUR 11,,000 016 201 6 201 0155 Auditing fees 65 45 Other fees 84 74 TOTAL 149 119 10.2 Internal audit President & CEO. The internal audit provides a systematic approach to the assessment and development of the efficacy of the company’s risk The Board of Directors decides on the operating management, monitoring, management and model for the company’s internal audit. The internal administrative processes and ensures their audit acts on the basis of plans processed by the sufficiency and functionality as an independent Audit Committee and approved by the Board. Audit party. The internal audit has the authority to carry results are reported to the object of inspection, the out reviews and to access all information that is CEO, the Audit Committee and the Board. Upon essential to the audit. Fingrid’s internal audit carries decision of the Board, an internal audit outsourced out risk-based auditing on the company’s various to an authorised public accounting company acts processes. within the company. From an administrative perspective, the internal audit is subordinate to the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 139 In 2016, Deloitte & Touche Oy served as Fingrid’s customer contracts and customer data, and internal auditor and carried out a total of three financing activities. The fees paid to Deloitte & audits. The audits concerned the company’s Touche Oy for auditing tasks totalled EUR 63.200. maintenance management, the management of This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 140 11. Related party transactions The Group’s related parties include, in addition to transactions are accounted for in section 4.1 of the the parent company Fingrid Oyj, subsidiaries financial statements. Finextra Oy and Fingrid Datahub Oy, and the associated companies Nord Pool AS and eSett Oy, In the decision making concerning related party the shareholder entities listed in Note 3.5 of the transactions, Fingrid sees to it that any conflicts of company’s financial statements, and senior interest are taken into account, and no one included management and their related parties. The senior in the related parties or a representative of a related management is composed of the Board of Directors, party participates in deciding on a related party the President & CEO, and the executive transaction. Business with related parties is management group. Other related party conducted at market prices. Fingrid maintains a list transactions include transactions concluded with of its related parties. entities in which the State of Finland has a holding in excess of 50 per cent. Fingrid’s related party This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 141 12. Main procedures relating to insider administration Fingrid complies with Nasdaq Helsinki Oy’s insider window to the persons who participate in the guidelines as well as the UK’s Financial Conduct preparation of interim reports, management reviews Authority’s (FCA) and the Financial Supervisory and/or financial statements, including any external Authority’s (FIN-FSA) up-to-date guidelines on the consultants and experts. governance and management of insider information. Fingrid additionally has an insider guideline The lists related to Fingrid’s insider administration approved by the Board of Directors, which describes are not public; only the person in charge of insider the key principles for insider issues to be applied administration and his/her assistants have access to within the company. The company's general counsel them. Marina Louhija is in charge of insider administration. According to Fingrid’s insider guidelines, permanent Fingrid’s permanent insiders consist of the Board of or project-specific insiders and the persons under Directors, President & CEO, members of the the extended closed window rules may not, on their executive management group as well as any person own account or on the account of a third party, trade considered to have regular access, due to their in Fingrid’s financial instruments within thirty (30) duties, to insider information concerning Fingrid. days prior to the publication of Fingrid’s financial Project-specific lists of insiders are drawn up as statements release and the regularly published necessary; such lists include any persons in charge interim reports and management reviews. of preparations for the project who have access to insider information related to the project. Fingrid additionally applies a so-called extended closed This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 142 Remuneration statement 13. Arrangement of determined in accordance with general pension legislation. remuneration decision-making The total remuneration of the CEO consisted in The annual general meeting decides on the 2016 of a fixed total salary, a one-year bonus remuneration for Board members and the financial scheme (max. 25 per cent of the annual pay for the auditor. Fingrid’s Board of Directors approves the earnings year), and a three-year long-term incentive remuneration for the President & CEO and the scheme (max. 35 per cent of the annual pay for the members of the executive management group, the earnings year). There is no share or share-based remuneration systems for a given year, and the remuneration scheme or supplementary pension principles of remuneration for personnel. scheme in place for the CEO on behalf of the company. 14. Key remuneration principles The criteria for the CEO’s one-year bonus scheme in 2016 were cost efficiency, customer satisfaction, at Fingrid functionality of the workplace community, and leadership. An additional criterion was a strategic 14.1 Remuneration and other benefits project concerning the reliability of cross-border for the members of the Board of transmission. The criteria for the long-term incentive scheme are system security, electricity market Directors functionality and shareholder value. Corporate social responsibility is taken into account in both the Each member of the Board is paid a fixed annual fee year-long and long-term incentive schemes. and a meeting fee. The meeting fee is also paid for committee meetings. The members of the Board The mutual period of notice for the President & CEO have no share or share-related remuneration is six months. If the company dismisses the schemes or supplementary pension schemes. President & CEO, an amount of money Fingrid does not pay pension fees for the Board’s corresponding to nine months’ fixed salary is paid to remuneration. the President & CEO in addition to the salary for the period of notice. 14.2 Remuneration of the President & CEO 14.3 Remuneration of executive management The service terms of the President & CEO have been specified in a separate President & CEO The total remuneration of the members of the service contract which is executive management group consists of a fixed approved by the Board of Directors. The retirement total salary, a one-year bonus scheme, and a threeage and pension accrual of the President & CEO are year long-term incentive scheme. The maximum amount of the one-year bonus scheme is 20 per This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 143 cent of the annual pay for the earnings year. The Remuneration is supplemented by other benefits annual maximum amount of the long-term incentive and worktime flexibility organised by the company. scheme is 25 per cent of the annual pay for the Results which form the basis of quality bonuses are earnings year. measured using annually defined company and function-level indicators. Incentive bonuses are paid The criteria for the executive management’s onefor good performance as part of the daily year bonus scheme in 2016 were cost efficiency, management of personal performance. customer satisfaction, functionality of the workplace community, and leadership. The criteria additionally comprised the attainment of the key objectives of 15. Remuneration report each member of the executive management group. The criteria for the long-term incentive scheme are 15.1 Board of Directors operational reliability, electricity market functionality and shareholder value. Corporate social responsibility is taken into account in both the yearThe annual general meeting confirmed the following long and long-term incentive schemes. monthly fees for the Board members on 6 April 2016: There is no share or share-based remuneration scheme or supplementary pension scheme in place • Chair of the Board EUR 2,400 for Fingrid’s executive management group on behalf • Deputy Chair of the Board EUR 1,300 of the company. • Board members EUR 1,000 In addition, it was decided that Board members will 14.4 Remuneration of the personnel be paid a meeting fee of EUR 600 for each meeting and committee meeting attended by the member. In Personnel salaries comprise the basic salary 2016, the Board convened 8 times, the audit determined according to the content of the task, committee convened 5 times and the remuneration competence, experience and results, an annual committee convened 4 times. quality bonus that encourages the effective implementation of the strategy, and an incentive Total fees paid to Board members in 2016: bonus to support personal performance. Fees ttootal On the B oard Boar d Fees tto otal On the b boar oardd in 201 0166 016* 201 6* 015 in 201 5 201 015*5* Puheenjohtaja Helena Walldén 1.1. – 6.4. 11,143 1.1. 31.12. 37,800 Juhani Järvi, Board member/ 1.1. 31.12. 35,800 1.1. 31.12. 19,200 Chair since 6 April 2016 Deputy Chair 1.1. 31.12. 25,200 1.1. 31.12. 21,000 Juha Majanen This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 144 otal Fees tto On the B oard Boar d Fees tto otal On the b boar oard d in 201 0166 201 016* 6* in 201015 5 201 015*5* Sanna Syri, Board member 1.1. 31.12. 21,000 14.4. -31.12. 12,800 Esko Torsti, Board member 1.1. 31.12. 21,600 1.1. 31.12. 18,000 Anu Hämäläinen, 6.4. 31.12. 15,460 Board member Sirpa Ojala, Board member 1.1. 14.4. 5,200 * Including monthly fees and meeting fees 15.2 President & CEO and executive management group The table below indicates the salaries and benefits of Fingrid’s President & CEO and other members of the executive management group in 2016: Salarie alariess and Variable merit 201 0166 201 0155 bene enefit fitss* pa pay** y** President & CEO 253,000 99,000 352,000 324,400 Executive management 989,000 229,000 1,218,000 1,147,000 group TOTAL 1,242,000 328,000 1,570,000 1,471,500 the executive management group until 28 February * Asta Sihvonen-Punkka joined Fingrid on 1 January 2016 and left the company on 30 June 2016. 2016 and has served in the executive management ** Merit pay earned in 2015 and paid in 2016. group as of 1 March 2016. Juha Kekkonen served in This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE 145 Stock exchange releases 2016 29 December 2016 6 April 2016 Fingrid Oyj’s financial reports in 2017 Juhani Järvi appointed Chairman of Fingrid’s Board of Directors 21 November 2016 Fitch Ratings has upgraded Fingrid Oyj’s credit 26 February 2016 rating to 'A+'; outlook stable Disclosure of Home Member State 28 October 2016 19 February 2016 S&P Global Ratings has raised its long-term Fingrid Group’s Financial Statements Bulletin corporate credit rating on Fingrid Oyj to 'AA-' January–December 2015. Strong financials – investments continued systematically 28 October 2016 Fingrid Group’s Interim Report 1.1–30.9.2016 1 February 2016 Fingrid has decided on the providers of credit rating 17 October 2016 services Grid fees to increase seven per cent – no major pressure to increase fees in the near future 15 January 2016 Fitch Ratings has affirmed Fingrid Oyj’s credit rating 27 July 2016 'A'; outlook stable Fingrid Group’s Interim Report 1 January–30 June 2016 5 January 2016 The Energy Authority has decided on the regulation 29 June 2016 methods for 2016–2023 Fingrid Oyj’s Interim Report January–June 2016 publication date has changed 28 April 2016 More stock exchange releases on www.fingrid.fi/en Fingrid Group’s Interim Report 1 January–31 March 2016 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 146 1 Annual Review 1.1 Report of the Board of Directors Fingrid’s consolidated financial statements have otherwise indicated, the figures in parentheses refer been drawn up in accordance with the Interna-tional to the same period of the previous year. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Unless This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 147 Financial result 1.1.1 Financial result income mainly resulted from the EUR 6.3 million in recognised congestion income, in compliance with the regulation concerning the costs from In preparing these consolidated financial maintaining cross-border capacity and statements, the Group has followed the same countertrade. standards as in 2015. The Group’s total costs amounted to EUR 442.2 The Group’s turnover was EUR 586.1 (600.2) million. (418.6) million. Imbalance power costs increased Grid service income increased to EUR 382.4 (333.0) from the previous year’s level to EUR 121.7 (98.2) million, as a result of the change in grid pricing million, due to the increase in the volume and price enacted at the start of the year and due to the of imbalance power. Loss power costs amounted to growth in electricity consumption. Electricity EUR 57.6 (68.6) million. The declining loss power consumption totalled 85.1 (82.5) terawatt hours. costs have been affected by the lower price of loss Fingrid transmitted 68.6 (67.9) terawatt hours of power procurement and the slightly lower volume of electricity in its grid, which represents 77.5 (77.1) per loss power. The average price of loss power cent of all electricity transmitted in Finland. procurement was EUR 43.87 (48.22) per megawatt Imbalance power sales amounted to EUR 153.9 hour. The cost of reserves to safeguard the grid’s (137.1) million. The growth in imbalance power sales system security decreased to EUR 50.5 (54.7) resulted from an increase in the volume of million. The reason for the decreased cost was an imbalance power and higher imbalance power interruption in the procurement of the automatic prices. Cross-border transmission income from the frequency control reserve until August, as well as connection between Finland and Russia increased the lower procurement cost of frequency controlled to EUR 24.0 (11.2) million. This was due to the new reserves for normal operation and disturbances due dynamic tariff structure that was introduced as well to high availability on the markets. Depreciation as to increased imports from Russia. Fingrid’s amounted to EUR 99.2 (94.1) million. Grid congestion income from connections between maintenance costs grew to EUR 24.1 (19.2) million. Finland and Sweden declined to EUR 37.5 (86.8) The maintenance costs were increased by the million due to weakened hydrological conditions, periodical felling of trees around substations and which significantly decreased the number of the trimming of trees at the edges of transmission congestion hours. Fingrid’s congestion income from line right-of-ways. Personnel costs increased as the the links between Finland and Estonia amounted to payroll expanded, due to new operations and EUR 2.4 (4.2) million. Congestion income will no increased statutory duties and due to higher longer be reported in Fingrid’s turnover as of the employer contributions in additional personnel beginning of 2016. Other operating income totalled expenses, and amounted to EUR 28.6 (25.8) million. EUR 12.7 (5.2) million. The growth in other operating This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 148 Turnover and other operating income, € million JanJanOctOctDec/16 Dec/15 Dec/16 Dec/15 Grid service revenue 382.4 333.0 113.1 100.8 Sales of imbalance power 153.9 137.1 47.4 37.9 Cross-border transmission income 24.0 11.2 10.0 2.9 Finland-Estonia congestion income* 0.0 4.2 0.0 0.8 Finland-Sweden congestion income* 0.0 86.8 0.0 22.0 Peak load capacity income** 7.0 7.6 1.8 1.8 ITC income 13.2 15.3 3.8 4.5 Other turnover 5.6 5.1 2.0 1.8 Other operating income 12.7 5.2 2.0 3.0 Turnover and other income total 598.8 605.4 180.0 175.5 Costs, € million Jan-Dec/16 Jan-Dec/15 Oct-Dec/16 Oct-Dec/15 Purchase of imbalance power 121.7 98.2 37.5 29.6 Cost of loss energy 57.6 68.6 12.8 17.8 Depreciation 99.2 94.1 25.4 24.2 Cost of reserves 50.5 54.7 13.8 12.6 Personnel costs 28.6 25.8 8.4 6.8 Maintenance management costs 24.1 19.2 9.1 7.9 Cost of peak load capacity** 6.6 7.2 1.6 1.4 ITC charges 12.6 9.4 4.2 2.0 Estlink grid rents 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other costs 41.1 41.3 10.5 11.4 Costs total 442.2 418.6 123.4 113.7 Operating profit excluding the change in the fair value of commodity derivatives 156.6 186.8 56.6 61.9 Operating profit of Group, IFRS 192.0 162.6 67.4 57.4 * Due to a change in congestion income reporting, congestion income is not reported in the turnover as of the beginning of 2016. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 149 ** Peak load capacity income and costs are related to the securing of sufficient electricity supply during peak consumption hours in compliance with the Finnish Peak Load Capacity Act. The Group’s operating profit was EUR 192.0 (162.6) service income (EUR +49.4 million), and a change in million. To recognise changes in the fair value of the reporting of congestion income (effect EUR electricity derivatives and the currency derivatives -84.6 million). The profit for the year was EUR 138.7 related to capital expenditure and other operating (103.6) million. The equity to total assets ratio expenses, EUR 35.4 (-24.3) million was recorded in increased and was 36.4 (33.5) per cent at the end of operating profit. the review period. Net financial costs in accordance with IFRS were The parent company’s turnover was EUR 581.4 EUR 18.7 (33.7) million, including a change of EUR (592.4) million, profit for the financial year EUR -0.3 (-13.3) million in the fair value of financial 103.9 (123.7) million and the distributable funds derivatives. EUR 176.0 million. The Group’s profit before taxes was EUR 173.9 By the company’s own calculations, the return (129.3) million. The biggest differences from the last according to the regulatory model that governs grid year are explained by changes in the market value of operations amounts to a deficit of around EUR 40 derivatives (EUR +72.7 million), the growth in grid million for 2016. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 150 Capital expenditure 1.1.2 Capital expenditure transmission between Sweden and Finland. The investments carried out by Fingrid also help prepare for the new AC link to be built between the countries Fingrid’s grid investment programme improves by 2025. Thanks to the Coastal Power Line, system security and promotes the electricity Finland’s future as a single price region is now more markets as well as the implementation of the secure. The voltage upgrade will also decrease national energy and climate strategy. The annual transmission losses. This multi-year project was a capital expenditure in the grid has remained major challenge for both Fingrid personnel and our extensive. suppliers. The employment impact of the project The company’s total capital expenditure in 2016 amounted to approximately 1,000 man-years. A amounted to EUR 146.7 (147.5) million. Of that large part of the congestion income collected by amount, a total of EUR 135.8 (138.4) million was Fingrid was allocated to this major investment. invested in the transmission grid and EUR 3.3 (0.7) Overall, the Coastal Power Line consisted of three million in reserve power. ICT investments totalled extensive projects: EUR 7.5 (8.4) million. A total of EUR 2.4 (1.8) million was used for R&D projects during the year under • A 400 and 110 kilovolt transmission line review. connection from Seinäjoki to Vaasa, and a new transformer substation in Nivala were completed in At the end of 2016, Fingrid had thirteen 400 kilovolt 2011. substation sites and 67 kilometres of 400 kilovolt power line contracts as well as a significant number • A 400 kilovolt connection from Ulvila to of 110 kilovolt substation and power line projects Kristinestad was completed in the second stage of under construction. the power line project October 2014. Fingrid’s all-time biggest investment, the 400 • In the final phase, a 400 kilovolt power line kilovolt ‘Coastal Power Line’ transmission connection from Kokkola (Hirvisuo) to Muhos connection from Pori to Oulu was completed at the (Pyhänselkä) was completed in late 2016. end of 2016. With the completion of this power line on the western coast of Finland, there are now three Overall, the Coastal Power Line includes 380 400 kilovolt transmission links connecting the kilometres of new 400 kilovolt power line, nine new northern and southern parts of the country. The substations and several smaller substation project, which cost a total of EUR 260 million, was extensions. This provides 600–800 megawatts of carried out according to plan over a span of ten entirely new transmission capacity between years. The transmission link serves the wind farms northern and southern Finland. that have been built in western coastal areas and which will be followed by more in the future. Several The roughly EUR 130 million modernisation project existing and planned nuclear power stations are also on Finland’s oldest transmission line, dubbed the located close to this line. The new connection ‘Iron Lady’ and running from Imatra to Turku, furthermore improves the cross-border proceeded as planned during the year under review. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 151 The Hikiä–Forssa section of this major project was substations. The total capital expenditure amounted completed and commissioned in March. roughly to EUR 43 million. Modernisation of the Iron Lady continues between Lieto and Forssa. Work on the Yllikkälä–Koria Several investment decisions were made during the section also started, between Lappeenranta and year, many of which proceeded to the Kouvola. Furthermore, a decision was made to implementation stage. renew the transmission line between Hikiä and The Inkoo substation that was built in the 1970s Orimattila and to build a new substation in secures the electricity supply in western Uusimaa. Orimattila. The Iron Lady project is expected to be An investment decision was made to modernise the fully completed by 2020. ageing substation, and the project is due for With the aim of securing the electricity supply for completion in 2018. To secure the supply of both residents of the Helsinki region and functions electricity in the Hämeenlinna and Valkeakoski that are vital to society, Fingrid will reinforce the areas, Fingrid decided to modernise a 51-kilometre Espoo substation and the Länsisalmi substation in transmission line between the cities. Aged and worn Vantaa. These substation upgrades and extensions, out pylons and transmission lines will be dismantled which cost nearly EUR 9 million for Espoo and and replaced with a new line. The project is due for roughly EUR 18.5 million for Vantaa Länsisalmi, completion in 2018. started in 2016 and will be completed in 2017. The Several of the investments are related to enabling or supply of electricity from the main grid to Helsinki improving the operating conditions of industry. An and Vantaa takes place via the Länsisalmi and upgrade on the Vuoksi substation and the roughly Tammisto transformer substations, serving around 24-kilometre Lempiälä–Vuoksi transmission line is 800,000 people. Increasing electricity consumption planned between Lappeenranta and Imatra. The and changes taking place in the production of investment will be carried out sooner than originally electricity in Helsinki necessitate upgrades in supply planned, due to an extension to Kemira’s industrial capacity. The extension of the Espoo substation will plant in Joutseno, and it is due for completion in improve the system security of the transmission 2018. The electricity supply for the new bioproduct facilities in western Uusimaa, the region west of the mill in Äänekoski will be secured with the capital area. Local electricity production has construction of a new 110 kilovolt transmission line decreased while consumption is constantly between Äänekoski’s Koivisto and Laukaa’s increasing. Vihtavuori substations, due for completion in late Fingrid has, over the last two years, made major 2017. Olkiluoto’s 400 kilovolt switching station, investments to develop the transmission grid in which is outdated and has insufficient system Lapland by building or upgrading a total of six security, will be modernised. The Olkiluoto substations. These measures were necessary due to substation is one of the most important grid nodes, increasing local consumption and due to new wind with three nuclear power plants connected to it. The power capacity. During the year under review, the project is due for completion in 2019. substation at Vajukoski and Petäjäskoski received new transformers and the existing systems were Fingrid’s Huutokoski reserve power plant will upgraded and extended. The Vajukoski transformer undergo a EUR 15 million upgrade. The Huutokoski substation, north of Sodankylä, serves both plant, located in Joroinen, is one of the ten reserve hydropower production and mining industry and power plants owned by Fingrid which are tasked to links up with the Norwegian transmission grid via support a sufficient supply of electricity in Finland Ivalo. The Petäjäskoski transformer substation, a during major disturbances in the power system. The major link between Lapland’s 220 kilovolt and 400 upgrade project includes the modernisation of kilovolt main transmission networks, also received obsolete systems to secure reliable operation for an entirely new 220 kilovolt gas-insulated the next 20 years as well as significant switchgear. Extensive upgrades were additionally environmental investments. The systems to be carried out at the Taivalkoski and Ossauskoski modernised include fuel tanks and fuel systems, This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 152 extinguishing systems, the plant’s internal electrical By international standards, Fingrid’s maintenance and automation systems as well as the plant’s own management is world-class. The company was one reserve power systems. of the best operators in the International Transmission Operations and Maintenance Study In 2006, Fingrid launched a project aimed at (ITOMS) for the 11th consecutive time. Lloyd's building a complete, modern IT system to support Register audited Fingrid’s asset management asset management operations. Thanks to system operations and awarded Fingrid a certificate for integrations, all the master data of the transmission compliance with the ISO 55001 standard. grid assets is now in a single application. The overall project combined both modern ICT technology and In 2016, Fingrid’s personnel had no accidents in-house knowledge, and transformed operational resulting in absence from work (2015: 1), in other procedures. Thanks to advanced technology, words, the zero accidents target was achieved. significant efficiency improvements were achieved Suppliers’ personnel had 12 (13) accidents resulting in asset management. The ELVIS IT system project in absence from work, three of which resulted in an tasked to support asset management and use of the absence of more than 30 days. The suppliers’ and assets was completed in 2016. Fingrid’s combined accident frequency rate decreased somewhat from the previous year. Major improvements have been achieved in the reliability of cross-border transmission connections The occupational safety development project and Fingrid now has more expert resources on DC continued, with a focus on implementing transmission connections. A 24/7 back-up system occupational safety models and tools and improving was taken into use in HVDC operations as of the safety attitudes. On-line training was introduced in beginning of 2016. During the year under review, early 2016 and used by more than 1,700 people disturbance clearing has been accelerated, during the year. A safety observation campaign was individual disturbances have been prevented carried out with suppliers and Fingrid's own proactively and measures to secure the reliability personnel. Work was also continued to develop a and availability of the HVDC connections have been mobile reporting system for occupational safety, implemented much faster than in previous years. quality and environmental issues, on-line training The total duration of interruptions in 2016 remained and Fingrid’s safety management system. at around 10% of the 2014 and 2015 levels. The number of interruptions was halved from 2014 and 2015. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 153 Power system 1.1.3 Power system transmission capacity was available. Electricity imports from Russia totalled 5.9 (3.9) terawatt hours. In 2016, electricity consumption in Finland amounted to 85.1 (82.5) terawatt hours. A total of With a transmission reliability rate of 99.9998 per 68.6 (67.9) terawatt hours of electricity was cent, the reliability of the transmission grid was at transmitted in Fingrid’s grid, representing 77.5 (77.1) an excellent level during the year under review. The per cent of the total transmission volume in Finland number of disturbances due to thunder exceeded (consumption and inter-TSO). the average, and the resulting multi-phase disturbances were detrimental to the process Electricity import and production capacity was well industry. Otherwise the number of disturbances sufficient to cover the peak consumption, which remained at the normal level. Increased resources amounted to a maximum of 15,100 (13,500) were allocated on determining the DC transmission megawatts. The peak consumption was at an alllinks’ susceptibility to disturbances. Thanks to this, time record high in Finland. During the consumption no disturbances requiring extensive repairs occurred peaks early in the year, electricity production in in the DC links during 2016, and also less significant Finland totalled approximately 10,800 (11,200) disturbances were cleared more quickly than in megawatts. previous years. The total duration of interruptions Electricity transmissions between Finland and due to disturbances in DC links in 2016 remained at Sweden consisted mostly of large imports to around 10% of the 2014 and 2015 levels, and the Finland. During 2016, 15.7 (17.8) terawatt hours of number of interruptions was halved from the 2014 electricity was imported from Sweden to Finland, and 2015 figures. and 0.3 (0.2) terawatt hours were exported from Transmission outages in connection with investment Finland to Sweden. projects mostly affected Ostrobothnia and northern The electricity transmission between Finland and Ostrobothnia. The outages were challenging and Estonia was dominated by exports from Finland to required careful advance planning and good Estonia, which amounted to 3.1 (5.0) terawatt hours. cooperation with our customers. The outages were handled successfully. The electricity imports from Russia increased by approximately 50 per cent. Nearly the full Counter trade Jan-Dec/16 Jan-Dec/15 Oct-Dec/16 Oct-Dec/15 Counter-trade between Finland and Sweden, €M 2.5 0.8 0.3 0.2 Counter-trade between Finland and Estonia, €M 0.1 0.8 0.0 0.0 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 154 Counter-trade between Finland's internal connections, €M 1.2 2.2 0.3 0.6 Total counter-trade, €M 3.9 3.8 0.6 0.9 Reserves required to maintain the power balance of selling electricity, up until the end of the 24-hour the electricity system were procured from Finland, usage period. The need for countertrade can arise the other Nordic countries, the Baltic countries and from, for example, a power outage or disruption in a Russia. Countertrade costs totalled EUR 3.9 (3.8) power plant or in the grid. million. Countertrade refers to special adjustments made in the management of electricity transmission An outage in a connection point in the grid caused which are used to eliminate short-term bottlenecks by a disturbance in Fingrid’s electricity network (an area where electricity transmission is lasted an average of 2.1 minutes, which is clearly congested) from the grid. Fingrid guarantees the shorter than the ten-year average of 3.3 minutes. cross-border transmission it has confirmed by The estimated cost of the disturbances was EUR 3.5 carrying out countertrades, i.e. purchasing and (4.1) million. JanOctOctPower system operation Dec/16 Jan-Dec/15 Dec/16 Dec/15 Electricity consumption in Finland TWh 85.1 82.5 23.2 22.1 TSO transmission in Finland, TWh 3.5 5.5 0.4 1.4 Transmission within Finland, TWh 88.6 88.0 23.6 23.5 Fingrid's transmission volume TWh 68.6 67.9 17.4 17.7 Fingrid's electricity transmission to customers, TWh 64.9 62.3 16.8 16.3 Fingrid's loss energy volume TWh 1.3 1.4 0.3 0.3 Electricity transmission Finland Sweden Exports to Sweden TWh 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 Imports from Sweden TWh 15.7 17.8 2.8 4.7 Electricity transmission Finland Estonia Exports to Estonia TWh 3.1 5.0 0.2 1.2 Imports from Estonia TWh 0.7 0.0 0.5 0.0 Electricity transmission Finland Russia Imports from Russia TWh 5.9 3.9 1.9 1.0 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 155 Electricity market 1.1.4 Electricity market imports from Russia to Finland have decreased significantly in recent years, and the hourly import volumes from Russia have varied considerably. In The average market price of spot electricity on the addition to Russia’s capacity mechanism, the electricity exchange (system price) was EUR 26.91 reduction in electricity trade is attributed to (20.98) per megawatt hour. The price level in the increased electricity prices in the country. Nordic electricity markets trended downwards for an extended period during the first half of 2016, but In spring, Fingrid published a discussion paper on rebounded during the summer. The drivers behind the challenges of the electricity market and various the price increase include weakened hydrological alternative solutions to them entitled “Electricity conditions as well as price hikes in fossil fuels and market needs fixing – What can we do?”, which emission rights. sparked a lively debate. Fingrid’s consultation request was responded to by a total of 36 industry In 2016, prices on the Finnish wholesale market operators, associations, research institutions and were higher than they were in other Nordic private citizens. During the second half of the year, countries. The overall increase in Nordic prices Fingrid published a summary of the feedback, which made the price disparity between Finland and contained suggestions for various routes to a Sweden less pronounced and, as a result, market-based green electricity system. congestion hours between Finland and Sweden decreased significantly during the latter half of the The operating capacity of the electricity market and year. In addition to the increased Nordic price level, the sufficiency of electricity supply became national another reason for the decrease in congestion hours topics due to the bitter cold of January 2016. As the and decreased price disparity was the completion of consumption of electricity broke records, the topics the NordBalt transmission link between Sweden and of meeting consumption needs and national selfLithuania during the first half of 2016. sufficiency in terms of electricity were widely debated. Fingrid accrued EUR 37.5 (86.8) million in congestion income from the cross-border power Roughly half of the cross-border transmission lines between Finland and Sweden. EUR 29.9 (24.3) capacity between Finland and Sweden is provided million of this was accrued during the first half of by the Fenno-Skan links, i.e. high-voltage DC 2016 and EUR 7.6 (62.5) million during the second connections. Several measures were started by half of the year. The links between Finland and Fingrid early in 2016 to improve the reliability of Estonia generated EUR 2.4 (4.2) million in cross-border transmission capacity. Thanks to the congestion income. All the congestion income improvements, it was possible to keep interruptions accrued by Fingrid during 2016 was used for very brief, and the availability of the connections has maintaining cross-border transmission capacity and been clearly better compared to previous years. for upgrade investments. Fingrid Datahub Oy, a company focused on the The imports from Russia increased to 5.9 (3.9) transfer of retail market information, was terawatt hours. Despite the increase, electricity established on 16 February 2016. The task of the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 156 subsidiary, wholly owned by Fingrid, is to implement stakeholders as well as to complement the public a centralised information exchange system for the hearing processes related to implementing the electricity markets, i.e. a datahub, in which the network codes. The network code forum convened exchange of information between retail sellers and three times during the year under review. distribution system operators is concentrated into a single service. This makes the exchange of The Finnish, Norwegian and Swedish TSOs information in the retail electricity market more continued with the switchover to shared Nordic straightforward and efficient. Data exchange among balance settlement. The jointly owned company retail markets is needed in managing the various eSett Oy, which Fingrid owns one third of, aims to business processes of the electricity markets, such start up operations in spring 2017. as balance settlement, an end user’s change of In September, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and address and a change of seller, for example. The Employment set up a working group to look into the system will facilitate the processing of measurement role of smart grids in the electricity market. The aim data, simplify and speed up client agreement events of the working group is to forge a common vision of and improve the reliability of the service. future smart grids and to propose concrete The implementation of European network codes measures for using smart grids as a means of required by the European Union proceeded in increasing customers’ opportunities to participate in Finland, as Fingrid established a network code the electricity market and contribute to maintaining forum that is open to all market parties. The forum a secure supply of electricity. The members of the promotes public debate on all matters related to working group broadly represent the stakeholders in network codes and aims to gather the views of the sector, including active participation by Fingrid. JanJanOctOctElectricity market Dec/16 Dec/15 Dec/16 Dec/15 Nord Pool system price, average €/MWh 26.91 20.98 34.42 21.92 Area price Finland, average €/MWh 32.45 29.66 37.48 30.59 Congestion income between Finland and Sweden, € million* 75.0 173.5 3.9 44.1 Congestion hours between Finland and Sweden %** 32.7 47.1 10.9 47.4 Congestion income between Finland and Estonia, € million* 4.7 8.4 0.1 1.6 Congestion hours between Finland and Estonia % 9.7 12.0 2.8 9.1 * The congestion income between Finland and Sweden and between Finland and Estonia is divided equally between the relevant TSOs. The income and costs of the transmission connections are presented in the tables under ‘Financial result’. Congestion income is used for investments aimed at eliminating the cause of congestion. ** The calculation of a congestion hour between Finland and Sweden refers to an hour during which Finland’s day-ahead area price differs from both Sweden’s SE1 and its SE3 area prices. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 157 Financing 1.1.5 Financing first extension option of the revolving credit facility during the period under review. This extended the maturity of the revolving credit facility until 11 The company’s credit rating remained high, December 2021. reflecting the company’s strong overall financial situation and debt service capacity. The company’s The counterparty risk arising from derivative net financial costs during the period under review contracts relating to financing was EUR 16 (11) were EUR 18.7 (33.7) million, including the change in million. Fingrid’s foreign exchange and commodity the fair value of derivatives of EUR -0.3 million (EUR price risks were generally fully hedged. -13.3 million). The international credit rating agencies S&P Global Interest-bearing borrowings totalled EUR 1,107.7 (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) upgraded Fingrid’s (1,143.4) million, of which non-current borrowings ratings as follows: accounted for EUR 842.9 (907.2) million and current borrowings for EUR 264.9 (236.2) million. In 2016, • On 28 October 2016, S&P raised the rating for the company issued bonds totalling EUR 80 million Fingrid Oyj’s unsecured senior debt and long(EUR 50 million with a four-year maturity and EUR term company rating to ‘AA-’ and the short-term 30 million with a six-year maturity) to refinance company rating to ‘A-1+’, with a stable outlook. current borrowings. • On 21 November 2016, Fitch raised the rating for Fingrid Oyj’s unsecured senior debt to ‘AA-’, The company’s liquidity remained good. Cash and the long-term company rating to ‘A+’, and financial assets recognised at fair value through affirmed ‘F1’ for the short-term company rating, profit or loss on 31 December 2016 totalled EUR with a stable outlook. The rating received by 79.7 (116.6) million. The company additionally has an Fingrid was, at the time of issuing, the highest undrawn revolving credit facility of EUR 300 million valid rating given by Fitch to any European to secure liquidity and EUR 50 million in regulated TSO. uncommitted overdraft facilities. Fingrid used the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 158 Share capital 1.1.6 Share capital 2,078 and the number of Series B shares is 1,247. The voting and dividend rights related to the shares are described in more detail in the notes to the The company’s share capital is EUR 55,922,485.55. financial statements and in the articles of Fingrid shares are divided into Series A shares and association available on the company’s website. Series B shares. The number of Series A shares is This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 159 Personnel and remuneration systems 1.1.7 Personnel and cent were men. The average age of the personnel was 44 (44). remuneration systems During 2016, personnel received a total of 11,647 Fingrid Oyj employed 334 (315) persons, including (11,794) hours of training, with an average of 35.7 temporary employees, at the end of the year. The (37.4) hours per person. Employee absences due to number of permanent personnel was 291 (280). illness accounted for 1 (2) per cent of the total working hours. In addition to a compensation Of the personnel employed by the company, 25.0 system that is based on the requirements of each (24.4) per cent were women and 75.0 (75.6) per position, Fingrid applies incentive bonus schemes This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 160 Board of Directors and corporate management 1.1.8 Board of Directors and of Esko Torsti (Chairman), Juhani Järvi and Juha Majanen. The members of the Audit Committee until corporate management 6th April 2016 were Juha Majanen (Chairman), Juhani Järvi and Helena Walldén. Fingrid Oyj's Annual General Meeting was held in Helsinki on the 6th of April 2016. Juhani Järvi was As of 6th April 2016, the Remuneration Committee elected Chairman of Fingrid’s Board of Directors consists of Juhani Järvi (Chairman), Sanna Syri and and Juha Majanen was elected Vice Chairman. Anu Hämäläinen. The members of the Remuneration Other members elected to the Board were Esko Committee until 6th April 2016 were Helena Walldén Torsti, Sanna Syri and Anu Hämäläinen. (Chairman), Sanna Syri and Esko Torsti. The Board members until 6th April 2016 were Jukka Ruusunen serves as President & CEO of the Helena Walldén, Juha Majanen, Juhani Järvi, Sanna company. Fingrid has an executive management Syri and Esko Torsti. group which supports the CEO in the company’s management and decision-making. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was elected as the auditor of the company, with Jouko Malinen, APA A corporate governance statement, required by the serving as the responsible auditor. Finnish Corporate Governance Code, has been provided separately. The statement and other The Board of Directors has two committees: the information required by the Code are also available Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. on the company’s website at www.fingrid.fi. As of 6th April 2016, the Audit Committee consists This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 161 Internal control and risk management 1.1.9 Internal control and risk www.fingrid.fi and in the Board of Directors' annual review. management Board of Directors Fingrid’s internal control is a permanent component of the company’s operations and deals with all those The company’s Board is responsible for organising operating methods and procedures whose objective internal control and risk management, and it it is to ensure approves the principles of internal control and risk management on an annual basis. The Board • effective and profitable operations that are in specifies the company’s strategic risks and related line with the company’s strategy, management procedures as part of the company’s • the reliability and integrity of the company’s strategy and action plan, and monitors their financial and management information, implementation. The Board decides on the • that the company’s assets are protected, operating model for the company’s internal audit. • that applicable legislation, guidelines, The Board regularly receives internal audit and regulations, agreements and the company’s own financial audit reports as well as a status update at governance and operating guidelines are least once a year on the strategic risks and complied with, and continuity threats relating to the company’s • that the company’s risk management meets a operations and their management and occurrence. high standard. Line management and other organisation Risk management is planned as a whole with the objective of comprehensively identifying, assessing, Assisted by the executive management group, the monitoring and safeguarding the company’s CEO is responsible for executing and steering the operations, the environment, personnel and assets company’s governance, decision-making from various threats and risks. Due to the nature of procedures, control and risk management, and for the company’s basic mission, risks are also assessed the assessment of strategic risks and continuity from the perspective of society in general. threats at the company level, and their related risk management. Continuity management is a part of risk management. Its objective is to improve the The heads of functions are responsible for the organisation’s capacity to prepare and to react in practical implementation of the governance, the best possible way should risks occur, and to decision-making procedures, controls and risk ensure the continuity of operations in such management for their areas of responsibility, as well situations. as for the reporting of deviations and the sufficiency of more detailed guidelines. Directors appointed in Further information on internal control, risk charge of the threats to continuity management are management and the foremost risks and factors of responsible for drawing up and maintaining uncertainty is available on the company's website at continuity management plans and guidelines, and for arranging sufficient training and practice. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 162 The CFO is responsible for arranging procedures, company’s CEO. The internal audit provides a controls and monitoring at the company level as systematic approach to the assessment and required by the harmonised operating methods of development of the efficacy of the company’s risk internal control and risk management. The management, monitoring, management and company’s general counsel is responsible at the administrative processes and ensures their company level for assuring the legality and sufficiency and functionality as an independent regulation compliance of essential contracts and party. The internal audit has the authority to carry internal guidelines, taking into account the out reviews and to access all information that is company’s interests, as well as for the procedures essential to the audit. The company’s internal audit these require. Each Fingrid employee is obligated to carries out risk-based auditing on the company’s identify and report any risks or control deficiencies various processes. she or he observes and to carry out the agreed risk management procedures. An authorised public accounting company selected by the general meeting acts as auditor for the Internal auditor and auditor company. The company’s financial auditor inspects the accounting, financial statements and financial The Board decides on the operating model for the administration for each financial period and company’s internal audit. The internal audit acts on provides the general meeting with reports required the basis of plans processed by the Audit by accounting legislation or otherwise stipulated in Committee and approved by the Board. Audit legislation. The financial auditor reports on his or results are reported to the object of inspection, the her work, observations and recommendations for CEO, the Audit Committee and the Board. Upon the Board and may also carry out other decision of the Board, an internal audit outsourced authorisation-related tasks commissioned by the to an authorised public accounting company acts Board or management. within the company. From an administrative perspective, the internal audit is subordinate to the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 163 Foremost risks and uncertainty factors for society and Fingrid 1.1.10 Foremost risks and The risks to Fingrid’s operations are risks related to the unfavourable trend in official regulation, capital uncertainty factors for society investments which have become unnecessary, and Fingrid financing risks, personnel risks, risks related to ICT and data transfer, asset risks and reputation risks. One of the company’s biggest business risks and the Risks to society arising from Fingrid’s operations are biggest risk where society is concerned is a major unsuccessful timing of capital investments and disturbance related to the functioning of the power long-term restrictions in transmission capacity. system. A major disturbance or other electrical system disruption can cause significant financial The most significant of the above-mentioned risks and physical damage to Fingrid and society in to Fingrid are explored in greater detail in the general. company’s annual report. Fingrid’s financing risks are described in more detail in sections 5.2 and 5.3 Other major risks for Fingrid and society are a loss of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS). No of confidence in the electricity market, substantial risks were realised in 2016. environmental risks and electricity and occupational health and safety risks. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 164 Corporate responsibility 1.1.11 Corporate responsibility 2016 to the United Nations Global Compact initiative. Fingrid’s Code of Conduct complies with the Global Compact initiative’s principles on human Fingrid’s compliance with corporate responsibility is rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. steered by the set strategy targets. Corporate Fingrid also requires all contractors to comply with responsibility is a key element in the implementation the Code of Conduct and monitors their compliance of Fingrid’s strategy and in its business expertise. based on risk assessments. The key targets have been set by identifying matters that are of material importance to Fingrid. The need Fingrid’s work sites are regularly audited to verify for updates to the materiality analysis is assessed compliance with contractor obligations, annually as part of the strategy process, based on occupational safety and environmental an operating environment and stakeholder analysis management. The audits carried out during 2016 and on the strategy update. Fulfilment of the targets proved that the work site operations are generally at serves as the basis for executive management’s and a high level and that use of the electronic reporting personnel’s remuneration. system is extensive. Corporate responsibility is managed as an A human rights impact assessment was carried out integrated part of Fingrid’s management system. in compliance with the due diligence process Fingrid’s Board of Directors approves the company’s recommended in the UN’s Guiding Principles on Code of Conduct and monitors the company’s Business and Human Rights. As regards tax compliance in operating responsibly. The Board is footprint reporting, Fingrid only operates in Finland responsible for the CSR management systems and and has not resorted to any special arrangements to their integration into business operations. The CEO minimise taxes. The company’s tax footprint is and the heads of functions are each responsible for presented in the annual report’s ‘Corporate finances, corporate responsibility issues within their area of financing and risk management’ section. Dividends responsibility. Social issues and environmental are mainly paid to the State of Finland and to impacts are taken into account in all decisionFinnish pension insurance and insurance companies. making and when assessing operations alongside profitability issues. To ensure transparency and comparability, Fingrid reports on its corporate responsibility in accordance Managers and the entire work community ensure with the international Global Reporting Initiative that behaviour is in line with the Code of Conduct. A (GRI) framework. The GRI G4 reporting framework whistleblower system managed by an independent is applied using the Core ‘in accordance’ option. third party for reporting cases of misconduct etc. is available to the personnel. Fingrid Oyj committed in This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 165 Environmental matters 1.1.12 Environmental matters In 2016, Fingrid issued around 260 statements on land-use plans and EIAs. In addition, the company directed the construction taking place near grid Fingrid has a long-term approach to its installations by issuing statements containing safety environmental impacts and land use issues, and the guidelines and land use restrictions. Some 420 such principles for minimising environmental impacts are statements were issued. accounted for in our land use and environmental policy. The key aspects include an environmental EIAs were carried out for six transmission line impact assessment (EIA) and preparedness for projects in 2016. Two events were arranged to environmental risks. During 2016, Fingrid signed the inform the public about the environmental impacts energy efficiency agreement of Finnish industries of the power lines required to connect the Hanhikivi 2017–2025 and committed to the target of cutting 1 nuclear power plant to the grid; the EIA process energy use by six per cent by 2025. for the project was completed in October 2016. A Natura assessment update was carried out for this Environmental management was developed during project in compliance with the Nature Conservation the year by establishing a management system in Act. An EIA was completed for five transmission line compliance with the ISO 14 001 standard for the projects (Hämeenlahti–Hännilä, Kontiolahti–Pamilo, reserve power plants and by introducing an online Kontiolahti–Uimaharju, Siikajoki–Raahe and the line training course on environmental issues for all rearrangements for the Olkiluoto substation). Three personnel working at Fingrid sites. Environmental projects involved archaeological inventories. training was provided during the kick-off meetings for investment projects, and training was also In order to be able to build, operate and maintain a provided on the use of chemicals, the management transmission line, Fingrid redeems a right of use to of safety data sheets and oil spill response for the the transmission line area. Redemption permits were providers of maintenance services at substations obtained for the re-routing of transmission lines and reserve power plants. Environmental aspects from Multisilta and Kangasala to Lavianvuori and for were monitored as part of work site monitoring. the transmission lines Vanaja–Tikinmaa, Compliance with environmental requirements, Vihtavuori–Koivisto and Koria–Yllikkälä. A occupational safety and contractor obligations was redemption permit application was filed for the verified in 15 audits. transmission line project Hikiä–Orimattila. The redemption compensation procedure was Several development projects were carried out to completed in seven transmission line projects. Eight improve fire safety at substations and reserve hearings in accordance with the Finnish Act on the power plants. Oil spill response plans were created Redemption of Immoveable Property and Special and emergency response plans were updated at all Rights were held with landowners. reserve power plants. One significant environmental deviation occurred during the year, as around 180 Fingrid’s reserve power plants are subject to an litres of oil was leaked from a worksite at the environmental permit and covered by the EU’s Isokangas substation. emissions trading scheme. The accuracy of the measuring and reporting systems for fuel This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 166 consumption is verified by an accredited emissions emission rights for the emissions trade period trading verifier. A total of 10,326 (6,697) units 2013–2020. No emissions rights were purchased in (tCO2) of emission allowances were returned, all of 2016. Emissions trading had minor financial which consisted of acquired emission rights units. significance for Fingrid. Fingrid has not been granted free-of-charge This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 167 Legal proceedings and proceedings by authorities 1.1.13 Legal proceedings and contested the claims presented in the lawsuit. The case is currently before the court. In Fingrid’s view, proceedings by authorities the legal proceedings are not likely to have a substantial impact on the company’s financial result A lawsuit was initiated against Fingrid in December or financial position. Thus no provisions were 2016, demanding non-specified damages due to an recognised in the financial statements in relation to alleged breach of contract. The alleged injury is these proceedings. continuous and the claim amounted to EUR 135,000 by the time the lawsuit was initiated. Fingrid has This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 168 Events after the review period and estimate of future outlook 1.1.14 Events after the review Results forecasts for 2017 are complicated especially by the uncertainty related to grid income, period and estimate of future ITC income and cross-border transmission income, outlook and to reserve and loss power costs. These are particularly dependent on temperature variations Fingrid Group’s profit for the 2017 financial period, and precipitation and changes in the hydrological excluding changes in the fair value of derivatives situation in the Nordic countries, which affect and before taxes, is expected to improve somewhat. electricity consumption and electricity prices in Grid service pricing for 2017 is set in such a way as Finland and its nearby areas, and thereby also the to achieve a regulatory-allowed financial result. volume of electricity transmission in the grid. The company’s debt service capacity is expected to remain stable. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 169 Board of Directors’ proposal for the distribution of profit 1.1.15 Board of Directors’ EUR 175,954,253.06. Since the close of the financial year, there have been no material changes in the proposal for the distribution of company’s financial position and, in the Board of profit Directors’ view, the proposed dividend distribution does not threaten the company’s solvency. The guiding principle for Fingrid’s dividend policy is The company’s Board of Directors will propose to to distribute substantially all of the parent company the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders that profit as dividend. When making the decision, however, the economic conditions, the company’s a dividend of EUR 37,536.09 per share be paid for near term investment and development needs as Series A shares and EUR 16,038.49 per share be well as any prevailing financial targets of the paid for Series B shares, for a total of EUR company are always taken into account. 97,999,992.05. Fingrid Oyj's parent company's profit for the EUR 77,954,261.01 be retained in unrestricted financial year was EUR 103,866,300.72 and equity. distributable funds in the financial statements total This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 170 Annual General Meeting 2017 1.1.16 Annual General Meeting Helsinki, 17 February, 2017 Fingrid Oyj 2017 Board of Directors Fingrid Oyj’s Annual General Meeting is preliminarily scheduled for 24 May 2017 in Helsinki. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 171 Consolidated Key Figures 1.2 Consolidated key figures CONSOLIDATED KEY FIGURES 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS Extent of operations Turnover MEUR 586.1 600.2 567.2 543.1 522.1 Capital expenditure, gross MEUR 146.7 147.5 129.5 225.3 139.0 % of turnover % 25.0 24.6 22.8 41.5 26.6 Research and development expenses MEUR 2.4 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.5 % of turnover % 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Personnel, average 336 319 305 277 269 Personnel at the end of period 334 315 313 287 275 Salaries and remunerations total MEUR 22.7 21.3 20.5 19.0 18.2 Profitability Operating profit MEUR 192.0 162.6 142.8 115.3 94.6 % of turnover % 32.8 27.1 25.2 21.2 18.1 Profit before taxes MEUR 173.9 129.3 132.9 87.3 88.3 % of turnover % 29.7 21.5 23.4 16.1 16.9 Return on investments (ROI) % 10.4 8.7 7.6 6.3 5.6 Return on equity (ROE) % 18.8 15.0 16.3 15.0 12.4 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 172 Financing and financial position Equity ratio % 36.4 33.5 31.0 29.5 27.3 Interest-bearing net borrowings MEUR 1,028.0 1,026.9 1,046.1 1,076.7 1,030.3 Net gearing 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.7 1.8 Share-specific key figures Profit/share € 41,706.1 31,150.8 32,027.9 27,277.9 20,159.2 Dividend/A shares € 37536,09* 33,686.24 21,655.44 29,788.26 5,115.89 Dividend/B shares € 16038,49* 16,038.49 16,038.49 16,038.50 2,018.26 Dividend payout ratio A shares % 90.0 108.1 67.6 109.2 25.4 Dividend payout ratio series B shares % 38.5 51.5 50.1 58.8 10.0 Equity/share € 230,301 213,822 200,568 193,293 171,365 Number of shares at 31 Dec – Series A shares shares 2,078 2,078 2,078 2,078 2,078 – Series B shares shares 1,247 1,247 1,247 1,247 1,247 Total shares 3,325 3,325 3,325 3,325 3,325 * The Board of Directors proposal to the Annual General Meeting CALCULATION OF KEY FIGURES Return on investment, % = Profit before taxes + interest and other finance costs × 100 Balance sheet total non-interest-bearing liabilities (average for the year) Return on equity, % = Profit for the financial year × 100 Equity (average for the year) Equity ratio, % = Equity × 100 Balance sheet total advances received Earnings per share, € = Profit for the financial year This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 173 Average number of shares Dividends per share, € = Dividends for the financial year Average number of shares Dividend payout ratio, % = Dividend per share × 100 Earnings per share Equity per share, € = Equity Number of shares at closing date Interest-bearing borrowings cash and cash equivalents and Interest-bearing net = financial borrowings, € assets Interest-bearing borrowings cash and cash equivalents and Net gearing = financial assets Equity This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 174 2 Consolidated Financial Statements (IFRS) Introduction How to read Fingrid's financial statements and get the most out of it? • Notes are compiled under specific themes to provide the best representation of Fingrid • Chapters 3-6 consist of notes to the consolidated financial statements. • Interesting facts about Fingrid’s operating • Accounting principles are linked with the note environment are highlighted in infoboxes most relevant for each specific principle. throughout the notes to the financial statements. The infoboxes can be recognized by • Accounting principles are shown at the end of the use of symbol each note, in a separate box and recognizable by the use of symbol Market Authority. Transmission network operations constitute most of the company’s turnover, result and balance sheet. Fingrid’s business model and the The allowed financial result from transmission network operations is calculated by multiplying the regulation of transmission system total adjusted capital invested in the transmission operations network operations (transmission network assets valued at the regulatory present value) with the Fingrid constitutes a natural monopoly as referred reasonable rate of return defined by the Energy to in the Finnish Electricity Market Act (588/2013), Market Authority. with duties defined in legislation. The company’s operations, reasonableness in pricing and financial The reasonable financial result allowed by the result are regulated and overseen by the Energy regulation forms the basis of Fingrid’s financial This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 175 planning and pricing. One can calculate the required the TSO to improve the quality of electricity amount of turnover by adding operating expenses in transmission. In practical terms this means the result. Fingrid’s turnover mainly consists of the minimising the calculated negative impact caused electricity transmission volume multiplied by the unit by non-transmitted energy. Efficiency improvement prices. The company determines in advance for the incentive – intended to encourage the TSO to next year the unit prices for the transmission of operate cost-effectively. The efficiency improvement electricity to recover required turnover. The incentive is based on Fingrid's controllable company’s total costs consist of the operating operating costs. Innovation incentive – intended to expenses and financial costs and taxes, which are encourage the TSO to develop and use innovative excluded from regulatory calculations. technical and operational solutions in its network operations. In practice, this means adequate R&D The so-called adjusted profit, realised in compliance resources. with the regulation, is calculated by adjusting the parent company’s operating profit according to the Any realised regulatory profit over a regulatory Energy Market Authority’s regulation methods and period that exceeds the allowed return is a surplus by adding the impact of the incentives. that must be returned to the customers in the form of lower future prices. If the realised regulatory The regulation incentives are as follows: Investment profit over a regulatory period is below the allowed incentive – intended to promote reasonable and return, the result is a deficit which the company may cost-effective investments as well as a justified recover from the customers in the form of higher overhaul of components. The incentive impact is future prices. No regulatory surplus or deficit created by the fact that the methods allow the TSO income is recorded in the financial statements. The straight-line depreciations based on the main aim of Fingrid’s business operations is to replacement value of the transmission network achieve the allowed financial result each year. assets. Quality incentive – intended to encourage The Energy Market Authority determines Fingrid’s below presents Fingrid’s own rough approximations allowed financial result over four-year regulatory for 2016, as well as the cumulative figures for the periods (2016–2019 and 2020–2023). The table current regulatory period. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 176 Cumulative Allowed Deficit(Deficit WACC Adjusted equity (-)/Surplus(+) financial result )/Surplus(+) 2016 2016-2019 6,55 Approx. EUR Approx. EUR Approx. EUR -40 Approx. EUR -40 % 2,950 million 190 million million million The company also engages in other regulated business operations, but the impact of these on the company’s financial income and balance sheet is negligible. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 17 7 Income statement 2.1 Income statement CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2016 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2015 Notes € 1,000 € 1,000 TURNOVER 1 586,120 600,224 Other operating income 2 12,689 5,199 Materials and services 5 -248,359 -240,643 Employee benefits expenses 9 -28,598 -25,804 Depreciation 11,12 -99,222 -94,119 Other operating expenses 6,13 -30,586 -82,288 OPERATING PROFIT 192,045 162,570 Finance income 17 694 706 Finance costs 17 -19,385 -34,401 Finance income and costs -18,691 -33,695 Share of profit of associated companies 511 447 PROFIT BEFORE TAXES 173,865 129,321 Income taxes -35,192 -25,745 PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 138,673 103,576 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items that may subsequently be transferred to profit or loss Cash flow hedges 7,232 7,232 Translation reserve 318 -309 Available-for-sale investments 17 22 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 178 Taxes related to other items in total comprehensive income -1,450 -1,451 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE FINANCIAL PERIOD 144,790 109,070 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of parent company 138,673 103,576 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of parent company 144,790 109,070 Earnings per share for profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent company: Undiluted and diluted earnings per share, € 41,706 31,151 Weighted average number of shares, quantity 3,325 3,325 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 179 Consolidated balance sheet 2.2 Consolidated balance sheet ASSETS 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Notes € 1,000 € 1,000 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets: 12 Goodwill 87,920 87,920 Other intangible assets 96,580 95,428 184,500 183,348 Property, plant and equipment: 11 Land and water areas 15,701 15,349 Buildings and structures 193,716 167,280 Machinery and equipment 578,281 567,627 Transmission lines 825,038 789,614 Other property, plant and equipment 7,602 7,548 Prepayments and purchases in progress 69,825 129,566 1,690,162 1,676,984 Investments in associated companies 24 14,158 12,388 Available-for-sale investments and receivables 101 284 Derivative instruments 23 29,657 32,148 Deferred tax assets 10 6,155 16,479 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,924,733 1,921,632 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 180 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 8 12,269 12,665 Derivative instruments 23 2,861 3,353 Trade receivables and other receivables 3 82,191 70,213 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value 20 57,790 93,451 Cash in hand and cash equivalents 19 21,939 23,099 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 177,050 202,782 TOTAL ASSETS 2,101,782 2,124,414 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Notes € 1,000 € 1,000 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY Share capital 21 55,922 55,922 Share premium account 21 55,922 55,922 Revaluation reserve 21 59 -5,740 Translation reserve 21 -413 -731 Retained earnings 21 654,258 605,585 TOTAL EQUITY 765,749 710,960 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Deferred tax liabilities 10 125,778 125,240 Borrowings 14 842,866 907,232 Provisions 25 1,481 1,668 Derivative instruments 23 18,567 46,952 988,692 1,081,092 CURRENT LIABILITIES Borrowings 14 264,865 236,217 Derivative instruments 23 7,859 30,331 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 181 Trade payables and other liabilities 7 74,617 65,815 347,341 332,363 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,336,033 1,413,455 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,101,782 2,124,414 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 182 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 2.3 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to equity holders of the parent company, € 1,000 Share Share premium Revaluation Translation Retained Total capital account reserves reserve earning equity Balance on 1 Jan 2015 55,922 55,922 -11,543 -422 567,009 666,889 Comprehensive income Profit or loss 103,576 103,576 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges 5,785 5,785 Translation reserve -309 -309 Available-for-sale investments 18 18 Total other comprehensive income adjusted by tax effects 5,803 -309 5,494 Total comprehensive income 5,803 -309 103,576 109,070 Transactions with owners Dividend relating to 2014 -65,000 -65,000 Balance on 31 December 2015 55,922 55,922 -5,740 -731 605,585 710,960 Balance on 1 Jan 2016 55,922 55,922 -5,740 -731 605,585 710,960 Comprehensive income Profit or loss 138,673 138,673 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges 5,785 5,785 Translation reserve 318 318 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 183 Available-for-sale investments 13 13 Total other comprehensive income adjusted by tax effects 5,799 318 6,117 Total comprehensive income 5,799 318 138,673 144,790 Transactions with owners Dividend relating to 2015 -90,000 -90,000 Balance on 31 Dec 2016 55,922 55,922 59 -413 654,258 765,749 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 184 Consolidated cash flow statement 2.4 Consolidated cash flow statement CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2016 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2015 Notes € 1,000 € 1,000 Cash flow from operating activities: Profit for the financial year 21 138,673 103,576 Adjustments: Business transactions not involving a payment transaction: Depreciation 99,222 94,119 Capital gains/losses (-/+) on tangible and intangible assets -3,792 -1,970 Share of profit of associated companies -511 -447 Gains/losses from the assets and liabilities recognised in the income statement at fair value -35,378 24,276 Interest and other finance costs 19,385 34,401 Interest income -689 -701 Dividend income -5 -5 Taxes 35,192 25,745 Impact from changes in the fair value of the investment 203 -233 Changes in working capital: Change in trade receivables and other receivables -13,121 -11,532 Change in inventories 396 178 Change in trade payables and other liabilities 7,371 -8,332 Congestion income 39,863 0 Change in provisions 25 -187 -18 Interests paid -20,496 -23,734 Interests received 440 821 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 185 Taxes paid -33,887 -20,470 Net cash flow from operating activities 232,679 215,674 Cash flow from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11 -138,084 -150,449 Purchase of intangible assets 12 -4,108 -3,421 Proceeds from sale of other assets 152 500 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5,885 5,066 Loans granted -1,500 -900 Dividends received 565 556 Contributions received 0 15,000 Capitalised interest paid 17 -2,016 -1,690 Net cash flow from investing activities -139,106 -135,339 Cash flow from financing activities: Proceeds from non-current financing (liabilities) 80,000 107,424 Payments of non-current financing (liabilities) -164,824 -104,220 Change in current financing (liabilities) 44,430 -80,961 Dividends paid 21 -90,000 -65,000 Net cash flow from financing activities -130,394 -142,757 Change in cash as per the cash flow statement -36,822 -62,421 Opening cash as per the cash flow statement 116,550 178,972 Closing cash as per the cash flow statement 19,20 79,729 116,550 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 186 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 187 3 Benchmark for TSO Operations This chapter contains first general information about the Group and the general accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements. • The chapter focuses on describing how Fingrid’s • People are Fingrid’s most important resource, turnover and result are formed and how they which is why information related to personnel relate to the regulatory revenue level. The impact has been included here, in the first note. of the regulation is reflected in Fingrid’s day-to• Fingrid is a substantial tax payer, and Fingrid day operations and revenue collection. does not use tax planning. The note on taxes is • The chapter also describes Fingrid’s operating at the end of this chapter, in chapter 3.9. receivables and liabilities, as well as the risk management they entail. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 188 General information about the Group and general accounting principles 3.1 General information about the Group and general accounting principles Fingrid Oyj is a Finnish public limited liability company responsible for electricity transmission in the high-voltage transmission system in Finland. Fingrid’s nationwide grid is an integral part of the power system in Finland. The transmission grid is the highvoltage trunk network which covers all of Finland. Major power plants, industrial plants and electricity distribution networks are connected to the grid. Finland’s main grid is part of the Nordic power capacity, by de-bottlenecking cross-border system, which is connected to the system in Central transmission links and by providing market data. Europe via high-voltage direct current transmission links. Finland also has DC links with Russia and The consolidated financial statements include the Estonia. parent company Fingrid Oyj and its wholly owned subsidiaries Finextra Oy and Datahub Oy. The The transmission system encompasses more than consolidated associated companies are Nord Pool 14,000 kilometres of 400, 220 and 110 kilovolt Spot AS (ownership 18.8%) and eSett Oy transmission lines, plus more than 100 substations. (ownership 33.3%). The Group has no joint ventures. Fingrid is in charge of planning and monitoring the Fingrid issues bonds under the Euro Medium Term operation of the main grid and for maintaining and Note (EMTN) programme. Fingrid Oyj’s issuances developing the system. An additional task is to under the EMTN programme are listed on the participate in work carried out by ENTSO-E, the London Stock Exchange. Fingrid shares are not European Network of Transmission System listed. Operators for Electricity, and in preparing European market and operational codes as well as network Critical accounting estimates and judgements planning. When the consolidated financial statements are Fingrid offers grid, cross-border transmission and drawn up in accordance with the IFRS, the company balance services to its contract customers: management needs to make estimates and electricity producers, network operators and the assumptions which have an impact on the amounts industry. Fingrid serves the electricity market by of assets, liabilities, income and expenses recorded maintaining adequate electricity transmission and conditional items presented. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 189 and other justified assumptions which are believed tangible and intangible asset items, and in to be reasonable under the conditions which conjunction with deferred taxes and provisions. constitute the foundation for the estimates of the Critical estimates and judgements by management items recognised in the financial statements. The are described by topic in the notes, and the actual amounts may differ from these estimates. In judgement or estimates related to which are in the financial statements, estimates have been used accordance with the following table. for example, when specifying the economic lives of Estimate of the purchase and sale of imbalance power Chapter 3.3 Inter-Transmission System Operator Compensation (ITC) Chapter 3.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Chapter 3.9 Determination of the fair value measurement of grid assets Chapter 4.1 Determination of the depreciation periods of property, plant and equipment, and Chapter 4.2 intangible assets ahead of their 1 January 2017 entry into force, the Accounting principles amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, according to which companies must now present disclosures on changes in liabilities arising from In preparing these consolidated financial financing activities. This includes changes from statements, the Group has followed the financing cash flows (e.g. drawdowns and payments same standards as in 2015. New standards, of debt), as well as changes in non-cash items, such interpretations and changes took effect during the as procurements, disposals, interest accruals and year, but these have not had a material effect on the unrealised foreign currency exchange differences. consolidated financial statements, with the The new note is presented in chapter 5.3. exception of the following change. The financial statement structure was revised in 2016 with the IASB has published the following new and amended aim of making it more reader friendly and more standards and interpretations, which the company focussed on information relevant to Fingrid. The has not yet applied. The company will begin revised version is in line with the changes in IAS 1 applying the standard and interpretation from the Presentation of Financial Statements, which entered date of its entry into force. The estimated impact of into force on 1 January 2016 and which clarify that the standards is described in the notes listed in the when drawing up their financial statements, table. companies may exercise their judgement in presenting, emphasising and consolidating their . financial reports. Fingrid furthermore adopted, This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 190 IFRS 9 Financial instruments, effective 1 January 2018 Chapter 5.6 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, effective 1 January 2018 Chapter 3.3 IFRS 16 Leases, effective 1 January 2018 Chapter 4.3 recognised at the foreign exchange mid-rate quoted by the European Central Bank (ECB) at the Segment reporting transaction date. Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are valued in the The entire business of the Fingrid Group is deemed financial statements at the mid-rate quoted by the to comprise grid operations in Finland with system ECB at the closing date. Foreign exchange gains responsibility, only constituting a single segment. and losses from business are included in the There are no essential differences in the risks and corresponding items above operating profit. Foreign profitability of individual products and services. For exchange gains and losses from financial that reason, segment reporting in accordance with instruments are recognised at net amounts in the IFRS 8 standard is not presented. The operating finance income and costs. segment is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the chief operating decisionEarnings per share maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the company’s Board of Directors. Fingrid operates only The Group has calculated undiluted earnings per in Finland, which is also why geographical data is share in accordance with standard IAS 33. Undiluted not presented. earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of shares outstanding Foreign currency transactions during the financial year. Since Fingrid has no share option schemes or benefits bound to shareholders’ The consolidated financial statements are equity or other equity financial instruments, there is presented in euros, which is the functional currency no dilutive effect. of the parent company. Transactions and financial items denominated in foreign currencies are This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 191 The company's general risk management processes and policies 3.2 The company's general risk Risk management is planned as a whole with the objective of comprehensively identifying, assessing, management processes and monitoring and safeguarding the company’s policies operations, the environment, personnel and assets from various threats and risks. Due to the nature of The objective of Fingrid's risk management is to the company’s basic mission, risks are also assessed make preparations for cost-effective measures from a societal perspective. providing protection against damage and loss The Board approves the key principles of internal relating to risks and to ensure the commitment of control and risk management and any amendments the entire personnel to considering the risks to them. The Board of Directors approves the pertaining to the company, its various organisational primary actions for risk management as part of the units and each employee. In order to fulfil these corporate strategy, indicators, action plan, and objectives, risk management is continuous and budget. The Board of Directors (Audit Committee) systematic. The significance of individual risks or receives a situation report on the major risks relating risk entities is assessed against the present level of to the operations of the company and on the protection, taking into account the probability of a management of such risks. harmful event, its financial impact and impact on corporate image or on the attainment of the business goals. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 192 Formation of turnover and financial result 3.3 Formation of turnover and financial result Turnover consists of the following: 1. TURNOVER, €1,000 2016 2015 Grid service revenue 382,395 333,005 Sales of imbalance power 153,881 137,127 Cross-border transmission income 24,015 11,174 ITC income 13,199 15,298 Peak load capacity 7,023 7,585 Congestion income* 0 90,941 Other operating income 5,607 5,093 Total 586,120 600,224 * The booking of congestion income was changed in 2016. This is presented in chapter 4.1. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 193 Grid service income mainly consists of the unit price balancing power market by submitting bids on their for electricity transmission multiplied by the volume. available capacity. The terms and conditions of The Energy Market Authority approves the pricing participation in the regulating power market and the structure for grid services, on the basis of which pricing of balancing power are based on the balance Fingrid sets the unit prices for electricity service agreement. transmission during the winter period and for consumption during other times. The winter period Transmission services on the cross-border begins on 1 December and ends on the last day of connections to the other Nordic countries enable February. Fingrid additionally charges fees for participation in the Nordic Elspot and Elbas output from and input into the grid, and power exchange trade. Fingrid makes transmission generation capacity fees. Fingrid strives to set the services on the cross-border connections with unit prices for electricity transmission each autumn Russia available to all electricity market parties. The for the next year, for one year at a time. transmission service is intended for fixed electricity imports. When making an agreement on Within the framework of grid services, a customer transmission services from Russia, the customer obtains the right to transmit electricity to and from reserves a transmission right (in MW) for a period of the main grid through its connection point. Grid time to be agreed upon separately. The smallest unit service is agreed by means of a grid service contract that can be reserved is 50 MW. The contractual signed between a customer connected to the main terms are equal and public. grid and Fingrid. ITC compensation is, for Fingrid, income and/or Each electricity market party must ensure its costs which the transmission system operator electricity balance by making an agreement with receives for the use of its grid by other European either Fingrid or some other party. Fingrid buys and transmission system operators and/or pays to other sells imbalance power in order to stabilise the hourly transmission system operators when using their grid power balance of an electricity market party to serve its own customers. (balance responsible party). Imbalance power trade and pricing are based on a balance service The peak load capacity secures the supply security agreement with equal and public terms and of electricity in situations of the Finnish power conditions. system where the planned electricity procurement is not sufficient to cover the anticipated electricity Fingrid is responsible for the continuous power consumption. The peak load capacity can consist of balance in Finland at all times by buying and selling both power plants and facilities capable of adjusting regulating power in Finland. The balance their electricity consumption. responsible parties can participate in the Nordic 2. OTHER OPERATING INCOME, €1,000 2016 2015 Rental income 922 1,196 Capital gains on fixed assets 3,792 2,265 Contributions received 282 199 Congestion income 6,325 0 Other income 1,368 1,539 Total 12,689 5,199 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 194 Accounting principles A new five-step process should be applied when recognising sales revenue: Revenue recognition • Identify the contract(s) with a customer • Identify the individual performance obligations Sales recognition takes place on the basis of the • Determine the transaction price according to the delivery of the service. Electricity transmission is contract recognised once the transmission has taken place. • Allocate the transaction price to individual Balance power services are recognised on the basis performance obligations, and of the delivery of the service. Connection fees are • Recognise revenue when each performance recognised when connection to the grid has obligation is met. happened. Indirect taxes and discounts, etc., are deducted from the sales income when calculating The most significant differences compared with the turnover. present practice are as follows: Adoption of the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts • The time of recognising sales revenue can with Customers standard, effective 1 Jan 2018 change: some of the revenue currently recognised at the end of a contract may in future IFRS 15 will replace IAS 18, which outlines the be recognised over the contract term and vice accounting requirements for the sale of goods and versa. The timing of recognition of grid services, and IAS 11 applied to long-term projects. connection fees will change along with the new The fundamental principle of the new standard is standard. that sales revenue should be recognised when • Like all new standards, IFRS 15 includes new control over the goods or the service is transferred requirements for the notes to the financial to the customer; in other words, control of the asset statements. is the criterion to be examined instead of the These changes in the accounting procedures may previous criteria of risks and rewards. affect the company’s business practices regarding This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 195 systems, processes and controls, compensation and the settlement of electricity delivery. The final bonus arrangements, tax planning and investor imbalance settlement is completed no later than two relations. months from the delivery month, which is why the income and expenses of imbalance power in the If a customer does not receive an individual item of financial statements are partly based on preliminary goods or a service against the connection fee, this imbalance settlement. The preliminary settlement must be recognised as revenue in the same way as has been made separately for consumption, the other revenue according to the contract, production and foreign balances. For the two first generally over the contract term. This will change balances, the volume of unsettled imbalance power Fingrid’s principles for recognising revenue has been estimated using reference group regarding, for instance, connection fees. calculations. For foreign balances, the calculations have been verified with the foreign counterparties. Fingrid charges also other similar fees that in practical terms are linked with this issue, such as Inter-Transmission System Operator fixed fees and volume-based fees. Fingrid is Compensation (ITC) currently specifying the performance obligations it must meet for each contract. Revenue recognition Compensation for the transit transmissions of will be examined separately for each performance electricity has been agreed upon through an ITC obligation. When determining the extent to which a (Inter-Transmission System Operator performance obligation is met, a single method Compensation) agreement. The centralised should be applied for all performance obligations to calculations are carried out by ENTSO-E (the be met over time. The company is currently European Network of Transmission System conducting an analysis of the impacts of the Operators of Electricity). ITC compensation is standard, and the impacts on connection fee determined on the basis of the compensation paid recognition have been identified. The goal is to start for use of the grid and transmission losses. The ITC applying the standard using the simplified calculations take into account the electricity transitional approach for the 2018 financial transmissions between the various ITC agreement statements. countries. ITC compensation can represent both an income and a cost for a transmission system The standard can be applied either fully operator. Fingrid’s share of the ITC compensation is retroactively or non-retroactively by providing determined on the basis of the cross-border additional information. electricity transmissions and imputed grid losses. ITC compensation is invoiced retroactively after all Judgements and estimates parties to the ITC agreement have approved the invoiced sums. Control is carried out monthly. This is Estimate of the purchase and sale of why the uninvoiced ITC compensations for 2016 imbalance power have been estimated in the financial statements. The estimate has been made using actual energy border transmissions in Finland and unit The income and expenses of imbalance power are compensations, which have been estimated by ascertained through a nationwide imbalance analysing the actual figures from previous months settlement procedure, which is based on the and data on grid transmissions during these months. Ministry of Employment and Economy’s 9 December 2008 decree on the disclosure obligation related to This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 196 Revenue-related receivables and credit risk management 3.4 Revenue-related receivables and credit risk management 3. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES, €1,000 2016 2015 Trade receivables 72,914 55,709 Trade receivables from associated companies 125 39 Prepayments and accrued income from associated companies 18 9 Prepayments and accrued income 7,835 13,241 Other receivables 1,298 1,216 Total 82,191 70,213 Essential items included in prepayments and accrued income 2,016 2,015 Accruals of sales 1,153 4,046 Accruals of purchases/prepayments 2,364 4,016 Interest receivables 4,118 5,001 Rents/prepayments 200 178 Total 7,835 13,241 Credit risk management – customers unit in charge of the customer relationships is responsible for verifying their creditworthiness, with According to The Electricity Market Act, the assistance from the Treasury unit. The Treasury has company is obliged to accept distribution network defined an operating process for monitoring operators joining the grid as well as electricity customers’ payment defaults in the terms and producers and consumers as its customers. conditions of the Main Grid Contract. Any Accordingly, the company cannot choose its guarantees required by Fingrid will be either bank customers based on a credit risk analysis or collect guarantees or an upfront payment in order to cover different fees from them. In general, bank the electricity taxes payable by customers guarantees are not required from the company’s connected to the grid and subject to the tax, as customers to secure sales payments, but in the ruled in the Main Grid Contract’s Service Terms and event of an overdue payment, this is possible. The Conditions. The company has no bad debts, and the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 197 related credit risk is deemed to be minor. The The netted items are associated with purchases and company has no impairments related to receivables. sales of imbalance power. The company has a legally enforceable right of set-off to these items in Netting of trade receivables and trade payables any circumstance and will use this right. The trade receivables and trade payables are netted in the balance sheet as presented in the table below. 4. NETTING OF TRADE RECEIVABLES AND TRADE PAYABLES € 1,000 2016 2015 Net amount of Net amount of Gross trade trade amount of receivables and receivables and trade trade payables Gross amount of trade payables receivables/ presented in trade Amount of presented in trade Amount of the balance receivables/ netted the balance payables netted items sheet trade payables items sheet Trade receivables 88,176 -15,136 73,040 66,118 -10,371 55,747 Trade payables 40,113 -15,136 24,976 25,025 -10,371 14,654 Total 48,063 0 48,063 41,093 0 41,093 Accounting principles subject to other financial rearrangements, and payments overdue by more than 90 days). Impairment losses are recognised directly, under Trade and other receivables other operating expenses, to reduce the carrying amount of the receivables. Fingrid did not have any Loans and other receivables are recognised initially impairment losses during the periods presented at fair value; subsequently they are measured at here. amortised cost using the effective interest rate In addition to trade receivables and other method. The amount of doubtful receivables is receivables, the company has a small amount of loan estimated based on the risks of individual items. An receivables from associated companies. These are impairment loss is recorded on receivables when long-term and described in Chapter 6.1. The there is valid evidence that the Group will not receivables from associated companies are receive all of its receivables at the original terms recognised according to these same accounting (e.g. due to the debtor's serious financial problems, principles. likelihood that the debtor will go bankrupt or be This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 198 Operating expenses, liabilities and credit risk management for purchases 3.5 Operating expenses, liabilities and credit risk management for purchases Fingrid's operating expenses consist of and have developed as follows: Cost increases due in particular to new tasks and which means the company must increasingly unexpected external changes affecting operations develop and back up its operations. The cost factors has been a special characteristic of grid operations also include society’s increasing dependency on the in recent years. The new tasks involve, among other power system, as well as needs related to data things, developing the Nordic imbalance markets, security. The Group’s R&D costs in 2016 amounted changes required by the new Electricity Market Act to EUR 2.4 (1.8) million. Fingrid nevertheless and the European network codes and the R&D continues to be one of the most cost-effective TSOs expenses for these tasks. Some of the new tasks in the world in international benchmark studies. and responsibilities are assigned to Fingrid by law, This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 199 5. MATERIALS AND SERVICES, €1,000 2016 2015 Loss power costs 57,555 68,566 Purchase of imbalance power 121,697 98,032 Cost of reserves 44,907 50,271 Other material costs 4,189 5,906 Change in inventories, increase (-) or decrease (+) 396 178 Peak load capacity costs 6,604 7,211 ITC costs 12,645 9,423 Other external services 365 1,058 Total 248,359 240,643 6. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES, €1,000 2016 2015 Contracts, assignments etc. undertaken externally 53,427 45,757 Gains/losses from measuring electricity derivatives at fair value -35,310 24,127 Other rental expenses 2,816 2,727 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 20 0 Other expenses 9,653 9,677 Total 30,586 82,288 Auditors' fees are included in other operating equality and transparency. Procurement decisions expenses will be made according to previously published financial and qualitative criteria that are verifiable The company’s operating model is largely based on also after the fact. Fingrid aims to ensure that all outsourcing, including areas such as grid suppliers and their subcontractors operate in a investments, maintenance management and ICT sustainable manner. A commitment to Fingrid’s purchases. The company will apply competitive Supplier Code of Conduct is required from all tendering as described in the procurement policy. All suppliers. purchasing activities are based on impartiality, 7. TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER LIABILITIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Trade payables 24,825 14,652 Trade payables to associated companies 152 2 Interest payable 13,751 15,529 Value added tax 11,860 7,787 Collaterals received 923 15 Electricity tax 3,093 3,045 Accruals 19,259 24,147 Other debt 755 639 Total 74,617 65,815 Essential items included in accruals 2016 2015 Personnel expenses 5,693 4,310 Accruals of sales and purchases 7,849 5,923 Tax liabilities 5,305 13,412 Other accruals 413 501 Total 19,259 24,147 Credit risk in purchasing financial criteria required for Fingrid’s suppliers and how they should be monitored The heads of functions are in charge of credit risks related to suppliers. The procurement policy and General procurement principles guidelines, and separate instructions set out the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 201 The Group follows three alternative procurement 30,000 euros but is below the threshold values methods when purchasing goods or services. When applied to public procurements, the procurement is the value of the purchase is less than 30,000 euros subject to competitive bidding by requesting written and the benefits of a competitive tender are smaller bids from the supplier candidates. When the public than the costs of the purchase, the purchase can be procurement threshold values that apply to Fingrid realised without a competitive tender or it can be (in 2016: EUR 418,000 for goods and services and realised through an oral request. A written order or EUR 5,225,000 for construction projects) are purchasing agreement is always drawn up. When exceeded, the company follows the public the estimated value of the procurement exceeds procurement legislation applied to special sectors. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 2 02 Inventories 3.6 Inventories Fingrid prepares for outages by maintaining reserve power plants. The inventories contain fuel for reserve power plants, spare parts for submarine cables, back-up equipment and parts for substations, and repair equipment for transmission lines. The aim of stockpiling is to achieve sufficient preparedness in case of faults and events possibly occurring during times of crisis at the substations and on the transmission lines owned by Fingrid. 8. INVENTORIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Materials and consumables at 1 Jan Material stocks 6,144 5,678 Fuel stocks 5,995 6,969 Work in progress 131 18 Total 12,269 12,665 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense was EUR 2.1 (1.5) million. Accounting principles determined using the FIFO principle. The net realisable value is the estimated market price in normal business reduced by the estimated future Inventories costs of completing and estimated costs required by Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition sale. Inventories consist of material and fuel cost or net realisable value. The acquisition cost is inventories. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 203 Management of electricity price and volume risk and commodity risks 3.7 Management of electricity reduce the impact of market price volatility and enable sufficient predictability in order to keep the price and volume risk and annual pressures on grid service fees of loss energy commodity risks at a moderate level. Price hedging is implemented over a four year horizon such that by the end of The electricity price and volume risks are not September in the year preceding the delivery, the significant to the company’s turnover and financial price risk for the next year is fully hedged. For the result over time. If the volume of transmitted price hedging of loss power purchases, the company electricity deviates from the forecasted volume, the mainly uses NASDAQ OMX Commodities quoted result may be a deviation in the company’s turnover products. The allowed hedging products are and financial result. This can lead to a surplus or specified in the loss power purchasing policy. The deficit compared with the allowed reasonable return company can also use OTC products comparable for the year in question, which the company will aim with NASDAQ OMX Commodities products. The to offset during the subsequent financial year. nominal values, fair values and exposures are disclosed in Note 23. The company is exposed to electricity price and volume risk through transmission losses. Loss Commodity risks other than those related to loss power purchases and the price hedging thereof are energy purchases arise if the company enters into based on the Corporate Finance and Financing purchasing agreements in which the price of the Principles approved by the Board of Directors. underlying commodity influences the final price of Moreover, the company has a loss power purchasing the investment commodity (commodity price risk). policy, approved by the Executive Management As a rule, commodity price risks and exchange rate Group, for hedging and for physical electricity risks are fully hedged. A risk that amounts to less purchases, as well as operative instructions, than EUR 5 million when realised can be unhedged instructions for price hedging and control room for reasons of cost-effectiveness. instructions. The purpose of price hedging is to This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 20 4 Personnel the cornerstone of our operations 3.8 Personnel the cornerstone number of permanent personnel was 291 (280). Of the personnel employed by the company, 25.0 (24.4) of our operations per cent were women and 75.0 (75.6) per cent were men. The average age of the personnel was 44 (44). Fingrid Oyj employed 334 (315) persons, including temporary employees, at the end of the year. The 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES, €1,000 2016 2015 Salaries and bonuses 22,735 21,320 Pension expenses contribution-based schemes 4,433 3,518 Other additional personnel expenses 1,430 967 Total 28,598 25,804 Salaries and bonuses of top management 1,553 1,472 In 2016, the Group applied a remuneration system CEO was 35 per cent and to the other members of for senior management; the general principles of the the executive management group 25 per cent. system were accepted by the Board of Directors of Fingrid Oyj on 18 December 2015. The total The Group currently has contribution-based pension remuneration of the members of the executive schemes only. The pension security of the Group's management group consists of a fixed total salary, a personnel is arranged by an external pension one-year bonus scheme, and a three-year long-term insurance company. Pension premiums paid for incentive scheme. The maximum amount of the onecontribution-based schemes are recognised as an year bonus scheme payable to the CEO was 25 per expense in the income statement in the year to cent of the annual salary and to the other members which they relate. In contribution-based schemes, of the executive management group 20 per cent of the Group has no legal or factual obligation to pay the annual salary. The maximum amount of the additional premiums if the party receiving the annual long-term incentive scheme payable to the premiums is unable to pay the pension benefits. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 2 05 NUMBER OF SALARIED EMPLOYEES IN THE COMPANY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR: 2016 2015 Personnel, average 336 319 Personnel, 31 Dec 334 315 Accounting principles the fund does not contain sufficient funds to pay out benefits based on work performed during current and previous financial periods to all employees. Employee benefits Under defined contribution-based pension schemes, the Group pays mandatory, contractual or voluntary contributions into publicly or privately Pension obligations managed pension insurance policies. The Group has The company has only defined contribution-based no other contribution obligations in addition to pension schemes. A defined contribution-based those payments. The payments are entered as pension arrangement refers to a pension scheme personnel costs when they fall due. Advance according to which fixed contributions are paid into payments are entered in the balance sheet as assets a separate entity, and the Group bears no legal or insofar as they are recoverable as refunds or actual obligation to make additional contributions if deductions from future payments. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 2 06 Taxes 3.9 Taxes Finland’s corporate tax rate (20% in 2016 and 2015). The only difference between the Finnish corporate tax rate and Fingrid’s effective tax rate is due to a The company will pay its income taxes in minor amount of non-deductible items, amounting in accordance with the underlying tax rate, with no tax 2016 to EUR 0.4 (-0.1) million. The table below planning. Income taxes consist of direct taxes and illustrates the development of Fingrid’s effective tax the change in deferred tax: EUR -25.8 (-30.8) million rate. The impact of a change in the tax rate has been and EUR -9.4 (5.0) million respectively. Fingrid’s eliminated over the year in the 2013 figures. effective tax rate is essentially comparable to 10. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, € 1,000 Changes in deferred taxes in 2016: Recorded in Recorded in income other 31 Dec statement at comprehensive 31 Dec Deferred tax assets 2015 profit or loss income 2016 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 207 Provisions 334 -37 296 Current financial receivables 3 9 12 Trade payables and other liabilities 6,336 -4,478 1,858 Derivative instruments 9,800 -4,365 -1,446 3,989 Other items 6 -6 0 Total 16,479 -8,872 -1,452 6,155 Deferred tax liabilities Accumulated depreciations difference -89,779 -89,779 Property, plant and equipment, tangible and intangible assets -24,896 -2,224 -27,120 Available-for-sale investments -33 13 -20 Other receivables -1,005 166 -840 Current financial receivables 0 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value -39 -41 -79 Borrowings -3,259 927 -2,332 Derivative instruments -6,230 622 -5,608 Total -125,240 -551 13 -125,778 Changes in deferred taxes in 2015: Recorded in Recorded in income other 31 Dec statement at comprehensive 31 Dec Deferred tax assets 2014 profit or loss income 2015 Provisions 337 -4 334 Current financial receivables 0 3 3 Trade payables and other liabilities 365 5,971 6,336 Borrowings 957 -957 0 Derivative instruments 8,995 2,252 -1,446 9,800 Other items 21 -19 4 6 Total 10,674 7,246 -1,442 16,479 Deferred tax liabilities Accumulated depreciations difference -89,779 -89,779 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 208 Property, plant and equipment, tangible and intangible assets -22,726 -2,170 -24,896 Available-for-sale investments -25 -8 -33 Other receivables -1,229 224 -1,005 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value -85 47 -39 Borrowings -3,259 -3,259 Derivative instruments -9,204 2,974 -6,230 Total -123,048 -2,184 -8 -125,240 Accounting principles using tax rates valid up until the closing date. The deferred tax liabilities arising from the original recognition of goodwill will not be recognised, Income taxes however. Deferred tax liabilities will also not be recognised if they are caused by the original Taxes presented in the consolidated income recognition of the asset or liability and the item is statement include the Group companies’ accrual not related to a merger and the transaction will not taxes for the profit of the financial year, tax affect the accounting totals or the taxable revenue adjustments from previous financial years and during its implementation. The deferred tax assets changes in deferred taxes. Deferred taxes are are shown as non-current receivables and deferred recorded in accordance with Finland’s statutory tax liabilities correspondingly as non-current corporate tax rate of 20%. Taxes are recognised in liabilities. the income statement unless they are linked with The largest temporary differences result from the other comprehensive income, in which case the tax depreciation of property, plant and equipment and is also recognised in other comprehensive income. from financial instruments. No deferred tax is Such items in the Group consist solely of availablerecognised on the undistributed profits of the for-sale investments, since hedge accounting for foreign associated company, because receiving the electricity derivatives was discontinued in 2014. dividend does not cause a tax impact by virtue of a Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on Nordic tax agreement. The deferred tax asset from all temporary differences between the tax values of temporary differences is recognised up to an asset and liability items and their carrying amounts amount which can likely be utilised against future using the liability method. Deferred tax is recognised taxable income. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 209 4 Long-term Investor This chapter focuses on Fingrid’s assets, and above the most important ones: Grid assets and the indicators related to them. • The chapter also takes a look at the company’s considerable share of the company’s operations goodwill and provides a description of other and are as important as the company’s other property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Their share will be especially highlighted assets. when all lease agreements are included in the • Leases are also included in this chapter as, for company’s balance sheet following the example, right-of-use agreements make up a introduction of the new IFRS 16 standard. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 210 Grid assets 4.1 Grid assets The company’s total capital expenditure in 2016 amounted to EUR 146.7 (147.5) million. This included a total of EUR 135.8 (138.4) million Fingrids grid investment programme promotes the invested in the transmission grid and EUR 3.3 (0.7) national climate and energy strategy, improves million for reserve power. ICT investments system security, increases transmission capacity amounted to EUR 7.5 (8.4) million. A total of EUR 2.4 and promotes the electricity markets. The annual (1.8) million was used for R&D projects during the capital expenditure in the grid has remained year under review. At the end of 2016, Fingrid had extensive. thirteen 400 kilovolt substation sites and 67 kilometres of 400 kilovolt power line contracts as well as a significant number of 110 kilovolt substation and power line projects under construction. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 211 Grid assets are recognised at fair value for the are calculated by multiplying the unit price specified purposes of the company’s regulatory balance by the Energy Authority with the number of grid sheet, as described above. The fair value of the components. The adjusted present value in use for a transmission network assets (adjusted replacement grid component is calculated based on the adjusted cost) is calculated by adding up the adjusted replacement cost, using the useful life of the grid replacement costs for each grid component; these component and its mean lifetime data. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 212 Congestion income additional income caused by this price difference, i.e. congestion income, remains in the electricity exchange, which then pays the income to the TSOs Congestion income is generated as per the contractual terms. The congestion because of an insufficient transmission income received by a grid owner must be used for capacity between the bidding zones of an electricity the purposes stated in EC Regulation 714/2009, exchange. In such cases, the bidding zones become Article 16, Paragraph 6: guaranteeing the actual separate price areas, and the transmission link availability of the allocated capacity, and joining them generates congestion income in the maintaining or increasing interconnection capacities electricity exchange as follows: congestion income through network investments. As a consequence of [€/h] = transmission volume in the day-ahead the change in the regulation governing Fingrid’s grid markets [MW] * area price difference [€/MWh]. The pricing, the company will include the congestion basis for this is that a seller operating in a lower income received after 1 January 2016 as accruals in priced area receives less for their power than what a the item other liabilities in the balance sheet. buyer pays for it in a higher priced area. The This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 213 The congestion income from 2016 was used for costs, as defined in the regulation, accrue as annual improving and maintaining the cross-border expenses in the income statement. Alternatively, transmission connections, and in part also for the they are entered in the balance sheet against Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä transmission network investments, as defined by regulation, to lower the investment, which supports the cross-border acquisition cost of property, plant and equipment, transmission from northern Sweden. which lowers the depreciation of the property, plant and equipment in question. The congestion income Accounting principles received before 1 January 2016 was recognised in turnover. Congestion income Public contributions Public contributions received from the EU or other As a consequence of the change in the regulation parties related to property, plant and equipment are governing Fingrid’s grid pricing, the company will deducted from the acquisition cost of the item, and include the congestion income received after 1 the contributions consequently reduce the January 2016 as accruals in the item other liabilities depreciation made on the item. Other contributions in the balance sheet. Of the accruals, congestion are distributed as income over those periods when income will be recognised in the income statement costs linked with the contributions arise. Other as other operating income when their corresponding This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 214 contributions received are presented in other operating income. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 215 Tangible and intangible assets 4.2 Tangible and intangible assets 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, € 1,000 2016 2015 Land and water areas Cost at 1 Jan 15,349 14,974 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 393 442 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -41 -67 Cost at 31 Dec 15,701 15,349 Carrying amount 31 Dec 15,701 15,349 Buildings and structures Cost at 1 Jan 220,357 202,370 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 34,634 18,214 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -168 -227 Cost at 31 Dec 254,823 220,357 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -53,077 -45,829 Decreases, depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec 73 59 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -8,103 -7,307 Carrying amount 31 Dec 193,716 167,280 Machinery and equipment Cost at 1 Jan 1,053,479 1,015,283 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 61,839 38,826 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -100 -630 Cost at 31 Dec 1,115,218 1,053,479 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -485,852 -438,393 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 216 Decreases, depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec 8 306 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -51,094 -47,765 Carrying amount 31 Dec 578,281 567,627 Transmission lines Cost at 1 Jan 1,238,261 1,213,542 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 74,414 30,003 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -5,565 -5,283 Cost at 31 Dec 1,307,111 1,238,261 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -448,647 -415,422 Decreases, depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec 3,944 3,223 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -37,370 -36,448 Carrying amount 31 Dec 825,038 789,614 Other property, plant and equipment Cost at 1 Jan 22,756 22,232 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 966 524 Cost at 31 Dec 23,721 22,756 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -15,208 -14,326 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -911 -882 Carrying amount 31 Dec 7,602 7,548 Prepayments and purchases in progress Cost at 1 Jan 120,816 78,687 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 116,534 134,335 Transfers to other tangible and intangible assets 1 Jan 31 Dec -177,946 -92,206 Cost at 31 Dec 59,404 120,816 Carrying amount 31 Dec 59,404 120,816 Capitalised interest Cost at 1 Jan 9,426 7,735 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 2,016 1,690 Cost at 31 Dec 11,442 9,426 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -676 -399 Depreciation on capitalised interest 1 Jan 31 Dec -345 -276 Carrying amount 31 Dec 10,421 8,750 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 217 Carrying amount 31 Dec 69,825 129,566 Property, plant and equipment 1,690,162 1,676,984 12. INTANGIBLE ASSETS, €1,000 2016 2015 Land use rights Cost at 1 Jan 92,749 91,920 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 2,022 2,758 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -263 -1,929 Cost at 31 Dec 94,507 92,749 Carrying amount 31 Dec 94,507 92,749 Other intangible assets Cost at 1 Jan 30,853 29,829 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 848 1,118 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -57 -95 Cost at 31 Dec 31,644 30,853 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -28,173 -26,732 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -1,398 -1,441 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2,073 2,680 Carrying amount 31 Dec 96,580 95,428 Land use rights are not depreciated but tested which includes land use rights and goodwill, the annually for impairment in connection with the book value of the asset items has not decreased. testing of goodwill. No need for impairment has been noted as a result of the testing. Accounting principles The entire business of the Fingrid Group is grid Property, plant and equipment operations in Finland with system responsibility, which the full goodwill of the Group in the balance sheet is fully allocated to. The goodwill included in Grid assets form most of the property, plant and the balance sheet amounts to EUR 87,920 and has equipment. Grid assets include, among other things, not changed during the periods under review. Since, 400 kV, 220 kV, 110 kV transmission lines, direct per the regulation, the fair value of the net assets current lines, transmission line right-of-ways, included in the company’s grid assets is substations and the areas they encompass approximately EUR 2,800.0 million compared to the (buildings, structures, machinery and equipment, carrying amount of EUR 1,874.7 million in net assets, This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 218 substation access roads), gas turbine power plants, Substation structures = 30 years fuel tanks, generators and turbines. Buildings and structures at gas turbine power plants = 20-40 years Property, plant and equipment are valued in the Separate structures = 15 years balance sheet at the original acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and potential impairment. Transmission lines If an asset is made up of several parts with useful lives of different lengths, the parts are treated as Transmission lines 400 kV = 40 years separate items and are depreciated over their Direct current lines = 40 years separate useful lives. Transmission lines 110-220 kV = 30 years Creosote-impregnated towers and related When a part of property, plant and equipment that is disposal costs = 30 years treated as a separate item is replaced, the costs Aluminium towers of transmission lines (400 kV) relating to the new part are capitalised. Other = 10 years subsequent costs are capitalised only if it is likely Optical ground wires = 10-20 years that the future economic benefit relating to the asset benefits the Group and the acquisition cost of Machinery and the asset can be determined reliably. Repair and equipment maintenance costs are recognised in the income Substation machinery = 10-30 years statement when they are incurred. Gas turbine power plants = 20 years Borrowing costs, such as interest costs and Other machinery and equipment = 3-5 years arrangement fees, directly linked with the Gains or losses from the sale or disposition of acquisition, construction or manufacture of a property, plant and equipment are recognised in the qualifying asset form part of the acquisition cost of income statement under either other operating the asset item in question. A qualifying commodity is income or expenses. Property, plant and equipment one that necessarily requires a considerably long are derecognised in the balance sheet when their time to be made ready for its intended purpose. economic useful life has expired, the asset has been Other borrowing costs are recognised as an sold, scrapped or otherwise disposed of to an expense. Borrowing costs included in the acquisition outsider. cost are calculated on the basis of the average borrowing cost of the Group. Goodwill and other intangible assets Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over Goodwill created as a result of the acquisition of the useful life of the item using the straight-line enterprises and businesses is composed of the method. Depreciation on property, plant and difference between the acquisition cost and the net equipment taken into use during the financial year is identifiable assets of the acquired business valued calculated on an item-by-item basis from the month at fair value. Goodwill is allocated to cashof introduction. Land and water areas are not generating units and is tested annually for depreciated. The expected economic lives are impairment. With associated companies, goodwill is verified at each closing date, and if they differ included in the value of the investment in the significantly from the earlier estimates, the associated company. depreciation periods are amended accordingly. Other intangible assets consist of computer The depreciation periods of property, plant and software and land use and emission rights. equipment are as follows: Computer software is valued at its original acquisition cost and depreciated on a straight line Buildings and structure basis during its estimated useful life. Land use Substation buildings and separate buildings = rights, which have an indefinite useful life, are not 40 years depreciated but are tested annually for impairment. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 219 More on emission rights in chapter 6.2. company increase beyond the former performance level. In other cases, expenses are recognised in the Subsequent expenses relating to intangible assets income statement when they are incurred. are only capitalised if their economic benefits to the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 22 0 Lease agreements 4.3 Lease agreements substations and transmission lines and some 110 kilovolt transmission lines and circuit breaker bays. The lease agreements of the Group mainly relate to Under its system responsibility, Fingrid is also office premises. The durations of the lease obligated to maintain a rapid response disturbance agreements range from less than one year to fifteen reserve to prepare for disruptions to the power years, and the contracts can usually be extended system. In order to ensure the availability of this after the original date of expiration. The index, disturbance reserve, Fingrid has, in addition to its renewal and other terms of the different agreements reserve power plant capacity, acquired power plant vary. capacity suited to this purpose as well as disconnectable loads for industry by long-term In addition to real estate, the Group has additionally agreement. These are shown below under the Rightleased assets such as several land areas under of-use agreements. 13. OTHER LEASE AGREEMENTS, € 1,000 2016 2015 Rental obligations from lease agreements: In one year 3,536 2,643 In more than one year and less than five years 13,676 10,698 In more than five years 14,977 12,601 Total 32,189 25,942 Payment obligations from right-of-use agreements: In one year 7,601 8,017 In more than one year and less than five years 36,477 44,258 In more than five years 36,201 36,790 Total 80,278 89,065 Accounting principles Lease obligations where the risks and rewards incident to ownership remain with the lessor are treated as other lease agreements. Lease Lease agreements obligations paid on the basis of other lease agreements are treated within other operating This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 22 1 expenses and are recognised in the income payments as a financial liability. Exceptions are statement as equally large items during the lease possible for leases concerning short-term asset period. Other lease agreements primarily concern items of insignificant value. office facilities, land areas and network leases. In accordance with the principles of standard IAS 17 Consequently, the standard will affect both Fingrid’s Leases, those leases which transfer substantially all corporate balance sheet and income statement. The the risks and rewards incident to ownership to the rental expenses now included in other operating company are classified as finance leases. The expenses will be replaced by interest and company has not leased tangible or intangible depreciation to be recognised under operating assets using finance leases. profit. The liability will be amortized using the effective interest rate method, where the relative Adoption of the IFRS 16 Leases standard, amount of interest expenditure decreases along effective 1 Jan 2019 with the loan capital. The expenditure is thus recognised in the income statement over the lease The company has started an assessment of the term according to a front-end-loaded schedule. impacts of the adoption of the IFRS 16 standard. From the point of view of a lessee, the standard The cash flow from operating activities will increase, eliminates the current classification of leases as as the capital repayment in rental payments will be either operating leases or finance leases, and classified as cash flow from financing activities. The instead requires the recognition of practically all interest component will continue to be disclosed in lease agreements as assets (right-of-use of the the cash flow from operating activities. leased property) and the obligation of lease This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 222 5 Strong Financial Position This chapter focusses on describing how Fingrid’s financing is formed and how the related risks are managed, and at the same time, how short-term financial assets that secure liquidity are formed. • The chapter describes the company’s principles for risk management purposes. The risks relate of capital management, ownership structure and to various market risks: the electricity price risk dividend distribution policy. and the interest rate and exchange rate risk. The • The end of the chapter contains a summary of all management of electricity price risk is described the financial assets and financing liabilities, as in chapter 3.7. well as derivatives, that the company uses solely This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 2 23 Capital management 5.1 Capital management situation and debt service capacity. Fingrid has credit rating service agreements with S&P Global (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). Equity and liabilities as shown in the balance sheet are managed by the company as capital. The • On 28 October 2016, S&P raised the rating for principal aim of Fingrid’s capital management is to Fingrid Oyj’s unsecured senior debt and longensure that the company is capable of uninterrupted term company rating to ‘AA-’ and the short-term operations and can rapidly recover from any company rating to ‘A-1+’, with a stable outlook. exceptional circumstances. Additional key goals • On 21 November 2016, Fitch raised the rating include maintaining an optimal capital structure for Fingrid Oyj’s unsecured senior debt to ‘AA-’, such that the company’s credit rating remains solid, the long-term company rating to ‘A+’, and cost of capital remains reasonable, and the affirmed ‘F1’ for the short-term company rating, company can pay dividends to its shareholders. with a stable outlook. The rating received by Fingrid was, at the time of issuing, the highest The company has not set specific financial ratio valid rating given by Fitch to any European targets for capital management, but instead regulated TSO. monitors and controls the overall capital structure based on credit ratings and their underlying The company aims to maintain a credit rating of at parameters. least ‘A-’. The credit rating target and criteria guide financing activities. The company’s credit rating remained high in 2016. This reflects the company’s strong overall financial This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 224 The aims and organisation of financing activities and the principles for financial risk management 5.2 The aims and organisation plan and cash flow from operating activities as well as credit rating and its criteria; of financing activities and the • Overall optimisation of the interest rate risk, principles for financial risk including the interest rate risk of business operations via the Energy Authority’s regulatory management model (risk-free interest in the so called WACC model) and the company’s interest rate risk of net debt; The company has a holistic approach to the • Forward-looking financial planning to ensure management of financing activities, encompassing that the overall impact from the cash flow from external financing, as well as managing liquidity, operating activities, future investments, counterparty and financial risks, and supporting maturing loans and future dividends is taken into business operations in matters related to financing account when raising funds and optimising the in general. loan portfolio structure. Core aims for financing activities: The Treasury maintains active and consistent dialogue with the credit rating agencies and • Protecting shareholder value by securing the monitors the key ratios used by the agencies, as well financing required for the company’s business as other generally accepted financial ratios. operations, by hedging against the main financial risks and by minimising financial costs Fingrid’s financial capital consists of equity and debt within the risk limits; financing. The share of equity from the balance • Maintaining adequate liquidity even in sheet total was 36,4% and that of liabilities 63,6% in unexpected situations; 2016. Equity according to the regulatory balance • Long-term financing from diverse sources, sheet amounted to 60,7% and the corresponding taking into account the company’s investment liabilities to 39,3% of regulatory balance sheet total in 2016. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 225 Fingrid Oyj's overall financial management is the day-to-day organisation, reporting and exposed to market, liquidity, counterparty and adequate controls of financing activities, and credit, among other, risks, when managing the reports regularly to the CEO and the Board (Audit company’s financial position. The objective of Committee). financial risk management is to foster shareholder value by securing the financing required for the Risk management processes company’s business operations, by hedging against The Treasury unit is in charge of risk monitoring, the main financial risks and by minimising financing systems and the models and methods used to costs within the risk limits. calculate and assess risks. The Treasury unit is Corporate finance and financing principles furthermore responsible for identifying, measuring and reporting the financial risks that the company The Board of Directors of Fingrid Oyj approves the may be exposed to. The internal audit additionally Corporate Finance and Financing Principles which ensures compliance with the Corporate Finance and define how Fingrid Oyj manages financing as a Financing Principles and the company’s internal whole. The external financing of Fingrid Group is guidelines. carried out by Fingrid Oyj. Fair value hierarchy Risk management execution and reporting In the presentation of fair value, assets and liabilities Fingrid’s Chief Financial Officer is responsible for measured at fair value are categorised into a threethe practical measures related to securing financing level hierarchy. The appropriate hierarchy is based and managing financial risks, in line with the on the input data of the instrument. The level is company’s Corporate Finance and Financing determined on the basis of the lowest level of input Principles and Treasury Policy. The CFO oversees This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 226 for the instrument that is significant to the overall based on observable market parameters either fair value measurement. directly or indirectly. Level 3: inputs are not publicly quoted and are Level 1: inputs are publicly quoted in active markets. unobservable market parameters. Level 2: inputs are not publicly quoted and are This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 22 7 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial risks of liabilities 5.3 Financial liabilities, financial maturity profile.Fingrid’s existing loan agreements, debt or commercial paper programmes are costs and managing the unsecured and do not include any financial financial risks of liabilities covenants based on financial ratios. In 2016, the company issued bonds totalling EUR 80 million The company takes advantage of the opportunities (EUR 50 million with a four-year maturity and EUR offered by its credit ratings at any given time on the 30 million with a six-year maturity) to refinance international and domestic debt capital and money current borrowings. markets. Market-based and diversified financing is Borrowings are as follows: sought from several sources aiming at a balanced 14. BORROWINGS, €1,000 Hierarchy 2016 2015 level Balance Balance sheet sheet Fair value value % Fair value value % Non-current Bonds 791,948 691,662 829,075 734,366 Level 2 Loans from financial institutions 163,895 151,203 186,408 172,866 Level 2 76 79 955,843 842,866 % 1,015,483 907,232 % Current Bonds 125,885 123,074 144,284 140,504 Level 2 Loans from financial institutions 23,246 21,662 22,195 20,710 Level 2 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 228 Other loans/Commercial papers (international and domestic) 120,059 120,128 75,022 75,003 Level 2 24 21 269,190 264,865 % 241,501 236,217 % 100 100 Total 1,225,033 1,107,730 % 1,256,984 1,143,448 % The fair values of borrowings are based on the loan-specific risk premium. Borrowings present values of cash flows. Loans raised in various denominated in foreign currencies are translated currencies are measured at the present value on the into euros at the mid-rate quoted by the ECB at the basis of the yield curve of each currency. The closing date. discount rate includes the company-specific and 15. BONDS INCLUDED IN BORROWINGS, €1,000 2016 2015 Nominal Currency value Maturity Interest EUR 20,000 11.04.2017 floating rate 20,000 20,000 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 22 9 EUR 25,000 11.04.2017 floating rate 25,000 25,000 EUR 30,000 15.06.2017 3,07% 30,000 30,000 EUR 50,000 20.09.2020 floating rate 50,000 EUR 30,000 19.09.2022 floating rate 30,000 EUR 30,000 11.09.2023 2,71% 30,000 30,000 EUR 300,000 03.04.2024 3,50% 298,961 298,837 EUR 25,000 27.03.2028 2,71% 25,000 25,000 EUR 10,000 12.09.2028 3,27% 10,000 10,000 EUR 80,000 24.04.2029 2,95% 80,000 80,000 EUR 30,000 30.05.2029 2,89% 30,000 30,000 628,961 548,837 JPY 500,000 22.06.2017 1,28% 4,052 3,815 4,052 3,815 NOK 200,000 17.10.2016 5,15% 20,827 NOK 200,000 11.04.2017 5,16% 22,011 20,827 NOK 200,000 10.11.2017 5,12% 22,011 20,827 NOK 200,000 12.11.2019 5,37% 22,011 20,827 NOK 100,000 16.09.2025 4,31% 11,006 10,413 77,039 93,721 SEK 100,000 15.01.2016 3,30% 10,882 SEK 500,000 18.10.2016 interest rate structure 54,385 SEK 500,000 18.10.2016 3,50% 54,410 SEK 1,000,000 19.11.2018 interest rate structure 104,685 108,820 104,685 228,497 Bonds, long-term total 691,663 734,366 Bonds, short-term total 123,074 140,504 Total 814,737 874,870 The company operates in the debt capital, • For long-term financing, the company has a commercial paper and loan markets: Medium Term Note Programme (“EMTN Programme”), totalling EUR 1.5 billion. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 230 • Fingrid has a Euro Commercial Paper Bank (EIB) and the Nordic Investment Bank Programme (“ECP Programme”) totalling EUR (NIB). 600 million. • Fingrid has a domestic commercial paper The graph below illustrates Fingrid’s various sources programme totalling EUR 150 million. of debt financing. Fingrid sources debt financing • Furthermore, Fingrid has bilateral long-term loan mainly from the international debt capital markets. agreements with both the European Investment The company defines net debt as the difference borrowings as shown in the balance sheet. The between cash in hand, and the financial assets development of net debt is actively monitored. recognized in the income statement at fair value and 16. RECONCILIATION OF DEBT, €1,000 Borrowings Borrowings due within due after 1 year 1 year Total Debt on 1 Jan 2015 263,033 962,324 1,225,358 Cash flow from financing activities -185,181 107,424 -77,757 Exchange rate adjustments -3,573 2,350 -1,223 Accrual of effective interest rates 1,051 12,873 13,925 Other changes not involving a payment transaction 161,937 -164,867 -2,930 Debt on 31 Dec 2015 237,268 920,105 1,157,373 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 231 Cash flow from financing activities -119,917 80,000 -39,917 Exchange rate adjustments -1,192 5,243 4,051 Accrual of effective interest rates 355 1,472 1,827 Other changes not involving a payment transaction 149,757 -149,608 149 Debt on 31 Dec 2016 266,271 857,211 1,123,482 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value are liquid investments traded on active markets. Reconciliation of net debt, € 1,000 2016 2015 Cash in hand and cash equivalents 21,939 23,099 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value 57,790 93,451 Borrowings repayable within one year 264,865 236,217 Borrowings repayable after one year 842,866 907,232 Net debt 1,028,002 1,259,999 Net debt is the difference between the company's debt and its cash in hand and cash equivalents Interest income and costs on loans and other receivables are as follows: 17. INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSES FROM LOANS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES, €1,000 2016 2015 Interest income on held-for-trading financial assets 500 449 Interest income on cash, cash equivalents and bank deposits 189 174 Net foreign exchange gains and losses 0 77 Dividend income 5 5 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 232 694 706 Interest expenses on borrowings -27,017 -29,650 Net interest expenses on interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives 7,261 8,250 Gains from measuring derivative contracts at fair value 6,016 3,749 Losses from measuring derivative contracts at fair value -6,358 -17,025 Net foreign exchange gains and losses -67 0 Other finance costs -1,236 -1,416 -21,401 -36,092 Capitalised finance costs, borrowing costs; at a capitalisation rate of 2 % (note 11) 2,016 1,690 Total -18,691 -33,695 Managing the market risks of debt fair value interest rate risk. The permitted hedging instruments are defined in the Treasury policy and Fingrid’s debts are based on both fixed and floating are chosen in order to achieve the most effective interest rates and issued in several currencies. They hedging possible for the risks in question. thus expose Fingrid’s cash flow to interest rate and exchange rate risks. Fingrid uses derivative The functional currency of the company is euro. contracts to hedge against interest rate risks on Generally, currency risks and the foreign exchange cash flow and exchange rate risks on borrowings. interest rate risk are fully hedged. A risk that Fingrid generally retains issued bonds until the amounts to less than EUR 5 million when realised maturity date and thus does not value its bonds in can be unhedged for reasons of cost-effectiveness. the balance sheet at fair value or hedge against the Transaktioriski This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 233 The company issues bonds in the international and between the euro and the currency in question. The domestic money and debt capital markets. The most important foreign currency for the Group is the company’s loan portfolio is spread across euro and Swedish krona (SEK). If the rate of SEK on 31 non-euro currencies, and the total debt portfolio December 2016 had been 10% lower/higher than and the related interest rate flows are hedged the euro, with all other variables remaining against the currency risk. The currency risk for each unchanged, the profit after taxes would have been bond is fully hedged in conjunction with its issuance. EUR 1,000 higher/EUR 1,000 lower (2015: EUR The company uses interest rate and cross currency 32,000/EUR 36,000). The main impact on the net swaps to hedge the exchange rate and interest risk profit is caused by the change in the fair value of of bonds. derivatives. Starting in 2016, the impact of the SEKdenominated forward curve is also taken into Business-related currency risks are small and they account in the sensitivity analysis. In 2016, loans are mainly hedged. During the financial year, the amounting to SEK 1,100 million and their company used foreign exchange forwards to hedge corresponding derivatives matured, which accounts business transaction risks. A summary of the for the reduced impact of the exchange rate derivatives is presented in Note 23. changes. The sensitivity analysis of changes in the foreign exchange rate is measured as a 10 per cent change Interest rate risk The interest rate risk from business operations can in part or in its entirety be hedged in terms of the The company is only exposed to the interest rate adjusted capital committed to grid operations. The risk in euros from its business operations, assets Board of Directors always makes a separate and borrowings. The company’s borrowings are, decision on the hedging of operational interest rate both in terms of principal and interest payments, risks. The interest rate risk included in business fully hedged against exchange rate risks, and cash operations was not hedged in 2016. The interest and cash equivalents and financial assets rate risk inherent in Fingrid’s business operations is recognised in the income statement at fair value are caused by changes in the risk-free interest in the denominated in euros. WACC model. If the risk-free interest rate rises/falls by one percentage unit, the post-tax WACC rises/ Interest rate risk management will include falls by 0.9%. optimisation of the future interest rate risk of business operations (risk-free interest in the WACC The objective of managing the interest rate risk on model described in the next infobox) together with the loan portfolio is to minimise interest costs in the the company’s net debt interest rate risk through a long term. The basic principle is to keep the interest regulatory model specified by the Energy Authority. rate exposure of the company’s loan portfolio linked This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 23 4 to a floating rate of interest, targeting at most an 3-month and 6-month Euribor rates, the historical average interest refixing period of 12 months.The development of which serve as a basis for a loan portfolio’s interest rate risk arises from market forward-looking simulation of the probable future interest rate volatility, which decreases or increases interest expenses for Fingrid’s loan portfolio. The the annual interest expenses on the company’s exposure on which the sensitivity analysis is floating-rate loans. When the interest rates increase calculated includes all of the Group’s interest(decrease) on the market, the interest expenses of bearing borrowings, the loan portfolio’s derivatives the floating-rate loans also increase (decrease). The and interest-rate options purchased to hedge company hedges this so-called cash flow risk with against unexpected changes in interest rates. derivatives. The exposure of the loan portfolio to According to the model, there is a 95% (99%) interest rate risk is measured by using a Cash Flow probability that Fingrid’s interest expenditure will at Risk (CFaR) type of model, more specifically the amount to no more than EUR 20 (20) million during Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) the next 12 months. model. The key parameters of the model are the Determination of the CD = Rr + DP reasonable rate of return in Rr = risk-free interest rate regulation and operational interest rate risk DP = risk premium of debt The reasonable rate of return on adjusted capital CE = Rr + βlevered × (Rm – Rr ) + committed to grid operations is determined by using the weighted average cost of capital model (WACC). LP The WACC model illustrates the average cost of the Rr = risk-free interest rate capital used by the company, where the weights are the relative values of equity and debt. The weighted β levered = levered beta average of the costs of equity and interest-bearing Rm = average market return debt are used to calculate the total cost of capital, i.e. the reasonable rate of return per the regulation. Rm – Rr = market risk premium The reasonable return is calculated by multiplying LP = liquidity premium the adjusted capital invested in network operations by the WACC. The above-mentioned reasonable rate of return after taxes is then adjusted with the current rate of corporate tax. This calculation gives the reasonable pre-tax rate of return. WACC post-tax = reasonable rate of return after corporate tax CE = reasonable cost of equity CD = reasonable cost of interest-bearing debt E = adjusted equity invested in network operations D = adjusted interest-bearing debt invested in WACC pre-tax = reasonable rate of return before network operations corporate tax ctr = current rate of corporate tax A fixed capital structure is applied to the TSO, whereby the weight of debt capital is 50% and the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 2 35 weight of equity capital is 50%. The pre-tax Rk, pre-tax = pre-tax reasonable return, EUR reasonable rate of return is calculated as follows WACC pre-tax = reasonable rate of return, % E = adjusted equity invested in network operations, EUR D = adjusted interest-bearing debt invested in network operations, EUR E + D = adjusted capital invested in network operations, EUR Liquidity risk and refinancing risk the company’s loan portfolio is at least three years. To secure refinancing, the company makes wide use Fingrid is exposed to liquidity and refinancing risks of diverse sources of financing. The high credit arising from the redemption of loans, payments and rating and good bank and investor relations enable fluctuations in cash flow from operating ready access to the debt capital market and thus activities.The liquidity of the company must be minimises the company’s debt refinancing risks and arranged so that 110% of the refinancing needs for financing costs. the next 12 months can be covered by liquid assets (cash and cash equivalents, and financial assets The counterparty risks of financing activities are recognised in the income statement at fair value) caused by counterparties related to investing (e.g. and available long-term committed credit lines. money market funds), derivatives counterparties and bank counterparties. The company minimises The company has a revolving credit facility any counterparty risks. As a rule, credit rating agreement of EUR 300 million signed on 11 categories are the decisive factor in specifying the December 2015. The maturity of the facility is five counterparty limit. years. In addition to this, the company has two oneyear extension options, one of which has been used. Contractual repayments and interest costs on This extended the maturity of the revolving credit borrowings are presented in the next table. The facility until 11 December 2021. The facility is interest rates on floating-rate loans are defined committed and has not been drawn. The company using the zero coupon curve. The repayments and additionally has uncommitted overdraft facilities interest amounts are undiscounted values. Finance totaling EUR 50 million. costs arising from interest rate swaps are often paid in net amounts depending on the nature of the The refinancing risk is managed by building an even swap. In the following table, they are presented in maturity profile such that the share of long-term gross amounts. loans in a single year constitutes less than 30 per cent of the total debt and the average maturity of This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 236 18. DEBT REPAYMENTS, INTEREST PAYMENTS AND PAYMENTS AND RECEIVABLES UNDER DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS IN CASH, €1,000 31 Dec 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022Total Bonds repayments 123,074 104,685 22,011 50,000 0 514,967 814,737 interests 20,874 17,555 17,361 16,398 16,247 68,012 156,447 Loans from financial institutions repayments 21,662 21,662 21,662 17,662 17,662 72,554 172,866 interests 3,264 2,859 2,572 2,305 1,999 4,383 17,382 Commercial papers repayments 120,000 0 0 0 0 0 120,000 Currency swaps payments 53,453 107,833 23,967 87 118 13,342 198,800 Interest rate swaps payments 2,287 2,204 845 269 370 2,204 8,180 Forward contracts payments 2,214 0 0 0 0 0 2,214 Total 346,829 256,798 88,419 86,721 36,397 675,463 1,490,626 Currency swaps receivables 49,434 110,878 22,394 449 449 12,209 195,812 Interest rate swaps receivables 4,933 4,015 3,859 3,662 3,371 8,381 28,221 Forward contracts receivables 2,271 0 0 0 0 0 2,271 Total 56,638 114,893 26,253 4,111 3,820 20,590 226,304 Total 290,191 141,905 62,165 82,610 32,577 654,873 1,264,322 31 Dec 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Total Bonds repayments 140,504 120,468 108,820 20,827 0 484,251 874,870 interests 24,850 21,043 18,711 17,111 15,993 83,757 181,465 Loans from financial institutions repayments 20,710 21,662 21,662 21,662 17,662 90,216 193,576 interests 3,707 3,270 3,066 2,841 2,544 7,051 22,479 Commercial papers repayments 75,000 0 0 0 0 0 75,000 Currency swaps payments 146,373 53,753 108,408 24,160 170 13,889 346,753 Interest rate swaps payments 3,632 2,102 1,991 1,029 534 3,715 13,003 Forward contracts payments 2,266 1,914 0 0 0 0 4,181 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 23 7 Total 417,043 224,213 262,658 87,631 36,904 682,879 1,711,327 Currency swaps receivables 148,587 49,939 111,766 22,394 449 12,658 345,792 Interest rate swaps receivables 4,656 4,733 3,751 3,339 2,813 8,863 28,156 Forward contracts receivables 2,222 1,871 0 0 0 0 4,093 Total 155,465 56,544 115,517 25,733 3,262 21,520 378,041 Total 261,578 167,669 147,141 61,897 33,642 661,358 1,333,285 Accounting principles method. Borrowings are derecognised when they mature and are repaid. Borrowings Commitment fees to be paid on credit facilities are entered as transaction costs related to the loan Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net insofar as partial or full utilisation of the facility is of the transaction costs incurred. Transaction costs likely. In such cases, the fee is capitalized in the consist of bond prices above or below par value, balance sheet until the facility is utilised. If there is arrangement fees, commissions and administrative no proof that loans included in a facility are likely to fees that are directly related to loan. Borrowings are be drawn in part or in full, the fee will be recognised subsequently measured at amortised cost; any as an upfront payment for liquidity services and difference between the loan amount and the amount amortized over the maturity of the facility in to be repaid is recognised in the income statement question. over the loan period using the effective interest rate This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 23 8 Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets 5.4 Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets 19. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, €1,000 2016 2015 Bank deposits 10,000 10,000 Cash assets and bank account balances 11,939 13,099 Total 21,939 23,099 20. FINANCIAL ASSETS RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT AT FAIR VALUE, €1,000 2016 2015 Hierarchy level Commercial papers 12,998 53,984 Level 2 Short-term money market funds 44,792 39,468 Level 1 Total 57,790 93,451 Accounting principles This category consists of the financial assets held specifically for trading purposes. The financial assets classified in this category include short-term Cash and cash equivalents money market securities (certificates of deposit, Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet commercial papers and municipality bills) and include cash in hand and bank deposits with an current investments in short-term fixed income initial maturity of no more than three months. Cash funds. Financial assets recognised at fair value in and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement the income statement are entered in the balance also include financial assets recognised in the sheet at fair value at the settlement date. income statement at fair value. Cash and cash Subsequently, the financial assets are measured on equivalents are derecognised when they mature, are each reporting day at fair value, and the change in sold or otherwise disposed of. their fair value is recognised in the income statement under finance income and costs. Held-for-trading financial assets Derivatives are also included in this group, but are presented in the balance sheet on their own lines. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 239 Accounting principles for derivatives are disclosed in recognised through other comprehensive income in Chapter 5.6. shareholders’ equity, minus taxes, until the investment is sold or otherwise disposed of, or the Available-for-sale investments value of the investment is impaired, at which time the changes in fair value are reclassified in the Fingrid has insignificant amounts of financing income statement. assets classified as available-for-sale investments, mainly shares in telephone companies and publicly Financial assets are derecognised when they listed shares. Available-for-sale investments are mature, are sold or otherwise disposed of such that recognised at fair value, which is the market value at their risks and revenues have been transferred. the closing date and thus belongs to level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Changes in fair value are This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 240 Equity and dividend distribution 5.5 Equity and dividend distribution The shareholders’ equity is composed of two share classes. The shareholder breakdown and voting rights are illustrated in the following graphs. SHAREHOLDERS BY CATEGORY 31 DEC Of all shares Of votes Number of shares % % Public organisations 1,768 53.17 70.87 Financial and insurance institutions 1,557 46.83 29.12 Total 3,325.00 100.00 100.00 Shareholders, 31 Dec 2016 Of all shares Of votes Number of shares % % Republic of Finland, represented by the Ministry of Finance Aino Holding Ky 878 26.41 11.74 National Emergency Supply Agency 828 24.90 33.20 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 241 Mutual Pension Insurance Company Ilmarinen 661 19.88 17.15 Imatran Seudun Sähkö Oy 10 0.30 0.13 Fennia Life 6 0.18 0.08 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance 1 0.03 0.01 OP Insurance Ltd 1 0.03 0.01 The State Pension Fund 1 0.03 0.01 Total 3,325 100 100 The company's share capital is EUR 55,922,485.55. shares. If the above-mentioned EUR twenty (20) Fingrid shares are divided into Serias A shares and million minimum amount for the financial period is Series B shares. The number of Series A shares is not distributed (all or in part) for Series B shares in a 2,078 and the number of Series B shares is 1,247. financial period, Series B shares confer the right to receive the undistributed minimum amount in The maximum number of shares is 13,300, as in question (or the accumulated undistributed 2015. The shares have no par value. minimum amount accrued during such financial periods) in the next profit distribution, in any Series A shares confer three votes each at the disbursements paid out, or in any other distribution Annual General Meeting and Series B shares one of assets prior to any other dividends, vote each. When electing members of the Board of disbursements or asset distribution until the Directors, Series A shares confer 10 votes each at undistributed minimum amount has been distributed the Annual General Meeting and Series B shares in full for Series B shares. There are no nonone vote each. controlling interests. Series B shares have the right before Series A Equity is composed of the share capital, share shares to obtain the annual minimum dividend premium account, revaluation reserve (incl. hedging specified below from the funds available for profit and fair value reserves), translation reserve, and distribution. If the annual minimum dividend cannot retained earnings. The hedging reserve includes be distributed in some year, the shares confer a right changes in the fair value of hedging instruments for to receive the undistributed amount from the funds loss power. The translation reserve includes available for profit distribution in the subsequent translation differences in the net capital investments years; however, such that Series B shares have the of associated companies in accordance with the right over Series A shares to receive the annual equity method of accounting. The profit for the minimum dividend and the undistributed amount. financial year is posted in retained earnings. Series B shares have no right to receive any other dividend. Share premium account Fingrid Oyj's Annual General Meeting decides on The share premium account includes the difference the annual dividend. between the counter value of the shares and the value obtained. The share premium account consists Eighty-two (82) per cent of the dividends to be of restricted equity as referred to in the Finnish distributed for each financial year is distributed for Limited Liability Companies Act. The share capital all Series A shares and eighteen (18) per cent for all can be increased by transferring funds from the Series B shares, however such that EUR twenty (20) share premium account. The share premium account million of the dividends to be distributed for each can be decreased in order to cover losses or, under financial year is first distributed for all Series B certain conditions, it can be returned to the owners. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 242 Revaluation reserve are caused solely by the dissolution of the previously recorded fair value and its recognition in The revaluation reserves include changes in the fair the income statement, EUR 11.6 million annually in value of derivative instruments used for hedging 2015 and 2016, taking into account the deferred tax cash flow (hedging reserve) and changes in the fair rate (20%). The changes in the fair value reserve are value (fair value reserve) of available-for-sale due to a change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments (publicly quoted and unquoted shares minus taxes (20%). In 2016, the company securities).The company discontinued hedge gave up a timeshare for EUR 152,000. accounting in 2014 and changes in the fair value of derivatives are no longer transferred to the hedging Changes to equity funds during the financial year reserve. Changes in the value of the hedging reserve are presented in the statement of changes in equity. 21. SHAREHOLDERS BY CATEGORY Of all shares Of votes The share capital is broken down as follows Number of shares % % Series A shares 2,078 62.50 83.33 Series B shares 1,247 37.50 16.67 Total 3,325 100.00 100.00 The purpose of Fingrid’s dividend policy is to ensure The distributable funds are calculated on the basis that the shareholders receive a reasonable return on of the parent company’s equity. Dividends are paid their investment while also maintaining the based on the distributable funds of the parent company’s financial position such that it enables company. long-term implementation of the strategy and supports operational flexibility. Fingrid updated its dividend policy in 2014. The guiding principle for Fingrid’s dividend policy is to Fingrid Oyj's distributable funds in the financial distribute substantially all of the parent company statements total EUR 175,954,253.06. In 2016, EUR profit as dividend. When making the decision, 90.0 million was paid in dividends (EUR 65.0). Since however, the economic conditions, the company’s the closing date, the Board of Directors has near term investment and development needs as proposed that a dividend of EUR 37,536.09 for well as any prevailing financial targets of the Series A shares and EUR 16,038.49 for Series B company are always taken into account. The graph shares be distributed per share (2015: EUR below indicates the differences between the 33,686.24 for Series A shares; EUR 16,038.49 for consolidated IFRS income statement and the parent Series B shares), totalling EUR 98.0 (90.0) million. company’s FAS income statement. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 243 Accounting principles The Board of Directors' proposal concerning dividend distribution is not recorded in the financial statements. The liability and equity is recognised Dividend distribution only after a decision is made by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 244 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives 5.6 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives The carrying amounts of Fingrid's financial assets and liabilities by measurement category are as follows: 22. CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORY, €1,000 Assets/ Financial liabilities assets/ recognised Availableliabilities in income for-sale measured at statement at financial amortised Balance sheet item 31 Dec 2016 fair value assets cost Total Note Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale investments 101 101 Interest rate and currency derivatives 29403 29403 23 Electricity derivatives 254 254 23 Loan receivables 4000 4000 Current financial assets Interest rate and currency derivatives 1475 1475 23 Electricity derivatives 1385 1385 23 Trade receivables and other receivables 79887 79887 3 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value 57790 57790 20 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 245 Cash in hand and cash equivalents 21939 21939 19 Financial assets total: 90308 101 105826 196235 Non-current financial liabilities: Borrowings 842866 842866 14 Interest rate and currency derivatives 13196 13196 23 Electricity derivatives 5371 5371 23 Current financial liabilities: Borrowings 264865 264865 14 Interest rate and currency derivatives 5072 5072 23 Electricity derivatives 2786 2786 23 Trade payables and other liabilities 39666 39666 7 Financial liabilities total 26426 0 1147397 1173823 Assets/ Financial liabilities assets/ recognised Availableliabilities in income for-sale measured at statement at financial amortised Balance sheet item 31 Dec 2015 fair value assets cost Total Note Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale investments 284 284 Interest rate and currency derivatives 32148 32148 23 Electricity derivatives 0 23 Loan receivables 2500 2500 Current financial assets Interest rate and currency derivatives 3353 3353 23 Electricity derivatives 0 23 Trade receivables and other receivables 63701 63701 3 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value 93451 93451 20 Cash in hand and cash equivalents 23099 23099 19 Financial assets total: 128953 284 89300 218537 Non-current financial liabilities: This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 246 Borrowings 907,232 907,232 14 Interest rate and currency derivatives 21,820 21,820 23 Electricity derivatives 25,132 25,132 23 Current financial liabilities: Borrowings 236,217 236,217 14 Interest rate and currency derivatives 6,403 6,403 23 Electricity derivatives 23,928 23,928 23 Trade payables and other liabilities 30,214 30,214 7 Financial liabilities total 77,283 0 1,173,663 1,250,946 Fingrid uses derivatives for hedging purposes only, The company’s derivative transactions consist of even though the company does not apply hedge interest rate and cross currency swaps hedging the accounting. Bilateral derivative transactions require loan portfolio, and purchased cap options to hedge a valid International Swap Dealers Association’s the loan portfolio from a sudden change in short(ISDA) Master Agreement with the counterparty. term interest rates. Forward contracts are used to The derivatives falling under the scope of an ISDA fix the exchange rate for non-euro-denominated agreement can be netted in conditional contracts related to business operations.The circumstances such as default or bankruptcy. The company uses electricity futures to hedge the price company had derivatives that can be netted as per risk of future loss power purchases. ISDA at a total fair value of EUR 9,8 million in 2016 (12,3). Fingrid uses collaterals to cover the market The table below includes all of the Group’s value of the loss power price hedge derivatives. The derivatives. management of electricity price risk is described in chapter 3.7. The hedging of interest rate and foreign exchange risks is described in chapter 5.3. 23. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS, € 1,000 Hierarchy 2016 2015 level Fair Fair Fair Fair value value Net fair Nominal value value Net fair Nominal pos. neg. value value pos. neg. value value Interest rate and currency derivatives 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.15 31.12.15 31.12.15 Cross-currency swaps 6,930 -12,487 -5,558 196,396 15,286 -20,297 -5,011 341,205 Level 2 Forward contracts 46 46 2,271 -88 -88 4,505 Level 2 Interest rate swaps 26,667 -6,725 19,943 360,000 24,348 -9,442 14,905 430,000 Level 2 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 247 Bought interest rate options 1,350 1,350 518,820 862 862 358,820 Level 2 Total 34,993 -19,212 15,781 1,077,487 40,496 -29,827 10,668 1,134,531 Fair Fair Fair Fair value value Net fair Volume value value Net fair Volume pos. neg. value TWh pos. neg. value TWh Electricity derivatives 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.15 31.12.15 31.12.15 Electricity forward contracts. NASDAQ OMX Commodities, not designated as hedge accounting 1,640 -8,157 -6,518 4.07 -49,060 -49,060 4.22 Level 1 Total 1,640 -8,157 -6,518 4.07 -49,060 -49,060 4.22 The net fair value of derivatives indicates the realised profit/loss if they had been closed on the last trading day of 2016. The net fair value cannot be used for deriving the net derivative liabilities or receivables in the balance sheet, as accrued interest is taken into account here. The graph below indicates the change of value of all of the company's currency and interest rate derivatives on 2016. Accounting principles Electricity derivatives The company enters into electricity derivative Derivative instruments contracts in order to hedge the price risk of electricity purchases in accordance with the loss energy forecast. Fingrid discontinued hedge Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value accounting for electricity derivatives at the according to the date the derivative contract is beginning of 2014. As a result, the entire change in entered into, and are subsequently re-measured at the fair value of electricity derivatives was recorded fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are and will continue to be recorded in the income recognised in profit and loss. The company uses statement. The hedge fund in the balance sheet was derivative contracts only for hedging purposes dismantled in the income statement during 2015 according to the Corporate Finance and Financing principles and the loss energy hedging policy. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 248 and 2016 in fixed instalments such that it decreases other bonds, equity investments and structured the result by EUR 11.6 million. investment products that are financial assets are recognised at fair value. Interest and currency derivatives Changes in the fair value of all financial assets are The company enters into derivative contracts in recognised in the income statement. The exception order to hedge financial risks (interest rate and is changes in the fair value of equity investments, foreign exchange exposure) in compliance with the which are not held for trading: they can be Corporate Finance and Financing Principles recognised either in the income statement or in approved by the Board of Directors. Fingrid does equity funds (in which case they are not transferred not apply hedge accounting to these derivatives. A later to the income statement). In addition, some derivative asset or liability is recognised at its bonds that belong under financial assets may be original fair value. Derivatives are measured at fair recognised at fair value through other value at the closing date, and the change in fair comprehensive income, depending on the value is recognised in the income statement under company’s business model. finance income and costs. The impairment of financial assets must be The fair values of derivatives at the closing date are determined using the expected loss impairment based on different calculation methods. Foreign model. exchange forwards have been meas-ured at the forward prices. Interest rate and currency swaps The new hedge accounting rules bring hedge have been measured at the present value on the accounting closer to general risk management basis of the yield curve of each currency. Interest practices. rate options have been valued using generally accepted option pricing models in the market. Company management has begun an analysis of the impacts of the IFRS 9 standard. The company’s Adoption of the IFRS 9 standard, effective 1 current opinion is that the standard will not have a January 2018 significant impact on the financial statement figures, since the company’s financial assets have largely IFRS 9 Financial instruments replaces IAS 39 and been recognised in line with the IFRS 9 standard. brings changes to how financial assets are The company does not have a significant credit risk, recognised and measured, the application of nor are any essential credit losses expected to be impairment and hedge accounting principles. entered in future. In addition, management’s current opinion is that the company will not begin applying Bonds that are financial assets are measured at hedge accounting when the IFRS 9 standard enters amortised cost, but only when the business model into effect. The new standard also contains broader target is to hold on to these investments and collect notes requirements than before, and changes will be all the cash flows based on the contract, and when made to the method of presentation. the instrument’s contract-based cash flows consist exclusively of capital and interest payments. All This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 249 6 Other Information This chapter contains the rest of the notes. • First comes a joint presentation of the Group • After that, other notes follow in the same companies and insider data. sequence they appear in the income statement and balance sheet. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 250 Group companies and related parties 6.1 Group companies and during the regulatory period consisted of a surplus of roughly EUR 200,000. related parties Fingrid Datahub Oy is a subsidiary wholly-owned by The Group has two Fingridi's wholly-owned Fingrid Oyj established in 2016 to handle the subsidiaries, Finextra Oy and Fingrid Datahub Oy. operations linked to the Datahub. Key duties of the subsidiary is to offer and develop centralised Finextra Oy is a subsidiary wholly-owned by Fingrid electricity market information exchange services Oyj established to handle the statutory public and other related services to the market parties and service obligations not included in actual grid to govern the register information required by the operations or transmission system responsibility. electricity markets. The Datahub is a centralised These tasks include peak load capacity services and information exchange system for retail markets that guarantee-of-origin services for electricity. Through stores data from all of Finland’s 3.5 million places of Finextra, the cost of public service tasks is electricity consumption. The information stored in separated from the cost of grid maintenance, which the Datahub will be utilised by around 100 electricity makes it possible to ensure the unequivocal sales companies and more than 80 distribution transparency of the different operations. The Energy network operators to provide services to the Authority oversees Finextra’s operations and consumers of electricity. Fingrid started the reasonable returns from its services. The aim of Datahub project during the spring of 2015. Finextra is to carry out the assigned duties cost effectively, making use of joint resources. The The consolidated associated companies are Nord allowable annual return on peak load capacity Pool AS (ownership 18.8%) and eSett Oy services is EUR 75,000. The allowed return on (ownership 33.3%). The Group has no joint ventures. guarantee-of-origin services for the regulatory period ending on 31 December 2016 was The investments in associated companies included approximately EUR 100,000. The realised return in the balance sheet are composed of the following: 24. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, € 1,000 2016 2015 Interests in associated companies 10,158 9,888 Loan receivables from associated companies 4,000 2,500 Total 14,158 12,388 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 251 Receivable from an associated company consists of loan are the same as the loan terms for eSett’s other a loan receivable from eSett Oy. The main terms and owners. conditions are as follows: Capital loan: Associated company loan: The loan capital is EUR 1.5 (0) million. The fixed The loan capital is EUR 2.5 (2.5) million and the annual interest rate is 3.0 per cent. The loan annual interest rate is 1.5 per cent, on top of the repayment is ten equal instalments every six months 12-month Euribor. The loan repayment is ten equal beginning one year from when eSett begins its instalments every six months beginning one year operations. The loan repayment is three equal from when eSett begins its operations. The amount instalments once a year beginning one year from of the loan capital is one third of the total loan that when eSett begins its operations. The repayment is eSett’s owners have granted the company subordinated to all of the company’s other liabilities proportionate to their holdings. The terms of the and to the Limited Liability Companies Act’s terms to be applied to capital loans. Financial summary of associated companies, €1,000 Non-current Current assets Dividends received during the Profit/ financial Ownership 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Turnover loss period (%) Nord Pool AS 2,465 121,162 94,420 26,965 7,103 560 18.80 eSett Oy 7,507 12,000 5,748 657 -2,392 33.30 Non-current Current assets Dividends received during the Profit/ financial Ownership 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Turnover loss period (%) Nord Pool AS 3,489 66,698 40,194 25,851 6,422 551 18.80 eSett Oy 5,364 7,500 5,474 328 -2,141 33.30 The Group’s associated companies indicated in the tables are treated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting. The Nordic Balance Settlement (NBS) will be introduced in Finland on 1 May 2017. When the NBS begins its operations, management of the balance settlement will transfer from Fingrid’s Balance Service Unit to eSett Oy. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 252 The company has an equity investment in Norwegian kroner in an associated company, which results in exposure to translation risk. The translation risk is not significant and the company does not hedge against this risk. Equity investments in associated companies, € 1,000 2016 2015 Cost at 1 Jan 9,888 10,515 Decreases -214 Share of profit 511 447 Translation reserve 318 -309 Dividends -560 -551 Carrying amount 31 Dec 10,158 9,888 Carrying amount of associated companies includes goodwill 31 Dec. 3,245 3,245 There are no material temporary differences related to associated companies on which deferred tax assets or liabilities have been recognised. The subsidiaries, associated companies and parent company (Fingrid Oyj) described above are related parties of the Group. In addition, the shareholder entities mentioned in chapter 5.5 and the top management and its related parties are also considered related parties The top management is composed of the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, and the executive management group. Other related party transactions include transactions concluded with entities in which the State of Finland has a holding in excess of 50 per cent. The company has not lent money to the top management, and the company has no transactions with the top management. Business with related parties is conducted at market prices. Transactions with associated companies, € 1,000 2016 2015 Sales 473 809 Expense adjustments 48 30 Purchases 39,625 39,659 Receivables 343 2,973 Liabilities 152 2 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 253 Loan receivables 4,000 2,500 Transactions with owners, € 1,000 2016 2015 Owners: Purchases 5,095 6,303 Liabilities 1 0 Other related parties: Sales 31,613 28,759 Purchases 51,044 69,538 Receivables 2,457 845 Liabilities 2,526 2,279 Accounting principles Associated companies The associated companies include all companies Subsidiaries over which the Group has significant influence but no control or joint control. This is generally based on The subsidiaries encompass all companies over a shareholding amounting to 20–50% of the votes. which the Group has control (including structured Investments in associated companies are initially entities). The Group is considered to have control recognised at the acquisition cost and subsequently over a company if the Group’s holding results in handled using the equity method. According to the exposure to variable returns or if the Group is equity method, investments are initially recorded at entitled to variable returns and it can influence these the acquisition cost and this is subsequently returns by exercising its control over the company. adjusted by recognising the Group’s share of the The subsidiaries are consolidated into the profit or loss after the time of acquisition in the consolidated financial statements starting from the income statement and the Group’s share of any day on which the Group gained control over the changes in the investment object’s other company. Consolidation is discontinued once the comprehensive income in other comprehensive control ceases to exist. income. Any dividends received or to be received Consolidation of operations is carried out using from the associated companies and joint ventures acquisition cost method. are deducted from the investment’s carrying amount. Transactions, receivables and liabilities between Group companies and any unrealised profits from If the Group’s share of the losses of an investment internal transactions are eliminated. Unrealised recognised according to the equity method equals losses are also eliminated unless the transaction or exceeds the Group’s holding in the company in indicates an impairment of the disposed asset. If question, including any other non-current necessary, the financial statements of the receivables without collaterals, the Group will not subsidiaries have been adjusted to correspond to recognise any additional losses unless it has the accounting principles applied by the Group. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 254 obligations or it has made payments on behalf of eliminated unless the transaction indicates an the company. impairment of the disposed asset. If necessary, the accounting principles applied by the investments to A share corresponding to the Group’s ownership be recognised according to the equity method have interest is eliminated from the unrealised profits been adjusted to correspond to the principles between the Group and its associated companies applied by the Group. and joint ventures. Any unrealised losses are also This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 255 Other notes 6.2 Other notes units. Fingrid has not been granted free-of-charge emission rights for the emissions trade period 2013–2020. No emissions rights were purchased in Emission rights 2016.Emissions trading had minor financial significance for Fingrid. The use of emission rights Fingrid’s reserve power plants are subject to an had no impact on the financial result in 2016. CO2 environmental permit and covered by the EU’s emissions included in emissions trading totalled emissions trading scheme. A total of 6,634 (11,141) 10,326 tonnes in 2016 (6,697). As of 31 December units (tCO2) of emission allowances were returned, 2016, the balance sheet included EUR 0.4 million all of which consisted of acquired emission rights (0.5) in emission rights. Accounting principles there are not sufficient emission rights to cover the return obligations, the liability is recognised at the market value of the emission rights in question. No Emission righ rightts depreciation is recognised on emission rights. They Emission rights acquired free of charge are are derecognised in the balance sheet at the time of recognised in intangible assets at their nominal transfer when the actual emissions have been value, and purchased emission rights at their ascertained. The expense resulting from the liability acquisition cost. A liability is recognised for emission is recognised in the income statement under the rights to be returned. If the Group has sufficient expense item ‘Materials and services’. Capital gains emission rights to cover the return obligations, the from emissions rights are recognised under other liability is recognised at the carrying amount operating income. corresponding to the emission rights in question. If 25. PROVISIONS, € 1,000 2016 2015 Provisions for creosote-impregnated towers 1 Jan 1,668 1,735 Provisions used -187 -67 Provisions 31 Dec 1,481 1,668 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 256 Accounting principles estimated reliably. The provisions are valued at the present value of the costs required to cover the obligation. The discounting factor used in Provisions calculating the present value is chosen so that it A provision is recorded when the Group has a legal reflects the market view of the time value of money or factual obligation based on an earlier event and it at the assessment date and the risks pertaining to is likely that fulfilling the obligation will require a the obligation payment, and the amount of the obligation can be 26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Pledges Pledge covering property lease agreements 9 9 Pledge covering customs credit account 280 280 Pledge covering electricity exchange purchases 863 289 1,151 Other financial commitments Counterguarantee in favour of an associated company Rent security deposit, guarantee 38 38 Credit facility commitment fee and commitment fee: Commitment fee for the next year 395 326 Commitment fee for subsequent years 1,154 1,154 1,587 1,518 Unrecognised investment commitments 84,572 124,314 The investment commitments consist of agreements signed by the company to carry out grid construction projects. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND recognised in the financial statements in relation to PROCEEDIGNS BY AUTHORITIES these proceedings. There are no other ongoing legal proceedings or A lawsuit was initiated against Fingrid in December proceedings by authorities that would have a 2016, demanding non-specified damages due to an material impact on Fingrid's business. alleged breach of contract. The alleged injury is continuous and the claim amounted to EUR 135,000 by the time the lawsuit was initiated. Fingrid has EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DATE contested the claims presented in the lawsuit. The case is currently before the court. In Fingrid’s view, The Group management is not aware of such the legal proceedings are not likely to have a significant events after the closing date that would substantial impact on the company’s financial result affect the financial statements. or financial position. Thus no provisions were This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 257 GROUP’S CONTACT INFORMATION The amounts in the financial statements are AND APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL expressed in thousands of euros and are based on the original acquisition costs, unless otherwise STATEMENTS stated in the accounting principles or notes. Fingrid Oyj is a Finnish public limited liability Fingrid Oyj’s Board of Directors has accepted the company incorporated under the Finnish Companies publication of these financial statements in its Act. Fingrid’s consolidated financial statements meeting on 17 February 2017. In accordance with have been drawn up in accordance with the the Finnish Companies Act, the shareholders have International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) the opportunity to adopt or reject the financial as adopted by the EU. Fingrid’s registered office is in statements in the shareholders’ meeting held after Helsinki at the address P.O. Box 530 (Läkkisepäntie their publication. The shareholders’ meeting can 21, 00620, Helsinki), 00101 Helsinki. also amend the financial statements. A copy of the consolidated financial statements is available on the website fingrid.fi or at Fingrid Oyj's head office. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 258 Parent company income statement 7 Parent company financial statements (FAS) 7.1 Parent company income statement Jan-Dec/2016 Jan-Dec/2015 Notes € € TURNOVER 2 581,409,910.01 592,403,122.38 Other operating income 3 12,693,378.54 5,358,153.35 Materials and services 4 -241,754,851.27 -233,431,910.68 Personnel costs 5 -28,597,902.39 -25,804,349.63 Depreciation and amortisation expense 6 -108,266,566.81 -103,322,929.47 Other operating expenses 7,8 -65,773,725.99 -57,903,667.10 OPERATING PROFIT 149,710,242.09 177,298,418.85 Finance income and costs 9 -20,121,491.84 -22,835,249.11 PROFIT BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS 129,588,750.25 154,463,169.74 PROFIT BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 129,588,750.25 154,463,169.74 Income taxes 10 -25,722,449.53 -30,721,273.94 PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 103,866,300.72 123,741,895.80 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 259 Parent company balance sheet 7.2 Parent company balance sheet ASSETS 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Notes € € Intangible assets: Goodwill 11 4,288,792.08 10,721,980.26 Other intangible assets 12 79,770,462.84 82,342,061.28 84,059,254.92 93,064,041.54 Tangible assets 13 Land and water areas 15,700,654.61 15,348,845.85 Buildings and structures 193,639,539.82 167,200,800.50 Machinery and equipment 576,316,710.23 565,543,070.37 Transmission lines 808,874,948.90 772,984,715.15 Other property, plant and equipment 117,516.35 117,516.35 Prepayments and purchases in progress 59,404,402.54 120,815,913.42 1,654,053,772.45 1,642,010,861.64 Investments: 14 Interests in Group companies 507,063.77 504,563.77 Interests in associated companies 8,587,578.95 8,587,578.95 Other shares and interests 1,965,313.45 1,885,466.31 11,059,956.17 10,977,609.03 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,749,172,983.54 1,746,052,512.21 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 15 12,269,117.70 12,664,970.40 Receivables Non-current Loan receivables from Group companies 16 2,807,700.00 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 260 Loan receivables from associated companies 16 4,000,000.00 2,500,000.00 Other receivables 16 0.00 0.00 6,807,700.00 2,500,000.00 Current Trade receivables 70,674,359.79 53,462,739.39 Receivables from Group companies 17 826,575.41 209,433.70 Receivables from associated companies 18 143,749.03 47,937.43 Other receivables 1,298,105.32 1,216,188.46 Prepayments and accrued income 19,20 9,198,988.07 14,491,440.95 82,141,777.62 69,427,739.93 Financial securities 21 57,393,757.42 93,258,506.42 Cash in hand and bank receivables 21 21,939,069.16 23,099,085.95 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 180,551,421.90 200,950,302.70 TOTAL ASSETS 1,929,724,405.44 1,947,002,814.91 Notes are an integral part of the financial statement SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Notes € € EQUITY 22 Share capital 55,922,485.55 55,922,485.55 Share premium account 55,922,485.55 55,922,485.55 Profit from previous financial years 72,087,952.34 38,346,060.29 Profit for the financial year 103,866,300.72 123,741,895.80 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 287,799,224.16 273,932,927.19 ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS 23 448,896,757.27 448,896,757.27 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 30 1,480,946.78 1,667,546.78 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 261 Bonds 24,25 698,544,173.57 746,396,266.02 Loans from financial institutions 151,203,463.20 172,865,800.86 849,747,636.77 919,262,066.88 CURRENT LIABILITIES Bonds 24 127,852,092.56 144,809,226.23 Loans from financial institutions 21,662,337.66 20,709,956.71 Trade payables 24,801,601.35 14,617,272.60 Liabilities to Group companies 26 1,102,734.71 502,586.32 Liabilities to associated companies 27 151,737.02 2,057.00 Other liabilities 28 136,671,358.46 86,432,083.11 Accruals 29 29,557,978.70 36,170,334.82 341,799,840.46 303,243,516.79 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,191,547,477.23 1,222,505,583.67 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,929,724,405.44 1,947,002,814.91 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 262 Parent company cash flow statement 7.3 Parent company cash flow statement 1 Jan 31 Dec, 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2016 2015 Notes € € Cash flow from operating activities: Profit for the financial year 22 103,866,300.72 123,741,895.80 Adjustments: Business transactions not involving a payment transaction 33 104,488,603.07 101,194,099.56 Interest and other finance costs 28,312,997.36 36,664,709.62 Interest income -7,332,443.33 -13,273,942.62 Dividend income -859,062.19 -555,517.89 Taxes 25,722,449.53 30,721,273.94 Changes in working capital: Change in trade receivables and other receivables -13,573,931.59 -12,005,406.78 Change in inventories 395,852.70 177,962.49 Change in trade payables and other liabilities 7,437,144.67 -7,952,730.92 Congestion income 39,864,046.47 0.00 Change in provisions -186,600.00 -17,500.00 Interest paid -22,481,770.87 -25,423,150.53 Interest received 436,541.27 820,524.86 Taxes paid 10 -33,782,121.37 -20,469,032.40 Net cash flow from operating activities 232,308,006.44 213,623,185.13 Cash flow from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 -138,768,010.88 -151,451,793.93 Purchase of intangible assets 12 -3,284,749.24 -1,812,888.00 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 263 Purchase of other assets 14 -82,347.14 -414,196.31 Proceeds from sale of other assets 14 152,000.00 500,000.00 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 13 5,885,200.00 5,065,609.18 Loans granted -4,300,000.00 -900,000.00 Dividends received 9 859,062.19 555,517.89 Contributions received 0.00 15,000,000.00 Net cash flow from investing activities -139,538,845.07 -133,457,751.17 Cash flow from financing activities: Proceeds from current financing (liabilities) 240,118,091.67 285,317,516.75 Payments of current financing (liabilities) -195,087,574.26 -366,163,563.46 Proceeds from non-current financing (liabilities) 80,000,000.00 107,424,078.03 Payments of non-current financing (liabilities) -164,824,440.82 -104,220,179.01 Dividends paid 22 -90,000,003.75 -65,000,001.35 Net cash flow from financing activities -129,793,927.16 -142,642,149.04 Change in cash and cash equivalents and financial assets -37,024,765.79 -62,476,715.08 Cash and cash equivalents and financial assets 1 Jan 116,357,592.37 178,834,307.45 Cash and cash equivalents and financial assets 31 Dec 21 79,332,826.58 116,357,592.37 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 264 Notes to the financial statements of parent company 7.4 Notes to the financial contracts are the same as for the underlying items. The interest rate items of interest rate and currency statements of parent company swaps and interest rate options are accrued and recognised in the income statement under interest 1. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES income and costs. The interest portion of forward foreign exchange contracts hedging the interestbearing liabilities and receivables is accrued over Fingrid Oyj's financial statements have been drawn the maturity of the contracts and recognised under up in accordance with the Finnish Accounting finance income and costs. Premiums paid or Standards (FAS). The items in the financial received on interest rate options are accrued over statements are valued at original acquisition cost. the hedging period. Foreign currency transactions Electricity derivatives Commercial transactions and financial items Fingrid hedges its loss energy purchases by denominated in foreign currencies are recognised at employing forward instruments quoted on the the foreign exchange mid-rate quoted by the NASDAQ OMX Oslo ASA. There can also be trading European Central Bank (ECB) at the transaction in the OTC market in instruments corresponding to date. Interest-bearing liabilities and receivables and Nasdaq OMX Oslo ASA’s financial instruments. The the derivatives hedging these items are valued at profits and losses arising from these contracts are the mid-rate quoted by the ECB at the closing date. used to adjust the loss energy purchases in the Foreign exchange gains and losses on interestincome statement in the period in which the hedging bearing liabilities and receivables, and on the impacts profit or loss. instruments hedging these items, are recognised at Research and development expenses maturity under finance income and costs. Foreign exchange rate differences arising from the Research and development expenses are treated as derivatives used to hedge commercial currency annual expenses. flows are recognised to adjust the corresponding item in the income statement. Valuation of fixed assets Interest and currency derivative Fixed assets are capitalised under immediate acquisition cost. Planned straight-line depreciation Interest rate and currency swaps, foreign exchange on the acquisition price is calculated on the basis of forwards and interest rate options are used, in the useful life of the fixed asset. Depreciation on accordance with the Treasury Policy, to hedge the fixed assets taken into use during the financial year interest rate and foreign exchange risk, as well as is calculated on an item-by-item basis from the the commercial items, in Fingrid’s balance sheet month of introduction. items. The accounting principles for derivative This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 265 The depreciation periods are as follows: Inventories are recognised according to the FIFO principle at acquisition cost, or at the lower of Goodwill = 20 years replacement cost or probable market price. Other non-current expenses Cash in hand, bank receivables and financial securities Rights of use to line areas = 30-40 years Other rights of use according to useful life, Cash in hand and bank receivables include cash maximum = 10 years assets and bank balances. Financial securities Computer software = 3 years include certificates of deposit, commercial papers and investments in short-term money-market funds. Buildings and structures Quoted securities and comparable assets are valued Substation buildings and separate buildings = at the lower of original acquisition cost or probable 40 years market price. Substation structures = 30 years Interest-bearing liabilities Buildings and structures at gas turbine power plants = 20-40 years Fingrid’s non-current interest-bearing liabilities Separate structures = 15 years consist of loans from financial institutions and bonds issued under the Euro Medium Term Note Transmission lines (EMTN) programme. The current interest-bearing Transmission lines 400 kV = 40 years liabilities consist of commercial papers issued under Direct current lines = 40 years the domestic and international programmes and of Transmission lines 110-220 kV = 30 years the current portion of noncurrent borrowings and Creosote-impregnated towers and related bonds maturing within a year. The outstanding notes disposal costs* = 30 years under the programmes are denominated in euros Aluminium towers of transmission lines (400 kV) and foreign currencies. Fingrid has both fixed and = 10 years floating rate debt and debt with interest rate Optical ground wires = 10-20 years structures. The interest is accrued over the maturity of the debt. The differential of a bond issued over or Machinery and equipment under par value is accrued over the life of the bond. The arrangement fees of the revolving credit Substation machinery = 10-30 years facilities are, as a rule, immediately recognised as an Gas turbine power plants = 20 years expense, and the commitment fees are recognised Other machinery and equipment = 3-5 years as an expense over the maturity of the facility. * Disposal costs are discounted at present value and Financial risk management added to the value of the fixed asset and recognised under provisions for liabilities and charges. The principles applied to the management of financial risks are presented in chapters 5.2 and 5.3 Goodwill is depreciated over a 20-year period, since of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial grid operations are a long-term business in which Statements. income is accrued over several decades. Income taxes Emission rights Taxes include the accrued tax corresponding to the Emission rights are treated in accordance with the profit for the financial year as well as tax net procedure in conformance with statement 1767/ adjustments for previous financial years. 2005 of the Finnish Accounting Board. Deferred taxes Valuation of inventories This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 266 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recorded 2. TURNOVER BY BUSINESS AREA in the income statement or balance sheet. Information concerning these is presented in the The business of Fingrid Oyj comprises entirely notes. transmission grid business with system responsibility. For that reason, there is no distribution of turnover by business area. 2. TURNOVER BY BUSINESS AREA The business of Fingrid Oyj comprises entirely transmission grid business with system responsibility. For that reason, there is no distribution of turnover by business area. TURNOVER, €1,000 2016 2015 Grid service income 382,395 333,005 Imbalance power sales 153,881 137,127 Cross-border transmission 24,015 11,174 ITC income 13,199 15,298 Estlink congestion income 0 4,180 Nordic congestion income 0 86,762 Income from peak load capacity services 295 273 Income from guarantee-of-origin services 244 458 Other operating income 7,382 4,127 Total 581,410 592,403 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME, €1,000 2016 2015 Rental income 922 1,196 Capital gains of fixed assets 3,796 2,424 Contributions received 282 199 Congestion income 6,325 0 Other income 1,368 1,539 Total 12,693 5,358 4. MATERIALS AND SERVICES, €1,000 2016 2015 Purchases during the financial year 170,793 154,208 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 267 Loss energy purchases 57,555 68,566 Change in inventories, increase (-) or decrease (+) 396 178 Materials and consumables 228,745 222,951 Services 13,010 10,481 Total 241,755 233,432 5. PERSONNEL EXPENSES, €1,000 2016 2015 Salaries and bonuses 22,735 21,320 Pension expenses 4,433 3,518 Other personnel expenses 1,430 967 Total 28,598 25,804 Salaries and bonuses of the members of the Board of Directors and President and CEO, €1,000 2016 2015 Juhani Järvi, Chairman (since 6 June 2014) 34 19 Helena Walldén, Chairman (until 6 April 2016) 11 38 Juha Majanen, Vice Chairman (since 22 March 2012) 23 21 Sanna Syri, Member of the Board (since 14 April 2015) 20 13 Esko Torsti, Member of the Board (since 22 March 2012) 20 18 Anu Hämäläinen, Member of the Board (since 6 April 2016) 14 Sirpa Ojala, Member of the Board (until 14 April 2015) 5 Jukka Ruusunen, Presiden and CEO 352 324 Number of salaried employees in the company during the financial year: Personnel, average 336 319 Personnel, 31 Dec 334 315 DEPRECATION ACCORDING TO PLAN, €1,000 2016 2015 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 268 Goodwill 6,433 6,433 Other non-current expenses 5,856 5,961 Buildings and structures 8,100 7,303 Machinery and equipment 50,973 47,643 Transmission lines 36,904 35,982 Total* 108,267 103,323 Deprecation on the electricity grid (notes 12 and 13) 88,967 94,249 7. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES, €1,000 2016 2015 Contracts, assignments etc. undertaken externally 53,277 45,722 Grid rents 241 229 Other rental expenses 2,575 2,498 Other costs 9,681 9,455 Total 65,774 57,904 8. AUDITORS’ FEES, €1,000 2016 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy: Auditing fee 61 42 Tax consulting 21 16 Assignments referred to in the Auditing Act, Chapter 1, Section 1, Subsection 2 3 0 Other fees 60 58 Total 142 116 9. FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS, €1,000 2016 2015 Dividend income from Group companies 294 0 Dividend income from others 565 556 Interest and other finance income from others 7,332 13,274 8,192 13,829 Interest and other finance costs to Group companies 0 -0 Interest and other finance costs to others -28,313 -36,665 -28,313 -36,665 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 269 Total -20,121 -22,835 10. INCOME TAXES, €1,000 2016 2015 Income taxes for the financial year 25,722 30,721 Total 25,722 30,721 The company will pay its income taxes in accordance with the underlying tax rate, with no tax planning Deferred tax assets and liabilities, €1,000 Deferred tax assets On temporary differences 296 334 296 334 Deferred tax liabilities On temporary differences 242 256 On appropriations 89,779 89,779 90,021 90,035 Total 89,725 89,701 11. GOODWILL, €1,000 2016 2015 Cost at 1 Jan 128,664 128,664 Cost at 31 Dec 128,664 128,664 Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -117,942 -111,509 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -6,433 -6,433 Carrying amount 31 Dec 4,289 10,722 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -10,722 -17,155 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 6,433 6,433 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -4,289 -10,722 12. OTHER NON-CURRENT EXPENSES, €1,000 2016 2015 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 270 Cost at 1 Jan 180,861 180,215 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 3,548 2,576 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -690 -1,929 Cost at 31 Dec 183,719 180,861 Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -98,519 -93,724 Decreases, depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 427 1,166 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -5,856 -5,961 Carrying amount 31 Dec* 79,770 82,342 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -55,954 -57,354 Increase in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec -737 -753 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 1,496 2,154 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -55,195 -55,954 *Net capital expenditure in electricity grid, €1,000 2016 2015 Carrying amount 31 Dec 74,378 77,101 Carrying amount 1 Jan -77,101 -80,742 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 3,941 5,050 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec 263 763 Total 1,482 2,171 13. TANGIBLE ASSETS, €1,000 2016 2015 Land and water areas Cost at 1 Jan 15,349 14,974 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 393 442 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -41 -67 Cost at 31 Dec 15,701 15,349 Buildings and structures Cost at 1 Jan 218,637 200,650 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 34,634 18,214 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -168 -227 Cost at 31 Dec 253,104 218,637 Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -51,436 -44,192 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 27 1 Decreases, depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 73 59 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -8,100 -7,303 Carrying amount 31 Dec 193,640 167,201 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -13,534 -13,590 Increase in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec -970 -852 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 925 908 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -13,579 -13,534 Machinery and equipment Cost at 1 Jan 1,029,839 991,645 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 61,839 38,824 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -100 -630 Cost at 31 Dec 1,091,578 1,029,839 Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -464,296 -416,959 Decreases, depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 8 306 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -50,973 -47,643 Carrying amount 31 Dec 576,317 565,543 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -184,046 -188,372 Increase in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec -782 -2,012 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 7,665 6,338 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -177,163 -184,046 Transmission lines Cost at 1 Jan 1,221,808 1,197,089 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 74,414 30,003 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -5,565 -5,283 Cost at 31 Dec 1,290,658 1,221,808 Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -448,824 -416,065 Decreases, depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 3,944 3,223 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -36,904 -35,982 Carrying amount 31 Dec 808,875 772,985 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -369,891 -357,675 Increase in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec -50,934 -14,391 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 36,904 2,175 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -383,922 -369,891 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 272 Other property, plant and equipment Cost at 1 Jan 118 118 Cost at 31 Dec 118 118 Prepayments and purchases in progress Cost at 1 Jan 120,816 78,687 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 116,534 134,335 Transfers to other tangible and intangible assets 1 Jan 31 Dec -177,946 -92,206 Cost at 31 Dec 59,404 120,816 Tangible assets total* 1,654,054 1,642,011 *Net capital expenditure in electricity grid, €1,000 2016 2015 Carrying amount 31 Dec 1,618,586 1,635,324 Carrying amount 1 Jan -1,635,324 -1,598,045 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 85,026 89,199 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec 1,742 2,451 Total 70,030 128,930 Fingrid’s reserve power plants are included in the property, plant and equipment of the transmission system. 14. INVESTMENTS, €1,000 2016 2015 Interests in Group companies Cost at 1 Jan 505 505 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 3 0 Cost at 31 Dec 507 505 Interests in associated companies Cost at 1 Jan 8,588 8,642 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec 0 -55 Cost at 31 Dec 8,588 8,588 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 27 3 Other shares and interests Cost at 1 Jan 1,885 1,417 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 227 469 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -147 0 Cost at 31 Dec 1,965 1,885 Investments total 11,060 10,978 15. INVENTORIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Materials and consumables at 31 Dec 12,139 12,647 Work in progress 131 18 Total 12,269 12,665 16. OTHER NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES, €1,000 2016 2015 Loan receivables from Group companies 2,808 0 Loan receivables from associated companies 4,000 2,500 Total 6,808 2,500 17. RECEIVABLES FROM GROUP COMPANIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Current: Trade receivables 799 209 Interest receivables 27 0 Total 827 209 18. RECEIVABLES FROM ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Current: Trade receivables 125 39 Interest receivables 18 9 Total 144 48 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 274 19. PREPAYMENTS AND ACCRUED INCOME, €1,000 2016 2015 Interest and other financial items 7,333 8,202 Accruals of sales and purchases 1,666 6,111 Other prepayments and accrued income 200 178 Total 9,199 14,491 20. UNRECORDED EXPENSES AND PAR VALUE DIFFERENTIALS ON THE ISSUE OF LOANS INCLUDED IN PREPAYMENTS AND ACCRUED INCOME, €1,000 2016 2015 Par value differentials 1,039 1,184 21. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, €1,000 2016 2015 Commercial papers 12,991 53,935 Short-term money market funds 44,402 39,324 Bank deposits 10,000 10,000 Cash in hand and bank receivables 11,939 13,099 Total 79,333 116,358 22. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY, €1,000 2016 2015 Share capital 1 Jan 55,922 55,922 Share capital 31 Dec 55,922 55,922 Share premium account 1 Jan 55,922 55,922 Share premium account 31 Dec 55,922 55,922 Profit from previous financial years 1 Jan 162,088 103,346 Dividend distribution -90,000 -65,000 Profit from previous financial years 31 Dec 72,088 38,346 Profit for the financial year 103,866 123,742 Shareholders’ equity 31 Dec 287,799 273,933 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 275 Distributable shareholders’ equity 175,954 162,088 Series Series A B Number of shares shares shares Total 1 Jan 2016 2,078 1,247 3,325 31 Dec 2016 2,078 1,247 3,325 Series A shares confer three votes each at the Eighty-two (82) per cent of the dividends to be Annual General Meeting and Series B shares one distributed for each financial year is distributed for vote each. When electing members of the Board of all Series A shares and eighteen (18) per cent for all Directors, Series A shares confer 10 votes each at Series B shares, however such that EUR twenty (20) the Annual General Meeting and Series B shares million of the dividends to be distributed for each one vote each. financial year is first distributed for all Series B shares. If the above-mentioned EUR twenty (20) Series B shares have the right before Series A million minimum amount for the financial period is shares to obtain the annual dividend specified below not distributed (all or in part) for Series B shares in a from the funds available for profit distribution. If the financial period, Series B shares confer the right to annual dividend cannot be distributed in some year, receive the undistributed minimum amount in the shares confer a right to receive the undistributed question (or the accumulated undistributed amount from the funds available for profit minimum amount accrued during such financial distribution in the subsequent years; however, such periods) in the next profit distribution, in any that Series B shares have the right over Series A disbursements paid out, or in any other distribution shares to receive the annual dividend and the of assets prior to any other dividends, undistributed amount. Series B shares have no right disbursements or asset distribution until the to receive any other dividend. undistributed minimum amount has been distributed in full for Series B shares. Fingrid Oyj's Annual General Meeting decides on the annual dividend. There are no non-controlling interests. 23. ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS, €1,000 2016 2015 Accumulated depreciation from the difference between depreciation according to plan and depreciation carried out in taxation 448,897 448,897 24. BONDS, €1,000 2016 2015 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 276 Nominal Maturity Currency value date Interest EUR 20,000 11.4.2017 floating rate 20,000 20,000 EUR 25,000 11.4.2017 floating rate 25,000 25,000 EUR 30,000 15.6.2017 3,07% 30,000 30,000 EUR 50,000 21.9.2020 floating rate 50,000 EUR 30,000 19.9.2022 floating rate 30,000 EUR 30,000 11.9.2023 2,71% 30,000 30,000 EUR 300,000 3.4.2024 3,50% 300,000 300,000 EUR 25,000 27.3.2028 2,71% 25,000 25,000 EUR 10,000 12.9.2028 3,27% 10,000 10,000 EUR 80,000 24.4.2029 2,95% 80,000 80,000 EUR 30,000 30.5.2029 2,89% 30,000 30,000 630,000 550,000 JPY 500,000 22.6.2017 1,28% 4,507 4,507 4,507 4,507 NOK 200,000 17.10.2016 5,15% 24,620 NOK 200,000 11.4.2017 5,16% 24,620 24,620 NOK 200,000 10.11.2017 5,12% 23,725 23,725 NOK 200,000 12.11.2019 5,37% 23,725 23,725 NOK 100,000 16.9.2025 4,31% 12,512 12,512 84,582 109,201 SEK 100,000 15.1.2016 3,30% 10,390 SEK 500,000 18.10.2016 floating rate 54,900 SEK 500,000 18.10.2016 3,50% 54,900 SEK 1,000,000 19.11.2018 floating rate 107,308 107,308 107,308 227,497 Bonds, noncurrent, total 698,544 746,396 Bonds, current, total 127,852 144,809 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 27 7 Total 826,396 891,205 25. LOANS FALLING DUE IN FIVE YEARS OR MORE, €1,000 2016 2015 Bonds 517,512 487,512 Loans from financial institutions 90,216 107,879 Total 607,728 595,391 26. LIABILITIES TO GROUP COMPANIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Current: Other liabilities 1,103 503 Total 1,103 503 27. LIABILITIES TO ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Current: Trade payables 152 2 Total 152 2 28. OTHER LIABILITIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Current: Other loans/Commercial papers (international and domestic) 120,128 75,003 Value added tax 11,860 7,787 Electricity tax 3,093 3,045 advances received 923 15 Other liabilities 667 582 Total 136,671 86,432 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 278 29. ACCRUALS, €1,000 2016 2015 Current: Interest and other financial items 12,822 14,739 Salaries and additional personnel expenses 5,693 4,310 Accruals of sales and purchases 5,766 3,784 Other accruals 5,277 13,336 Total 29,558 36,170 30. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES, €1,000 2016 2015 Creosote-impregnated and CCA-impregnated wooden towers, disposal costs 1,481 1,668 Total 1,481 1,668 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. 31. DERIVATIVE AGREEMENTS, €1,000 Hierarchy 2016 2015 level Fair value Fair value Net fair Nominal Fair value Fair value Net fair Nominal Interest rate and currency derivatives pos. neg. value value pos. neg. value value 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.15 31.12.15 31.12.15 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Cross-currency swaps 6,930 -12,487 -5,558 196,396 15,286 -20,297 -5,011 341,205 Level 2 FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2201 0166 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW Forward contracts 46 46 2,271 -88 -88 4,505 Level 2 Interest rate swaps 26,667 -6,725 19,943 360,000 24,348 -9,442 14,905 430,000 Level 2 Bought interest rate options 1,350 1,350 518,820 862 862 358,820 Level 2 Total 34,993 -19,212 15,781 1,077,487 40,496 -29,827 10,668 1,134,531 Fair value Fair value Net fair Volume Fair value Fair value Net fair Volume Electricity derivatives pos. neg. value TWh pos. neg. value TWh 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.15 31.12.15 31.12.15 Electricity forward contracts. NASDAQ OMX Commodities, not designated as hedge accounting 1,639.52 -8,157.40 -6,517.87 4.07 -49,060.14 -49,060.14 4.22 Level 1 Total 1,639.52 -8,157.40 -6,517.87 4.07 -49,060.14 -49,060.14 4.22 Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. 27 9 FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 280 32. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, €1,000 2016 2015 Rental liabilities Liabilities for the next year 3,536 2,643 Liabilities for subsequent years 28,653 23,299 32,189 25,942 Right-of-use agreements Liabilities for the next year 7,601 8,017 Liabilities for subsequent years 72,677 81,048 80,278 89,065 Pledges Pledge covering property lease agreements 9 9 Pledge covering customs credit account 280 280 Default fund covering electricity exchange purchases 0 863 289 1,151 Other financial commitments Rent security deposit, guarantee 38 38 Credit facility commitment fee and commitment fee: Commitment fee for the next year 395 326 Liabilities for subsequent years 1,154 1,154 1,587 1,518 33. OPERATING CASH FLOW ADJUSTMENTS, €1,000 2016 2015 Business transactions not involving a payment transaction Depreciation 108,267 103,323 Capital gains/losses (-/+) on tangible and intangible assets -3,778 -2,129 Total 104,489 101,194 34. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND by the time the lawsuit was initiated. Fingrid has PROCEEDINGS BY AUTHORITIES contested the claims presented in the lawsuit. The case is currently before the court. In Fingrid’s view, the legal proceedings are not likely to have a A lawsuit was initiated against Fingrid in December substantial impact on the company’s financial result 2016, demanding non-specified damages due to an or financial position. Thus no provisions were alleged breach of contract. The alleged injury is continuous and the claim amounted to EUR 135,000 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 281 recognised in the financial statements in relation to can participate in the Nordic balancing power these proceedings. market by submitting bids on their available capacity. The terms and conditions of participation There are no other ongoing legal proceedings or in the regulating power market and the pricing of proceedings by authorities that would have a balancing power are based on the balance service material impact on Fingrid's business. agreement. 35. SEPARATION OF BUSINESSES IN Fingrid is also responsible for the national balance settlement. The balance settlement takes place ACCORDANCE WITH THE after the utilisation hours by determining the actual ELECTRICITY MARKET ACT electricity generation, consumption and electricity trade. The outcome of the balance settlement is Imbalance power and regulating power power balances for each party to the electricity trade. Each electricity market party must ensure its electricity balance by making an agreement with Management of balance operation either Fingrid or some other party. Fingrid buys and sells imbalance power in order to stabilise the hourly In accordance with a decision by the Energy Market power balance of an electricity market party Authority, Fingrid Oyj shall separate the duties (balance responsible party). Imbalance power trade pertaining to national power balance operation by and pricing are based on a balance service virtue of Chapter 12 of the Electricity Market Act. agreement with equal and public terms and The management of balance operation is a part of conditions. grid operations. Fingrid is responsible for the continuous power The income statement of the balance service unit is balance in Finland by buying and selling regulating separated by means of cost accounting as follows: power in Finland. The balance responsible parties Income direct Separate direct Production costs matching principle Administrative costs matching principle matching principle in accordance with Depreciation Fingrid Oyj's depreciation principle This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 282 Finance income and costs on the basis of imputed debt Income taxes based on result The average number of personnel during 2016 was 12 (14). The operating profit was 4 (6) per cent of turnover. MANAGEMENT OF BALANCE OPERATION, SEPARATED 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2016 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2015 INCOME STATEMENT €1,000 €1,000 TURNOVER* 165,393 148,240 Other operating income 1 1 Materials and services* -156,520 -136,914 Personnel costs -1,385 -1,552 Depreciation and amortisation expense -181 -306 Other operating expenses -1,129 -1,208 OPERATING PROFIT 6,178 8,261 Finance income and costs 48 30 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 6,226 8,291 Appropriations -89 35 Income taxes -884 0 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 5,253 8,327 Turnover includes EUR 9.2 (8.8) million in sales of imbalance power to balance provider Fingrid Oyj, and Materials and services includes EUR 6.5 (7.2) million euros in purchases by Fingrid Oyj. MANAGEMENT OF BALANCE OPERATION, SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET ASSETS 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 €1,000 €1,000 NON-CURRENT ASSETS This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 283 Intangible assets Other non-current expenses 385 415 Tangible assets Machinery and equipment 247 254 Prepayments and purchases in progress 62 62 Investments Interests in associated companies 2,001 2,001 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 2,695 2,732 CURRENT ASSETS Non-current Loan receivables from associated companies 4,000 2,500 Current receivables Trade receivables 27,420 21,368 Receivables from Group companies 18,469 14,899 Receivables from associated companies 144 48 Other receivables 1,504 1,616 47,537 37,931 Cash in hand and bank receivables 1 1 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 51,538 40,432 TOTAL ASSETS 54,233 43,164 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES €1,000 €1,000 EQUITY This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 284 Share capital 32 32 Share premium account 286 286 Profit from previous financial years 16,620 8,293 Profit for the financial year 5,253 8,327 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 22,190 16,937 ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS -470 -560 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade payables 30,724 26,020 Liabilities to Group companies 906 766 Accruals 884 32,513 26,786 TOTAL LIABILITIES 32,513 26,786 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 54,233 43,164 Development of information exchange In accordance with a decision by the Energy Market Authority, Fingrid Oyj must separate the duties It is Fingrid’s task to develop the exchange of pertaining to the development of information information required for electricity trade and exchange by virtue of Chapter 12 of the Electricity imbalance settlement as set out in the Electricity Market Act. The development of information Market Act. Fingrid’s information exchange services exchange is a part of grid operations. are part of the electricity markets’ information exchange environment. In order to develop the The separation of the income statement for the effective and accurate exchange of information, development of information exchange is realised by Fingrid works in close co-operation with e.g. means of cost accounting as follows: electricity market parties, interest groups, service providers, supervisory authorities, legislators, Income = direct organisations that develop national and Separate costs = direct international communications and other Administrative costs = matching principle transmission system operators. Income taxes = based on result 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2016 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2015 DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION EXCHANGE, SEPARATED INCOME STATEMENT €1,000 €1,000 TURNOVER 595 528 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 285 Personnel costs -144 -165 Other operating expenses -392 -236 OPERATING PROFIT 59 127 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 59 127 Income taxes -12 -25 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 48 102 DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION EXCHANGE, SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 ASSETS €1,000 €1,000 CURRENT ASSETS Trade receivables 56 Other receivables 147 159 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 147 215 TOTAL ASSETS 147 215 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES €1,000 €1,000 EQUITY Share capital 3 3 Profits/losses from previous financial years -636 -738 Profit for the financial year 48 102 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY -586 -634 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade payables 12 10 Liabilities to Group companies 686 716 Other liabilities 36 123 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 286 734 849 TOTAL LIABILITIES 734 849 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 147 215 Grid operations operations. Operations that are not part of grid operations constitute ‘other operations’ as referred Grid operations refers to licensed electricity system to in Chapter 12 of the Electricity Market Act and operation that takes place on the electricity grid. must be separated from grid operations in Electricity system operations are defined in Chapter accordance with that Chapter. 1 of the Electricity Market Act (588/2013) and grid operations are defined in Chapter 5. Of Fingrid Oyj’s The income statement and balance sheet of grid operations, activities related to the management of operations and other operations have, in compliance the power reserve system and guarantees of origin with Chapter 12 of the Electricity Market Act, been for electricity, as well as the data hub project that separated by means of cost accounting as follows: was started in 2015 are not included in grid Income direct Separate costs direct Production costs matching principle Administrative costs matching principle matching principle in accordance with Fingrid Oyj's depreciation Depreciation principle Finance income and on the basis of imputed debt costs Income taxes based on result This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 287 Balance sheet items matching principle TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATION OTHER OPERATION 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2016 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2016 SEPARATED INCOME STATEMENT €1,000 €1,000 TURNOVER 578,390 3,019 Other operating income 12,693 Materials and services -241,755 Personnel costs -27,796 -802 Depreciation and amortisation expense -108,267 Other operating expenses -64,229 -1,545 OPERATING PROFIT 149,037 673 Finance income and costs -20,451 329 PROFIT BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS 128,587 1,002 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 128,587 1,002 Income taxes -25,522 -200 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 103,065 802 SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATION OTHER OPERATION ASSETS 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2016 €1,000 €1,000 Intangible assets: Goodwill 4,289 Other intangible assets 79,770 84,059 Tangible assets This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 288 Land and water areas 15,701 Buildings and structures 193,640 Machinery and equipment 576,317 Transmission lines 808,875 Other property, plant and equipment 118 Prepayments and purchases in progress 59,404 1,654,054 Investments: Interests in Group companies 507 Interests in associated companies 8,588 Other shares and interests 1,965 10,553 507 TOTAL NONCURRENT ASSETS 1,748,666 507 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 12,269 Receivables Non-current Loan receivables from Group companies 2,808 Loan receivables from associated companies 4,000 4,000 2,808 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 289 Current Trade receivables 70,674 Receivables from Group companies 3,706 827 Receivables from associated companies 144 Other receivables 1,298 Prepayments and accured income 9,199 85,022 827 Financial securities 57,394 Cash in hand and bank receivables 21,939 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 180,623 3,634 TOTAL ASSETS 1,929,289 4,141 SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATION OTHER OPERATION SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2016 €1,000 €1,000 EQUITY Share capital 55,920 3 Share premium account 55,922 Profit from previous financial years 72,630 -542 Profit for the financial year 103,065 802 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 287,537 262 ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS 448,897 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 1,481 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 2 90 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Bonds 698,544 Loans from financial institutions 151,203 849,748 Current liabilities Bonds 127,852 Loans from financial institutions 21,662 Trade payables 24,802 Liabilities to Group companies 1,103 3,706 Liabilities to associated companies 152 Other liabilities 136,653 19 Accruals 29,404 154 341,627 3,879 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,191,374 3,879 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,929,289 4,141 Other non-current assets included in the separated balance sheet for grid operations SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATION ASSETS 31 Dec 2016 €1,000 Intangible assets: Other intangible assets 5,392 5,392 Tangible assets Land and water areas 15,459 Buildings and structures 4,170 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 291 Machinery and equipment 14,512 Transmission lines 1,209 Other property, plant and equipment 118 Prepayments and purchases in progress 59,404 94,872 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 100,264 Congestion income in grid operations corresponding costs, as defined in the regulation, accrue as annual expenses in the income statement. The congestion income received by a grid owner Alternatively, they are entered in the balance sheet must be used for the purposes stated in EC against investments, as defined by regulation, to Regulation 714/2009, Article 16, Paragraph 6: lower the acquisition cost of property, plant and guaranteeing the actual availability of the allocated equipment, which lowers the depreciation of the capacity, and maintaining or increasing property, plant and equipment in question. The interconnection capacities through network congestion income received before 1 January 2016 investments. As a consequence of the change in the was recognised in turnover. The congestion income regulation governing Fingrid’s grid pricing, the from 2016 was used for improving and maintaining company will include the congestion income the cross-border transmission connections, and in received after 1 January 2016 as accruals in the item part also for the Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä transmission other liabilities in the balance sheet. Of the accruals, network investment, which supports the crosscongestion income will be recognised in the income border transmission from northern Sweden. statement as other operating income when their Congestion income, €1,000 2016 Congestion income on 1 Jan 0 Accumulated congestion income 39,863 Expenses matching congestion income -6,325 Investments matching congestion income -33,538 Congestion income on 31 Dec 0 Countertrade congestion income may be used to offset countertrade costs arising from cross-border In terms of the costs arising from countertrade used transmission connections. to safeguard system security in grid operations, This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 292 Counter trade, €1,000 2016 2015 Counter-trade between Finland and Sweden 2,531 783 Counter-trade between Finland and Estonia 87 768 Counter-trade between Finland's internal connections 1,242 2,233 Total counter-trade 3,861 3,784 36. EMISSION RIGHTS Fingrid has not been granted free-of-charge emission rights for the emissions trade period 2013–2020. The use of emission rights had no impact on the financial result in 2016. 2016 2015 Total CO2 emissions tCO2 10,326 6,697 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report. FINGRID ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T2 201 016 6 / ANNU ANNUAL AL REVIEW 293 8 Signatures for the Annual Review and for the Financial Statements Helsinki, 17 February 2017 Jukka Ruusunen President & CEO Juhani Järvi Chair Auditor’s notation Juha Majanen A report on the audit carried out has been Deputy Chairman submitted today Sanna Syri Helsinki, 17 February 2017 Esko Torsti PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Anu Hämäläinen Authorised Public Accountants Jouko Malinen, APA This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit fingrid-ar2016.com for the full online report.
