SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Fiscal Year: 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 — Alcantara S.p.A. THE CHAIRMAN’S Dear Stakeholders, LETTER this year Alcantara S.p.A. has reaffirmed its strong commitment to sustainability and the struggle against climate change, demonstrating that – despite the way the international political situation is unfolding and all the question marks over a sustainable future – the Company still holds steadfastly to the principles indicated by the objectives it has set itself over the last few years. A strong sign of our consistent efforts to pursue and promote a culture of sustainability, and an integral part of the Company’s competitive strategy, is our membership of the United Nations Global Compact which reaffirms our determination to continue along the path of responsible management by following the ten principles of Global Compact concerning human rights, employment, the environment and fight against corruption. Those principles have been promoted by Alcantara S.p.A. since 2009 when the Company first achieved Carbon-Neutral status. For our Company this Sustainability Report certifies that – alongside our other achievements – we have been Carbon-Neutral for eight years now; we have further strengthened our responsible procurement policies monitoring the whole supply chain; we have continued our research and other investments with a view to developing processes and products of biological origin and lower environmental impact and implementing them on an industrial scale; and we have worked out a new Sustainability Plan for 2017-2020 in keeping with our corporate values, so as to ensure that our strategy fulfils our commitment to sustainability and leads the way in achieving it. To emphasize our responsible approach to these matters still further, Alcantara S.p.A. has decided to sign up to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), alongside other companies, governments and investors, with the aim of measuring and reporting on its CO2 emissions. Activities intensifying stakeholder involvement, including our various sustainability-related projects, remain fundamentally important, and we shall be conducting even more such activities with a view to fostering and spreading a real shared culture. In 2016 Alcantara S.p.A. organized and promoted the 3rd International Symposium on Sustainability in Tokyo, in collaboration with Nikkei, the VIU (Venice International University) and Waseda University and with the support of the Society of Global Business. On that occasion we helped, along with international companies, institutions and leading universities, to create a broader vision of sustainability and to promote greater awareness of it. This Sustainability Report is also an act of transparency and an important opportunity to enhance the main goals of the Company, as we continue – despite economic headwinds – to invest in sustainability: a new expansion plan to double overall production capacity, to increase sales and to enhance the value of the brand, in addition to employing more staff. We firmly believe that sustainability is a necessary factor, and consistent with our longterm objective of increasing the economic and financial value of the Company. It is and will remain a core value of our corporate culture, an important driver of growth and a spur to the development of our business strategy. We are more than ever convinced that sustainability is a value beyond cost: a value for our Company, our brand, our people and our stakeholders. A value for the future. Andrea Boragno Chairman and CEO of Alcantara S.p.A. I Introduction SUSTAINABILITY 8 REPORT TH Sustainability Report of Alcantara S.p.A. REFERENCE GUIDELINES 2017 — Contents Fiscal Year: 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 REFERENCE PERIOD: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – version G4 of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). 1 April 2016 – Based on the current coverage of the indicators associated with the material aspects 31 March 2017 summarized in the final correlation table, the level of compliance with the GRI-G4 Guidelines (annual report): 2017 Fiscal Year. is “In accordance – comprehensive”. INFORMATION COLLECTION Social and environmental responsibility data are reported through dedicated information flows and information collection sheets based on the precautionary approach required by the G4 standard and subsequently checked in accordance with a reporting process integrated with the Company management systems. FRAME OF REFERENCE The time frame of reference for the report corresponds with the one for financial reporting by Alcantara S.p.A. The following document refers to two fiscal years, as follows: • “2016” or the 2016 Fiscal Year refers to the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016; • “2017” or the 2017 Fiscal Year refers to the period from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES The financial data for the previous year have been recalculated to conform to Directive 34/2013/EU. For additional information, please refer to the Board of Directors Report for 2017 Fiscal Year. EXTERNAL AUDIT This document was externally audited by a third party based on the principles and instructions set forth in the international standard for assurance of non-financial information ISAE 3000 (International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000) and of IAASB (International Auditing and Assurance Standard Board, an entity directly supported by the IFAC International Federation of Accountants). We would like to thank CONTACTS AND ADDRESSES the entire internal work group and all staff involved in the Alcantara S.p.A. development and Via Mecenate, 86 production of this 20138 Milan Alcantara S.p.A.’s 2017 Sustainability 2017 Sustainability Report. Prepared Telephone +39 02 580301 Report may be consulted in interactive and coordinated by: Fax +39 02 5063886 format on the dedicated micro-site Alcantara S.p.A. www.alcantara.com http://sustainabilityreport.alcantara.com For further information, contact: alcantarasustainability@alcantara.com All comments and suggestions are welcome. II CONTENTS — IDENTITY AND RESPONSIBILITY 01 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY: CUSTOMERS 04 2 1.1 Mission, Values and Strategic Orientation 58 4.1 Marketing Policy and Innovation 2 1.2 Alcantara S.p.A.’s History 60 4.2 Customers and Markets Served 4 1.3 The Company’s Structure 62 Automotive 5 1.4 Fields of Application of Alcantara® 65 Interiors, Contract, Marine & Aviation 6 1.5 Governance Structure 67 Fashion & Accessories 8 1.6 Operational Structure 71 Consumer Electronics 10 1.7 Risk Management and Sustainability Strategy 72 4.3 Product Sustainability and Safety 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan 73 4.4 Research Centre & New Products 12 1.8 Management Systems 74 4.5 Communication, Dialogue and Satisfaction 14 1.9 Communication with the Stakeholders ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 02 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY: COMMUNITY 05 84 5.1 Management of Relations with the Community 21 2.1 Economic Indicators and Added Value 99 5.2 University, Research and Sustainability 24 2.2 Investments 100 5.3 Media Relations 26 2.3 Suppliers and Partners 31 2.4 Institutions ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 06 03 106 6.1 Environmental Policy and Management System SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY: 107 6.2 Environmental Impacts HUMAN RESOURCES 108 6.3 Use of Raw Materials 37 3.1 Management Policies and Composition 110 6.4 Energy Requirement and Saving 40 3.2 Diversity and Respect for Human Rights 112 6.5 GHG Emissions and Carbon Footprint 42 3.3 Incentives and Remuneration 118 6.6 Water Management and Footprint 45 3.4 Training and Career Development 123 6.7 Waste Management 46 3.5 Occupational Health and Safety 50 3.6 Internal Communication STANDARD DISCLOSURE GRI-G4 125 GRI Content Index 136 External Audit Report 01 Alcantara S.p.A. is an Italian company that manufactures and markets worldwide the material under the registered trademark Alcantara , ® result of a unique, proprietary technology exclusive and innovative, ® alcantara offers an extraordinary combination of feel, beauty and functionality, qualities which, together with a strong ethical and social commitment, define a modern-day lifestyle: the lifestyle of those who want to get the most out of the products they use every day in respect of the environment Alcantara®: an innovative material Alcantara S.p.A. constantly invests 3% to 5% of its annual sales in research and development activities. The research and Development Department of alcantara s.p.a. is an international centre of excellence and the only structure of its kind in the industry. The technological components behind the manufacturing process of alcantara® permit continuous improvement in the performance of the material and the production of new products and variants designed specifically for several different fields of application. This enables the Company to consolidate its technological leadership and constantly renew its processes and know-how, keeping an eye on the future. That little ® is of fundamental importance, as it identifies the technology and the advantages of its use, and represents a guarantee against imitations. NOTE: The indications “2016” and “2017” in this document refer to the 12-month periods 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 and 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 and correspond to the Fiscal Year of Alcantara S.p.A. 1 — 1.1 Mission, Values 1973 change of name from ANTOR S.p.A. to IGANTO S.p.A. 2011 installation of the phyto-treatment system, and Strategic Orientation (acronym of Italia Giappone ANIC Toray) to seal a partnership between the two countries first collection of finished products sold under the proprietary trademark and their companies; “A’alcantara” and obtainment of product Carbon Neutrality Mission 1974 sale of its shares, equivalent (from cradle to grave); to 49%, by SOFID to Toray Alcantara S.p.A. operates in the high-end upholstery market; its qualifying Industries Inc., a company 2012 installation of the new elements are the use of sophisticated technology, an exclusive business model, in the Toray Group; cogeneration plant, with and a brand name recognized at international level. operations commencing 1981 the Company name changed on 1 January 2013; to Alcantara S.p.A., with The values on which Alcantara S.p.A. operates are: fairness, consistency, innovation, share capital still split between 2013 start of a new project aimed and the central role of man and the environment. the Eni Group (51%) at reducing the environmental For Alcantara S.p.A., sustainability constitutes a fundamental strategic orientation: and the Toray Group (49%); impact and energy consumption its sustainability objectives are closely linked to its strategic objectives and stem from of the production process; the decisions made by top management as an expression of the will to develop a systemic 1994 setting-up of the view of this commitment in the various areas and departments of the Company. Applications Development 2014 creation of the first web All development and investment decisions are integrated with the basic strategic Centre at the plant premises reporting on the dedicated orientation towards sustainability and are consistent with the Company’s strategic plan. for in-house development micro-site of ad hoc solutions and sustainabilityreport.alcantara.com, technical application; start of Water Footprint analysis, first international Symposium 1995 final transfer of shares from on Sustainability in the global the Eni Group to the automotive industry; Toray Group for a total of 100%; immediately 2015 completion of the first phase afterwards transfer of 30% (industrial scale test) of the of the shares by the Toray project started in 2013 aimed Group to the Mitsui Group; at further reducing the environmental impact and 1998 first operation to double energy consumption of the the production capacity production process, start of the of the plant; research activity on raw materials from renewable sources (bio-based); 2002 completion of the second — 1.2 Alcantara S.p.A.’s History operation to double the production capacity; 2016 third International Symposium on Sustainability organized in Tokyo, in partnership with Nikkei, The charme 2009 obtainment of Carbon Neutrality VIU (Venice International of Alcantara® (from cradle to gate); University), and Waseda is the result of a major University, with the support technological 1970 invention of Alcantara®: 1972 production plant built at Nera 2010 issuance of the first of the Society of Global Business, breakthrough, the Japanese scientist Montoro (Italy), still the only Alcantara S.p.A.'s on the theme “Sustainability an invention made in 1970 that Miyoshi Okamoto filed the plant in the world where Sustainability Report; and Corporate Value”. continues to be patent for producing the Alcantara® is produced; unrivalled even today material; the Company and enables the product to remain headquarters were instituted unique and 1972 agreement with the in Milan; at the forefront. ANIC Group, subsequently Eni, The fundamental for the commercial use of the 1972 setting up of ANTOR S.p.A. stages of the growth patent (i.e. a joint venture (acronym of ANIC Toray); The technological know-how built by Alcantara S.p.A. in more than 40 years of Alcantara S.p.A. are listed here. between Eni Group and 51% ANIC (subsequently Eni) enables it to understand and meet the technical and stylistic needs of its customers, Toray Group, the provider and 49% SOFID (financial developing colours, product variants and new technologies on request, in response of the basic technology); company of the Group); to the most complex of briefs. 2 3 — 1.3 The Company’s Structure — 1.4 Fields of Application of Alcantara® Alcantara S.p.A. has two main operational centres in Italy: in Nera Montoro (Terni) and in Milan. To be more precise: • the production site and the research centre in Nera Montoro (TR), providing an In the automotive industry, Alcantara® is used to cover the interiors of motor vehicles. integrated end-to-end cycle facility. The complex production process is highly automated Alcantara® ensures maximum comfort for the driver and the passengers due to the and divided into several phases; unique characteristics of the material (grip, breathability, strength and durability, light • the headquarters in Milan, which houses the management, the sales divisions, weight, softness, colour fastness), transforming the cockpit into a beautiful, elegant or marketing and communication activities, the administration department, the style sporty environment depending on the stylistic features chosen. An important aspect department, logistics services and human resources. of Alcantara S.p.A.’s products is the Company's experience and capability to develop tailor-made solutions. Alcantara® is also increasingly appreciated for being carbon Alcantara S.p.A. Representative Office in China neutral, which does not increment the carbon footprint of the cars in which it is applied. At the end of 2014, Alcantara S.p.A. opened its representative office in Shanghai, China, with the approval of the holding company Toray Industries Inc. Authorization was obtained from the Chinese authorities on 15 December. The office is responsible for providing sales support in the Chinese market. INTERIOR, CONTRACT, Furniture items covered with Alcantara® (sofas, beds, accessories, etc.) take on a bright, On 31 December 2015, the Shanghai office has closed its first year of activity and MARINE & AVIATION comfortable, soft and seductive appearance. For the interior and contract segment, the first financial year for the purposes of local taxation, operating on solar year Alcantara S.p.A. offers a special selection of products containing materials that have been basis and audited by Dezan Shira & Associates. tested and approved. Its second Fiscal Year ended on 31 Dec 2016. In the marine sector, the functional characteristics of Alcantara®, together with its resistance to adverse marine conditions, permeability to air and excellent breathability, The share capital is made up of ordinary shares worth 1 euro each and at guarantee extremely comfortable sailing even for the most demanding passengers. 31 March 2017 the issued and paid-in share capital of Alcantara S.p.A. amounted In the aviation industry, Alcantara® ensures comfort, style and elegance, making it the to € 10,800,000 divided up as indicated below. ideal travel companion for interiors of private jets and helicopters but also the aircraft of the world’s major airlines. COMPANY NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES 2017 % OWNERSHIP Toray Industries Inc. – Tokyo (holding company) 7,560,000 70% Mitsui & Co. Ltd. Tokyo – Tokyo 3,240,000 30% TOTAL SHARES 10,800,000 100% In the fashion sector, people that choose Alcantara® look for contemporary elegance: modern luxury with attention to detail underlined by the exclusive textures of the material. Alcantara® is a material with infinite possibilities of customization, capable of covering any shape and surface, in conformity with the most rigid industry standards, lending itself to exclusive, tailored solutions to satisfy the technical and design requirements of the most demanding luxury brands. CONSUMER In the consumer-electronics sector, Alcantara® is recognized as a precious material with ELECTRONICS unique characteristics, capable of enhancing the appearance and functionality of the finished product with a high degree of adaptability. Alcantara® has unique, special features compared to other materials, representing combination of high tech and craftsmanship. Made in Italy, one of the strengths of the Alcantara® competitive strategy, is a value, especially in Asia and the USA. Alcantara S.p.A. has developed the skills necessary to offer customers highly customized solutions: “turn-key” projects, from the design of the finished product right up to implementation of the supply chain to produce it. 4 5 — 1.5 Governance Structure SUPERVISORY BOARD The primary objectives of Alcantara S.p.A. include knowledge and dissemination of respect for human rights, promoting conduct in keeping The Supervisory Board consists of three • overall supervisory activity set forth with the highest standards, such as the United Nations Guidelines on members and has decision-making in the Supervisory Board operating plan Companies and Human Rights (2011), not only within the Company and supervisory powers to oversee the of April 2016-March 2017 and results but also through its supply chain. The policies are implemented through protocols operation of and compliance with the of audits conducted and information Organization Model for the prevention collected; sanctioned in the Company organizational model and specific official of crimes in application of the provisions • analysis and feedback of the internal communications. Reporting procedures are in force and laid down in Italian legislative decree Supervisory Board’s 2016/2017 Annual governed, also anonymously, by the Social Responsibility Management System no. 231/2001 (such as corruption or false Report submitted to the Chairman of the certified under Internal Standard SA8000® and may be addressed to the human statements, the exploitation of workers, Board of Directors and to the Board resources office or to certifying bodies. and many others) and for the prevention of Auditors. Audits and assessments have confirmed conformity to standards and positioning of conduct sanctioned by the Code of with respect to the most advanced international models. Ethics (for example, conflicts of interest). Regarding the updating of the Organization In May 2015, the appointments of the Model in 2015, training and informative BOARD OF DIRECTORS members of the Supervisory Board were initiatives were organized in 2017 The governance bodies Andrea Boragno of Alcantara S.p.A. are the renewed till the approval date of the 2017 Fiscal Year for the personnel of the Nera Chairman and CEO Shareholders’ Meeting, financial statements. Montoro plant. the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee Michiyuki Nakase and the CEO. Toru Kutsuzawa The Organization Model and the Code The Supervisory Board constantly reports Yasuhiro Takagi of Ethics are closely integrated in such a on its activity to the Chairman of the The main supervisory bodies way as to form a body of internal standards Board of Directors and, periodically, to are the Board of Auditors and Akihiro Tanabe the Supervisory Board, Ryuji Hayashi that encourage ethical behaviour and the Board of Auditors: with regard to this, in accordance transparency within the Company. it informed that no report was received with Italian Legislative Decree Keinosuke Fukushima no. 231/2001. Any employee may report suspected about infringements of the Code of Reconta EY S.p.A. BOARD OF AUDITORS Giovanni Primo Quagliano violations of the Organization Model and Ethics and of the Organizational Model was engaged Code of Ethics to the Supervisory Board that could generate responsibility for the for the statutory audit Chairman of the financial statements or to his/her manager. Company. for the years 2016, Roberto Spada During 2017 Fiscal Year, the Supervisory 2017 and 2018. Board met continuously and monitored Regarding the anti-corruption policies, Giuseppe Moretti the functioning and compliance of the the organizational model and risk analysis model. The meetings concerned: provide oversight for potential offences • analysis of the information flows and, as further confirmation, no violation Except for the Chairman and CEO, with the objectives of the Company’s the main projects. This also enables and related documentation submitted was detected in the period. all members of the Board of Directors strategic plan and are monitored by incentive and remuneration systems by Departments Supervisors; are independent, non-executive the “sustainability work group”, to be applied on the basis of support and appointed on the basis of skills consisting of the main managers of for and rewarding of merit and the and qualifications in line with the various Company divisions and reaching of the targets set, including Alcantara S.p.A.’s orientation towards coordinated by the Human Resource the environmental and social targets. sustainability. Organization and System Director Alcantara S.p.A. has not activated any In detail, the Chairman informs the in the role of CSR Manager. The specific communication channels to allow Board of Directors of decisions with sustainability work group has the stakeholders to interact directly with a significant impact on business goal of proposing and carrying out the Board of Directors. Nevertheless, sustainability and the status of the most sustainability actions in accordance the Board of Directors assesses current significant projects. with the strategic guidelines defined by initiatives and future projects by listening As regards risks and opportunities, the Chairman and CEO. to suggestions made by department including strategic and operational As the Sustainability Report is not managers, the Supervisory Board, environmental, social and governance currently required by any laws or employees and representatives of external ones, each year the Board of Directors regulations, it is approved on a stakeholders, also through the work examines and approves the Annual voluntary basis by the Chairman of of the representative bodies in which it Risk Assessment and periodically the Board of Directors. Corporate participates (see paragraph “Membership monitors its implementation. Projects management is therefore supported by in trade associations”) and that of third with a more significant impact in a structured system for reporting on parties that test the management systems terms of sustainability are consistent business trends and the progress of adopted by Alcantara S.p.A. 6 7 — 1.6 Operational Structure The operational structure of Alcantara INTERDEPARTMENTAL S.p.A. is based on the integrated management of the Company’s WORK GROUPS processes and is distinguished by the sales divisions that characterize its business. During 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. During 2017 Fiscal Year, this form of proceeded with the consolidation work involved more than 100 people in The production process is extremely complex as it is based on a combination of team work, updating its objectives management and middle management, of textile processes (spinning, carding and needle punching), high-precision and dedicating a working group integrated with the functional and mechanical processes and dyeing, finishing and nobilitation processes. Considerable to each of them. The working groups hierarchical structure of the Company efforts are made to develop a flexible production process capable of meeting the needs are structured as follows: and generating major advantages: of the markets in which the Company operates. • coordination and control committee: • greater focus on the Company’s strategic made up of the Chief Executive Officer objectives; Particular importance is given to the Style and Technical Marketing departments, and top management, directs the group • improvement in the “quality of response” whose tasks are to acquire the needs, critical issues and technical and stylistic and sets its targets; and the actions taken; expectations of the customers and the reference markets, acting as a link between the • team leader: coordinates the • increase in engagement and motivation, technical and sales departments with a view to designing tailor-made solutions. working group; especially among middle managers; • team members: express and contribute • improvement of the communication In order to meet the increasingly complex global market requests and the need with their skills and know-how necessary processes, sense of belonging and to continuously upgrade the offer, a horizontal operational system was developed. to reach the targets. sharing. This system is structured around collaboration between the “interdepartmental teams” described in more detail below. BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN & CEO Management Representative Environment, Health & Safety for Quality Environment & Safety Systems Objective Objective Objective Objective Objective HUMAN RESOURCES, GENERAL INNOVATION & GLOBAL FINANCE & 1 2 3 ... 12 I.T., SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER SUPPLY DIRECTOR CONTROL DIRECTOR & SYSTEMS DIRECTOR Corporate Global Supply Head Account function Certified MARKETING TECHNICAL DIRECTOR System & SALES Research Treasury & Plant Personnel Production & Product Application Credit Office Corporate & Organization Development function Activities & Personnel Commercial Automotive Maintenance Planning, Control & Relation HQ Strategy Technologies, Internal Audit Interiors & Quality & Technical Design Corporate I.T. Finished Products Laboratory Legal function Marketing Corporate Safety & Fashion & Consumer Environment Communication Electronics Work group Work group Work group Work group Work group Technical 1 2 3 ... 12 Representative Office Office China 8 9 — 1.7 Risk Management and Sustainability Strategy Risk management In line with the most advanced international practices has been greatly in sustainability, Alcantara S.p.A. has formulated a total of developed in recent years due to the 2017-2020 21 specific objectives for the four areas, to be achieved in the increasingly complex medium term (2020). These tangible commitments are represented and “volatile SUSTAINABILITY PLAN as follows: context in which organizations Alcantara S.p.A. gives great importance Alcantara S.p.A. decided to develop a new operate. to the identification and measurement of Sustainability Plan in 2017 Fiscal Year to risk factors and opportunities that affect transform its commitments into practicable its business; therefore the definition actions and quantitative objectives. For of the risk level does not concern only Alcantara S.p.A., in fact, sustainability is financial aspects but also factors of a distinctive, strategic factor in its business responsible management, so-called ESG activity, with the ultimate goal of helping PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY (Environmental, Social and Governance). create value for all stakeholders. MANAGEMENT In order to prevent the identified risks, The plan was prepared starting with the Alcantara S.p.A. has adopted an internal Company strategy, a materiality analysis, ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY system that lets it identify, measure, the 17 Sustainable Development SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE manage and monitor the main problems, Objectives of the United Nations, and in line with its sustainable development through the involvement of Company strategy for each relevant aspect: economic, management. Alcantara S.p.A. has social and environmental. therefore formulated its commitment Reduction of Reduction of Occupational for sustainable development in Envirornmental Environmental Health and Safety Sustainability Guidance Impact Impact Committee In relation to the mitigation of financial four areas of action: of Product of Process Improved Increased risks, please refer to the financial Sustainability Carbon statements and in particular to the Promotion Corporate in the Neutrality management of: PLANET of Art Citizenship Supply Chain of Suppliers • risks associated with general economic Environmental CARBON and Culture conditions; Sustainability • business risk: with the effect of the NEUTRALITY general economic climate on the Company Preparation context, the concentration of sales (70%) Alcantara® of a Non-financial in the top ten customers becomes as a Sustainable Brand Sustainability Reporting an important factor; PEOPLE Plan • credit risk: active financial Social Water Reduction SUSTAINABLE counterparties of the Company are Sustainability of Energy exclusively leading banks, which means Footprint Increase in Increase INNOVATION Consumption a very low associated risk; Sustainability inYouth • risk of fluctuations in exchange rates. Training Employment For additional information on the PROSPERITY INVESTMENTS STAKEHOLDER management of non-financial risk, please Economic Circular Economic International Projects see Chapter 2.3 regarding risk avoidance Sustainability Development with Social Impact FOR SUSTAINABILITY ENGAGEMENT in the supply chain, Chapter 3.5 on health and safety in the workplace, Chapter 6 on policies to prevent and reduce For each strategic objective, Alcantara S.p.A. has identified environmental risks and, lastly, since the SUSTAINABILITY consequent actions (or lines of intervention). Most of these actions Sustainability Plan derives from a careful MANAGEMENT are described in this document, in the initial part of each chapter, analysis of risks and related opportunities, Sustainability confirming the strong commitment of the Company to openly and the following section: Governance transparently communicate its efforts. 10 11 — 1.8 Management Systems Alcantara S.p.A. joins the United Nations Global Compact In 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. voluntarily joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest corporate Alcantara S.p.A. has been committed sustainability initiative. By joining the UNGC, Alcantara S.p.A. confirms its long-lasting commitment to sustainability and reinforces to responsible it by respecting and promoting the Ten Principles of the UNGC and by taking strategic actions to contribute to the advancement management for some of global goals, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. time now and has adopted a series of certified management Alcantara S.p.A. is committed to providing an annual disclosure of its activities and practices regarding the 10 Principles through systems and control this document, which also represents its Communication on Progress (CoP). mechanisms in order to: Alcantara S.p.A. has obtained and maintains the following international certifications: • create value in a The 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact sustainable way SYSTEM CERTIFICATIONS together with all its stakeholders; STANDARD TITLE CERTIFICATION DATE OF FIRST Human Rights •interpret BODY RELEASE the needs of its customers by pursuing UNI EN ISO 9001:2008 Quality management system TÜV SÜD September 1993 PRINCIPLE 1: the highest quality UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System TÜV SÜD May 2000 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and standards; • minimize ISO/TS 16949:2009 Quality management systems for the TÜV SÜD February 2004 environmental impact; automotive industry PRINCIPLE 2: • develop and control SA8000 ® Social Accountability TÜV SÜD October 2008 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. the supply chain; • communicate with CMS Standard GHG 41 of Offsetting residual Green House TÜV SÜD June 2009 the stakeholders. CARBON NEUTRALITY (PAS 2060) Gas emissions Labour BS OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health and Safety TÜV SÜD April 2013 PRINCIPLE 3: management system Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ISO 50001:2011 Energy management system Bureau Veritas February 2017 PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; The top management and the entire staff are responsible for the proper functioning of the quality, safety, environment and social responsibility management systems, PRINCIPLE 5: which make it possible to identify economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities to achieve customer satisfaction and ensure development compatible with the effective abolition of child labour; and the requirements of all parties concerned. PRINCIPLE 6: Alcantara S.p.A. has also obtained authoritative product certifications, audited annually the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. by accredited bodies. Environment PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS Yachting industry: IMO MED certification in accordance with European Held since 2000 PRINCIPLE 7: Directives 2002/75/EC and 96/98/EC (valid for single brands/families) Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Contract sector: Certification for CPD building products in accordance with Held since 2011 European Directive 89/106/EC (valid for single brands/families) PRINCIPLE 8: Oeko-Tex Standard 100 (valid for single brands/families) Held since 1995 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: After checking consistency with its own principles, Alcantara S.p.A. endorses the codes encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. of ethics applied by its main customer companies on sustainability issues. In 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. also participated in two important initiatives: Anti-Corruption • Ashoka, global association of social innovators that operate to find solutions to the most urgent social problems; PRINCIPLE 10: • Global Compact of the United Nations (UNGC). Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 12 13 — 1.9 Communication The main dialogue, consulting and engagement activities of 2017 Fiscal Year were: with the Stakeholders STAKEHOLDERS – KEY TOPICS MAIN ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Alcantara S.p.A. considers the suggestions internal and/or external stakeholders, with Customers and consumers Customers and consumers and expectations of its main categories of a view to both identifying the significant • product uniqueness and brand value; • organization of meetings with the top management of the stakeholders: for each of these classes, topics and specific aspects related to the • design, customization and exclusivity; Company’s main customers, to illustrate the details the Company has identified the most organization’s social responsibility and • innovation and research; of Alcantara S.p.A.’s commitment to sustainability; important material issues (i.e. all issues determining the most significant topics for • transparency and marketing fairness; • initiatives to promote and sensitize public opinion on that influence the decisions, actions and all its reference stakeholders. • customer's satisfaction, listening, complaint sustainability issues. The most important were: 1) the 3rd performance of an organization and/or its management; International Sustainability Symposium, entitled “Sustainability stakeholders), and the communication In addition, the analysis is updated on the • pre-sales and post-sales services; and Corporate Value” 2) association with the United Nations activities in progress. This mapping was basis of an assessment of the expectations • appropriate communication and responsible Global Compact (UNGC), where Alcantara S.p.A. as a member developed following the AA1000SES that emerge from the numerous channels promotional activities; undertakes to promote the UNGC Ten Principles (human rights, (Stakeholder Engagement Series) and tools of communication between • regulatory and informative compliance labor, environment, anti-corruption); guidelines and applying the principle Alcantara S.p.A. and its stakeholders: a (laws on the product) to safeguard the end user; • management of social media channels: international of materiality laid down in the GRI-G4 listening, communication and engagement • packaging and recyclability; (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube in English and guidelines. system that ensures constant interaction • product and corporate sustainability; Japanese) and Chinese (Weibo, Tudou, WeChat); between the parties and a monitoring • Carbon Neutrality. • customer's satisfaction and market analysis; The materiality analysis is subjected to of the progress of all the topics directly • collaboration in activities carried out by customers an annual review with the involvement of or indirectly linked to sustainability. (for example, when customers announce or promote a green product/project); •customer care; • pre and post-sales support; • ad hoc visits to the Company’s facilities and open days (for school parties and journalists); • direct and active interaction of the Research Centre team with the customer through meetings and/or information activities to customize the offer; • direct contacts for events and trade fairs; • new materials to better communicate sustainability: dedicated multilanguage micro-site, video-graphic, pocket leaflets; • direct emailing to selected contact lists to spread initiatives and collect feedback. Suppliers Suppliers • continuity and quality of work; • assessment activities required by the supplier qualification • reputation; process or by the certified systems; • collaboration for research • technical inspections and periodic meetings; and development activities; • systematic feedback on quality; • safety and sustainability as values. • collaboration for improvement or innovation. Human resources Human resources • professional growth and continuous education • internal communication events (safety days, meetings, etc.); • meritocracy and delegation; • interdepartmental meetings for the sharing of objectives; • job stability; • working groups on strategic objectives; • internal climate: collaboration and sharing; • periodic house organ as an internal information and sharing tool; of know-how and objectives • confidential channel and mailbox for Model 231 reporting; • remuneration and benefits; • constant monitoring of internal atmosphere and occasional surveys • work-life balance; to understand work-life balance needs or other requirements; • workplace health and well-being. • team building; • working groups for improving safety; • meetings with trade union representatives; • meetings and relations with local community; • meeting with institutional bodies. 14 15 The following graph shows a summary, and thus a nonSTAKEHOLDERS – KEY TOPICS MAIN ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES exhaustive representation, of the materiality analysis conducted for Alcantara S.p.A. The main social responsibility issues are represented through a matrix whose variables are the economic, Shareholders Shareholders environmental and social impacts significant for Alcantara S.p.A. • profitability and corporate value; • meeting and representation at the Board of Directors; as well as their influence on the stakeholders’ decisions. • safeguarding of reputation; • participation in events and international conferences In 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A. also involved its • transparency; within the Group; stakeholders through a questionnaire, and the results were used • fairness in management. • engagement in the elaboration and revision of the Code of Ethics to update the analysis shown below in chart form. • periodical review of: J-SOX, ERM (Enterprise Risk Management), Security Trade Control, C-MOS (Control Monitoring Online System). Governance & Sustainability Clients and products Sustainability Economic Sustainability Social Sustainability Environmental Sustainability Environment Environment • atmospheric emissions; • IEA – Integrated Environmental Authorization; Occupational 3.9 • use of raw materials; • research at authoritative environmental institutions; Health and Safety • production process responsibilities; • participation in innovative projects with scientific institutions Human Rights and Customer Equal Opportunity Satisfaction • conservation and making the most of the and related appropriate communication; Waste and Water Energy Very High environmental heritage biodiversity, • collaboration in audits by competent bodies; Consumption Sewerage Efficiency and 3.7 Monitoring Raw • investments in environmental protection. • participation in trade meetings; and Mitigating Renewable Research & Materials Sources Innovation • support and collaboration of promotional and publicity activities Bio-diversity the Environmental Ethics, Sustainability Impact of the Integrity and Legal carried out by customers in favour of the environment. Production Process Compliance Strategy Human Capital IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Development Anti-corruption 3.5 Emission Community Community and Job Stability Dialogue with & Fair competition Promotion of Management Stakeholders • allied industries – investments and creation • collaboration with universities and schools, in Italy and abroad; Sustainable and Reduction Brand Creativity & Design Responsible Practices with of value in the local area; • competitions and grants for young designers/artists; Marketing Suppliers Awareness Community • protection of the environment, of quality of life • guided tours of the Company’s facilities for the press; Traceability Eco-design & 3.3 Transportation Bio-technologies and Carbon Neutrality; • projects with culture and art institutions; Corporate • respect of human rights; • participation in conferences and co-organization of events; High Governance • transparency and completeness of communication • invitations and meetings with local institutions; Welfare & Business Climate with the press and the community; • ad hoc communications on Carbon Neutrality; Customer Communication 3.1 Trasparency • support for research and development, education, • international sustainability workshops; Privacy art and culture projects. • relationship with designer and the art community; Collaborations • participation in Sustainability Symposium with main automotive with schools Community & universities Support industry players. Medium 2.9 Dialogue with Public institutions Public institutions Trade Unions • legal compliance; • collaboration with visits or inspections made • administrative and fiscal regularity; by public authorities; 2.7 • allied industries – investments and creation • participation in thematic round tables; 2,5 2,7 2,9 3,1 3,3 3,5 3,7 3,9 of value in the local area. • participation in projects, calls for tenders or institutional research; Medium High Very High • periodic invitations to the main authorities IMPORTANCE FOR ALCANTARA S.P.A and representatives of the institutions; • monitoring updates issued by the Italian Accounting The reporting process confirms the attention that Alcantara S.p.A. Body (OIC); constantly pays to the creation of shared value, to the • periodic reporting to ISTAT, Bank of Italy, Mediobanca management of the brand and to the reduction of the impact of and the Lombardy Region. its processes and production facilities on ecological balance. The Company is also called to satisfy old and new requirements, such as workplace health and safety expectations for its end consumers, innovation, brand management, energy efficiency and reducing environmental impacts, and the adoption of sustainability criteria along the entire production chain and value chain. Lastly, every material aspect was analyzed based on its consolidation frame of reference within and outside the organization, as shown in the final section of this document. 16 17 Highlights • Over € 89 million in added value created and distributed: 12.1% more than the previous year • € 28 million invested, of these 7 million for safety, health and the environment • Investments budgeted for 2018: over € 54 million PROFITABILITY INDEXES 2016 2017 R.O.E. 20.2% 20.1% R.O.I. 17.4% 17.8% Margin on sales 15.5% 15.6% 7 new partner companies involved in the CSR assessment process along the supply chain of Alcantara S.p.A. NOTE: The indications “2016” and “2017” in this document refer to the 12-month periods 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 and 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 and correspond to the Fiscal Year of Alcantara S.p.A. 19 COMMITMENTS ACHIEVED IN 2017 FISCAL YEAR — 2.1 Economic Alcantara S.p.A. Indicators and confirms its growth trend of the past few years, • patent-box: study on reporting and definition of ruling with the Italian Revenue Agency for the current period and finalization • patent-box: on 27 May 2016 a request was filed with the Italian Revenue Agency including all supporting documentation; Added Value demonstrating its ability to combat and for the next tax years; • on 17 June 2016 Alcantara S.p.A. received admission overcome the economic crisis. to the subjective area of application of the facilitation In addition to its positive economic and revenue from the Large Taxpayers office of the Italian Revenue Agency, pending access to the hearing on the ruling; values, Alcantara S.p.A. also managed to maintain • super-depreciation: study and full implementation • definition of the reporting and tax benefits associated the size of its staff. The fact should not of reporting for the next fiscal year; with this regulation, which became effective be underestimated, especially considering in computing taxes; the particularly delicate time on the employment front • evaluation of the possibility to join art.9 of the • it has not been possible, since the regulation involves tax delegation, which from 1 January 2017 permits a rather stringent use of cash transactions that would taxpayers to send in electronic way bills and daily fees have made the transfer of staff. MAIN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES DATA (€/000) 2016 2017 thus eliminating a number of tax obligations currently mandatory, such as “spesometro”, Current assets 79,063 85,313 black list and intrastat. From 1 July 2016, Fixed assets 139,769 156,551 the Italian Revenue Agency will make TOTAL ASSETS 218,832 241,864 available to all taxpayers for the generation and Current liabilities 51,128 55,715 transmission of electronic invoices. Medium/long-term liabilities 15,948 11,606 TOTAL LIABILITIES 67,076 67,321 Shareholders’ capital 151,756 174,543 TOTAL LIABILITIES 218,832 241,864 Net Financial Position 329 (7,928) Alcantara S.p.A. has no debts represented by debenture stocks and does not possess shares 2017-2020 of its own or shares of holding companies. SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Its medium/long-term liabilities mainly include € 5,812,000 for loans taken out by Alcantara S.p.A. to supplement its own self-financing capacity and to face the significant PROSPERITY (ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY) investment related to the project for upgrading the production process. This item also includes amounts due for employee severance indemnity and provisions for risks and charges. 2020 OBJECTIVE AREAS OF ACTION ADDED VALUE • improved sustainability in the supply chain; • increase the involvement of suppliers in offering carbon neutral services by reducing their impact and purchasing compensation certificates; The added value indicated in the next • determine accessibility to the “Fund for Sustainable page reclassifies the income statement Growth”, instituted by the Ministry for Economic items but is distinguished in part from the Development, to finance research and development strictest accounting definition because it activities in the sustainability area; uses the method proposed by the Study Group for Social Reporting (GBS). • continuing investments for sustainability • study the feasibility of access to national The added value calculation reveals and innovation. and European grants for the major investment plan Alcantara S.p.A.’s ability to create wealth, in order to increase the production capacity in the reference period, to the advantage of Alcantara S.p.A. of some of its main stakeholders, in • monitor and select investments relative to Industry 4.0 respect of economic management and to gain access to tax benefits and promote the innovation the expectations of the stakeholders and technological development of Alcantara S.p.A. themselves. 20 21 GROSS GLOBAL ADDED VALUE (€/000) 2016 2017 ∆% DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE 2017 2016/17 A) Value of production 168,589 191,318 13.5% B) Intermediate production costs 88,662 101,795 14.8% GROSS CHARACTERISTIC ADDED VALUE 79,927 89,523 12.0% C) Accessory and extraordinary components 262 335 27.9% GROSS GLOBAL ADDED VALUE 80,189 89,858 12.1% Staff 39.1 % Please note that, for purposes of a more € 2,556,000, increasing the total correct presentation of values, we have “staff remuneration” by that amount. reclassified, for the two years indicated, Company the item “Accessory Components”, The added value calculation and which represents part of the Company revenues, transferring it to line A “Value distribution figures express in monetary terms the relationships between the 36.3% of production”. Company and the socio-economic system Public Administration For a fair comparison, the previous year was also aligned to the classification of the current year by changing the “Intermediate with which it interacts, with particular reference to some of its main stakeholders: • staff: employee remuneration; 16.2% Risk Capital production costs” from € 88,713,000 to • public administration: Government € 88,662,000, with a decrease of € 51,000, which consequently increased the added remuneration; • financial backers: remuneration 8.1% value by that amount. for borrowed capital; Gifts and Sponsoring The € 51,000 was reported as an • shareholders: remuneration for risk capital; 0.2% increase in added value distributed • company system: corporate Borrowed Capital 0.1% under the item “Nonpermanent staff”, remuneration; which thus went from € 2,505,000 to • community: gifts and sponsoring. DISTRIBUTION OF GROSS GLOBAL CONSOLIDATED VALUE 2016 2017 ∆% (€/000) 2016/17 A) STAFF REMUNERATION 31,847 35,102 10.2% The portion of added value assigned to permanent and non-permanent staff increased Permanent staff 29,291 31,984 9.2% by 10.2% in absolute terms and represents 39.1% of the total gross value added. Wages 20,041 21,943 9.5% Social security costs 6,394 6,959 8.8% At 31 March 2017 the workforce is composed as follows: Severance indemnity 1,304 1,542 18.3% Other expenses 1,552 1,540 -0.8% LOCATION Permanent staff Non permanent staff Administrators with special duties Non-permanent staff 2,556 3,118 22.0% Milano (HQ) 99 2 B) GOVERNMENT REMUNERATION 13,233 14,573 10.1% Nera Montoro (plant and R&D) 450 37 1 Direct and indirect taxes 13,353 14,892 11.5% Shanghai (repr. office) 1 2 The added value distributed increased by 12.1 % (net of loans and tax credits) TOTAL 550 39 3 Loans received by Public Administration (120) (319) 165.8% C) REMUNERATION FOR BORROWED CAPITAL 156 129 -17.3% A 36.3% of the added value created was increased by a further 25% as a € 13,799,000 for direct taxation and Charges for current capital 40 15 -62.5% in 2017 Fiscal Year was reinvested in consequence of a new project aimed € 1,094,000, for indirect taxation, less Charges for long-term capital 116 114 -1.7% with respect to 2016 Fiscal Year. the Company; this amount includes to increase production capacity, due to € 319,000 for loans received and tax D) REMUNERATION FOR RISK CAPITAL 6,372 7,290 14.4% the amortization of the investments current and prospective market trends. credits linked primarily to the contribution The distribution of added value includes made in the local area and a portion of Despite its financial solidity, the Company, for the energy-intensive enterprises and a Part of financial year profit distributed 6,372 7,290 14.4% the new profit of € 29,160,000, 14% more retained earnings. Already in 2013, the as largely expected, found it necessary remaining part of tax credit on investments. E) CORPORATE REMUNERATION 28,474 32,626 14.6% than 2016 Fiscal Year, which was allocated shareholders' meeting resolved to waive to take out long-term loans from external The remuneration for risk capital of Share of profit allocated to reserves 19,134 21,869 14.3% € 7,290,000 as profit for distribution and 50% of profits available for distribution lenders to support the important production € 7,290,000 (8.1% of the total added Amortization 9,340 10,757 15.2% € 21,869,000 as company remuneration, in order to self-finance an important process upgrade investment. value) is represented by the amount F) THE COMMUNITY (GIFTS AND SPONSORING) 107 138 29.0% as per the proposal for profit allocation investment project to further reduce the The amount distributed to the Government allocated as a dividend of the profit of the approved during the shareholders’ meeting environmental impact of processes. was € 14,573,000 (16.2% of the total): period which, as said, represents 25% of GROSS GLOBAL ADDED VALUE 80,189 89,858 12.1% on 27 June 2017. The amount allocated to cover investments this amount is the result of the sum of available income. 22 23 — 2.2 Investments INVESTMENT FORECASTS The investments made FOR 2018 in 2017 Fiscal Year amounted to almost € 28 million. The investments are divided into five main areas: The investment plan for 2018 Fiscal Year • approval of an important, ambitious envisages the maintenance of health, project to increase production capacity Of these, PURCHASES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR (€/000) 2016 2017 € 409,000 concern safety and environmental commitments to satisfy the constantly growing market Balance Forecast intangible property for the continuous improvement of the demand. This project was authorized assets and € 2,155,000 Plant rationalization, maintenance and quality standards* 7,616 17,163 19,062 standards achieved, with a particular initially during the “Keisen meeting” concern the capitalization of internal costs Health, safety and environment* 7,062 6,804 7,053 focus on impacts on the territory and held in Tokyo on 12 January 2017 attributable to the labour workers’ safety. by the top management of Toray and cost of staff working Research and development 502 677 955 in the maintenance Among the investments budgeted, subsequently ratified by the Board Information system, marketing structures and other 728 1,013 800 department, technical in addition to the ordinary ones, two on 10 February 2017. design office New project for environmental improvement 6,191 731 important facts should be pointed out: This investment will be realized in and research centre. New project to increase production capacity 1,831 • continuation of the three-year three distinct phases subject to specific TOTAL 22,099 28,219 27,870 investment approved by the Board of approval of feasibility and will involve Directors on 9 December 2015 and the an estimated expenditure of (*) “Health, safety and environment” includes only costs for health and safety management and environmental Executive Committee on 12 December € 294.6 protection. However, in the Directors’ Report to the financial statements, those costs are aggregated with 2016 concerning production flexibility, costs for energy saving and development projects (which here are included in “Plant rationalization and which will be completed in the next fiscal maintenance and quality standards”). year with a projected amount of €MILLION 5.9 MILLION The difference between the amount of investments budgeted and those actually made is 2016 primarily the result of a € 1,800,000 appropriation approved by the Board of Directors to increase production capacity. against which advances of € 1,800,000 Investments for the protection of health, safety and the environment amount were paid this year, as explained earlier. € 6,804,000 (24% of total investments) and are generally in line with the expense budget, split as follows: • health and safety: € 3,354,000; INVESTMENT PLAN 01/04/2017-31/03/2018 AMOUNT (€/000) • environment: € 3,451,000. Plant rationalization, maintenance and quality standards 10 ,517 Health, safety and environment 4,985 In 2017, the aims of the environmental protection investments were: • to prevent air pollution (€ 40,000); Research and development 592 • to prevent water pollution (€ 3,386,000); Information system, marketing structures and other 800 • to prevent subsoil pollution (€ 25,000). New project for enviromental improvement 730 New project to increase production capacity 37,032 TOTAL 54,656 The five-year project to increase production also indirect impact linked to fallout in the capacity was amply presented during the area where business revolves around the press conference held on 16 March 2017 production plant, located in a geographical at the Nera Montoro plant, where the area that was been heavily affected by the Chairman and CEO Andrea Boragno recent crisis. illustrated the general lines of the project This initiative demonstrates that the to both national and local authorities; Company always assesses investment it was published in the major television opportunities with objective and social stations, newspapers and websites. criteria, without considering the possiblity The project will have a significant impact of offshoring production to geographical not only in economic terms, linked to areas where production costs would be around € 300,000,000 in investment, considerably lower, giving the area as and on employment, with an expected a whole an important opportunity for increase between 250 and 300 jobs, but redistribution of the added value created. 24 25 — 2.3 Suppliers and Partners Alcantara S.p.A. In more detail, In the 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. received goods or services from 1,739 suppliers. procures the materials, products Alcantara S.p.A imports some special raw materials, and services needed 2016 2017 in its manufacturing processes (production structure semi-processed goods and SUPPLIERS Number % of total % of expenditure Number % of total % of expenditure at the Nera Montoro facility), the Milan specific machinery/equipment Italy 1,470 84% 80% 1,475 85% 79% headquarters and from Japan (in some cases, the manufacturer is Toray Other countries 274 16% 20% 264 15% 21% distribution processes, according to Industries, Inc.). Outsourced technical and maintenance TOTAL 1,744 100% 100% 1,739 100% 100% the various product segments. services are provided by local companies (over 74% of With specific reference to the geographical location of the suppliers, Alcantara S.p.A. services) and outsourced product processing is assigned gives priority to suppliers based near the Company sites (provincial or regional). to specialized third party companies operating in Italy Considering the two Company sites (the management office in Milan and the production plant and research centre in Nera Montoro), there are 693 local suppliers (40% of the (over 98% of services); these are reliable partners total). Most suppliers from outside Europe are located in Japan. that have decades-long relationships with Alcantara S.p.A. 2016 2017 SUPPLIERS Number % of total % of expenditure Number % of total % of expenditure Region of Umbria 231 13% 21% 244 14% 19% of these in the Province of Terni 188 11% 19% 199 11% 18% Region of Lombardy 656 38% 32% 679 39% 32% of these in the Province of Milan 513 29% 28% 494 28% 27% Other regions and countries 857 49% 47% 816 47% 49% TOTAL 1,744 100% 100% 1,739 100% 100% During 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. With its suppliers (and sub-suppliers), maintained its commitment to foster Alcantara S.p.A. promotes transparent relationships with its suppliers based on and ethical conduct and responsible the principles of fairness, sustainability, management processes in compliance with equity and optimization of the global cost, the principles of environmental protection, while meeting the highest quality and the safeguarding of human rights and work safety requirements. standards, and the fight against corruption. The Company has also kept its supplier In agreements entered into with suppliers mapping updated based on criteria such for goods and services, the supplier as factors impacting the sustainability must make an express commitment to risk level associated with the supply comply with the principles set forth in (such as geographic area/district in standard SA8000® and, for the purposes which the supplier operates, information of executing the engagements assigned, in the public domain, compliance with a to observe the General Part of the Code of Ethics and/or Corporate Social Organization Model (pursuant to Italian Responsibility programmes, conduct Legislative Decree 231/2001) and the during the supply). Alcantara S.p.A's Code of Ethics. 26 27 SUPPLIERS’ • machining operations performed on the product; New supply chain sustainability approach QUALIFICATION • contracting and logistical services CSR self-assessment and CO2 offsetting (technical and maintenance companies operating at the production plant/central During 2017 Fiscal Year, the project was implemented with 7 new partner companies Alcantara S.p.A. is committed to ensure office, warehouse management, transport); involving a CSR assessment (Corporate Social Responsibility) along the Alcantara S.p.A. that suppliers meet all the requirements • general services (decontamination and/ supply chain. laid down by corporate procedures for or waste disposal); their inclusion on the supplier's list and to • raw materials. This instrument, in the form of a self-assessment/on-site audits, involves filling out promote the improvement of its suppliers’ a series of assessment sheets and enables Alcantara S.p.A.’s suppliers to create a environmental and social responsibility With regard to sustainability, 121 suppliers reference framework concerning the level of risk management and sustainability performance (including second party are considered “priority” due to the fact opportunities, to identify possible actions to improve performance, to sustainably audits). In addition, it encourages its that the goods and/or services they provide create value, and to reduce environmental impacts as much as possible. suppliers to implement plans to optimize have a mutually significant economic energy consumption, reduce the use of impact and support activities whose effects Through this initiative, suppliers are able to meet Alcantara S.p.A.’s sustainability hazardous materials, reduce emissions, may influence the assessment made by requirements and comply with its socially responsible business model. They are also use recycled or reused materials, and stakeholders. Of these, 39 are defined able to develop better governance and control mechanisms by: maintain optimal waste management. “super core” suppliers (in that they work • identifying ethical/social and environmental risks and opportunities; The satisfaction of these requirements regularly at the Alcantara S.p.A. sites and/ • understanding the level of management of such aspects; is always ascertained through objective or are partners in a production/distribution • identifying what must be done to reach a satisfactory level; and documentary evidence and, for process) and 82 are defined “core” suppliers • evaluating and measuring progress over time; some equipment categories, also (in that they work non-continuously at the • involving collaborators, also by stimulating internal debate; through technical and organizational Alcantara S.p.A. sites and/or may become • initiating dialogue with other businesses and organizations. audits at the suppliers’ sites. Audits partners in a production process and/or are are conducted at suppliers’ sites in suppliers of important raw materials). With this assessment of compliance with Alcantara S.p.A.’s socially responsible order to verify their ability to fulfil business model, the supplier will be accredited in line with sustainability standards the specific requests for supplies and During 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. by the vendor management system. comply with the requirements laid down acquired four new priority suppliers that by the certified management systems provide product processing services and With the aim to involve suppliers in its Environmental Sustainability model, (quality, environment, safety, and social one priority supplier of raw materials. The Alcantara S.p.A. successfully asked and obtained from suppliers of logistic responsibility). new suppliers are part of an evaluation services (transports), according to the criteria established by the Certification Body, program of Alcantara S.p.A. that considers the calculation of CO2 emissions and related offsetting, through the well-established Alcantara S.p.A. identifies as strategic environmental, social, human rights, and practice of the purchase of offsetting projects. the suppliers operating in the following areas: labor criteria, among others. The amount of CO2 offset by suppliers corresponds to about 5,000 tons. For further information on Carbon Neutrality, please refer to Chapter 6. CSR ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS TYPE OF SUPPLY 2016 2017 TOTAL AT 31/03/2017 Product nobilitation processes 3 4 Tender and logistics services 6 5 14 Waste disposal services 1 2 3 Raw materials /packaging 1 TOTAL AUDIT 10 7 22 Alcantara S.p.A. purchases exclusively raw materials authorized by the community standards (REACH) and subjects every new raw material to a strict assessment with regard to its environmental impact and safety for consumers before using it in a production process. 82 28 29 SA8000® RESPONSIBLE — 2.4 Institutions PROCUREMENT With regard to the transfer of value to the State and Local Authorities through the payment of direct and indirect taxes and other contributions, the sum of Since 2007 goods and service suppliers have collaborated € 14,892,000 paid in 2017 Fiscal Year increased essentially due to IRES with Alcantara S.p.A. in maintaining the levels laid down in (Corporate Income Tax). the SA8000® standard. Alcantara S.p.A. elaborated a schedule of audits conducted on “core” and “super-core” suppliers Alcantara S.p.A. FINANCIAL RELATIONS WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND THE STATE (€/000) has established by qualified experts and the SA8000® manager, with the relationships with the LOCAL AUTHORITIES 2016 2017 objective of checking their commitment towards the “social Public Institutions IRAP (Regional Business Tax) 1,895 1,944 responsibility” standard. Furthermore, the audits aimed at based on transparency and collaboration. Waste disposal tax 61 57 detecting any situations of risk relating to the right to exercise It has also engaged Universities in projects Utility taxes and surtax 125 101 freedom of association and collective bargaining, respect for human rights and forced or child labour. The non-conformities aimed at developing ICI/IMU (property tax – part allocated to the Municipality) 191 193 the relationship found are classifiable as “minor”. The suppliers were requested between public Advertising tax 9 9 to take corrective actions and provide evidence of their and private research Other taxes due 8 15 (for further details see implementation. paragraph 5.2) TOTAL 2,289 2,319 NUMBER OF AUDITS SA8000® STATE 2016 2017 TYPE OF SUPPLY At 31/12/2014 2016 2017 TOTAL AT 31/03/2017 IRES (Corporate Income Tax) 10,357 11,855 Product nobilitation processes 23 3 4 30 Customs duties 341 342 Tender and logistics services 32 2 1 35 IMU (property tax – part allocated to the State) 174 174 Waste disposal services 5 1 6 VAT on gifts 128 142 Raw materials/packaging 18 4 22 Capital transfer tax and excise licences 23 15 TOTAL AUDITS 78 10 5 93 Other taxes due 41 45 TOTAL 11,064 12,573 Within the scope of the three-year audit plan (from 1 January 2014 PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION TOTAL 13,353 14,892 to 31 March 2017), Alcantara S.p.A. carried out 28 audits to directly assess supplier fulfilment of requirements. These The table also includes deferred tax assets amounting to € 311,000 in 2017 (€ 836,000 in 2016), of which audits did not reveal any supplier violations of the applicable € 224,000 for IRES (€ 717,000 in 2016) and € 87,000 for IRAP (€ 119,000 in 2016). workplace health and safety or environmental and public health protection legislation, or the international principles to which reference is made in the SA8000® standard, or any social emergency situations (unreported employment, child labour, etc.) justifying suspensions and/or revocations of the contract. None of the suppliers had to be put on “warning status”. GOVERNMENT FINANCING Plans of action were drawn up together with the suppliers for areas identified as having room for improvement. The 2016 figure includes two additional audits (not planned) aimed at In 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. directly assessing the implementation of the improvement continued to monitor mainly national tax action plan at the supplier sites. relief opportunities, aiming at supporting Based on the audits carried out in the last three years, 23 companies committed to investment action plans were launched (9 plans in 2014 – 9 plans in projects, research and protection 2016 Fiscal Year– 5 plans in 2017 Fiscal Year) involving the activities of trademarks and patents. same number of suppliers (82% of the inspections made were Furthermore, here below are reported the associated with an improvement plan), for a total of 100 findings benefits found in the distribution of added and relative corrective actions. value to the Public Administration. 2014-2017 AUDIT PROGRAMME IMPROVEMENT PLANS GRANTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED 2016 2017 2014 2016 2017 TOTAL 01/01/2014 31/03/2017 Contribution to energy-intensive businesses ( 60) (319) Total Audits 13 10 5 28 Tax credit investments (60) Total plans (with corrective actions) 9 9 5 23 Regional bonus for hirings Total No. of findings 48 36 16 100 TOTAL (120) 319 30 31 TAX BENEFITS LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE CHARACTERISTICS Patent Box (ex art.1, c 37-45 Law Tax relief on income from the intangible assets, so called intangibles of 23 December 2014 n. 190 “Stability Law” such as trademarks, patents, models and similar. (Italian Draft Budgetary Plan), modified The Company has directed its efforts to the evaluation of this advantage by Decrete Law of 24 January 2015, n.3 , and applied for participation in the above mentioned procedure, electronically and converted with Law of 24 March 2015, n.33) presented on 23 March 2016. On 17 June 2016 the Lombardy Regional Office declared admissible the preliminary settlement request presented by Alcantara S.p.A. The outcome will be available shortly. Super depreciation (art.1 c 91,92,93, Bonus concerning tax rules for depreciation, whereby it would be possible and 94 Law of 28 December 2015 n.208 to book maxi-depreciation on capital goods investments. “Stability Law” (Italian Draft Budgetary Plan) The provision is aimed at encouraging investments in new capital goods through a percentage increase of the tax cost of the goods themselves, in order to allow the inclusion of portions of depreciation in the tax period and higher finance lease payments for the purposes of IRES (Corporate Income Tax). During 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. conducted an analysis of the investments made in the “facilitated” period, discovering an income tax benefit of € 188,000, which will be utilized over a period of 12 years corresponding to the maximum period of depreciation of the investments. Extension of super-depreciation The law of 11 December 2016 extended the benefit of super-depreciation and hyper-depreciation Law no. 232 for the period 1 January 2017 to June 2018, so in coming months Alcantara S.p.A. of 11 December 2016, art. 1 (90 -14 ) will conduct studies requiring documentary analysis (annexes A and B) and verification to determine and acquire the benefit for new assets acquired in the tax period just ended (1 April 2016 31 March 2017). At the same time, the law in question introduced a new “hyper-depreciation” provision with application solely to the purchase of assets included in special lists, with specific characteristics of automation in line with the requisites of the national Industry 4.0 plan. Alcantara S.p.A. therefore took prompt action to assess the situation through a special interfunctional working group to study and identify future benefits that may be forthcoming in future years. MEMBERSHIP IN TRADE LIST OF ASSOCIATIONS OF WHICH ALCANTARA S.P.A. ASSOCIATIONS WAS A MEMBER AS AT 31 MARCH 2017 FAI (Italian National Trust) MITTELMODA AUSED (Association of users of NATIONAL CHAMBER Alcantara S.p.A. participates in many information systems and technologies) OF FASHION associations and/or institutions through ASSOFIBRE JAPANESE CHAMBER its membership fees and direct presence OF COMMERCE in order to support the Company’s ASSOLOMBARDA JAPANESE SCHOOL representation and use the services ASSOUMBRA ITALIA-JAPAN FOUNDATION provided by the associations. FEDERCHIMICA UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT IBC (Consumer goods industrial CLINTON GLOBAL FOUNDATION Alcantara S.p.A. has never paid association) contributions for political purposes and TEXCLUBTEC ASHOKA has no future plans to do so. 33 s U s T a in 03 L a B a Highlights Ci • Staff increase of 6.2% (from 518 employees in 2016 to 550 in 2017 Fiscal Year) iL iTy sO • Over 30,000 total hours of training for employees on quality, safety, environment, iT and other important topics • Over 200 hours of training on ethics, human rights huma and social responsibility • 3 years of relevant certification for the health and safety management system in compliance with OHSAS 18001 (2015 to 2018) • No injuries at the Milan headquarters since 2011 n r e • Lower gravity index than in prior years s o c es ur NOTE: The indications “2016” and “2017” in this document refer to the 12-month periods 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 and 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 and correspond to the Fiscal Year of Alcantara S.p.A. 35 2017-2020 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN PEOPLE COMMITMENTS ACHIEVED IN 2017 FISCAL YEAR SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Staff Management • increase the dialogue between the Company and its staff, • sharing of Company objectives increased with periodic 2020 OBJECTIVE AREAS OF ACTION stimulating the creation of sharing moments based in part meetings of the working groups' task force and through on the training program conducted during the year; the organization of transverse training opportunities, such as the one for factory master; • continuous improvement • intensify internal communication, improving the • organized of the working groups' task force of human resources management; existing instruments such as the Company intranet at the plant logistics structure and at production to discuss and develop new ideas and forms of engagement; problems at the respective sites; • improve the process for orienting new hires to • organized working groups to discuss Company strategic Company activities; objectives; • pursue the personnel orientation and professional development program for high-potential individuals; • develop access points to the Company intranet • selected Zucchetti software to manage staff and to upgrade at the Nera Montoro site particularly for plant workers. the Company’s intranet personnel page. • continuous improvement • achieve zero accidents at Alcantara S.p.A. in workers’ health and safety. and maintain OHSAS 18001 certification; Health & Safety • identify 350+ safety proposals and 100+ near-accidents at the Nera Montoro site; • identify 10+ safety proposals at the Milan • no injuries at the Nera Montoro • four accidents in 2017 Fiscal Year headquarters. production plant; at the Nera Montoro plant; • no injuries at the Milan headquarters; • no accidents in 2017 Fiscal Year at the Milan headquarters; • mantainance of OHSAS 18001 • OHSAS 18001 certification confirmed in 2017 Fiscal Year certification at both sites; at the Milan headquarters and the Nera Montoro plant; • identification of 350 safety proposals and 100 near-missed accidents at Nera Montoro production plant; • 372 safety proposals and 108 near-accidents presented at the Nera Montoro production plant; — 3.1 Management • identification of 10 safety proposals at Milan headquarters. • 6 safety proposals presented at the Milan headquarters. Policies and Composition Alcantara S.p.A. considers its staff to be the main resource for achieving its strategic aims and the key factor Alcantara S.p.A. pursues the growth policies that guarantee internal fairness, for business growth and motivation of its staff through: competitiveness with the market, and and development. recognition of the results achieved. A fundamentally important element • communication and sharing of of the management corporate, team and individual These strategies are pursued through the approach is the assumption of objectives; definition of annual operating plans, with responsibility by • control and feedback on the results implementation systematically monitored employees on all levels, obtained; through Company meetings. which is expressed through respect of the • teamwork and knowledge of Company roles, relationships processes; Given the new context imposed by the between employees • development of training plans aimed increased production capacity and sales, and their supervisors, and interdepartmental at career development on all levels; it is recommended to upgrade the skills of teamwork. • implementation of remuneration the staff involved. 36 37 STAFF COMPOSITION BREAKDOWN OF STAFF BY ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION AND TURNOVER QUALIFICATION 2016 2017 Middle school qualification 59 54 High school diploma 337 350 The average number of employees As University degree 122 146 recorded during 2017 Fiscal Year was 541, an increase of 52 compared to the average at 31 March 2017 , TOTAL 518 550 in the previous year. The flexibility of the Alcantara S.p.A. staff BREAKDOWN OF STAFF BY AGE GROUP market demand affected the trend in the included 550 units, 94 of them AGE 2016 2017 Company staff: Alcantara S.p.A. continued responding to this need for flexibility with working at the Milan headquarters <30 years 71 69 fixed-term contracts and the use of some and 456 at the Nera Montoro 30-50 years 377 408 staff leasing agreements. production plant and research centre. >50 years 70 73 With particular reference to the production The increase in the TOTAL 518 550 plant, due to the increase in production Company staff as at 31 The average age at the Milan headquarters and at the production plant and research and development center of Nera Montoro declined slightly from the previous year: 41.08 for March 2017 was 6.2% over capacity, Alcantara S.p.A. gave a concrete response to the needs of the territory the headquarters and 39.7 for the plant. employing workers coming from local the previous year. 2016 2017 companies going through a period of NEW CONTRACTS Number Rate Number Rate crisis, where possible. STAFF 2016 (31 March) 2017 (31 March) A percentage of 78.9% of the staff are Men 64 14.6% 38 8.3% on an open-ended contract with an EMPLOYMENT MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Women 17 21% 20 21.3% increase of 16 persons compared to the LEVEL TOTAL 81 15.6% 58 10.5% previous year; this is due to the fact that, Top management 16 1 17 1 when market demand is consolidated, the Middle management 42 13 41 18 TERMINATED CONTRACTS 2016 2017 Company tends to stabilize the fixed-term (TURNOVER)* Number Rate Number Rate Office workers 71 50 75 58 contracts as far as possible. There are still some active apprenticeship contracts but Manual workers and 308 17 323 17 Men 32 7.3% 18 3.9% apprentices fewer than in the past. Women 9 11.1% 6 6.4% TOTAL 437 81 456 94 TOTAL 41 7.9% 24 4.4% Most of the Company staff live in areas 518 550 * The figures do not represent the number of employees joining or leaving the Company during the year but the close to their workplace: 92% of the staff number of movements and thus include cases in which an individual joined and left the Company more than once at the production plant and research STAFF 2016 2017 during the year. centre in Nera Montoro live in the PERMANENT VS MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN The outward turnover for 2017 Fiscal Year (4.4%) was significantly lower than the province of Terni, while 63% of the staff TEMPORARY CONTRACT previous year. Hiring continues to increase and registers an increment in the number of working at the Milan headquarters live in Permanent staff 346 72 355 79 women, a rate of 21% in line with 2016. the province of Milan. Temporary staff 91 9 101 15 TURNOVER MILAN NERA MONTORO Of senior managers (top management) FULL VS PART TIME BY REGION Number Rate Number Rate 56% live in the province of Milan, while Full-time staff 437 80 456 92 100% of the senior managers at Nera New contracts 2017 18 19.1% 40 8.8% Part-time staff 1 2 Montoro plant live in the province of Terni. Terminated contracts 2017 6 6.4% 18 3.9% Regarding the two principal geographical areas, the Nera Montoro site was the area with the highest number of hires in 2017 Fiscal Year. The Milan headquarters showed the highest percentage level of hires (19.1%) and terminations (6.4%). TURNOVER NEW CONTRACTS TERMINATED CONTRACTS BY AGE GROUPS 2017 Number Rate Number Rate <30 years 16 23.2% 1 1.1% 30-50 years 37 9.1% 11 2.7% >50 years 5 6.8% 12 16.4% Most of terminated contracts refer to fixed-term contracts that had expired and to retirements. 38 39 — 3.2 Diversity and Respect NERA MONTORO MILAN for Human Rights TRAINING ON HUMAN RIGHTS Hours No. workers involved Hours No. workers involved PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL Sustainability project and SA8000® 99 67 18.6 44 21.4% Alcantara S.p.A. 2016 Training on Italian Legislative 42.5 73 75.6 50 23.7% is also sensitive to Decree 231/2001 equal opportunities although, since Sustainability project and SA8000® 164.5 53 3.3 5 10.5% it operates in a production and 2017 Training on Italian Legislative 72.5 76 1 5 14.7% industrial environment, Decree 231/2001 the number of women is lower than men. The distribution In 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. continued its training program on human rights, of staff according to gender is The Company has never committed or permitted overt or sustainability and Legislative Decree 231/01, confirming the Company’s commitment to these issues. The change in the hours provided, particularly in the Milan headquarters, characterized by an increase veiled discrimination in relations with its staff. In support of this was due to the high number of hours and number of employees involved in 2016 in female staff approach, Alcantara S.p.A. offers the possibility of informing the Supervisory Board Fiscal Year, when a training project was implemented for the Sales Force, Corporate from 63 in 2013 to 94 in 2017 Fiscal Year. of any cases of conduct that violate the Code of Ethics or Communication, Technical Marketing departments, with the objective of developing a more effective commecial approach, with sustainability as the key ingredient in the reporting any potential risks of this, with the possibility, where necessary, of involving Alcantara® offering to customers. the workers’representative for the SA8000 system ® . In 2017 Fiscal Year, 48 employees (36 men and 12 women) of the Milan heaquarters and the production plant and research and development center of Nera Montoro took parental leave, significantly more than the previous year. This leave consisted primarily of mandatory maternity leave and voluntary leave to assist the disabled (Law 104) and paternity leave (mandatory and voluntary). On expiry of their leave, with the only exception of ongoing maternity leaves, all employees returned to work and they were all present as at 31 March 2017. Alcantara S.p.A. respects the legislation in force also with regard to the inclusion and integration of staff belonging to minority groups. In 2017 Fiscal Year, 8% of employees belonged to these groups. MINORITY GROUPS 2016 2017 Number of employees belonging to minority groups 42 44 Minority groups percentage with respect to the total 8.1% 8.0% number of employees Social Accountability Project SA8000® Certification in accordance with the international standard SA8000® (Social Accountability 8000), held by Alcantara S.p.A. since 2008 to maintain a high level of respect for human rights within the Company and along the value chain, represents another sign of responsible management. All Company staff is informed of and periodically trained on the spirit and principles of this standard through specific training courses and special meetings. All new hires are given specific training together with a folder containing the SA8000® standard’s contents and principles. 40 41 — 3.3 Incentives and Remuneration INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS Alcantara S.p.A. STAFF INVOLVED IN INCENTIVE INTERVENTIONS promotes staff management and TYPE OF INCENTIVE OPERATION 2016 2017 motivation through All workers are covered by National provisions on the use of fixed-term and incentive and M.B.O. (Management By Objective) 104 84 and lump-sum bonuses Collective Labour Agreements (CCNL) staff-leasing contracts, regarding the development policies and measures. To this for employees in the chemical, number of workers and the maximum Pay rise 14 27 aim, on a yearly basis, chemical/pharmaceutical and chemical duration of these contracts. Confirming incentives not due by Promotion to higher employment level 72 87 fibres industries and the abrasives, the premises and scenarios illustrated contract, in addition to TOTAL 190 198 lubricants and LPG sectors, which in the 2014 agreement, the parties those resulting from organizational establish the rules and methods for agreed that the exceptions had been changes and/or Lump-sum bonuses are paid to staff that plant and research centre in Nera Montoro handling trade union relations on the positively received by the Company and automatic contractual make a major contribution or obtain results are assessed systematically at every change provisions, are defined various levels of representation (national, the workers involved and extended their and planned to reward that go beyond the established targets of of position and, in any case, at least once local and corporate). validity to June 2019; the skills expressed on significance to the Company. There are a year. During 2017 Fiscal Year over 95% • definition of the work schedule, on an individual level. also promotions along career development of production plant staff have been Alcantara S.p.A.’s objective is to which an agreement was reached, paths and transfers to higher positions. assessed at least once by their supervisors consolidate a positive and constructive and subsequently an analysis of its The Company also has a variable (the value includes some staff under system of industrial relations on all application was shared with the trade remuneration system associated with the leasing agreements). levels consistent with the strategic, union representatives, particuarly achievement of the profit and performance organizational and cultural developments regarding the use of individual targets set on both an individual and team Investigating remuneration proportion of the Company and based on maximum entitlements in relation to past, present level. Top management, other managers, between genders, the ratio between the transparency and participation. and future commitments of the Company. and key persons at Alcantara S.p.A. are average gross annual salary paid to women The parties agreed on the actions to be included in an annual variable targetand the salary paid to men is equal to 0.71 Alcantara S.p.A. believes that industrial taken to prevent potential problems; oriented incentive plan, taking into account in case of top and middle management relations and a positive bargaining • agreement on the analysis their economic, social and environmental (with a difference of -29.35%), 0.96 in case atmosphere are fundamentally important of maintenance availabilty, after which performance. The middle management, of employees (with a difference of -3.5%) to support the business process. In a new agreement was concluded with not included in the variable incentive and 1,015 in case of manual workers and particular, the Company holds meetings a different availability calendar, plan, is assessed on the basis of the apprentices (with a difference of +1.54%). at which the workers’ representatives formulated to ensure faster response responsibilities managed within the scope are informed in advance of Company time and greater recovery of the of the relationship between workers and The salaries paid to new recruits are decisions. At the meetings with the psycho-physical energy of the their supervisors. slightly higher than the minimum laid workers’ representatives, every effort workers involved. down by the national contract: +5.43% is made to share these decisions and Alcantara S.p.A. has adopted a slender is average salary paid to new recruits any alternative proposals are always Lastly, the agreement on the productivity and efficient assessment system based on (excluding supervisors) compared to the considered. bonus was shared with the trade unions. which all employees at every level receive National Collective Labour Agreement The bonus, paid to all employers periodic assessments. In particular, all staff (CCNL) applied without any distinction The principal topics discussed in 2017 excluding supervisors during the month employed and working at the production between genders. Fiscal Year were: of May 2016, amounted to 89.6% of the • analysis of application of the agreement maximum agreed value, following the of 21 July 2014, which permitted final reporting of the profit and production exceptions to legislative and contractual results of 2017 Fiscal Year. 42 43 — 3.4 Training and Career Development Training is systematically included in Alcantara S.p.A.’s strategic plans and is considered an indispensable tool for building, developing and consolidating professional skills and know-how. It is also an important tool and lever to engage On a yearly basis, the HR Department the personnel office. The effectiveness and motivate the staff. collects training preferences and needs of training is evaluated in real time with from each department, with clear learning tests (for external classes and identification of priorities. These requests HSE) and in the medium-long term by compose the general plan that is later supervisors, who, in the yearly assessment approved by the HR Director in line with of their team performance, are also called Company needs and approved budget to express an opinion on the effectiveness allocations. The plan is implemented by of the training given to the individuals. TRAINING SESSIONS 2016 2017 Average hours per capita (man hours) 67 55 Costs (€) 73,000 72,300 Total number of hours of training provided 34,800 30,481 • technical and career development 3,661 6,327 • courses for new hires 26,520 21,325 • quality 67 28 • safety and environment 4,545 2,798 • IT 7 3 The total hours of training are in line with training initiatives and plans, especially the prior fiscal years; in particular, the in case of: increase in hours of technical training • new recruitment; and professional development is due to • transfer to other work positions; the commitment of Alcantara S.p.A. to the • changes in organization and/or growth of its personnel and especially for technical/technological innovations new hires during the year. that significantly affect the worker’s professional profile; Staff on all levels are directly involved in • career development paths. AVERAGE HOURS OF NERA MONTORO MILAN TOTAL TRAINING GIVEN IN 2017 FISCAL YEAR Men Women Men Women Plant workers 46.5 36.6 46.2 Apprentices 49.5 260.6 26.7 134.7 Office workers 61.5 91 14.8 9.9 47.6 Middle management 29.2 28.1 8.9 14.4 19.8 External * 34.4 40.3 73 34.7 Top management 28.3 5.5 7.7 * “External” category includes staff employed with leasing agreements or from external companies. 45 During 2017 Fiscal Year, the training developed by managers of the various areas. on technical and technological aspects as further prevention and protection measures clothes and subsequent periodic pick-up, held at the production plant and research Training was also initiated on the well as safety. fully implemented during the year; laundering and delivery to the lockers of centre in Nera Montoro concerned mainly Chemical Management System, and At Milan headquarters, specific training • in 2017 Fiscal Year, working groups individual workers, and replacement of new hires (more than 20,000 hours) and that on product safety was increased. courses were planned on topics such as: were instituted up to the shift level, and worn clothing; staff involved in career development and The trade union representatives and • training for new hires and apprentices; Toray questionnaires were administered • supply of hard hats to all staff following professional growth (including operating Company industrial relations officers • training to implement the CRM in all the Toray plants worldwide; the analysis of a “near-miss accident” flexibility). Also significant was the participated jointly in a training session (Customer Relationship Management) • safety summit and international audits as proposed by a worker; this hard hat is training provided after the installation of on industrial relations for productivity project, which involved all the staff in the of the Toray Group, with the direct currently used in all operating areas near new production lines. and employment, following the guidelines sales, technical marketing, administration participation of Toray’s top management, machines, plants and other structures Furthermore, there were numerous training of the category’s national labor contract. and finance, and IT areas; in 2017 Fiscal Year those activities to protect heads from injury caused by courses on the various certified company For SSA training, beyond the one • course on stable organization in China concerned meetings and exchanges with impacts. systems (e.g. ISO 50001, ISO 14000, required by law for new machinery, and the USA; the Toray plants in France and the UK; ISO TS16949, FMEA technique, and for the transfer of workers, for the • 81/08 training for new hires and new • specific work groups for functional There have been no accidents at the Milan introduction to the new IATF). orientation of new staff, for updates for appointees; areas in the field of sustainability, headquarters from 2011 to 2017 Fiscal RLS (worker safety representatives, • updating/training of new members of management of pressure equipment, Year. Charts regarding the frequency and A training program was initiated for RSPP (prevention and protection the fire-fighting and first aid teams. hoists, etc.; gravity indices are therefore provided only supervisors and technical staff in service officers), ASPP (prevention and • emergency teams with equipment that for the Nera Montoro plant. the production areas regarding Total protection staff), workers and supervisors, During 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. is not compulsory in accordance with the Accidents are managed in compliance Productive Maintenance (TPM), which Alcantara S.p.A. provided training on the instituted one internship for the Milan law (fire engine, ambulance, surgery with with the procedure “accident reporting will be further developed next year. new Company responsibilities for waste, headquarters and seven for the Nera daily medical and on-call service 24 hours and analysis – near-accidents and Alcantara S.p.A. designed and implemented prevention and protection measures for Montoro plant (2 graduate internships, 4 a day); injuries” (PSSA5.3°), included in the the Factory Master, a multi-session training work at heights, emergency management, internships for upper secondary school • provision of training to the contractors' SSA management system certified under program designed for high-potential and the training and inclusion of new students, 1 research contract with the staff (e.g. DPR177/11 Working in OHSAS 18001; this procedure complies individuals with a relatively short period employees in the emergency team. University of Perugia and 2 for students confined spaces, DUVRI risk assessment with D.P.R. no. 1124 of 30 June 1965. of Company orientation. The purpose of of the Higher Technical Institute of Terni), document etc.); the program is to involve and motivate the Some training courses at the plant were offering 8 young people the opportunity • activation of a specific service for the There have been four injuries at the Nera participants and provide them with specific dedicated to the use and maintenance of to experience employment and gain rental and industrial laundering of work Montoro plant in 2017 Fiscal Year, noted training on the principal Company processes, new machinery and equipment, with a focus significant training. apparel, involving the supply of work in the accidents register. NUMBER HOURS FREQUENCY INDEX GRAVITY INDEX OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES — 3.5 Occupational OF INJURIES (WITH WORKED number of injuries/ hours worked Days of absence due to injury/ RATE Number of cases of Health and Safety ABSENCE) x 1,000,000 hours worked occupational disease/ x 1,000 hours worked x 1,000,000 2016 734,268 0.124 Alcantara S.p.A. With this commitment the Company has awareness of the safety policy; 2017 4 837,627 4.78 0.104 is committed to and obtained certification of the health and • health, safety and environment plan invests in improving the health and safety safety management system (OHSAS 18001), (activities involved in the “Zero Injuries” of everyone, not only renewed in October 2015 until 2018, and project of the Toray Group) extended to the In 2017 Fiscal Year, all the injuries concerned male employees. of its own staff but also positive oversight during 2017 Fiscal Year. Milan headquarters from 2017 Fiscal Year; third parties, going well beyond the obligatory • disaster prevention plan: supervisory and NUMBER OF HOURS FREQUENCY GRAVITY provisions laid down by The number of workers directly involved monitoring activities in the safety and INJURIES WORKED INDEX INDEX law. Its aim is to reach in the system of health and safety-related environmental sectors to avoid injuries and the “Zero Injuries” Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men objective. roles is over 30% of the entire staff. environmental pollution, extended to the 2017 4 80,100 757,526 5.28 0.104 Alcantara S.p.A. prevents health and safety Milan headquarters from 2017 Fiscal Year; risks by going well beyond the requirements • analysis of the accidents that took place Alcantara S.p.A. data are significantly below average industry data (source: Federchimica Responsible Care). laid down by the legislation in force, through throughout the Toray Group worldwide to consolidated measures that help to keep improve measures for preventing accidents the “health and safety system” dynamic and injuries, including environmental and involve staff on all levels. The most (similar accident surveys), by analysing important activities, carried out primarily in situations similar to those that resulted in the Nera Montoro plant, were: accidents in other companies of the Group; • safety proposals, safety patrols and safety in particular, during 2017 Fiscal Year, the shift leaders (box at p.51); analysis looked at risks associated with • 3Z Project for reducing accidents, complaints rotating parts, fire risk, environmental and production problems to a minimum; pollution risk, manual load handling and • safety declaration: increase in staff handling by forklift, with identification of 46 47 FI = no. injuries x 10 hours worked 6 Frequency index* “Zero Injuries” (FI – represents the frequency of injuries and indicates the number of injuries per million hours worked) Project 30 25 20 11.9 15 10 7.69 5.76 4.78 5 4.56 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2016 2017 Average of the Industry The aim of the “Zero Injuries” project is to identify further room for improvement *Source: 22nd Responsible Care Report, Federchimica in safety management and, more specifically, to move towards the “Zero Injuries” target, The total frequency index also includes treatment without loss of fitness for work. The formula used to calculate the accident indexes differ thus going beyond the requirements laid down by the current legislation. from those proposed by GRI, in that reference is made to one million hours of work as opposed to 200,000. Over 9 years after the beginning of the project (June 2006), a considerable improvement from the technical and operational viewpoints has been recorded due, among other things, to the use of the following tools: • safety policy: every year the holding Company establishes the slogan Gravity index* to be used to investigate health and safety issues; days lost x 10 3 GI = hours worked (GI – indicates the number of days’ work lost per thousand hours worked) • hyari-hatto (incidents): the holding Company sends all Companies in the Group the reports of the accidents that have happened at Companies all over the world, which allows them to assess any similar situations and take 0.2 0.184 specific preventive and protective measures; 0.18 • EHS audits: every year, all the plants of the Group in Europe are subjected 0.160 to EHS (Environmental, Health & Safety) audits by the management 0.16 0.14 of a different plant; 0.14 0.124 • safety patrol (employees and middle management) and safety shift leader 0.12 (shift operators): weekly or shift-based internal audits. Since 2014, the safety 0.111 0.1 0.104 patrol team has included three operators that stood out in the previous year due 0.08 to the number of safety proposals submitted; • safety day (production plant meeting open to everyone) and safety dinner 0.06 (dinner with management): collective explanation of the main Company events 0.039 0.04 of the quarter and sharing of the Company’s strategies and projects with the entire 0.02 staff of the production plant; 0 0.004 • safety proposals: practical improvement proposals for health, safety 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 2017 Members and environmental issues that any worker may propose and for which Resp. Care he is called upon to find an adequate response; *Source: 22nd Responsible Care Report, Federchimica • accidents and near misses: reports from employees of potentially The days lost due to injury are calculated considering the day on which the accident occurred and are counted in calendar days. hazardous situations that could lead to injuries; The formula used to calculate the accident indexes differ from those proposed by GRI, in that they refer to a thousand hours worked as opposed to 200,000. • work groups: formation of work groups for specific functional areas with a view to developing the greater participation of staff in the identification, assessment and minimization of health, safety and environmental risks and impacts; • safety shift meetings: meetings for shift workers on safety. Lastly, there was one injury involving an outside collaborator, i.e. not an employee of Alcantara S.p.A. but an independent contractor operating in its plant. RESULTS ACCIDENTS NEAR-MISSES SAFETY OF THE “ZERO INJURIES” PROPOSALS The absenteeism rate for Nera Montoro, computed as the ratio of absences from work PROJECT (excluding vacation time) to total work-days, was 4.7%: this figure is slightly higher 2016 21 142 369 than that of the previous year and an improvement over the national average for industry (7%) (Source: Confindustria survey on the work market – 2012). 2017 27 108 372 48 49 — 3.6 Internal Communication Alcantara S.p.A. pays particular The most attention significant activities carried out in 2017 Fiscal Year are: to listening and dialogue with • constant updating of the Company’s intranet and employees in order to establish collaborative relationships between individuals, thus notice boards; increasing the sense of • twice-yearly publication of the house organ Inside, belonging and the spread of the Company distributed in printed form to all staff as well as to the headquarters values and culture. and production plant to facilite exchanges of information and bolster consensus and sense of belonging; • internal climate survey, results measurement and implementation of action plans; • participation of Alcantara S.p.A. staff in the European annual forum of the Toray Group; •“ Safety Day” and “Safety Dinner” for the production plant of Nera Montoro. Staff benefits • occupational and extra-occupational insurance: in addition to the provisions laid down by INAIL (National Institute for Insurance Alcantara S.p.A. gives its staff some benefits in addition to the provisions against Accidents at Work) and in extension to non-work activities, the Company laid down in the Collective Labour Agreement: takes out an insurance policy for all members of staff; • study grants for the children of employees: in 2017 Fiscal Year, • fida: by paying a minimal monthly fee, employees may freely join a fund, Alcantara S.p.A. awarded 32 study grants for the children of employees, based co-financed largely by Alcantara S.p.A., that refunds the costs of health services; on the procedures defined in a specific announcement. The study grants were • recreational club: the Company sets aside a yearly amount for the meant for primary, lower and upper secondary school children, and were awarded recreational club; the Cral/Dopolavoro Sports and Social Club organizes cultural by the Chairman and the management during the 2016 Christmas lunch. or sports activities for employees and their families; This gave children and young adults the opportunity to see the workplace • Company health service: at the production plant and research and and meet the colleagues of their parents; development centre in Nera Montoro, there is a health service operating • without barriers: again in 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A. continued 24 hours a day, which has an ambulance and a defibrillator; the prize “without barriers”, instituted in 2016 Fiscal Year for the children • loyalty bonus: when employees reach 25 years of service, Alcantara S.p.A. of employees with disabilities. The prizes were awarded along with the scolarship awards them a bonus; ceremony: the children and their families then joined the management for • on-duty allowance: paid to employees responsible for handling the Christmas dinner; emergencies and to maintenance staff; • intercompany crèche: for the fourth year in a row, the experience of • improvement of common areas and work environments: in 2017 Fiscal the crèche continues in partnership with two other companies based near the Year the Company continued the maintenance and renovation activities of green production plant of Nera Montoro. The structure is also open to children areas, and the restyling of some offices and of some common spaces; of non-employees but resident in the territory. The cost to be borne by the • sharing events: during 2017 Fiscal Year the staff was involved in several employees is comparable with that of public crèches, while the remaining activities and events: on Easter, at the Nera Montoro plant, the Holy Easter Mass part is paid by the Company; was celebrated with the participation of the Bishop of the Diocese of Narni, • Company canteen: the structural costs of the canteen are borne entirely by Terni and Amelia; a Christmas lunch was organized for the entire staff the Company. Employees pay a small percentage of the cost of each meal (about 11.5%); of the plant together with the Company’s top management. 50 51 s U s T a in 04 L a B a Highlights Ci • Total net turnover in 2017 Fiscal Year: iL € 186.6 million iTy sO • Turnover up 13,7% in value and 8.7% in volume • Sales growth continues outside the EU: + 24% in the USA and + 37% cust in China o me • Alcantara S.p.A now operates in five new countries: r Chile, Kuwait, malaysia, mongolia and Vietnam s EU = 60.2% China = 17.2% Others = 12.5% USA = 10% The Italian market accounts for about 13.9% of EU share, which means 8.4% of global sales. NOTE: The indications “2016” and “2017” in this document refer to the 12-month periods 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 and 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 and correspond to the Fiscal Year of Alcantara S.p.A. 53 Communication, dialogue and customer satisfaction COMMITMENTS ACHIEVED IN 2017 FISCAL YEAR • to interact with a wider panel of corporate stakeholders, • over 45 meetings with 125 representatives of Alcantara S.p.A.’s Interiors & Contract, Marine and Aviation with particular attention to the Communication, main customers to explain the trademark’s values and lifestyle, Brand and Marketing functions; attended by the heads of the Marketing, Colour & Trim, Product • to grow in foreign markets through a renovated offer • launch of the new “Wanderlust” collection, developed Design, PR & Communication, Licensing, Commercial, Buyers, (new collections), capable of making the product appealing in collaboration with the German designer Sebastian Herkner. R&D and Sustainability departments; not only for the traditional sector of furniture manufacturers Some items have already been included but also for designers and architects; in the Collections; • to create greater synergy between the commercial and product • a communication tool was developed to support the main activities, and the related communication aspects; customers – i.e. the “A’bout” brochures, customized gadgets, • to expand geographically, especially in Asia • significant expansion in markets outside Europe (over 60% joint public relations and social media activities; and North America; more sales than last year), especially in Korea and the USA; • to improve response times for the delivery of documents related • engagement activities were further developed: on • to grow in the aviation and marine markets. • aviation business grew by 36%. Sales mainly concentrated to the development process and the quality of pre-sales sustainability, through conventions and conferences; in the private jet sector, but there is a medium-term plan and after-sales services. in the art fields, for stronger relations with the worldwide to introduce Alcantara® on scheduled airlines. design community and museum institutions and in the social community through local initiatives. Automotive • to increase the engagement activities of clients regarding • meetings with more than 100 decision-makers Alcantara® (OEM Original Equipment Manufacturers); during the year to present Alcantara® material; • over 80 customers interviewed on the Alcantara® brand; • to increase the brand awareness among final consumers; • more than 10 POP communication activities at various customers’ dealerships; • to increase penetration with existing customers • customers penetration increased by 15% and more than 5 new and acquire new customers. customers were obtained. Fashion & Accessories and Consumer Electronics • to monitor and strengthen brand awareness and consolidate • outstanding results include winning contracts to work the market presence and distribution with market-leading companies which have decided to enhance of Alcantara® finished products; the value of their product by using Alcantara® brand (featuring it on their own packaging, marketing materials and websites); • to create marketing and communication partnerships • excellent results, above all in the consumer electronics sector with major clients; where Alcantara® has taken an active part in the launch of products made by the world’s best-known names; • to implement a plan of visits to customers to promote the key • visits to major customers organized over the course of the year factors of Alcantara®’s offer (tailor-made, global brand, Made in to showcase Alcantara® brand and emphasize its distinctive Italy, etc.) and to explain sustainability policies. values. Quality • to improve response times for the delivery of documents • a new Product Quality unit has been set up within the Quality related to the development process and the quality of pre-sales and Technologies department, dedicated to the technical and after-sales services. handling of after-sales problem reports, product retesting and refurbishing activities and the issuing of the certificates to customers. The aim is to manage after-sales issues more effectively and efficiently; • a new position was created in the Technical Marketing department to manage Customer Quality matters; • investment in special software to process PFMEA analysis, with training for Project Design staff. 54 55 PLANET ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 2017-2020 2020 OBJECTIVE AREAS OF ACTION SUSTAINABILITY PLAN • reduction of the environmental impact of the Company’s products; • start introducing on the market a new bio-based product with a high proportion of raw-materials from renewable sources; • continue the Company’s commitment to sourcing renewable inputs for existing processes and developing new products and applications; • reduction of the environmental impact • continue to develop and achieve customer approval of the production processes; for new products based on more sustainable production technologies; PEOPLE • development of Circular Economy. • set up a project in partnership with one or more SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Alcantara S.p.A. customers to consider possible end-of-life reuse of materials. 2020 OBJECTIVE AREAS OF ACTION • enhance Alcantara®’s international communication • strengthen the positioning of Alcantara S.p.A. as a Sustainable Brand for all sectors as a totally sustainable Made in Italy Company, intimately in which the product is used; connected with the international community of art & design, using new communication tools as well as traditional ones; • maintain the Company’s commitment to its plan for global brand recognition among final consumers as well; • continuous commitment to high Customer Satisfaction. • organize engagement activities on Alcantara S.p.A. both among customers (OEM) and through an enhanced POS presence; • study new ways of measuring Customer Satisfaction; • examine the possibility of introducing a system PROSPERITY of regular detection and reporting of percentage defects by individual customer as well as by market sector; ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY • complete transition to the new standard IATF 16949:2016 for Quality Management systems in the automotive industry. 2020 OBJECTIVE AREAS OF ACTION • ongoing commitment to high Customer Satisfaction; • explore the feasibility of introducing new and innovative products, processes and services (for Circular Economy and other benefits); • reduction of the environmental impact • set up advanced design activities; of the production processes; • development of Circular Economy. • strengthen the range of custom products created using complex processing technologies, through research into new technology, new suppliers and investment in high-tech plant complex enough to ensure flexibility in production. 56 57 — 4.1 Marketing Policy and Innovation Alcantara S.p.A. remains committed to its ambitious programme of boosting sales, Corporate Press Conference concentrating On 16 March 2017 Alcantara S.p.A. held a press conference at its Nera Montoro In 2015 Alcantara S.p.A. commissioned Interbrand* to conduct on the development a valuation of the Alcantara® brand. of the Asian and production plant to announce its expansion plan involving a significant increase in American markets as well the Company’s production capacity. The development plan calls for an investment That value was measured by analysing corporate economic and as the consolidation of € 300 million over five years in order to double the production capacity of financial parameters (balance sheets, cash flow, development of the European market. forecasts) in combination with an analysis of market demand and This commercial Alcantara S.p.A. At the end of that period turnover is expected to top € 300 million development activity is (compared with € 186.6 million in 2016), and the value of the brand should reach benchmarking with other brands in the premium segment**. directly related € 300 million, compared with the € 100 million estimated by Interbrand in 2015. The results of this research indicated that the value of the Alcantara to Alcantara S.p.A.’s brand had increased fifteen-fold in nine years and now stood (2015) capital spending Staff numbers, too, will rise. The press conference was attended by the following programmes which persons, as well as journalists: Claudio de Vincenti, Minister for Territorial Cohesion at € 100 million. Another very important piece of information provide and the South; Catiuscia Marini, President of the Umbria Regional Government; emerging from the study concerns the brand’s strength among endfor a doubling of the Company’s Francesco De Rebotti, Mayor of Narni; Angela Pagliuca, Prefect of Terni; Umberto users (External Brand Strength Score), revealing that Alcantara is production capacity Vattani, Ambassador and President of the Venice International University; Giovanna to be considered among the world’s successful cases of so-called in the next few years. Melandri, President of the MAXXI Foundation (National Museum of the 21st Century “ingredient brands”, i.e. brands capable of increasing the perceived Arts, Rome) and many other prominent authorities. value of the finished products to which they are applied. In 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A. commissioned Interbrand to assess its brand recognition and brand strength among top managers*** In order to deal with the diversification of its business and the increasing globalization in some of the Company’s main buniness sectors. of its markets, Alcantara S.p.A. has continued to reinforce its sales department, The results show that brand awareness is high and widespread and consolidating skills and strengthening support functions in its commercial organization. that the Brand Strength Score of the Alcantara® trademark is even greater than amongst end-consumers. Furthermore, relationships with established and prospective customers has continued and strengthened based on inter-functional corporate teams. The activities of the sales force in the market have found particularly good support in the capabilities deployed by the Technical Marketing and Design departments. The mix of skills which Alcantara S.p.A. makes available to its customers has given it a competitive edge over other companies * within the industry, enabling it not only to meet the market’s explicit requirements but Interbrand is the world’s leading agency in brand consultancy and boasts a network of 29 offices in 22 countries. also to make suggestions to customers for innovative solutions involving the products’ technical functionalities and customization, special processing of materials, aesthetic ** The interviewed sample is representative of end-users making premium purchases finishes and creative choices. in the world. *** The sales activity of Alcantara S.p.A. is guided by the Company’s “Points of Engagement”, The sample was selected between top managers of the most representative which set out the Company’s voluntary commitments and its chosen manner of tackling companies in the automotive and consumer electronics industries in Europe, the USA, China and Japan. business: they embody the very essence of its brand positioning. Specifically, the Company’s “Points of Engagement” are as follows: • develop worldwide recognition of the Alcantara® brand, building on its successes to date; • promote the positioning of the Alcantara® brand as one that understands and encapsulates a contemporary lifestyle centred around the uncompromising search for quality; • convey the inherent value of Made in Italy, as the epitome of Italian industry’s ability to create products using advanced technology yet maintaining craft creativity; • strengthen the Company’s ability to offer its customers highly tailored solutions combining style and technology; • constantly improve the sustainability of the Company, its business processes and its relationship with the suppliers and other stakeholders, preserving transparency to the utmost and continuously monitoring its own performances; • strengthen the Company’s overall approach to the market, reinforcing its business relations with customers around the world and developing the global communication of Alcantara S.p.A. 58 59 — 4.2 Customers and Markets Served This year Alcantara S.p.A. began operations in some new countries: Chile, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mongolia and Vietnam. The main business sectors in which Alcantara S.p.A. operates are: BRICS AREA NET SALES 2016 2017 CHANGE VS. PRIOR YEAR (€/000) Automotive (83%) Brazil 29 20 (9) Interior, Contract, Marine & Aviation (5%) China 23,428 32,054 8,626 Fashion & Accessories (10%) Russia 534 571 37 and Consumer Electronics (2%) India 3 12 9 South Africa 382 528 146 TOTAL 24,376 33,185 8,809 In 2017 Fiscal Year, sales present significant increases both in DESCRIPTION (€/000) 2016 2017 CHANGE VS. PRIOR YEAR Value Finished product sales 162,938 185,316 22,378 + 13.7 % By-product and different material sales TOTAL NET SALES 1,124 164,062 1,280 186,596 156 22,534 and Volume 8.7 % Sales may be broken down by geographical area as follows: + DESCRIPTION (€/000) 2016 % 2017 % CHANGE VS PRIOR YEAR Italy 13,303 8.1% 15,600 8.3% 2,29 EU 96,940 59.1% 96,814 51.9% (126) Extra-EU 53,819 32.8% 74,182 39.8% 20,363 TOTAL NET TURNOVER 164,062 100% 186,596 100% 22,533 The increase in overseas sales is a result of the wider global recognition and appreciation of the Alcantara® brand as an expression of Made in Italy products, meaning that Alcantara S.p.A. now does business in 68 countries around the world. 2017 Fiscal Year confirms the rising trend of the Extra-EU territory’s share in total turnover. Here sales again rose sharply, while the Italian territory also showed growth and that of the EU declined slightly. In the European market the eastern countries – Romania and Slovakia, where turnover increased by € 1,340,000 and € 1,902,000 over last year’s figures, respectively – largely made up for falls in the more traditional markets, in particular Spain and Germany where sales declined by € 1,223,000 and € 2,307,000 respectively; Germany still accounts for more sales than any other European country (59% of the EU total). Outside the EU virtually unchanged proportions of annual turnover went to China (43% vs 44% of last year) and to the USA (25% vs 28% of last year), though the absolute figures rose compared with 2016 by 37% and 24% respectively. There were also significant increases in South Korea, Japan, Morocco and Mexico compared to last year. 60 61 Alcantara® interiors for Alfa Romeo Giulia Quadrifoglio Characteristics of the market The world car industry is going through a period of major change and evolution. Emerging markets are growing, and market players are going through a gradual process of consolidation and globalization. In particular, 2017 Fiscal Year witnessed the consolidation of the Chinese market, strong growth in the USA market and the first signs of recovery from the crisis in the European market. As far as the market segments are concerned, the sports and luxury sectors have continued to grow in size and profitability. Also on the rise are environment-friendly and sustainable products and solutions: in fact, all automotive manufacturers have proposed increasingly light and low-consumption models and have offered “green” (hybrid or fully electric) power solutions. Some of these models have won growing attention from the public. Advantages of Alcantara® Due to its recognized elegant and sporty design, Alcantara® has managed to seize the opportunities offered by the market in 2017 Fiscal Year. In the car industry, the Alcantara® brand is associated with elegant versions (for example, luxury saloon cars) or sports styling (in high-performance cars). In addition, the light weight of Alcantara® helps car manufacturers reduce the bulk of their cars and thus achieve their performance and energy-saving objectives. Alcantara®’s intrinsic value as a Made in Italy product, its versatility and its adaptability to offer bespoke solutions, permit a high degree of product customization, making the model or version using Alcantara® material highly distinctive. Continuous technical and stylistic research ensures that customers are always offered cutting-edge solutions. Finally, a distinguishing element is the brand itself: the realization of its full potential is an objective shared by Alcantara S.p.A. and top car brands. Management approach The success of Alcantara S.p.A. is based on the following features of its offer: • the outstanding quality and versatility of the material; • its flexibility and the extreme customization to satisfy customers’ needs; • the brand, a byword for extraordinary quality and beauty; • its Italian character, reflected in the tasteful creativity of its products’ design, and in Alcantara S.p.A. themarriage of craftsmanship and technology in meeting the customer’s demands; continued to develop its key • its supportive closeness to the design community; • the sustainability of the Company and of the material. markets in 2017 Fiscal Year, deploying marketing the bulk of its commercial and In the automotive sector Alcantara S.p.A. makes every effort to pass these characteristics resources here and achieving increases of 23% on to OEMs and to final consumers. In the case of manufacturers, it achieves this by working with the designers to constantly develop modern new products; its Marketing and compared to 2016 in the American automotive market and Sales departments explain how Alcantara® can be leveraged to increase an automobile’s more than 48% in the Chinese one. perceived value, while the senior management shows how Alcantara® can be used as a strategic response to enhance and differentiate the customer’s whole range. The corresponding increase in the European market was about 6%. In the various meetings the Company held When it comes to the final consumer, Alcantara S.p.A. works with OEMs to foster the perception among car buyers that the quality of an interior in Alcantara® is something with Original Equipment Manufactures in the course of quite special. the year, Alcantara S.p.A. introduced the launch of its new bio-based product and the aim To further improve this approach, in 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A. conducted an audit among its direct customers (OEMs), interviewing more than 80 Heads of Design, at launching it on the market in the near Procurement or Marketing from the world’s major car manufacturers. The findings of this future. research will be used to improve the Company’s range and its approach to the customer. 62 63 Alcantara® Rutilus , Metamorphosis Collection for Tulip chair designed by Cappellini. INTERIORS, CONTRACT, The MARINE & AVIATION main developments of 2017 Fiscal Year include: • a significant increase in sales outside Europe, while the European market remainedlargely static; • continuedgrowth in the aviation sector • major projects for cruise ships, especially in the areas most on display (theatres, restaurants and suites) and other contract projects in particular in the hospitality, retail and corporate sectors Characteristics of the market Alcantara S.p.A.’s customers in the interiors, contract, marine & aviation sectors are, on the one hand, leading manufacturing companies and, on the other, distributors and publishing companies operating in countries where the market has great potential. The contract market (advertising spaces, hotels, boutiques, etc.) is served both through architecture and design firms and through furniture manufacturers specializing in this field. Marine sector customers are major shipyards and the leading recreational boat builder brands. In order to grow in the aviation market, Alcantara S.p.A. collaborates with design firms, airlines, and manufacturers of seats and other components. Advantages of Alcantara® Brand awareness and the product’s aesthetic, sensory and functional features lay the foundation for successful relationships with key European customers. In non-European countries, its strengths include the uniqueness of the tailor-made offering and the values associated with the brand, in particular Made in Italy. The fact that the material’s appearance can be transformed by using special techniques to ennoble its surface while keeping its functional characteristics almost completely the same makes it easier to develop collections that enrich the basic product line and stimulate designers to experiment. In the marine industry, for which Alcantara S.p.A. has developed specific variants for indoor and outdoor applications, Alcantara® is also valued for its breathability, long-lasting colour and resistance to marine and atmospheric elements. Lastly, its light weight and strength are especially valued by the aviation industry, as they allow for considerable savings in terms of weight, consumption and durability. Management approach Alcantara S.p.A. markets directly and through distributors or agents. As part of the direct approach, interdepartmental teams made up of an Account Manager and Design, Research and Communication staff can make visits to key customers. The new Wanderlust collection designed by Sebastian Herkner was finalized and introduced to the market this year. The official launch was at Deco Off, but there were various previews for the international press beforehand; the first sales have been taking place since mid-2017. 65 Alcantara® dress and bags designed by Rebecca Moses. In the fashion sector Alcantara S.p.A.’s customers are leading European fashion houses in the luxury segment. 2017 Fiscal Year saw an increase in volumes sold, mainly due to good performance in accessories in France and Italy. Characteristics of the market The main market is Europe: France in the leading one and Italy continues to be extremely relevant. Advantages of Alcantara® Alcantara® is a material with infinite customization options: it can cover any shape or surface in compliance with the strictest industry standards and can be adapted to exclusive customized solutions, satisfying any customer’s technical and design requirements. To enhance this inherent characteristic of the material, Alcantara S.p.A. has for many years been developing its capacity to offer exclusive solutions combining style and technology. This approach distinguishes Alcantara® from all its competitors and is exceedingly valued by leading global brands in the high-end segment. In addition to those factors there is the value of the Alcantara® brand itself, which is recognized and appreciated by the leading luxury brands because it adds value to their finished products. Management approach • Direct contact with all the main fashion brands & accessories; • Indirect contact through a network of agents operating in the main markets. 66 67 THE ALCANTARA® The Alcantara® collection of finished COLLECTION OF products continues to pioneer aesthetic FINISHED PRODUCTS research allied to technological innovation and respect for environmental sustainability, leveraging the potential of the material and confirming Alcantara S.p.A. as a favourite partner in the world of fashion and design. Alcantara S.p.A.’s customers for finished products are Concept Stores and multibrand boutiques which take particular care in selecting the products they sell, particularly in the Japanese market. Alcantara S.p.A.’s customers especially appreciate the Company’s customized offer and the opportunity it gives them to create exclusive limited editions for their stores. Following last year’s encouraging experience, the Alcantara® Concept Store opened again in 2017 Fiscal Year, in the same location but as a permanent store now rather than as a temporary one. 68 69 Master & Dynamic headphones with Alcantara® earpads. CONSUMER Customers in the ELECTRONICS consumer electronics division are main global Original the Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) in the mobile, audio, video and photographic equipment sectors, as well as leading producers of accessories specific to this industry. Collaborations with important OEMs began this year, leading to the launch of consumer products under the Alcantara® trademark to enhance the product by raising the brand’s profile. Characteristics of the market The market is global. Typically, Alcantara® products are accessories characterized by a high design content or functional components that give electronic products a high aesthetic impact. Advantages of Alcantara® The main advantages of Alcantara® are functional as well as aesthetic. Due to its versatility the customer’s finished product made of Alcantara® can be highly customized and adapted to a wide range of manufacturing techniques. Alcantara S.p.A.’s investments made to strengthen brand awareness at global level, the “Made in Italy” trademark and the Company’s well-known concern for sustainability, all raise the product further in the market’s estimation. Management approach Direct contact: • with all leading OEMs in the sector and specific accessory manufacturers (technical, purchasing, marketing and style departments); • with system suppliers to develop the project and as support in the use of Alcantara® in their production processes. 70 71 — 4.3 Product characteristics, etc.) and all the training needed to use the material correctly. At the customer’s request or whenever demanded by applicable regulations in the countries Sustainability and Safety of sale, Alcantara S.p.A. carries out tests involving a complex network of highlyspecialized international laboratories to prove the product’s characteristics compatible with the strictest international product safety protocols. During 2017 Fiscal Year the senior management reaffirmed the Company’s commitment to eliminating the use Alcantara® is the first entirely of potentially hazardous substances from its production processes; it introduced a Carbon Neutral Chemical Management System (CMS) to deal with all chemical substances used by product Made in Italy Alcantara S.p.A. and to meet the specific requirements of certain customers, mainly in (see chapter 6). The Company takes the fashion business, which have signed up to the ZDHC programme (Zero Discharge “Made in Italy” of Hazardous Chemicals). The CMS is a management system which sits alongside to mean quality, health and is fully integrated with the Company’s other management systems, in particular and safety, respect for human rights those for Quality (ISO 9001 and ISO TS 16949), for the Environment (ISO 14001) and and the strictest for Safety (OHSAS 18001), as well as the managerial arrangements for product safety environmental To satisfy increasingly challenging ethical, social and environmental demands, and sustainability. regulations, cutting-edge Alcantara S.p.A. has voluntarily mapped out a pathway for sustainable development; — 4.4 Research Centre technology and focus that approach and its results mean that it can offer a safe product that balances social, on style and design. economic and environmental considerations. In recent years, the Company has made additional investments in this area (see the box at page 76). Alcantara S.p.A.’s offer has the following particular strengths: and New Products • 2016: first marketing of the material resulting from a project begun in 2013 Each year Through this customer innovation and, as in earlier years, a significant Alcantara S.p.A. centre, with its in-house prototyping proportion of these was designed to support to further reduce the environmental impact and energy consumption of the invests between 3% production process; completion of the research stage for the creation of a product and 5% of its turnover skills, Alcantara S.p.A. can modify the the Company’s globalization plans for made of fibre from partially bio-based raw materials; in research; it has material’s characteristics and provide the United States, Chinese and Japanese the only Research customers with an immediate response markets. • 2015: completion of the first phase (industrial-scale testing) of the project Centre in Europe for begun in 2013 to further reduce energy consumption and the environmental the development and to their requirements by ad hoc solutions impact of the production process; start of research into raw materials from continuous improvement specially tailored to each application and The aim of these development activities of its own products an independent capacity for complex is to create exclusive solutions combining renewable sources (bio-based); and processes. • 2014: start of operations research for an alternative production process with An integral part of manufacturing with a view to offering style, technology and functionality so that lower energy consumption and environmental impact; that Research Centre is customers highly customized, very clients have every facility for customizing the modern Customer • steam and electricity have been produced by a high-efficiency (eco-friendly), Innovation Centre, a set technically products which they cannot find their own products. new-generation CHP plant since 2013; of structures, elsewhere in their usual production chains. In this process the Company sees to • Alcantara® has been Carbon Neutral “from cradle to grave” since 2011; technologies In developing new products, the Company every step, from style development and skills made • Alcantara® has been Carbon Neutral “from cradle to gate” since 2009; available to customers considers all impacts: social, economic through technological development up • Alcantara® is easy to clean and scratch-proof (easy-care and self-care); in order to meet their and environmental. The innovations affect to manufacture and final delivery to the requirements for product the production facilities, the product, customer. Whenever the usual supply • Alcantara® is available in variants that use up to 25% (by weight) of raw customization. materials from post-consumer recycling; the process, procurement, logistics and chain is unable to meet the production • the production process uses only raw materials permitted under the strictest communication, thus creating an authentic requirements involved, Alcantara S.p.A. EU standards (REACH); business model. equips itself with the necessary in-house • Alcantara® meets customers’ supply specifications and has the certifications capacity. required by the related markets. Product development and customization are Cutting ability was increased during 2017 carried out under “on demand” principles Fiscal Year and an innovative technology so as to meet the specific requirements was acquired which can provide templateAlcantara S.p.A. guarantees for the health and safety of its consumers, and provides of the Alcantara S.p.A.’s customers and cut finished products and can centre accurate information on its products. In particular, the Oeko-Tex label guarantees the its markets, and at the same time in “on designs and decorations for the various absence of health hazards for end users (even when the material comes in direct contact proposal” mode where new solutions are market sectors, from automobile interiors with the skin), in accordance with the international OekoTex Standard 100 (for further suggested to customers and their creativity to clothing trim. details, see paragraph 1.8). is stimulated in the development of collections for their own various markets. The Company continued its testing, The Company’s procedures require that, before any new product is placed on The total number of development activities submission for approval and market the market, the specific risks associated with it must be assessed in relation to the on behalf of customers continued to grow in launching of new products made under customer’s application and the country in which the material is sold. While the 2017 Fiscal Year, rising to over 1,000 some its new alternative production process technical specifications for a supply are being prepared or contracts are being 8% above last year’s figure. In particular, with lower energy consumption and drawn up, Alcantara S.p.A. gives the customer all the necessary information about there was an increase in activities carried environmental impact (on this, see also the its products (composition, washing instructions, ongoing care and maintenance, out for the interiors and automotive sectors section headed “Investments”). 72 73 Alcantara S.p.A. was an exhibitor at Aircraft Interiors (Hamburg, April), the major fair dedicated to aviation interiors; at Wanted Design (New York, May), one of the Sustainable manufacturing innovation world’s leading events for innovations in the field of design; and at Paris Deco Off (Paris, January), a festival of events held during Maison&Objet, the world’s biggest A new project has been launched to optimize the use of inputs from renewable sources: Home Décor trade fair. the aim is to develop a product by 2020 whose raw materials are in very large part Alcantara S.p.A. took part in Milan Design Week 2016 with several special projects: bio-based and sourced from biomass without conflicting with food production. Alcantara Magic Hotel , a maxi 3D installation designed by Gentucca Bini on show For that purpose, Alcantara S.p.A. has engaged in collaboration with some of the leading at Corso Como; “Touching Tales. The Alcantara Experience”, exhibited at the Palazzo operators in the bio-based raw materials sector. Litta, and “Local Icons. East/West” at the Leonardo da Vinci National Museum A pilot production line has already made an initial range of finished products and the of Science and Technology of Milano. Likewise in Cologne – in conjunction with IMM conditions have been put in place for scaling up to industrial production of a product Cologne (January), a major German trade fair of interior & design sector – Alcantara wholly made of fibre from mainly bio-based raw materials. Industrial prototypes are due to S.p.A. set up the In-formation project designed by Ross Lovegrove. be made and presented to customers early in 2018 Fiscal Year. The Company’s participation in industry trade fairs is very important from a marketing point of view as well as in terms of communication. Indeed, all these occasions do much to raise the profile not only of the products but more particularly of the brand, its values and its positioning. All possible means are deployed to give stakeholders a clear and consistent image of the brand, in which sustainability plays a strategic role, from the set-up of the stands to the informative material, including the literature specially printed — 4.5 Communication, for the occasion. Dialogue and Satisfaction Communicating the values of the product Alcantara® lifestyle THE BRAND and the Alcantara® brand is the heart of the Company’s Alcantara S.p.A. is concentrating its efforts on a corporate event format that AWARENESS PROJECT collaboration with its involves presenting the entire Company and describing the multiple facets of the customers/partners. brand. Alcantara S.p.A. is increasingly connecting brand communication with the The Company’s distribution contracts lifestyle concept, meaning the ability to interpret and express needs and trends in Various important activities and initiatives were carried out in 2017 Fiscal Year to further strengthen Alcantara® brand awareness in include a section the various sectors and industries (automotive, fashion, interior, etc.), which have China, Japan and the U.S.A. specifically devoted the common goals of style, elegance and refinement. to this topic. Sustainability is a fundamental and integral part of this communication strategy. CHINA JAPAN USA In its daily marketing contacts Alcantara S.p.A. seeks to teach the customer and April 2016: Alcantara S.p.A. once again October 2016: Alcantara S.p.A November 2016: at the Los Angeles the customer’s sales force how to explain the material correctly, using specific tools partnered with CarDesignNight at the organized and promoted in Tokyo the Auto Show Alcantara S.p.A was the main (Alcantara® vocabulary, colour palettes and technical data sheets, as well as special Beijing International Auto Salon; they third International Symposium on partner of the 2016 Cinema Italian Style leaflets, on sustainability for instance). The main forms of communication, used by chose the splendidly artistic setting of the Sustainability, in partnership with Nikkei, festival, held in the splendid setting of Alcantara S.p.A. to keep its own customers informed, are participation in events and CAFA Museum to present “The World of Venice International University and the Egyptian Theatre. Alcantara S.p.A trade fairs, articles and advertisements in the most important media (local, national and Alcantara”, an exclusive event showing off Waseda University, with the support of the was also a partner for the 30th Annual international), its website and its presence on international social media (Chinese and the brand’s values, attended by and inspiring Society Of Global Business. The theme American Cinematheque Awards Gala in Japanese networks in particular: see also Chapter 5). designers from the automotive world. was “Sustainability and Corporate Value”. honour of Ridley Scott. January 2017: inauguration of “The King Communication activities came thick The press office was very busy throughout Participation in trade fairs and shows in 2017 and I” at the Shanghai Gallery of Art. The press office was very busy throughout and fast, with a particular focus on the automotive sector and on finished the year on the Company’s most strategic topics, promoted in various ways and with As usual, Alcantara S.p.A. took part in all the sector’s major international fairs: car the year on the Company’s most strategic products, especially in fashion and different tools. In total, these activities shows from Beijing to Paris, Los Angeles to Detroit, Geneva to New York. themes, promoted in various ways and accessories. generated 8,817 editorial items, the In each case Alcantara S.p.A. is not just an exhibitor but arranges for its own sales, with various tools. In total, these activities equivalent of $ 4,822,200.2 (+37.05% on marketing and communication staff to attend press and trade days. generated 2,595 editorial items, the The press office was very busy throughout last year). equivalent of €2,005,749 (+42.80% on the year on the Company’s most strategic last year). themes, promoted in various ways and with various tools. In total, these activities generated 6,416 editorial items, the Alcantara S.p.A. exhibited at the Milano Unica and Première Vision fairs (Milan and equivalent of €2,037,122 (+29.90% on Paris, February and September) last year). 74 75 QUALITY AND SATISFACTION Alcantara S.p.A. regards customer satisfaction as extremely important and has developed a method for measuring it through MONITORING listening projects and feedback analysis mainly carried out by area managers, project managers and staff responsible for the stylistic development of the product. The customer satisfaction indicators gave the following results in 2017 Fiscal Year: Two main activities are carried on in this area: THE “ON-TIME SHIPMENT” CUSTOMER SERVICE LEVEL INDICATOR COMPLAINTS RECEIVED AT CUSTOMER SERVICE LEVEL* • technical meetings with a view to identifying the product (% OF TOTAL DELIVERIES ON TIME) AS % OF TOTAL METRES SOLD or application requirements needed to develop tailor-made solutions; MARKETING ORGANIZATION 2016 2017 MARKETING ORGANIZATION 2016 2017 • style meetings to present ideas and materials and then TOTAL 99.72% 99.05% TOTAL 0.32% 0.59% develop tailor-made solutions on the basis of the customer’s Target 99.00% 99.00% specific needs. Fashion 99.36% 98.86% Fashion 0.63% 0.73% Dialogue generates continuous improvement in the Company’s Interiors 99.54% 99.09% Interiors 0.50% 0.97% procedures, interfaces and response times. Automotive 99.72% 99.48% Shoes & PG 0.11% Shoes & PG 99.94% 99.63% Automotive 0.23% 0.55% Meetings during 2017 Fiscal Year mainly focused on: Consumer Electronics 99.93% 99.44% Consumer Electronics 0.94% 0.78% • presentation of the Company’s “Points of Engagement” in occasion of multi-functional meetings with staff from Final figures for 2017 Fiscal Year show 99.05% on-time shipment. *Metres for which complaints were made as a percentage of the total number of metres sold. The figures include marketing, logistics and technical complaints. Communication and Marketing, Products, Design, Procurement This figure was on target, and the best result in recent years. and senior management departments; • presenting the Company’s activities in terms of sustainability, and the aims and content of the project for creating products COMPLAINTS AS % OF SALES* (PROCESSED GOODS) from bio-based raw materials, to representatives of 25 different customers based in the three main continents; MARKETING ORGANIZATION 2016 2017 • presenting, as in previous years, the Automotive Concept TOTAL 0.09% 0.20% Book to some 55 styling departments of the principal European, Fashion 0.07% 0.02% American and Asian OEMs. Interiors 0.10% 0.11% Automotive 0.08% 0.23% Quality system Consumer Electronics 0.07% 0.09% Alcantara S.p.A. guarantees the quality of its products Shoes & PG 0.46% through numerous certifications (see paragraph 1.8). From Finished Products 3.24% the operational point of view, all aspects of the customer *shipments complained of, by value as % of sales. relationship are described in the Quality Manual developed in accordance with the UNI EN ISO 9001:2008 and ISO TS 16949:2009 standards. Complaint-related indicators, though its quality management system to regular in line with the historic average, were audits by customers and/or system Every year, Alcantara S.p.A. conducts a self-assessment higher than last year. Part of the rise suppliers for OEM customers. (the Customer Satisfaction Review) in which area managers can be attributed to quicker and more Customer feedback (mainly from and project managers address the company as the clients’ detailed responses to customer reporting automotive industry system suppliers) spokespersons. Customer satisfaction is measured through the as a result of the organizational changes has been positive on the whole; in 2017 following three indicators: described above, which have led to the Fiscal Year, as in earlier years, supplier’s • customer service level (on-time shipment) on the finished final settlement of some pending disputes performance ratings were received from product; and prompt closure of all new complaints a few customers in the automotive sector, • number of “not to specification” reports by customers on without dragging on into the next and these confirmed the high level of the finished product; financial year – when these indicators are satisfaction. • overall rating on prototypes (feedback from customers – expected, therefore, to decrease. some OEMs only) supplemented or replaced by a qualitative The Company’s production establishment analysis of customer dissatisfaction events (TGW Analysis – A detailed analysis will in any case also successfully passed supplier Things Gone Wrong Analysis); this is particularly useful for be conducted to bring out any points qualification audits under ISO-TS 16949 identifying continuous improvement activities needed for requiring further improvement. and VDA 6.3 carried out by direct tailor-made offers to the customer. Furthermore, Alcantara S.p.A. submits customers and OEMs. 76 77 s U s T a in 05 L a Highlights B a 46 study grants awarded in 2017 Fiscal Year, Ci • of which 14 to the most deserving students from the municipality of narni, and 32 to the children of employees iL iTy sO • 3rd International Symposium on Sustainability entitled “sustainability and Corporate Value” was held in Tokyo and organized by alcantara s.p.a. in partnership with nikkei, Venice international University and Waseda University and with the co m support of the society of Global Business • 847,684 visits to the institutional website alcantara.com in 2017 Fiscal Year, 46.27% increase over the previous year Over € 137,000 dedicated to charitable and community donations mu ni • • 300m2 of exhibition space through the Concept store of alcantara s.p.a. located in the heart of milan, where talented people t y from the design community meet to invent the latest solutions for modern living NOTE: The indications “2016” and “2017” in this document refer to the 12-month periods 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 and 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 and correspond to the Fiscal Year of Alcantara S.p.A. 79 • sponsorship of a workshop entitled “Between company and COMMITMENTS ACHIEVED IN 2017 FISCAL YEAR boutique: young talents build its future” as part of the Master in Fashion & Design at the Umanitaria Formazione of Milan; • to strengthen and consolidate the communication • press offices’ activities were intensified in order to increase • participation in the Careers Day at Perugia University activities launched in the new two target countries: in editorial coverage: press comment up 73.43% in the United (June 2016); United Kingdom and Russia; Kingdom and 448.71% in Russia; • visit and teaching session for students of Perugia University • to recalibrate digital communication activities, • digital communication activities made use of the institutional on the Science for Investigation and Safety course at the Narni evaluating the benefits of opening new channels website alcantara.com and of social media platforms, both global campus; and platforms; and Chinese; • specialist seminar for the Occupational Safety Laboratory’s • new Korean press office opened on 1 March 2017; Workshop of Perugia University on “Safety and Work” at the new social content created and localized for the various markets; Narni campus; • to intensify internal communication activities • a survey was carried out to study the working environment • visit and teaching session for 5th-year Medicine and Surgery by improving the existing tools and developing new ideas and identify any areas which need to be looked at more closely; undergraduates, as part of their Occupational Medicine course; and initiatives for engagement; • the house organ “Inside” continued publication, • to continue working with High Schools by offering special • visit to the production plant of Alcantara S.p.A. with the aim of informing all staff about the Company’s main internships in order to give young people specific by the Terni schools grouping Istituto Comprensivo A. De Filis, activities and events and enhancing their involvement; professional skills and evaluate possible future recruits. to make a film and provide Alcantara® material for participation in the Made in Italy project promoted by the • to continue the Company’s stakeholder engagement • the 3rd International Symposium dedicated to Sustainability Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (MIUR); in Sustainability activities, not least by planning on the theme “Sustainability and Corporate Value”, and organizing special conferences and conventions; was held in Tokyo on 17 October 2016 in collaboration • chemistry lectures given at the Istituto Tecnico Industriale with Nikkei, VIU (Venice International University) of Terni (Chemistry section); and Waseda University, with the support of the Society of Global Business; • work experience courses for the Istituto Tecnico Industriale of Terni. • new forms of online communication and web videos of the Company’s messages addressed to its main stakeholders; • the most important international social media were used and managed (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, English and Japanese versions of YouTube) as well as leading Chinese ones (WeChat, Weibo, Tudou); • Alcantara® material took an active part in Microsoft’s video for the world launch of the Surface Pro 4 Signature Type Cover: an example of “ingredient branding”; • to strengthen relationships with Universities • completion of a medium-term study project, the three-year in order to identify very promising young graduates to research contract with the Engineering Department of the recruit, by participating in Universities’ initiatives to University of Perugia on “optimizing performance of water-borne encourage graduates’ entry into the labour market, polyurethane through the development of nano-composites”; and by hosting research associates, PhD students and undergraduates on work experience • induction training for recent graduates in the Research and and internships, so as to bring the academic world Development, Quality and Technology and Technical Marketing closer to the professional world; departments; • partnership with L.UN.A Libera Università delle Arti of Bologna to hold a workshop on “waste and excellence”, to conceive and design instrumental or decorative objects, furnishings and fittings using recycled materials; • sponsorship of PoliDesign’s course on “Fashion in Orbit” at Politecnico University of Milan; 80 81 2017-2020 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN PEOPLE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 2020 OBJECTIVE AREAS OF ACTION • increase in international communication • strengthen and consolidate communication activities already of Alcantara S.p.A. as “a Sustainable Brand”; undertaken in the main markets, (in particular China, Japan and the USA) as in new countries (Russia and Korea); • continue stakeholder engagement activities on sustainability, also through planning and organization of special conventions and conferences; • enhance relations with institutions and the financial press; • good corporate citizenship; • start a project of engagement with primary and secondary schools to make young people more aware of sustainability issues and better informed about them; • support and promote culture, aesthetics and the arts; • continue the Company’s commitment to organizing and sponsoring cultural and arts events; • increase employment opportunities • strengthen relations with universities by making for the young people. agreements to identify very promising graduates for recruitment to Alcantara S.p.A. PLANET ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 2020 OBJECTIVE AREAS OF ACTION • maintenance of Carbon Neutrality and reduction • consolidate the Company’s partnerships with outstanding of the Company’s Carbon Footprint. global players on procurement of inputs from renewable sources and on carbon fixing, with a view to continuous research and development of products with less environmental impact and manufacturing processes with lower emissions. 82 — 5.1 Management of Relations with the Community Alcantara S.p.A. has always carefully fostered a responsible and continuous dialogue with the community and spread The “Community” structure of Alcantara S.p.A. is made up as follows: its sensitivity for • at the Milan headquarters: local associations, trade associations, the press and sustainable business and community media in general. Alcantara S.p.A. also works closely with academic institutions such Study grants and communal events development, as the IED (European Design Institute) and Politecnico University of Milan. encouraging Through communication with the end-user, the Company speaks mainly to “design Alcantara S.p.A. demonstrates its sense of corporate citizenship through concrete neighbouring lovers” who choose Alcantara® material to cover the objects they keep close at hand communities to work initiatives: together. in everyday life, while communication with professionals puts the Company in contact • study grants: in 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A. continued its commitment with designers, project leaders, stylists and all those who use Alcantara® in their own to education by financing 46 study grants, of which 14 were for deserving High creations; School students from in the Municipality of Narni, and 32 for children of • at the Production Plant and Research Centre in Nera Montoro: Alcantara S.p.A. Alcantara S.p.A. employees, chosen according to a nomination procedure; engages in dialogue with various institutions and develops initiatives with a view to • training for schools: from April 2016 to February 2017 the Nera Montoro supporting the local community. The Company is a major player, deeply rooted in the production plant hosted 55 students from schools in the area, giving them an area and represents a reference point for many workers and families. opportunity to learn about Alcantara® production process as well as key topics such as safety, the environment and quality; Alcantara S.p.A. plays an important part in the lives of many families in the area in • partnerships with charities: collaboration with local non-profit associations which it operates: it is a valuable source of employment, profits and training and in fact also continued in 2017 Fiscal Year with free donations of material for workshops creates highly relevant socio-economic income for the suppliers and other companies and labs of various kinds; involved in its activities. • communal events: staff were engaged in some community events: Easter Its indirect economic impact on the provinces of Milan and Terni where the Company’s Mass was celebrated at the Nera Montoro plant by the Bishop of the diocese; two centres are located is shown, on the most conservative estimate, to include an and for the third year in a row a Christmas lunch was organized at the plant for indirect income for some 280 people in the territory. all employees together with the Company’s management; • Special Olympics: in May 2017 Alcantara S.p.A. sponsored the 33rd National During 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A. has given € 137,741 to the community in the form of donations and contributions. Summer Special Olympics for Terni and Narni, an initiative which involved The money has been spread over six main areas where Alcantara S.p.A. wants to 3300 athletes, children and adults with mental disabilities from all over Italy. contribute. PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS 2017 In addition to these communities, other communities are also influenced indirectly by local projects for offsetting CO2 emissions that cannot be otherwise eliminated from the Membership of associations 61,170 Company’s activities: these projects, coordinated by the United Nations and implemented Culture 22,811 in the poorest, most disadvantaged and underdeveloped areas of the world, always aim to Environment 18,049 generate energy from renewable sources, spread cultural awareness of sustainability and improve the social conditions (health, work, education, etc.) of the populations involved. Social 17,611 As in earlier years, to offset residual CO2 emissions in 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. Medicine 8,100 financed various projects which, under the protection of the United Nations, help to Arts 10,000 improve the conditions of the earth or from the economic, social and environmental TOTAL 137,741 points of view. 84 85 These projects concern the territories of China, Thailand, Laos, India and Mexico THAILAND LAOS MEXICO (for further details see the description in paragraph 6.5). A summary of the projects biomass hydroelectric photovoltaic supported over the past 8 years is reported below. 2017 INDIA CHINA TAIWAN wind photovoltaic photovoltaic 2009 HONDURAS NEW ZEALAND INDIA hydroelectric wind hydroelectric 2010 TURKEY TAIWAN INDONESIA wind hydroelectric geothermal 2011 CHINA THAILAND BRAZIL hydroelectric biomass biomass 2012 KENYA VIETNAM CHINA production of hydroelectric biomass drinking water 2013 TAIWAN CHILE GHANA wind hydroelectric cooking 2014 CHINA INDIA CHINA hydroelectric wind solar (two plants) THE ALCANTARA® BRAND BOOK THAILAND NEW UGANDA Alcantara S.p.A. has created this biomass CALEDONIA cooking important communication tool to explain wind the Company’s lifestyle and its multi2016 faceted world. The material’s countless applications, the international events, the brand’s commitment to sustainability and CHINA its other values are illustrated through hydroelectric the work of the renowned photographer Giovanni Gastel. 86 87 Design and Creativity Alcantara S.p.A. takes part in events and activities in various sectors, often providing its partners with furniture for common spaces, bags and gadgets for customers, guests, third-party partners and the press. These initiatives bring benefits through use of the service and sensitivity to sustainable development. With particular reference to 2017 Fiscal Year, Alcantara S.p.A. intensified its activities and initiatives in the art and design field, extending its collaboration to new artists/designers and to new art and/or culture institutions all round the world. All this is intended to promote creative experimentation with Alcantara® material, raise brand awareness, enhance the brand’s reputation and reach more and more worthwhile international audiences in this area as well as others. ALCANTARA® MAGIC HOTEL As part of 2016 Design Week, Alcantara S.p.A. celebrated the city of Milan with a “magical” large-scale outdoor installation in the middle of Corso Como, creating a new and unforgettable destination for everyone excited about design. Alcantara® Magic Hotel featured a number of highly distinctive ingredients: the marriage of 2D and 3D elements achieved by teaming Alcantara® with ultra-high resolution photographic relief printing onto architectural features such as the central balcony and some of the shutters, themselves clad in printed soft Alcantara®. The result was an astonishing play of optical illusions: though only 2D, the Alcantara® gives the printed photography a vivid and highly realistic 3D effect, further enhanced by the installation’s huge scale (about 18m x 12m). 88 89 THE ALCANTARA® CONCEPT STORE Once again Alcantara® demonstrated its versatility through its Concept Store, a space designed as a home for creativity and a special showcase for previewing trends, innovations, ideas and projects. From fashion to design, from the coolest automobile ideas to avant-garde objects for interiors, the Concept Store designed by the architect Massimo Locatelli with Studio CLS is a whole world spaced in 300 m2 and located in via Pietro Verri 8, in the beating heart of endlessly inventive Milan. Talented designers meet here at Alcantara S.p.A. to create the latest lifestyle solutions, with the all-important link to the multi-faceted world of fashion which has always provided Alcantara S.p.A. with inspiration and at the same time with partnership. A pr plan dedicated to the Concept Store has been in operation place since early 2017, with a special focus on the main fashion and lifestyle magazines. THE KING AND I During 2016 Milan Fashion Week, Alcantara S.p.A. had the privilege of arranging a modern take on the mood of a place redolent with history, with a show in Milan’s Royal Palace from 20 September to 23 October 2016, a project designed from the outset to be engaging and astounding. “The King and I” presented works specially created by nine international artists from various parts of the creative world, in a confluence of art, theatre, sound and fashion which produced a whole journey of experimentation around the Alcantara® material and the project’s setting: the Apartments of the Prince. The artists were Maurizio Anzeri, Arthur Arbesser, Paola Besana, Gentucca Bini, Matthew Herbert, Taisuke Koyama, Francesco Simeti, Adrian Wong and Shane Aspegren. 90 91 ALCANTARA® GOES ON STAGE AT THE TEATRO REGIO WITH A PREMIERE OF “LA BOHÈME” Alcantara S.p.A., a true ambassador of Italian excellence throughout the world, braved the footlights of the Teatro Regio with the Giacomo Puccini’s celebrated opera La Bohème, directed by Àlex Olle of La Fura dels Baus and conducted by Gianandrea Noseda. In these eccentric and mould-breaking surroundings, Alcantara® achieved its finest expression by providing a modern version of the stage curtain which was a great feature of the opera, as well as the sets and the costumes of the principal singers. Right from the start the audience found itself immersed in the controversial atmosphere of this version of La Bohème, thanks to a 19m x 10m stage curtain designed by the set designer Alfons Flores, which reproduced the opera’s most striking scene on Alcantara®. This artistic context is one in which Alcantara S.p.A. has for many years distinguished itself, working with artists and designers as well as with world-class museums. La Bohème in particular is one of the fruits of the partnership between Alcantara S.p.A. and the Teatro Regio for a cultural project in the 2016-2017 season. ALCANTARA® CELEBRATES CONTEMPORARY ITALIAN CINEMA IN LOS ANGELES Alcantara S.p.A. was the main partner for two high-profile international events dedicated to the big screen and celebrating Italian excellence and the Country’s attitude to creativity in the cradle of the movies, with screenings of Francesco Carrozzini’s “Franca: Chaos & Creation” and Gianfranco Rosi’s “Fuocoammare” (Fire at Sea), which won the Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival. For the 12th year Cinema Italian Style celebrated contemporary Italian film from 14 to 23 November 2016 in the prestigious setting of Los Angeles’ Egyptian Theatre, where over 600 seats were re-covered with Alcantara® in an elegant navy blue. Alcantara S.p.A. was also a partner for the 30th Annual American Cinematheque Awards Gala, held at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Los Angeles in October in honour of Sir Ridley Scott. 92 93 LOCAL ICONS. URBAN LANDSCAPES. NORTH SOUTH Eight cities and one journey from global North to South, rich in material from urban landscapes never portrayed before. “Local Icons. Urban Landscapes. North-South” is an exhibition curated by Giulio Cappellini and Domitilla Dardi, in which the creators (Form Us With Love, Great Things to People, Gustavo Martini, Steven Haulenbeek, Marc Thorpe, Liliana Ovalle, Birsel+Seck and Ilkka Suppanen) give their interpretation of eight cities in an imagined dialogue between the world’s North and South. At the MAXXI museum of Rome from 3 to 26 February 2017, “Local Icons. Urban Landscapes. North-South” was the third and final stage of a journey in search of images which define an individual culture’s memorable places, reinterpreting them in the light of new designs. A project for the creative reinterpretation of local icons which captured the soul of Rome in 2015 and a year later contrasted the cultural essence of the metropolis in East and West, now turns its gaze to the cities of the global North and South. IN-FORMATION BY ROSS LOVEGROVE For the second year in a row Alcantara S.p.A. celebrated Art and Design at IMM Cologne (from 16 to 22 January 2017) by introducing a special project in partnership with the worldwide recognized British designer Ross Lovegrove. In collaboration with DAMN° Magazine, “In-formation” welcomed an international audience to the fair. The inspiration behind Ross Lovegrove’s project came from a trip some years ago to the historic site of Petra in Jordan, where he was stirred by the rock strata and deposits in and around the site; the formations have stayed vivid in his memory ever since, and “In-formation” is the result of those countless shades of natural colour – evoking the Grand Canyon and other natural wonders – made by a special manner of airbrushing directly onto the material. 94 95 KEY OF THE SEA BUILT BY THE WAVE: A JOINT PROJECT OF ALCANTARA AND ANDREY BARTENEV Alcantara S.p.A. and the world-famous artist Andrey Bartenev presented a joint project at RuArts Gallery. The unique exposition of artworks created from Alcantara® material by Andrey Bartenev, a master of synthetic performance, opened in Moscow. It was Alcantara®, a material with endless potential which can take any shape or colour, that made it possible to bring this artist’s extraordinary ideas to life. Thanks to its unique versatility and rich colour palette, Alcantara® has found its place as an integral part of the worldwide creative community. Pure works of art united by their common theme, the sea “Key of the sea built by the wave” installation and costumes with unusual names: Electro Medusa, Sea-Star Shamrock, Loop of the way Samurai. Andrey Bartenev demonstrated the collection himself as well wearing a spectacular “Fish tales” costume. FANTASY ACCESS CODE. ALCANTARA AND SIX ARTISTS IN THE APARTMENTS OF THE PRINCE From 28 March to 30 April 2017, Alcantara S.p.A. and the Royal Palace of Milan City Council’s Culture Department promoted and produced an exhibition specially designed for the various rooms of the Apartments of the Prince. Fantasy Access Code is the third exhibition project by Alcantara S.p.A. at the Royal Palace, and the second in a cycle curated by Davide Quadrio and Massimo Torrigiani which aims at giving a modern interpretation to these rooms which have such important historical connotations. The title “Fantasy Access Code” refers to the mechanism of that name described by Gianni Rodari (1920 – 1980) in his little book “The Grammar of Fantasy: An Introduction to the Art of Inventing Stories” (original version published by Einaudi Ragazzi, 1973, tr. Teachers & Writers Collaborative July 1996). The author explains how to build literary texts by setting up a virtuous circle of thoughts, image associations and marvellous sights. In the same way this exhibition is structured as a journey through a cosmology of amazing worlds arising from and directly related to the spaces of the venue, the ten rooms which make up the Apartments of the Prince. The six international artists who were invited to take part in this exhibition are Aki Kondo, Michael Lin, Soundwalk Collective, Georgina Starr, Nanda Vigo and Lorenzo Vitturi. Each of them has contemplated suggestions arising from the place itself, which has acted as an amazing fantasy-creation device and triggered the composition of remarkable works of art, all in Alcantara® material. The end result is a choral, multi-faceted but unified experience, constructed as a succession of Cabinets of Wonders, giving new life to the Apartments as an inexhaustible reservoir of inspiration. 96 97 — 5.2 University, Research and Sustainability In 2017 Fiscal Year, the collaboration in the field of university research continued. In particular, a €300,000 mediumterm research project (three years) was completed with the Engineering Department of the University of Perugia on the optimization of waterborne polyurethanes through the development of nano-composites. Specialist work on characterizing new inputs from renewable sources has been done at the Materials Engineering Department of Federico II University of Naples. New collaborative projects on advanced materials, also made from renewable sources, are currently being worked out with the above-mentioned Department and with the Advanced Macromolecules Institute of National Research Council (CNR) of Milan Sustainability and Corporate Value As a proof of its commitment to promoting greater awareness of the significance and implications of sustainability, Alcantara S.p.A. organized and promoted its 3rd International Symposium on Sustainability in October 2016, in partnership with Nikkei, the VIU (Venice International University) and the Waseda University, with the support of The Society of Global Business. Titled “Sustainability and Corporate Value” and held on 17th October in Tokyo, the Symposium involved more than 20 top-level international speakers coming from prestigious companies and universities discussing sustainability from various different points of view. Through presentations, keynote speeches and round tables featuring well-known academic personalities, important representatives of major corporations, institutions and NGOs, the Symposium helped to build a shared vision of sustainability. The discussions were in three sessions: Sustainability, Operational Performance & Corporate Strategy, Sustainability & Brand value, and sustainability & Investor Relations. A mix of western and eastern approaches – managerial, professional and academic experience – drew a contemporary profile of sustainability and proposed interesting ways of dealing with it. 99 — 5.3 Media Relations Alcantara S.p.A. uses the main media to inform its stakeholders about the projects it undertakes and the innovations In 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A. The press is monitored periodically it has made. The means consolidated its collaboration with the four through a digital press review service. of communication chosen press offices in Italy and the nine overseas Relationships with journalists are by Alcantara S.p.A. are mainly printed media (USA, France, Germany, China, Japan, continuously fostered: on the one hand, (daily newspapers, weekly UK and Russia in Germany and Japan press releases and press kits are produced and monthly magazines on Alcantara S.p.A. relied upon two different for fairs, events and major projects and, on interiors, cars, fashion, and lifestyle in general) press offices, each of them specialized in the other, the Company answers enquiries and the Web its field). and fulfils requests from journalists for (websites, blogs, etc.). information, interviews and samples In Korea, Alcantara S.p.A. began working of material. In addition, on the most on 1 March 2017 with a new press office important occasions of communication specialized in corporate public relations. for the Company and the brand, more specifically targeted activities are Through the PR agencies, from 1 April 2016 organized, such as press days and to 31 March 2017 the Company issued one-to-one appointments. As at 31 March 2017, Alcantara S.p.A.’s 216 press releases: social channels boast the following In 2017 Fiscal Year, five press audience figures: conferences (Milan, Nera Montoro, Tokyo, Beijing, and Moscow) were 44 17 organized, at times together with in Italy in Japan prestigious partners with whom the Company has been working for some time now, as well as eleven press trips, three of them at the production plant and FACEBOOK INSTAGRAM research centre of Nera Montoro, and eight ≈ 104,959 fans 2,225 followers 19 14 to Alcantara S.p.A. events around the in the USA in Germany world. The complete set of communication activities resulted in media coverage of more than 21,822 articles (on-line and off-line) in all the leading newspapers across the world. TWITTER YOUTUBE 35 22 Within the scope of digital communication ≈ 5,268 followers ≈ 49,400 views in France in China activities, from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 the alcantara.com website received a total of 847,684 visits (+46.27% compared to the previous 45 year) and 676,417 unique visitors (+44% in the 19 compared to the previous year). WECHAT WEIBO United Kingdom in Russia Visits and the number of visitors registered 1,345 followers ≈ 11,916 fans a +28.93% increase. Also on social media, Alcantara S.p.A. implemented and continuously updated its publishing calendar on all its 1 corporate profiles: Facebook, Instagram, in Korea Twitter, YouTube (international channel YOUTUBE TUDOU and Japanese channel) and, for China, ≈ 9,106 views JAPAN WeChat, Weibo, and Tudou. ≈ 4,524 views 100 101 n m e n Ta L 06 O s r Highlights V i • 8th year in a row of Carbon U Neutrality certification en • 6th year in a row for product Carbon Neutrality certification sT ainaBi • 1st year of ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems certification • 75% of energy requirements at the nera montoro production plant are selfgenerated through High-Efficiency Cogeneration • Improvement of Water Footprint compared to the previous Fiscal year 70.3 % of waste is allocated for recovery through recycling and reuse L i T y NOTE: The indications “2016” and “2017” in this document refer to the 12-month periods 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 and 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 and correspond to the Fiscal Year of Alcantara S.p.A. 103 COMMITMENTS ACHIEVED IN 2017 FISCAL YEAR • project for installation of power factor correction systems • 70% of planned power factor correction systems located at the production plant; are now installed and operational. The remaining 30% has been installed and functioning since August; • project for a new air conditioning system at the Greige • new air conditioning system purchased for the machine section department; of the Greige department; the equipment has been assembled and it has been operating since August; • project to optimize the tertiary section of the Wastewater • the equipment for optimization of the tertiary section Treatment System. of the Wastewater Treatment System has been purchased and has been fitted; it has been operating since September. 2017-2020 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN PLANET ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 2020 OBJECTIVE AREAS OF ACTION • reduction of Energy Consumption; • continue with installation of trigeneration plant; • maintainance of Carbon Neutrality • reduce the emissions produced by the Company; and reduction of Carbon Footprint; • improvement of the Water Footprint; • update analysis of the Water Footprint and find ways of reducing it; • identify areas for improvement of production process to reduce water consumption; • development of Circular Economy. • study opportunities for reusing waste water; • examine the possibility of producing terephthalic acid as a by-product. 104 — 6.1 Environmental Policy — 6.2 Environmental Impacts and Management System Alcantara S.p.A.’s production process starts with two polymers from which the finished product is obtained through a sequence of stages. The material Alcantara S.p.A. undergoes various has a Safety and final transformation treatments depending Environment Policy that lays on its intended application. down the principles of action on which all activities, managerial approach and organizational responsibilities are based. The Company actively undertakes to The diagram below summarizes the process and its main types of environmental impact. eliminate or minimize the impact ALCANTARA® PRODUCTION of its processes and products on the environment through a series of actions PROCESSES BY-PRODUCT that concern: ALCARENE® ALCANOL® SPINNING TEXTILE SCRAP FELT • improving environmental efficiency and minimizing generated environmental RAW MATERIALS impact; ENERGY GREIGE ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS • constant training and briefing on major WATER WASTEWATER environmental issues; WASTE • raising awareness outside the Company DYEING and explaining its activities. The following significant awards are testimony to the attention Alcantara S.p.A. FINISHING FINISHED PRODUCT pays to environmental issues: • since 2000, certification of the Environmental Management System (EMS) under UNI EN ISO 14001:2004; • Integrated Environmental Authorization (IEA), renewed in May 2013 and valid until May 2025. Minor As required under the certified Environmental Management System, Alcantara S.p.A. has amendments to the IEA were submitted identified all significant parameters of environmental interaction for: and approved in 2015 to take account • storage and use of chemical products; of improvements due to the long-term • atmospheric emissions; project for eliminating hazardous • wastewater drainage; substances from the production process; • noise pollution; • since 2008, certified Carbon • waste; Footprint report; • energy; • since 2009, certified Carbon-Neutral • water resources; status; • soil and subsoil protection. • since 2014, Water Footprint report; • since 2017, ISO 50001 Energy These parameters – together with the production processes affecting them – are constantly Management Systems certification. monitored and assessed as part of the Management Review specified under the system. 106 107 — 6.3 Use of Raw Materials Alcantara S.p.A.’s Potential environmental and safety production process issues of all new products are assessed uses exclusively raw materials authorized in an internal Product Safety procedure by the strictest EU that involves all Company departments. standards. The results of these assessments are examined by management before marketing is authorized. All auxiliary raw materials, such as some of the thermoplastic polymers and sizes used, are treated on-site, recovered and reused in the production cycle or allocated to other industrial uses. In addition, the solvents used in production are regenerated and reused several times in the production process. Those by-products are: MATERIALS USED PER LINEAR METER NONU.M. 2016 2017 • Alcarene®: a thermoplastic polymer for injection moulding; OF ALCANTARA® PRODUCT RENEWABLE RESOURCES* • Alcanol®: a vinyl adhesive for the paper-making industry. Nitrogen g/m 488.46 560.40 BY-PRODUCTS SOLD* U.M. 2016 2017 Thermoplastic polymers X g/m 852.98 954.84 Colorants and auxiliary agents g/m 687.28 654.94 ALCANOL® Packaging (cardboard, plastic, etc.) g/m 177.68 174.42 Quantity produced and marketed Kg 521,753 537,610 Textile media g/m 125.80 136.22 Percentage of raw material recovered % 72.8% 77.2% Raw materials for polyurethane X g/m 254.19 320.11 ALCARENE® Glues and sizes X g/m 166.37 155.08 Quantity produced and marketed Kg 989,303 1,209,125 Auxiliary post-treatment agents g/m 111.52 120.20 Percentage of raw material Solvents X g/m 39.11 30.85 recovered % 64.2% 84.3% Abrasive paper g/m 2.09 2.66 ALK-FILL FI and ALK-FILL FE (textile scrap) Steel needles g/m 0.13 0.20 Stainless steel splitting blades g/m 0.35 0.34 Quantity produced and marketed Kg 30,160 31,180 TAC-TAS oils and chemicals g/m 95.93 96.35 ALK-FILL BUFF (buffing powder) * resources that do not regenerate in a short time period such as minerals, metals, oil, gas, coal, etc. Quantity produced and marketed Kg 11,757 *The percentages shown here are calculated on the quantities of raw material actually used in production. Given the 8% increase in production Neutral and Sustainable). compared to the previous year, the use of Changes in the figures for glues and sizes, The amount of Alcanol® produced and The amount of Alcarene® produced and sold raw materials in the production process solvents and chemicals arise from the sold as a by-product increased by about as a by-product increased by 20% in relation has led to an increase in specific raw stocking of higher or lower quantities of 5% in relation to the amount of raw to the amount of raw material purchased. materials only for four of products and it raw materials than last year. material purchased. All this could not remained in a stable average with respect be put on the market in 2017 Fiscal Year The Company’s product portfolio includes to the previous Fiscal Year. There were because the Alcanol® used for testing the a variant of Alcantara® made using 25% increases of more than 8% in the use of The manufacturing process has two bynew production process cannot be used as by weight of post-consumer recycled nitrogen (expanded plant), thermoplastic products, materials of insufficient quality by-product by the current users. raw materials. That variant, used in polymers, abrasive paper and the for the production of Alcantara®, which are Other by-products (textile scrap and buffing the automotive industry, particularly for ingredients for polyurethane, following therefore sold to other companies as inputs powder) are also generated during the seating, accounts for 0.026% of the total the introduction of a new production for other industrial processes, yielding various phases of the process; they are number of meters processed, bringing process with lower environmental impact: third-party companies a corresponding used in other industries instead of virgin the proportion of recycled product to Alcantara F.A.N.S. (Future Alcantara carbon net saving in raw materials. raw materials. 0.008% of the total. 108 109 — 6.4 Energy Requirement and Saving COGENERATION PLANT Since 1 January 2013 — most of the electricity Following the closure of the third-party used by the Company has come from the COFELY gas Currently ongoing project for installation of trigeneration plant consists in comprising an endothermic heat and power generator, a heat recovery boiler and an absorption cooling The reduction in Alcantara S.p.A.’s energy requirement, given the increase MEASURES TO thermoelectric power station near the Company’s plant which had provided it turbine station at its production plant, unit. The plant will produce about 20,000 MWh(e) of power annually, at the same time in production, is due to its constant LOWER ENERGY with steam, Alcantara S.p.A. commissioned recognized by GSE (the Italian power grid) generating the following, without further energy input: • 10,000 MWh(t) of steam; commitment to optimizing its manufacturing processes and plants. CONSUMPTION Cofely to design, construct and run a cogeneration plant for the supply of as a High-efficiency Cogeneration (HEC) • 8,000 MWh of cooling per year. IN 2017 FISCAL electricity and steam. This has been in station. For the next three years this plant will allow Alcantara S.p.A to achieve about 1,500 Energy Efficiency Certificates (Titoli di Efficienza Energetica – TEE) per year. The main stages of this have been as follows: YEAR operation since 2013. In 2017 Fiscal Year the new plant provided • from 1998 to 2002, total renewal of its about 207,080 MWh of steam and 46,043,160 In the marketing and administration departments of the Milan headquarters natural plants; Heat recovery through re-use of MWh of electricity (75% of the Nera gas is used for heating and electricity for normal office activities, air-conditioning and • in 2000 partnership set up with a local condensates: this measure involves Montoro plant’s total electricity needs). operation of the thermal power plant. manufacturer for the exclusive supply designing and installing a water/ The Company also applied to the national The production plant in Nera Montoro uses: of steam from a cogeneration plant; condensate heat exchanger which will grid operator GSE for qualification as an • natural gas for direct heating and the production of steam at 6 bars, as well as in • as of 2008 RECS certificates purchased save up to 1,400 MWh(t) per year. Efficient User System (SEU) under new the canteen; to guarantee the use of energy from official criteria. • steam at a pressure of 6 bars provided by the new gas turbine cogeneration plant renewable sources only; Optimizing steam traps: all 300 steam On 18 December 2012, the GSE of the factory; • in 2010 new capital spending to further traps (condensate discharge units) throughout recognized the plant as a High-Efficiency • electricity, mainly used in the production process and almost entirely generated reduce the plant’s energy consumption the Company’s production plant were Cogeneration (HEC) station. by the new gas turbine cogeneration plant. Power demand peaks exceeding the new still further; inspected and damaged ones were High-Efficiency Cogeneration has beneficial plant’s capacity were met from the national High Voltage (HV) grid; the Medium • in 2013 CHP construction completed replaced, saving about 1,400 MWh(t). effects in terms of energy, the environment Voltage (MV) supply is used only if the HV grid is down or undergoing maintenance. (see box on the right); and cost. By comparison with the separate Both supplies come from renewable sources. • in 2014 new screw compressor fitted Installation of new power factor generation of heat and power, the new plant to the Wastewater Treatment System and correction systems: this involved designing has reduced energy consumption by about Alcantara S.p.A. also monitors fuel consumption for the Company fleet for emissions malfunctioning steam traps replaced; new power factor correction systems and 4,400 tons of oil equivalent per year. calculation purposes. new condensate recovery systems installed installing them in the various departments: In addition to lower energy consumption with steam propulsion; fluorescent lamps about 70% of units were replaced, saving the other main factors that have reduced replaced with LED lamps in the dyeing about 21,000 MWh/year of reactive and energy costs are: ENERGY CONSUMPTION U.M. 2016 2017 department; reflux ratio lowered on one 160 MWh/year of active power. • high energy efficiency due to the newMILAN column of the DMF distillation plant; generation systems installed; Natural gas TJ 1 1.8 • in 2015 environmental temperature • cogeneration of about 13 t/h simply Electricity TJ 2.2 1.7 was modified in accordance with 74/2003 recovered (cost-free steam produced from DPR in the Greige and Fibre departments; hot exhaust); NERA MONTORO replacement of malfunctioning steam traps • benefits from obtaining “white certificates”; Natural gas TJ 60 67.9 continued; condensate recovery systems in • tax breaks on the natural gas supplied to Purchased electricity TJ 228 261 the DMF distillation department optimized; power stations qualifying as HECs; Steam TJ 695.7 745.8 • in 2016 various further improvements • tax relief on electricity due to the SEU OVERALL TOTAL (ALL SOURCES) TJ 986.8 1078 planned: new power factor correction system qualification, made possible systems in the production departments, because the entire gas turbine electricity Total natural gas TJ 61 69.7 new air conditioning system at the Greige distribution network is located within the Percentage use of natural gas TJ 6.20% 6.50% department, optimization of the tertiary production plant. out of total section of the Wastewater Treatment System; In 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A.’s energy intensity1 in relation to turnover was • in 2017 a new air conditioning system In summary, the advantages of this project are: 0.0058 TJ per thousand euros, an improvement compared to 2016 (0.006 TJ/€1000). for the machine section of the Greige • a significant reduction of energy bill in The change is determined both by the 14% of turnover increase compared to department was installed and it has been energy costs; 2016 Fiscal Year and the implemented energy efficiency initiatives. operating from August onwords, and • energy independence and a more equipment for optimizing the tertiary reliable supply; section of the Wastewater Treatment • no capital needed for constructing 1 Energy intensity is the ratio of all energy consumed to turnover (which was €186.6 million in System was also purchased and it has been the plant, leaving capital free for the 2017 Fiscal Year) functioning from the end of September. Company’s core business. 110 111 — 6.5 GHG Emissions and Carbon Footprint The tables below summarize the Company’s carbon dioxide emissions, as certified by TÜV SÜD and expressed in tons of CO2 equivalent. “CORPORATE” INVENTORY 2016 2017 The yearly “cradle to (TONS OF CO2) grave” product life cycle analysis under SCOPE 1 TOTAL – direct emissions 57,699 61,589 ISO 14064 and the GHG SCOPE 2 TOTAL – indirect emissions associated with the 6,647 12,122 protocol was generation of purchased electricity and heat conducted again in 2017 Fiscal Year, as it had been conducted SCOPE 3 TOTAL – indirect emissions 2,185 2,355 each year since 2011. The exercise “PRODUCT” INVENTORY 2016 2017 provides the data for (TONS OF CO2) offsetting residual SCOPE 1 TOTAL – direct emissions 57,373 61,198 carbon dioxide emissions in accordance SCOPE 1 TOTAL –net of the electricity 3,474 3,925 with the PAS 2060 and heat offset from Cofely Cogeneration standard, generating (since 2013 offset via the ETS, paid for by two reports: • a report on Corporate GHG emissions in accordance with the directives of the Alcantara S.p.A.) UNI ISO 14064-1 and the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard of the GHG SCOPE 2 TOTAL – indirect emissions 6,407 11,933 Protocol. The operational boundary takes in all direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect associated with the generation of purchased (-70) (1,395) emissions associated with the generation of all electricity and steam purchased in electricity and acquired heating (Scope 2), and also indirect emissions (Scope 3) not attributable to the product – in (in brackets = data with COFER offsetting) particular, those resulting from business trips and commuting of the staff; SCOPE 3 TOTAL – indirect emissions 46,081 53,353 • a report on GHG emissions attributable to the product under the directions TOTAL TONS OF CO2 EMISSIONS 52,140 61,421 of the UNI ISO 14064-1 and the Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting TO BE OFFSET/NEUTRALIZED Standard of the GHG Protocol. The “life cycle” includes services, materials and energy (=Total Corporate + Scope 3 Product Offsets) (see paragraph 6.6) consumption forming part of, accompanying and manufacturing the product. Total emissions increased compared with 2016 Fiscal Year, mainly due to the 8% growth In particular, this includes: in production volumes and to the use of two different production processes to produce Alcantara®. The production of the material through the new process (which in itself ° “Scope 1” and “Scope 2” emissions associated with the activities of the Nera Montoro has less environmental impact) made the new production lines necessary to operate production site, taking into account the new gas turbine plant there; alongside those of the original process. ° direct and indirect activities involved in producing and transporting raw materials, This arrangement caused a physiological increase in energy consumption compared outsourced processing of finished product and producing and transporting the to what have been achieved by producing the same volumes with fewer lines. finished product to the customer’s gate for the next stage of processing; ° packaging, forming, washing at the industrial user’s site; Regarding the Alcantara® product, in fact, emissions amount to 126,484,688 tons of CO2 ° end of life (landfill, incineration, recycling). (net of transport offsets), giving a unit value of 24.22 kg CO2 per linear meter, 7% lower than the 22,628 kg CO2/m in 2016). Taking the offset provided by green energy In order to ensure that the information the Company produces is always accurate and up and ETS into account, emissions amounted to 58,674 tons of CO2 equivalent, a unit value of to date, Alcantara S.p.A. periodically reviews its modelling of all processes, using the 11.24 kg CO2 and about 10% increase compared to the previous fiscal year. software SimaPro and other tools and applying the latest emissions coefficients. Furthermore, the figure for Alcantara S.p.A.’s GHG emissions in 2017 Fiscal Year, For the new High-Efficiency Cogeneration station, the impact in terms of CO2 was calculated as the ratio of direct emissions (Scope 1) to turnover, was around 0.33, which considered and offset in accordance with the European Union’s Emissions Trading is in line with last fiscal year’s value of 0.35. In the case of indirect emissions (Scope 2) Scheme (EU ETS) which is designed to cut greenhouse gas emissions in those industries that ratio was 0.06 in 2017, compared with 0.04 in 2016. with the greatest impact on climate change. The table below gives indicates other polluting atmospheric emissions from the emission In fact, the new cogeneration power plant’s emissions fall within the EU-ETS system points approved under the AIA permit (factory chimneys, hoods, etc.). and are therefore considered as offset on the basis of the PAS 2060 standard (57,273,156 The figure for SO2 emissions has been replaced in the table with that for dusts, which tons of CO2). In addition, another 10,724,451 tons of CO2 are offset thanks to the gives more meaningful information because of the activation of new emission points electricity grid’s COFER reductions (Certificate of Origin from Certified Renewable at the Greige department and other current projects for cutting dust emissions. Energy Sources), resulting in the offsetting of a total of 67,997,607 tons of CO2. OTHER ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS U.M. 2016 2017 NOx nitrogen oxide Kg 4,972 1,242 Dusts Kg 1,430 1,251 VOC volatile organic compounds Kg 7,339 5,305 112 113 CRADLE TO GRAVE THAILAND CO2 NEUTRALIZATION Chorchaiwat wastewater The project consists in the construction of a wastewater treatment plant with heat generation, implemented at a starch processing plant of Chorchaiwat Industry Co., Ltd. treatment and biogas The project has been in operation since June 2007. As a result of utilization project The captured biogas is used as fuel in existing heat generating devices in the starch quantification of plant replacing fossil fuel, which leads to further CO2 reductions. Installed capacity of the emissions in the thermal boiler is 3.9 MWth. 2017 Fiscal Year at the organization and product level, Alcantara S.p.A. is “Carbon Neutral”, that LAOS is, it offsets 100% of All operations are certified by TÜV SÜD; 2017 is the product’s sixth year of Carbon Xenamnoy The project is a small-scale runof-river plant that generates sustainable electricity in one residual carbon dioxide Neutrality. small hydro of the poorest regions of the world. The main socio-economic impact of the project are: emissions (those which project cannot be eliminated • the plant generates 85,000 MWh per year, providing clean electricity to over 42,000 otherwise) attributable The total emissions to be offset – 61,421 tons of CO2 – comprise: households; to the Company’s • during construction and operation of the plant plenty of job opportunities were activities or to the • “Corporate” emissions; product from the cradle • Scope 3 emissions attributable to the product (since the Scope 1 and Scope 2 provided for local residents; (including all inputs) emissions attributable to the product are already included in the Corporate inventory); • the local transport infrastructure was greatly improved: the project owner constructed to the grave (the a new road leading to the power plant. It is open for public use. end of the product’s • emissions from the gas turbine plant (whose impact is offset on the basis of the EU life, including waste ETS system in accordance with the PAS 2060 standard). Besides that, the conditions of several existing roads were improved: management). • the project owner implemented a local water supply programme whereby a water Having measured its emissions in 2017 Fiscal Year (corporate and product), Alcantara S.p.A. is well was dug and a water pump provided for the villagers; in a position to offset its residual CO2 emissions by financing six projects under the aegis • a new temple was built for religious ceremonies of the local community; of the United Nations which help to improve global economic, social and environmental • the project owner cooperates with the local telecommunication company, providing conditions. electricity to the communication station. Offsetting (neutralization) concerns emissions that cannot be eliminated any other Environmental impacts: way and is done by purchasing credits (Gold Standards) on the voluntary market. • better air quality due to less use of firewood for domestic use; This option, which is subject to international regulation under the Kyoto Protocol, • on average 50,000 tons of CO2 per year are reduced due to displacement of fossil-fuel consists in removing an amount of CO2 from the atmosphere equivalent to the amount electricity generation in Laos and Thailand connected power grids. produced and needing to be neutralized. Credit-purchasing projects for the 2017 Fiscal Year enabled Alcantara S.p.A. to offset MEXICO all residual emissions, a total of 66,302 tons of CO2 equivalent. Following the Aura Solar Aura Solar I is one of the largest PV solar plant in Latin America and the first private Supplier Involvement project about 7% of credits were purchased by shipping companies utility-scale project to be developed under the “Iniciativa Aura Solar”. Aura Solar I to offset CO2 from their services to Alcantara S.p.A. (for further details refer to Chapter 2.3 is also the first Latin American renewable energy plant to be registered under “Suppliers and Partners”). the I-REC Code. The solar power plant meets the energy needs of 64,000 people The offset certificate purchasing projects, all selected with the aim of contributing (64% of the population of La Paz) and replaces fossil fuels for electricity production, more and more significantly to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals which for years was the cause of food poisoning and air pollution. Aura Solar I significantly world-wide, are described below. reduces the use of fossil fuels and help mitigate risks related to the logistical transport of hydrocarbons in the delicate ecosystem of the Sea of Cortez, which has been declared a biodiversity heritage site by UNESCO. This solar power plant is an important trigger PROJECT NAME PROJECT TYPE COUNTRY NO. OF WHICH % in the clean energy revolution in Mexico and will contribute to Mexico’s target of 35% CERTIFICATES PURCHASED of energy being provided by renewables by 2026. BY SUPPLIERS Chorchaiwat Biomass Thailand 7,024 11% INDIA Xenamnoy Small hydro Laos 4,952 1.080 7% Wind power The economy of Tamil Nadu, the second largest among India’s federal states, has been Aura Solar Solar PV Mexico 5,048 3.048 8% project in Tamil built on agriculture and manufacturing. With lignite reserves of just under 30 billion tons, Nadu growth in Tamil Nadu has been spurred by the combustion of fossil fuels. However, Wind power project in Tamil Nadu Wind Power India 17,046 26% this has also resulted in significant local air and water pollution. Consequently, it is in the state’s interests to diversify its energy mix by moving away from fossil fuels to Advancing solar power Solar PV China 18,070 27% help mitigate pollution, preserve the health of its people, and improve its overall energy InfraVest Changbin and security. This project involves an aggregated group of 812 wind turbine generators, Taichung bundled Wind Solar PV Taiwan 13,410 20% Farms project located throughout the state of Tamil Nadu and coordinated by the Tamil Nadu Spinning Mills Association. The generators have a combined installed capacity of 460.18 Others 752 752 1% MW resulting in the generation of approximately 817 GWh of electricity per annum. TOTAL 66,302 4,880 100% The electricity is fed into the local grid, displacing an equivalent amount of electricity that would have otherwise been generated from fossil fuels. 114 115 CHINA Advancing This project includes the installation of approximately 168,000 pieces of solar cell solar power modules. The total installed capacity is 40.3 MW and it provides 56,000 MWh of electricity to the North-West China Power Grid (NWPG) every year, displacing the power generated predominantly in coal-fired plants. This amount of electricity is enough to supply approximately 40,000 Chinese households for a year. This project generates employment opportunities for professional, skilled and unskilled personnel during the construction, operation and maintenance of the solar plant. Moreover, it creates business opportunities for local stakeholders such as vendors, contractors and suppliers, further supporting the local economy. It increases the regional energy supply, promotes development and enhances social wellbeing. The project improves local air and water quality by reducing other pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, soot and particles associated with the burning of fossil fuels. It demonstrates and disseminates renewable energy technology. It contributes to resource conservation and the diversification of China’s energy mix. TAIWAN InfraVest Changbin Through this project, two wind parks are contributing to enhancing Taiwan’s renewable and Taichung energy generation, supplying over 86,300 households with clean electricity, while paving bundled wind the way for the island’s sustainable development. Each year, this project prevents over farms project 200,000 tons of GHG from entering the atmosphere. Despite the privilege of a long and windy coastline, Taiwan is still heavily reliant on fossil fuels, which comprise over 75% of the country’s total installed electricity capacity. Shifting towards more sustainable energy sources is vital to the country’s national security, economic development and environmental preservation. This pioneering wind project is harnessing Taiwan’s abundant wind energy along the coasts close to Changbin and Taichung. The wind farms consist of 65 wind turbines, generating over 300,000 MWh of clean electricity for more than 86,300 households annually. In addition to generating positive impacts on the global climate, this project is engaged in several nature preserving activities such as regular cleaning of beaches from waste and debris, and guided tours to raise awareness about climate change, pollution and other environmental issues. The project has, so far, also planted over 1.76 hectares of trees. 117 — 6.6 Water Management The table below indicates average values of the principal pollutants with the greatest environmental impact by comparison with the statutory limits. and Footprint QUALITY OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: MEAN VALUES OF THE MAIN POLLUTANTS Parameter pH SuspenBOD5 COD ChroNitrous NH4 Total surOrganic ChloriEscherichia Acute ded mium nitroamfactants nitrogen nated Coli Toxicity The primary water The water is used for sanitary purposes, fire-fighting, irrigation and industrial uses in solids VI gen monia comsoltest source for the industrial the production plant itself; in particular, it is used for dyeing the finished product. Other nitrogen pounds vents activities carried on at the Nera Montoro minor sources are well water and the municipal water supply. Alcantara S.p.A. is strongly Unit of mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l UFC/100ml % production plant and committed to reducing the amount of water drawn from the municipal water supply in measurement research centre is the view of the ever-increasing consumption of drinking water by local communities and Nera river. Legal limits for 5.5 9.5 80 40 160 0.2 0.6 15 2 0.1 1 5,000 <=50% tot new manufacturing plants in the area. discharge into In 2017 Fiscal Year Alcantara S.p.A. also supplied Engie with the industrial water surface watercourses needed to produce steam, for a total volume of 309,584 m3. The values given in the Mean value 8.19 5 7.2 30.8 <0.01 <0.01 0.115 0.61 <0.01 <0.01 200 <5% following table do not include the water managed by the Cofely gas turbine plant. in 2016 test Acceptable Mean value 8.08 7 8.9 34.4 <0.01 0.41 <0.1 0.4 <0.01 <0.01 140 <5% WATER ABSTRACTION BY SOURCE U.M. 2016 2017 in 2017 test Nera river via artificial reservoir m3 1,700,282 1,850,786 Nera river direct abstraction m 3 57,880 Water wells within the plant m3 53,974 121,400 PHYTO-TREATMENT SYSTEM Province of Terni Municipal water supply m3 4,252 4,065 TOTAL WATER ABSTRACTION m3 1,758,508 2,034,131 The phyto-treatment system allows the use covering over the reservoirs on the old of plants to reduce or entirely eliminate landfill site (about 7,000 m2 restored) the seepage of leachate from sludge in by planting more than 2,500 plants to the Company’s landfill site outside the be irrigated by nutrient-rich industrial factory. The function of the plants is to wastewater; consume the leachate directly on-site, thus avoiding costly transfers of leachate reducing the amount of pollutants and its post-treatment waste. treated in the water treatment plant and so reducing the resulting treatment products WATER DISCHARGE The system ensures an overall improvement in the environment of the landfill area, and sludge and improving the wastewater’s characteristics. BY QUALITY breaks the cycle leading to the production The phyto-treatment system is based on AND DESTINATION of waste and creates new destinations for the sludge resulting from the water the natural process through which plants absorb water from the soil and carry large treatment system. In particular, the results quantities of water from the ground to the obtained include the following: atmosphere using solar energy as input. All waste water goes to an internal there is one discharge point from the treatment plant before being discharged. Cofely gas turbine station, authorized by Furthermore, at the production plant there the Province of Terni. is only one final discharge point; this is The final waste water discharge point in downstream of the water treatment system and is authorized and monitored. Before the Nera river is in the protected area of San Liberato Lake and is managed in The leachate, that is the set 2,500 selected shrubs The leachate is then the discharge point into the Nera river accordance with statutory requirements. consumed through the natural of liquids coming from the property of evapotranspiration landfill, is no longer intended of this special plant system. WATER DISCHARGE U.M. 2016 2017 for the water treatment Fuelled by the only waters Nera river m 1,682,103 1,842,931 system as in any common 3 of the industrial process, the factory but used as fertilizer water treatment system to cultivate a plantation is therefore able to return Specifically, on the basis of the tests carried out by qualified external laboratories of more than 2,500 sludge that can be reused selected shrubs. (in accordance with the Integrated Environmental Authorization requirements) and sent to the competent authorities, the wastewater quality parameters are well below Leachate in other industrial processes. the current statutory and regulatory limits. Analysis indicate that pollutant values never exceed the prescribed limits, and have indeed improved over the years, remaining at very safe levels at all times; in particular, the acute toxicity tests carried out LANDFILL PHYTO-TREATMENT REUSABLE on the wastewater have always shown levels below the prescribed limits. LEACHATE SLUDGE 118 119 WATER 2017 WATER FOOTPRINT CALCULATION: CONCEPTUAL DIAGRAM OF MAIN FLOWS FOOTPRINT To calculate its Water Footprint Alcantara 1p S.p.A. uses the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) WF Product Tot methodology in accordance with ISO 14046 2016 Elv3 standard. The calculation method used is the 100% Freshwater Scarcity Water Footprint (Pfister et al. 2009), and assesses the scarcity of fresh water used directly and indirectly at the Nera Montoro production plant. The water consumption of each geographical area directly and indirectly affected by the life cycle assessment is weighted with a factor related to the region’s degree of water stress. 1p 1p Scope 1 NM 2016 Elv3 Scope 3 NM 2016 EIv3 8.33% Product 91.4% 1p 1p 1p 1p 1p Scope 1 thermal energy Scope 3 Raw materials Scope 3 Scope 3 Scope 3 cogeneration NM 2016 EIv3 NM 2016 EIv3 Auxiliaries NM By-products NM water NM 5.73% 52.2% 2016 EIv3 2016 EIv3 general 2016 EIv3 19.4% -4.9 % 19.9 % 3.15E7 s Methane used in 2.18E6 kg PET 6.06E5 kg 3.83E5 kg shaved-pile 2.25E5 kg shaved1.44E6 kg PS PSJ 2.16E6 m3 3.1E5 m3 1.84E6 m3 1.43E5 m3 water Cofely cogeneration Advanite 14026 DecaBDethane+Sb203 PET/cotton fabric pile PET/cotton fabric Polystyrene 679 – artificial reservoir water supplied to water emissions emissions, Cofely (e, t) 2016 EI3 Turkey EIv3 Cabertex ETA-BE-Italy EIv3 H160 – Italy MI EIv3 H160 – Italy TN EIv3 Japan EIv3 water TIC EIv3 Cofely CHP EIv3 Alcantara NM 2014 (Alcantara) NM 2014 5.73% 4.45% 7.41% 20.9% 12.3% 4.9% 63.8% 9.1% -54.1% -4.19% 2E7 m3 3.44E6 kg Polythene 4.21E5 kg Diphenylether2.13E5 kg Textile, 1.44E6 kg Polystyrene, 1.84E6 m3 water 1.43E5 m3 water Et cogeneration EI3 terephthalate, granulated, compound (RER)| woven cotton (GLO)| general purpose RoW)| emissions, Alcantara emissions, Cofely 5.73% amorphous (RoW)| production|alloc. Rec., S production|alloc. Rec., S alloc. Rec., S discharge 2014 (Alcantara) NM 2014 7% 5.76% 31.2% 4.9% -54.1% -4.19% 2.11E9 MJ Heat, district or industrial, natural gas (IT)| heat and power cogeneration 5.73% 120 121 The biggest contributions to the Company’s Water Footprint (marked with broader arrows in the above diagram) come from consumed raw materials (52.2%), direct water consumption by Alcantara S.p.A. itself (19.9%) and consumed ancillary materials — 6.7 Waste Management (19.4%). The waste produced in the course of The following table details the results of the Freshwater Scarcity Footprint assessments production consists Most of the waste produced is nonof the last two years. This analysis enables the Company to track the number of m3 mainly of sludge from hazardous. The table below lists the the wastewater equivalent of water needed to produce Alcantara®, measured in m2 and kg. treatment systems. waste generated and disposed of at In 2017 Fiscal Year, the ratio of water consumption to Alcantara® product was lower This sludge is taken to the Nera Montoro plant, broken down authorized landfills and by type and volume (as these are more compared to 2016 Fiscal Year, confirming the Company’s commitment to reducing the if possible destined for impact of its production processes. re-use in authorized significant than those generated at the cement works. Milan headquarters). Total m3 eq. m3 eq./Kg m3 eq./m2 WATER SCARSITY FOOTPRINT 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 WASTE GENERATED AT THE PRODUCTION PLANT ® ALCANTARA AVERAGE 968,681 928,879 0.44 0.37 0.14 0.13 WASTE DESCRIPTION U.M. 2016 2017 Buffing powder Physiological waste from the Kg 768,620 946,418 Alcantara® average 522,325 611,531 0.24 0.24 0.08 0.08 (only dyeing process)* buffing process; contains polyester and polyurethane Alcantara® average 446,356 317,348 0.20 0.13 0.06 0.04 (excluding dyeing process)** Hazardous Waste from the production of Kg 2,207,925 2,361,140 flame-proof fabric; by-products *NB: the WF figures published in 2016 Fiscal Year have been recalculated to include the discharge of containing impurities, empty waste water. Those changes are taken into account in the figures shown in the above table, to make the mode hazardous substance containers of calculation more meticulous and accurate. Furthermore, the figures shown have been calculated using the Ecoinvent database v3.3, which is a revised version of the one used for the figures in last fiscal year’s Non-hazardous Non-recoverable production Kg 7,697,875 11,556,906 Sustainability Report. (other than bufwaste, plastic, wood, etc. ** To assess the Water Scarcity Footprint of Alcantara® dyeing process, the following items have been fing powder) evaluated: water consumption, amounting to 75% of calculated consumption in the “product” model; 100% of TOTAL Kg 10,674,420 14,864,464 raw materials relating to the dyeing process; 75% -100 % of chemicals used for water treatment; 50% of power consumption used for water treatment; electric and thermal energy consumption of the dyeing department. The increase in waste is due to multiple factors, including the increase in production and the implementation of the new production system. DESTINATION DESCRIPTION NON-HAZARDOUS HAZARDOUS TOTAL (Kg) CODE OF DESTINATION (Kg) (Kg) D9 Physical and chemical treatment producing compounds or 2,567,100 837,180 3,404,280 mixtures disposed of in accordance with procedures such as evaporation, drying, calcination, etc. D15 Preliminary storage before one of the operations listed under 451,892 564,483 1,016,375 D1 to D14 Kg 3,018,992 1,401,663 4,420,655 TOTAL DISPOSED OF % 20.3 9.4 29.7 R3 Recycling/reclamation of organic substances not used as 59,360 59,360 solvents (including composting and other biological transformation processes) R5 Recycling/recovery of other inorganic substances 616,940 616,940 R7 Recovery of the products used to capture the pollutants 583,280 583,280 R12 Exchange of waste in order to subject it to one of the 333,200 333,200 operations indicated under R1-R11 R13 Storage of waste pending any of the operations numbered 7,891,552 959,477 8,851,029 R1 to R12 Kg 9,484,332 959,477 10,443,809 TOTAL RECOVERED % 63.8 6.5 70.3 Kg 12,503,324 2,361,140 14,864,464 TOTAL WASTE % 84.1 15.9 100 Lastly, it is confirmed that all waste is sent beyond the borders of Italy. 122 123 GRI-G4 GRI CONTENT INDEX Browse the interactive report on sustainabilityreport.alcantara.com The table below contains the information necessary to assess the degree to which the information requirements laid down by the GRI-G4 reporting standard are satisfied. The table is made up of four columns. An asterisk in the fourth column indicates a comment to the requirement or possibly a lack of information: the relative reason is provided in a note below the corresponding indicator. Each aspect disclosed in this document is material for the organization of Alcantara S.p.A. If the aspect is also material outside the organization, the relative stakeholder is provided next to each aspect’s name. CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement of the CEO and Chairman regarding the relevance of sustainability for the The Chairman’s Letter organization and its strategy G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 1.7 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization Introduction G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 1.4, 4.2 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 1.3 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 1.3, 4.2 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 1.3 G4-8 Markets served 1.4, 4.2 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 1.4, 2.1 G4-10 Number of employees by employment contract, region and gender 3.1 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements * Comment: the entire staff is covered by the National labour collective agreement G4-12 Description of the supply chain 2.3 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Introduction G4-14 Explanation of the application of the prudential approach 1.6 Comment: before the introduction into the system of each new product, all applicable requirements are re-examined at dedicated interdepartmental meetings G4-15 Economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which 1.8 the organization subscribes or which endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations 2.4 125 CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH PIDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES GOVERNANCE G4-17 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements and any Introduction G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, 1.5, 1.8 entity not covered by the report environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4-18 Process for defining the report content Introduction, 1.9 G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management 1.5 processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-19 List of all the material aspects identified 1.9 G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 1.8 G4-20 For each material aspect, indication of the aspect boundary within the organization 1.9 environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4-21 For each material aspect, indication of the aspect boundary outside the organization 1.9 G4-48 Body that approves the Sustainability Report 1.5 G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports Introduction G4-49 Description of the process for communicating with the highest governance body 1.5 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Introduction G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 1.5 governance body Comment: none PSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives * G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 1.9 Comment: this information is not publicly disclosed due to confidentiality concerns G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 1.9 G4-52 Description of the process for determining remuneration for the highest governance * body and senior executives G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 1.9 Comment: the information is not publicly disclosed due to confidentiality concerns of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-53 Description of how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding 3.3 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 1.9 remuneration the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns Comment: the productivity bonus includes an agreement shared with the trade union representatives G4-54 Ratio of the compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median * REPORT PROFILE compensation Comment: the information is collected and monitored. It is not publicly disclosed due to G4-28 Reporting period Introduction confidentiality concerns G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Introduction G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in compensation for the organization’s highest-paid * G4-30 Reporting cycle Introduction individual to the median increase Comment: the information is collected and monitored. It is not publicly disclosed due to G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report and its contents Introduction confidentiality concerns G4-32 The “in accordance” option the organization has chosen and the GRI content index Introduction ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-33 External assurance for the report Introduction G4-56 Mission, values, social charters and principles 1.1, 1.5 Auditor’s Report G4-57 Description of the mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour 1.5 G4-58 Description of the mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful 1.5 GOVERNANCE behaviour G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 1.5 G4-35 Description of the process for delegating authority for economic, 1.5 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC environmental and social topics G4-36 Authority for economic, environmental and social topics 1.5 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE DMA 2.1 G4-37 Description of the process for consultation between stakeholders and the highest 1.5 governance body G4-EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2.1 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body 1.5 G4-EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 2.2, 6.5 G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 1.5 activities due to climate change G4-EC 3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations * G4-40 Description of the nomination and selection processes for the highest 1.5 Comment: obligations undertaken as laid down by law governance body G4-EC 4 Financial assistance received from government 2.4 G4-41 Description of the processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 1.5 G4-42 Highest governance body’s role in the development of strategies related to economic, 1.5 environmental and social impacts MARKET PRESENCE G4-43 Development of the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, 1.5 DMA 3.1 environmental and social topics G4-EC 5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum 3.3 G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to economic, * wage at significant locations of operation environmental and social topics Comment: the policies for the evaluation of the performance are decided by the G4-EC 6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant 3.1 shareholders’ meeting with the ownership of Toray Group locations of operation 126 127 CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS COMMUNITY BIODIVERSITY SUPPLIERS DMA 5.1 G4-EN 13 Habitats protected or restored * Comment: none G4-EC 7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 5.1 G4-EN 14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with * provided primarily for public benefit habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk G4-EC 8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts SUPPLIERS 2.1, 2.3 Comment: not applicable PROCUREMENT PRACTICES EMISSIONS SUPPLIERS DMA 2.3 DMA 6.5 G4-EC 9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 2.3 G4-EN 15 Direct Green House Gas emissions 6.5 G4-EN 16 Energy indirect Green House Gas emissions 6.5 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT G4-EN 17 Other indirect Green House Gas emissions 6.5 G4-EN 18 Green House Gas (GHG) emissions intensity 6.5 MATERIALS SUPPLIERS G4-EN 19 Reduction of Green House Gas emissions 6.5 DMA 6.1, 6.3 G4-EN 20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (in weight) 6.5 Comment: Alcantara S.p.A. prevents the risk of emissions of R22 gas through G4-EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.3 maintenance of all air-conditioning and cooling plants by specialized suppliers; in 2017 Comment: the total amount of materials used is not disclosed by absolute value due to Fiscal Year, no leaks of R22 from the equipment occurred confidentiality concerns G4-EN 21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions G4-EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.3 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE SUPPLIERS-COMMUNITY ENERGY SUPPLIERS DMA 6.6 , 6.7 DMA 6.4 G4-EN 22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.6 G4-EN 3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.4 G4-EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.7 G4-EN 4 Energy consumption outside of the organization * Comment: Alcantara commits to providing the missing information in the future G4-EN 24 Total number and volume of significant spills * Comment:over the past few years there have been no leakages or cases of contaminaG4-EN 5 Energy intensity 6.4 tion of the environment G4-EN 25 Hazardous waste 6.7 G4-EN 6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.4 G4-EN 26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats 6.6 G4-EN 7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 6.4 significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff WATER SUPPLIERS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CUSTOMERS DMA 6.6 DMA 4.3 G4-EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.6 G4-EN 27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 4.4, 6.2 G4-EN 9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.6 G4-EN 28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed 6.3 by category G4-EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused * Comment: Alcantara is studying possible ways to reuse and recycle water COMPLIANCE SUPPLIERS BIODIVERSITY SUPPLIERS DMA 6.1 DMA 6.1 G4-EN 29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non* compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-EN 11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas * Comment: no fines or any other sanctions of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Comment: a 20-hectare land portion owned by Alcantara is located inside the SIC area (Site of Community Interest). Although within the propriety area, the lands are located TRANSPORT SUPPLIERS out of the plant’s perimeter DMA 6.5 G4-EN 12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity * in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN 30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 6.5 Comment: no biodiversity studies have been conducted in this topic that is not material materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 128 129 CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH OVERALL TRAINING AND EDUCATION DMA 2.2 DMA 3.4 G4-EN 31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 2.2 G4-LA 9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category 3.4 G4-LA 10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued * employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUPPLIERS Comment: in light of the breakdown of employee age groups, no specific programmes to DMA 2.3 manage career endings have been developed G4-LA 11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 3.4 G4-EN 32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 2.3 reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-EN 33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 2.3 and actions taken DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS DMA 3.2 DMA 6.1 G4-LA 12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 3.2 G4-EN 34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved * according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of through formal grievance mechanisms diversity Comment: none CATEGORY: SOCIAL EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA 3.3 G4-LA 13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, 3.3 EMPLOYMENT by significant locations of operation DMA 3.1 G4-LA 1 Total number and rates of new employees hires and employee turnover by age group, 3.1 gender and region SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES SUPPLIERS G4-LA 2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 3.6 DMA 2.3 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA 14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 2.3 G4-LA 3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 3.2 G4-LA 15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the supply 2.3 chain and actions taken LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS DMA 3.3 G4-LA 4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are * LABOUR PRACTICE GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS specified in collective agreements DMA 3.1 Comment: no organizational changes necessary to improve the management of business activities are taken without informing the trade union representatives beforehand. The G4-LA 16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed and resolved through * labour agreement imposes a minimum period of notice to the staff in case of changes to formal grievance mechanisms the company’s operation or organization Comment: none OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY DMA 3.5 HUMAN RIGHTS G4-LA 5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health and * safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes Comment: the OHSAS 18001 certification led to the creation of a safety management INVESTMENT system. The responsibles are those laid down by the Italian legislation DMA 1.5 G4-LA 6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism 3.5 G4-HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human 1.5 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-LA 7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation * Comment: Alcantara S.p.A. pays constant attention to the respect of human rights but Comment: a register of those who are exposed to cancerous substances has been activated includes no additional clauses to the respect of the Code of Ethics laid down by Model and is managed in accordance with the law 231; also, due to the lack of investments and contracts at risk G4-LA 8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions * G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning 3.2 Comment: the productivity bonus will be based on an assessment of the aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of health and safety performance employees trained 130 131 CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH NON-DISCRIMINATION HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS DMA 3.2, 3.3 DMA 1.5 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken * G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved * Comment: no incident through formal grievance mechanisms FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING SUPPLIERS SOCIETY DMA 2.3 LOCAL COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom 2.3 of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken DMA 5.1 to support these rights G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 1.9, 5.1 assessments, and development programmes Comment: 100% operations through environmental assessments and stakeholder CHILD LABOUR SUPPLIERS engagement activities DMA 2.3 G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 5.1, 6.2 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child 2.3 labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour ANTI-CORRUPTION DMA 1.5 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR SUPPLIERS G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 1.5 DMA 2.3 and the significant risks identified Comment: the risk is monitored by the Supervisory Board across the entire organization (100%) G4-HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, 2.3 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 1.5 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken * Comment: no incidents SECURITY PRACTICES SUPPLIERS DMA 2.3 PUBLIC POLICY G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies * DMA 2.4 or procedures that are relevant to operations G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary * Comment: Alcantara S.p.A. has never made contributions to politicians and political parties INDIGENOUS RIGHTS DMA 5.1 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken * DMA 1.5 Comment: no violation G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly * practices and their outcomes Comment: none ASSESSMENT DMA 3.2 COMPLIANCE G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights * reviews or impact assessments DMA 1.5 Comment: Alcantara S.p.A. is committed to respecting all laws and commitments laid down by the trade union agreements signed or any other commitment undertaken by the company concerning G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non* human rights. In relation to this, no violation has ever emerged from the inspections made compliance with laws and regulations Comment: no fines or sanctions SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT SUPPLIERS SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY SUPPLIERS DMA 2.3 DMA 2.3 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria * Comment: all suppliers are monitored in accordance with SA8000® G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 2.3 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain 2.3 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply 2.3 and actions taken chain and actions taken 132 133 CODE INDICATOR ASPECT BOUNDARY PARAGRAPH COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS: PGRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY DMA 5.1, 5.2 G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through 5.1, 5.2 formal grievance mechanisms THE CONNECTION PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BETWEEN CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI-G4 AND THE DMA G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety 4.3 4.3 UNGC PRINCIPLES impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes * concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle CATEGORIES PRINCIPLES DESCRIPTION GRI-G4 INDICATORS Comment: no incidents occurred Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights G4-HR2; G4-HR7 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4-HR8; G4-HR9; HUMAN G4-HR12; G4-SO1; DMA 4.3 RIGHTS G4-SO2 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of 4.3 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses G4-HR1; G4HR-10 significant products and services subject to such information requirements G4-HR11 G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes * Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to G4-11; G4-HR4; concerning product and service information and labelling collective bargaining G4-LA4 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 4.5 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour G4-HR6 LABOUR Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour G4-HR5 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation G4-10; G4-EC5; G4-EC6 G4-LA1; DMA 4.5 G4-LA3; G4-LA9; G4-LA11; G4-LA12; G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products * G4-LA13; G4-HR3 Comment: none Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenge G4-EC2; G4-EN1; G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary * G4-EN3; G4-EN8; codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion G4-EN15; G4-EN16; and sponsorship G4-EN17; G4-EN20; Comment: none G4-EN21; G4-EN27; G4-EN31 CUSTOMER PRIVACY Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility G4-EN1; G4-EN2; G4-EN3; G4-EN5; DMA 1.5 G4-EN6; G4-EN7; G4-EN8; G4-EN9; G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and * G4-EN10; G4-EN11; losses of customer data G4-EN12; G4-EN15; Comment: no complaints received G4-EN16; G4-EN17; ENVIROMENT G4-EN18; G4-EN19; G4-EN20; G4-EN21; COMPLIANCE G4-EN22; G4-EN23; DMA 1.5 G4-EN24; G4-EN25; G4-EN26; G4-EN27; G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations * G4-EN28; G4-EN29; concerning the provision and use of products and services G4-EN30; G4-EN31; G4-EN32; G4-EN33; G4-EN34 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies G4-EN6; G4-EN7; G4-EN19; G4-EN27; G4-EN-31 ANTIPrinciple 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery G4-56; G4-57, G4-58; CORRUMPTION G4-SO3; G4-SO4; G4-SO5 134 135 136 137 Browse the interactive report on sustainabilityreport.alcantara.com Alcantara S.p.A. Via Mecenate 86 20138 Milan (Italy) Telephone +39 02 580301 Fax +39 02 5063886 alcantara.com alcantarasustainability@alcantara.com Alcantara® is a registered trademark of Alcantara S.p.A. Printed on paper Cyclus Offset
