2017PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY BILITY REPORT FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 1 CEO REFLECTIONS DELIVERING ON OUR PROMISE Our President and CEO, Dennis Jönsson, looks back on another year in which we brought sustainable value to stakeholders by delivering on our simple, unifying promise. Understanding our role in the world distribution systems for milk and other During the past year, we have made liquid food products are less prevalent, significant progress in identifying and it makes a real difference to the prioritising those aspect of our everyday lives of countless families. business which have the greatest During the past year, we have been stakeholder impact. We spent nine actively involved in several initiatives months working alongside aimed at extending that positive sustainability experts on a rigorous impact still further. For example, materiality assessment, defining we have broadened our DEEPER IN clear priorities under the headlines of THE PYRAMID activities, working with Food, People, and Futures, as well as customers in new parts of the world to reflecting our wider contribution to find creative responses to the specific the 17 UN Sustainable Development challenges faced by low-income Goals (SDGs). This work also builds households in securing safe, healthy on our ongoing commitment to and nutritious food products. the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles, to which we have been “We also expanded our a signatory since 2004. involvement in school feeding Throughout this report, which is programmes and are now now aligned to the Global Reporting working with governments and Initiative’s G4 guidelines, you will see other partners to bring nutritious how we map our strategy to our most As I travel around our global markets, material issues, and to the nine SDGs drinks to around 67 million where we know we can have an impact. children in 57 countries using I am regularly impressed by the innovative and wide-ranging ways in Tetra Pak packages.” which Tetra Pak® people are helping Protecting food deliver on our brand promise: Making food safe and available It’s an activity in which we have played PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD™. It is everywhere remains our vision… and, a key role for more than half a century, a promise that extends beyond our together with customers and partners and I was delighted that last year we long-held commitment to protect across the globe, we continue our added Bolivia to the list of nations food, capturing too our undertaking journey towards that goal, which is where we now help ensure to protect people, both inside and now widely recognised as one of the schoolchildren regularly receive a outside the company; and to protect most pressing issues of our time. healthy drink as part of their school day. futures: the planet’s, our customers’ Since launching our first filling machine Looking to the future, we see more and our own. It is a promise that in 1952, our processing and packaging and more opportunities to expand ensures sustainability is not an isolated solutions have been helping to protect access to safe, affordable food; offering function within Tetra Pak, but rather an food; not just in terms of its safety, both our know-how and our cuttingintegral part of the decisions we make but also its quality, flavour, nutritional edge processing and packaging and the actions we take, right along value and shelf life. Our packaging technologies to customers and our value chain. solutions, in particular, enable food to partners around the world, as we be transported and stored for several journey towards the UN goal of months, without the need for either Zero Hunger. refrigeration or preservatives. In Continued on next page > developed countries, this brings peace of mind to consumers, while in emerging economies, where chilled 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 2 Protecting people Protecting futures Equally pleasing was having our wider When it comes to protecting people, Helping protect the future of our climate targets approved by the one of our principal areas of focus in planet goes hand-in-hand with our Science Based Targets Initiative. This 2016 was our Occupational Health and commitment to support the long-term reinforces the fact that our climate Safety agenda, helping better ensure success of our customers, and we are programme and goals are aligned with the wellbeing of all those who work for, working on many different fronts to the latest science. We are the first food or with, our company. We extended our ensure that happens. Responsible packaging company to achieve this OHS assessment programme to sourcing, for example, is one of the endorsement. include all of our sites across the globe, three strategic objectives defined for Maintaining momentum and introduced a new training our supplier operation, and we now What I have seen through recent years campaign, Safety and Me, to share have an active programme to better convinces me that driving a sustainable, positive safety-behaviour models with engage both our direct and indirect responsible approach to business is the many thousands who work in our suppliers, to ensure they are now more important than ever. With factories worldwide. By year end, this supporting these ambitions. that in mind we have established a campaign had been rolled out in On a related front, we now secure Sustainability Forum, reporting to the around 40 percent of our locations. 100 percent of our paperboard from Global Leadership Team’s Strategy But protecting our people means FSC™‑certified and other controlled Council. We have done this to ensure more than safeguarding their sources, as we continue our work to that this critical dimension, along with wellbeing. It is also means protecting raise the quantity of responsibly a well-defined corporate governance them as a resource, ensuring we attract sourced renewable materials, including framework, sit at the heart of our and retain outstanding talent from bio-based polymers, in our package strategy and future growth agenda, across the globe, helping them portfolio. As a consequence of this with accountability at the highest level have long and rewarding careers effort, our Tetra Brik® Aseptic 1000 of our organisation. with Tetra Pak. Edge with Bio-based LightCap™ There is no doubt that the challenges 30 recently became the first aseptic In this regard, my leadership team we face within the food and beverage carton in the world to receive the and I recognise that success in today’s industry are complex, interconnected highest class of Vinçotte certification global business requires employees and intensifying. But I am absolutely for its use of renewable materials. with a diverse mix of backgrounds, confident that by coming together as perspectives and cultural We are also making excellent headway a global community to try, test and understanding. There is undoubtedly in advancing our processing and share new approaches, we can turn more that we need to do in this area, packaging equipment technologies these challenges into opportunities particularly when it comes to gender to help customers reduce their own and ensure we protect what is so diversity, and we recently formed an environmental footprint. From the precious to us all. advisory panel to help identify ways in Tetra Pak® E3 platform, featuring Dennis Jönsson, which to ensure more women pursue eBeam sterilisation that lowers energy President and CEO, Tetra Pak careers with Tetra Pak and grow into consumption by almost 50 percent, leadership roles. I look forward to to high-acid juice pasteurisation, seeing the progress made against the which cuts energy use by up to panel’s detailed action plan through 20 percent, we continue to bring the year ahead. innovative technology solutions to our customers that reduce energy, As well as taking a more proactive decrease water consumption and approach to diversity, we are also minimise waste. exploring how we better attract and retain young talent at an early stage in On another front, our commitment their careers. Last year, we launched to RE100, and our decision to source our Future Talent programme, which 100 percent renewable electricity by reflects our long-term commitment to 2030 has been extremely well received hiring a steady stream of graduates by both customers and consumers from around the world, offering them alike; I am pleased to report that we are a structured agenda of on-the-job already using renewable electricity for training and development, leading to more than a third of our total annual a career with Tetra Pak. consumption worldwide. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 3 TETRA PAK AT A GLANCE Tetra Pak is the world’s leading food processing and packaging solutions company. Working closely with our customers and suppliers, Tetra Pak is one of three companies we provide safe, innovative and environmentally sound in the Tetra Laval Group – a privately products that each day meet the needs of hundreds owned business founded in Sweden. The other two companies are of millions of people in more than 170 countries. DeLaval and Sidel. Tetra Laval is headquartered in Switzerland. With more than 24,000 employees around the world, we believe in responsible industry leadership and a sustainable approach to business. Our promise, “PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD™,” reflects our vision to make food safe and available, everywhere. R  EAD MORE 11.4 € billion Net sales in 2016 77.8 175+ billion Litres of products sold in 24,100 Employees worldwide Countries where Tetra Pak packages Tetra Pak packages are available in 2016 188 billion 6 Tetra Pak packages sold in 2016 Research and development centres 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 4 2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Through 2016, we advanced our sustainability agenda in line with our commitment to protect food, protect people and protect futures. And we challenged ourselves across all three areas to make an even greater impact. FOOD 60+ years of expertise in 67 million 50+ children received years supporting food safety and quality milk or other nutritious school feeding and beverages in Tetra Pak nutrition programmes packages 98% 24,100 +600,000 employees worldwide learning hours taken up PEOPLE manufacturing site compliance to global by our employees occupational health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 FUTURES First aseptic package 100% 16% of carton reduction in 100% commitment to with highest paperboard greenhouse gas renewable electricity class Vinçotte came from Forest emissions, despite by 2030 via RE100 certification Stewardship 19 percent more for renewable Council™ certified packages sold materials and other controlled (2010 baseline) sources 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 5 FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. At Tetra Pak, our approach to sustainable ways to feed a fast-growing for our customers, for our business and population. It also means supporting for the communities where we operate. sustainability is shaped by our people and communities in our brand promise: PROTECTS business, in our markets and in our Part of our stakeholder engagement means aligning to global initiatives WHAT’S GOOD™. We bring supply chains and doing more like the United Nations Sustainable this promise to life by with less by driving environmental Development Goals (SDGs). innovation across the life cycle of our committing to protect food, Established in 2015, these global goals products and in our own operations. to protect people and to strive to eliminate poverty, improve Aligning to global standards education and health outcomes, protect futures. The challenges we face within the food create better jobs and tackle key In order to provide safe, secure and and beverage industry are complex, environmental challenges by 2030. sustainable products to customers and interconnected and intensifying. While We have identified nine Goals that consumers – and to do so responsibly FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES as the align closely with our business model – we need to continually find new ways chapters of our sustainability story and that we will track our progress on to meet the evolving expectations of provide us a way to organise and in the coming years, as shown below the market. This means understanding communicate our priorities, we think and on the following page. the diverse needs of our customers, and work in an integrated way in order to while at the same time finding develop solutions that maximise benefits  READ MORE about our sustainability approach FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES within our sustainability story Protecting food Protecting people Working with our customers and Safeguarding and enabling our partners to make food safe and people and supporting communities available everywhere through our where we operate. innovative and market-leading food processing and packaging solutions. Our commitment to the UN SDGs: Our commitment to the UN SDGs: Top material aspect: Occupational health and safety Top material aspects:  Food availability  Customer health and safety  Food waste Protecting futures Our commitment to the UN SDGs:  Packaging renewability  Energy use and GHG emissions Supporting the sustainable future  Machines and equipment: of our planet and the long-term waste generation success of our customers.  Machine and equipment: energy use and GHG emissions  Machines and equipment: Top material aspects: water use  Supplier environmental assessment  Packaging recycling  Supplier water use  Packaging climate impact  Packaging design and resource use 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 6 FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. PROTECTING FOOD PROTECTING PEOPLE We work to improve the environmental profile of our products and solutions Working with our customers Safeguarding and enabling and to adopt sustainable and partners to make food our people and supporting practices throughout the value chain. safe and available everywhere communities where we operate. Our equipment is designed to provide through our innovative and Through this approach, we are making outstanding performance and to market-leading food processing a direct contribution to SDG 8: minimise energy and water use. and packaging solutions. We prefer to use materials We employ a diverse from renewable sources Through this approach, we are making workforce, and strive to and are working towards a direct contribution to SDGs 2 and 12: keep all colleagues free a 100 percent renewable from harm. Our Code of Our processing and package. Our aseptic packaging helps Business Conduct sets mandatory packaging solutions to reduce food waste. We adopt requirements on human rights and enable food and drink to responsible practices throughout our labour, environment and antibe distributed and stored value chain and have been reporting corruption, complies with applicable without refrigeration or preservatives. on these since 1999. legislation and encourages suppliers’ Our Food for Development initiative own sustainability initiatives. We are working to helps drive the development of the minimise our climate dairy and food value chain worldwide. Top material aspects: occupational impact across the value School feeding programmes improve health and safety. chain, setting a goal to health and stimulate development. See how our work to protect people aligns cap this by 2020 at 2010 levels despite Our DEEPER IN THE PYRAMID offering to our material aspects and the SDGs business growth. We develop products is making healthy food accessible to and solutions that help reduce low-income households. climate impact. We select materials from PROTECTING FUTURES We work closely with renewable sources, and our suppliers and other our long-term goal is that Supporting the sustainable future partners to ensure sound all our packaging will be made from 100% renewable materials. of our planet and the long-term forest management Aseptic technology and packaging also success of our customers. practices. Our minimum requirements go beyond legislation, and we expect helps to reduce food waste. Through this approach, we are making our suppliers to comply. We use Top material aspects: food availability, a direct contribution to SDGs 6, 7, 9, 12, credible certification systems to customer health and safety, food waste. 13, 15 and 17: improve forest management. See how our work to protect food aligns We seek to minimise water Top material aspects: supplier to our material aspects and the SDGs usage in our operations environmental assessment, supplier and reduce the water water use, packaging design and consumption of the resource use, packaging renewability, equipment we develop, sell and energy use and GHG emissions, operate at our customers’ sites. Our machines and equipment: waste Environmental Benchmarking Services generation, water use, packaging help customers increase efficiency and recycling, packaging climate impact. reduce their own consumption.  ee how our work to protect futures aligns S We are investing in to our material aspects and the SDGs renewable energy and increasing the use of Partnership and collaboration renewable electricity in our We actively engage operations. We have joined RE100 and with stakeholders across the Business Renewables Center, our entire value chain committing us to sourcing 100% of and at all levels in order to our electricity from renewable sources develop common solutions and create by 2030. shared value. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 7 FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. STAKEHOLDER-DRIVEN PRIORITIES Engaging proactively with How we focus on what We seek to accelerate performance our diverse stakeholder matters most and collaboration on these priority areas in the years ahead. In addition, groups is fundamental to our In order to objectively address the we will continue to manage and issues that matter most to our approach to sustainability stakeholders and to our business, communicate on a range of topics and we have built strong we apply the Global Reporting Initiative relevant to our business. relationships over the years (GRI) principle of materiality. In 2016, READ MORE about our materiality process with industry organisations, we undertook our first full materiality and the partners we work with assessment and identified 14 top non-governmental and material aspects where we can have international organisations the greatest positive impact for our and multi-stakeholder customers, our business and society initiatives around the world. as a whole. Our pillars Our 14 most material aspects: Food ◆ Food availability 1 How we work across the value chain to ensure food is available, accessible and affordable, by consumers everywhere. ◆ Customer health and safety 2 How we ensure that our products and services are assessed for any potential health and safety impacts during their lifecycle. ◆ Food waste 3 How our food processing and packaging solutions and programmes help decrease food loss and wastage across the value chain. People ◆ Occupational health and safety 4 How we ensure our people are free from harm in every project and activity. Futures ◆ Supplier environmental assessment 5 How we conduct our due diligence process and work with our suppliers to ensure that negative environmental impacts are prevented and mitigated across our supply chain. ◆ Supplier water use 6 How we conduct our due diligence process and work with our suppliers to ensure negative impacts associated with water use are prevented and mitigated across our supply chain. ◆ Packaging design and resource use 7 How we integrate environmental risks and opportunities into our product design and innovation, including renewable content, recyclability of packaging, and weight optimisation. ◆ Packaging renewability 8 How we incorporate materials from renewable sources into our packaging products. Aspects with medium and low impact ◆ Energy use and GHG emissions 9 How we reduce the impact of our own operations on climate change. (15) supplier waste generation (29) packaging raw material production: ◆ Machines and equipment: waste generation 10 How our food processing, packaging and service solutions help (16) renewable energy use (17) distribution/retail climate impact energy use (30) packaging raw material production: our customers minimise wastage and spoilage. (18) end-of-life climate impact local communities ◆ Machines and equipment: energy use and GHG emissions 11 How our food processing, packaging and service solutions help (19) child labour (20) supplier human rights assessment (31) forced or compulsory labour (32) non-discrimination our customers reduce their impact on climate change. (21) anti-corruption (33) other air emissions ◆ Machines and equipment: water use 12 How our food processing, packaging and service solutions help (22) diversity and equal opportunity (23) labour practices and decent work (34) biodiversity (35) packaging raw material production: our customers keep water consumption down. (24) supplier labour practices assessment emissions to water bio-plastics production ◆ Packaging recycling 13 How we promote and increase recycling through supporting (25) human rights (26) waste generation (36) machine and equipment: recoverability (37) end-of-life: marine litter infrastructure development, raising consumer awareness about (27) water use UBC recycling, and working with partners to boost business (38) end-of-life: emissions to water (28) packaging raw material production: opportunities for recyclers. biodiversity (39) packaging raw material production: ◆ Packaging climate impact 14 How we measure and manage the CO2 footprint of our packaging indigenous rights products. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 8 FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. GOOD GOVERNANCE We believe that good Our governance framework Code of Business Conduct While core values shape our corporate corporate governance is the By providing the foundation for our strategy and approach to leadership, culture and guide our behaviour bedrock of a sustainable internally and externally, our Code good governance ultimately helps us and commercially successful fulfil our vision to make food safe and of Business Conduct sets out the business; it is the basis of our available, everywhere. Our governance company’s position on working conditions, discrimination, confidentiality, brand promise: PROTECTS framework helps us deliver on our brand promise and comply with conflicts of interest, financial reporting, WHAT’S GOOD™, and is at compliance, corruption, bribery, child relevant regulations and legislation, as the heart of all stakeholder well as guiding us to behave ethically exploitation and environmental issues. relationships. and responsibly. A Global Leadership In 2016, we established a Sustainability Team is responsible for implementing Forum to further support our strategic the framework, supported by a and cross-functional approach to Corporate Governance Office and sustainability. Reporting to the Strategy a network of local governance and Council, its members are Vice-President risk officers. and Director-level representatives from across the company. READ MORE about governance TETRA PAK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK MANDATE INTERNAL CONTROL ORGANISATION AND AND VALUES ENVIRONMENT DECISION-MAKING STRUCTURE Tetra Pak Charter Risk Management Top Decision Making of Responsibility Group policies, procedures and guidelines Core Values Global Leadership Team Global process controls Strategic initiatives Code of Business Conduct Assurance Processes Councils 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 9 PROTECTING FOOD Working with our customers and partners to make food safe and available everywhere through our innovative and market-leading food processing and packaging solutions. Sustainable Development Goals we can impact: 43% of global consumers are tackling food waste, according to our 2017 survey Top material aspects: Food availability Customer health and safety Food waste Safety, quality and availability Reducing food waste “ Tetra Pak and GCNF understand that In a world where food security is one Reducing food loss and waste is one of when public and private partners work of the most pressing development the founding principles of our business. together, we can make sustainable challenges, finding immediate ways Our leading processing and packaging changes to improve nutrition and to address the needs of a growing and equipment keeps food from being education for children. For more than rapidly urbanising population, while spilled or spoilt in the early stages of a decade, our innovative and valued limiting food losses and waste, is production, while our packaging collaboration with Tetra Pak has becoming a key priority for our sector. solutions prolong the life of food and supported developing countries feed Our products and services can play help prevent it perishing – this is where and educate some of the world’s most a key role in achieving that ambition. we believe our greatest impacts are in vulnerable children.” By working closely with our partners reducing food losses. We also work  Gene White, President, across the value chain, we can help with our customers to help educate Global Child Nutrition Foundation make safe, nutritious and flavoursome consumers on how to avoid waste and products accessible to people across prevent food from spoiling. Our work the globe, including those living in under this pillar contributes to tackling remote locations without access the global challenge of food security to refrigeration. by helping to build sustainable food value chains. READ MORE about how we protect food 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 10 PROTECTING FOOD FOOD SAFETY FOOD QUALITY FOOD LOSS AND WASTE Consumers rightly expect food Since launching our first filling The UN Food and Agriculture to be safe. For our customers, machine in 1952, our processing Organization estimates that that means being in full control equipment and packaging around a third of food produced of production, from the products have been helping to is lost or wasted. Additionally, sourcing of raw materials protect the quality, flavour and food losses and waste account to the retailer’s shelf. nutritional value of food, in turn for around 8 percent of manOur Food Safety Policy commits us enhancing its safety. made greenhouse gas emissions, to maintaining the highest standards All Tetra Pak processing and packaging the same as road transport. of safety and achieve full product equipment is designed to meet the Reducing food loss and waste is one of traceability through the entire food most advanced hygiene standards, the founding principles of our business. processing and packaging value chain. satisfy all legal obligations and This commitment is reflected in our minimise waste. Ensuring quality Our cutting-edge processing and products – since launching the Tetra starts with the rigorous auditing of raw packaging equipment keeps food from Classic® Aseptic carton in 1961, we materials suppliers. All base materials being spilled or spoilt in the early stages have come up with hundreds of new used in our packaging are fully of production, while our packaging packaging solutions that keep food compliant with relevant food contact solutions prolong the life of food and safe from harmful bacteria. legislation. Plant automation and help prevent it from perishing – this is integration means we can ensure where we believe our greatest impacts are in reducing food losses. THE TETRA quality control as a product goes along PLANTMASTER™ the production line. WE ARE MEMBERS OVER 60 YEARS OF SAVE FOOD is a factory-wide control OF EXPERIENCE system that fully and seamlessly integrates safety and quality An organisation that aims to intelligence from each unit Our aseptic performance bring industry, research, politics of the dairy production line. specialists work to measure, and civil society together to find benchmark and prevent food solutions to the problem of food We are continually finding new ways safety and quality issues, while loss and food waste, and to to help our customers respond to our service teams offer ongoing raise consumer awareness challenging market conditions and training (at customer sites or at of the issue. consumer demands around the world, our training facilities) for plant for example through our food safety operators around handling, Addressing the material aspect technologies such as juice storing and displaying products FOOD WASTE pasteurisation and ultra-high along the production line. Quality temperature treatment. can be compromised during transportation and distribution. READ MORE about food safety We therefore carry out rigorous tests across the value chain A  ddressing the material aspect to ensure that products are CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY fully protected.  EAD MORE about food quality R A  ddressing the material aspect CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 11 PROTECTING FOOD FOOD AVAILABILITY We believe that the most effective way to tackle the global food security and nutrition challenge is to build sustainable food value chains. Food for Development Tetra Laval Food for Development drives the development of the dairy and food value chain through cooperation 5.2 million with customers, governments, development cooperation agencies, funding organisations and NGOs all children benefiting from over the world. milk at school in Thailand Over 50 years of school feeding For more than 50 years, we have School feeding, Thailand Number of children: 5.2 million participated in the development School milk in Thailand was Beverage: milk of school feeding and nutrition introduced in 1992. In 2016, 5.2 million programmes, which have provided children were reached by milk in Programme funder: government value to children and society around Tetra Pak packages through the 2016 results: the world. In 2016, 67 million children government-funded programme. in 57 countries received milk or other Malnutrition: -47% Impact studies of the programme nutritious beverages in Tetra Pak have shown promising results. Child height: +3cm per year packages in their schools. Source: Dairy Council of Thailand We offer our partners practical support in implementing and evaluating school feeding programmes, while also advising on food safety and quality. We also share best practices on environmental education and recycling in schools. Additionally, we support our customers in developing and launching fortified and nutritious beverages that are being used in school feeding programmes. School feeding, Sudan School feeding, Dominican Republic Our customer, DAL Group, has initiated Together with the World Food a school milk programme to reach Programme, we have supported schoolchildren across Sudan. improvements in quality control and FIRST SCHOOL FEEDING food safety across the distribution chain. PROGRAMME WAS IN 1962 Number of children: 21,500 Number of children: 1.1 million Beverage: milk Beverage: fortified milk The first school feeding Programme funder: DAL Group programme using Tetra Pak Programme funder: government 2016 results: packages was in 1962 in Mexico, Underweight: -53% 2016 results: in collaboration with the National System of Integral Family Stunted growth: -55% Anaemia (aged 6-14 years): -24% Development, still supporting Malnutrition: -18% today millions of children. Source: Reproductive and Child Health Research Unit at the University of Medical Sciences and Technology Sources: UN Development Programme (UNDP) (RCRU/UMST) 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 12 PROTECTING FOOD Dairy development With the global demand for milk set to overtake supply within a decade, the dairy industry is facing immense pressure. Through our Dairy Hub model, we help build sustainable value chains by supporting smallholder farmers and connecting our customers to higher-quality milk. We do this by linking smallholder farmers to a dairy processor, with Tetra Pak offering the technology and hands-on practical knowledge and training. We have seen around the world how this model increases milk supply and enhances 300 the stability of dairy supply chains. OUR NEW DAIRY smallholder HUB IN SRI LANKA farmers trained in Poonkari, Sri Lanka In Sri Lanka, we are partnering with our customer, Cargills, and Nicaragua dairy development Bangladesh Dairy Hubs the German development agency, We started a dairy development Working together with our customer GIZ, to open a new hub in the project in 2012 together with our PRAN RTL, the Swedish International Poonkari region. So far, we have customer, Centrolac, and the dairy Development Cooperation Agency trained 300 smallholder farmers, development organisation venture and UNIDO, two new hubs were with average daily milk yields I dairy. In 2016, two new Dairy Hubs opened in 2016, making a total increasing by over 41% and were launched. of four hubs. monthly farmer income up 2016 results (Acopaya region): 2016 results (Chatmohar region): by over 50%. Average milk yield per cow Average milk yield/cow/day: READ MORE about food availability per day: +81% +143% Weight gain for calves: Milk collected in hub 1 per day: +124% +1,950% Milk quality qualified as Average income per smallholder Grade A: 81% farmer per month: +144% Source: Tetra Pak Source: Tetra Pak 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 13 PROTECTING FOOD Food affordability Our DEEPER IN THE PYRAMID (DiP) strategy tackles food affordability, bringing safe, healthy and nutritious products to millions of low-income households. We work closely with our customers and our Food for Development programme around: Product development: at the DiP product development centre, Smaller we help customers to develop affordable, nutritious recipes, identify suppliers and provide package sizes are more facilities for product testing. affordable for those living Insights into consumer needs: we hand-to-mouth share local and global consumer research, run innovation workshops Safe, affordable protein Traditionally, it has been sold loose, and identify product concepts based for Egypt’s poor with no guarantee of hygiene and on the latest intelligence around White cheese has long been a staple easily perishable. Now, thanks to consumer needs and aspirations. component of many regional diets in financial support from the International Strong development partnerships: Southern Europe, North Africa and the Finance Corporation, we are bringing Middle East. In Egypt, the biggest long-life cheese in multiple sizes to we support our customers to identify market for white cheese, almost half low-income consumers in an affordable and understand nutritional gaps, the population (40 million consumers) package. Smaller sizes are particularly negotiate funding alliances with is considered to be DiP, some popular to those living hand-to-mouth non-governmental organisations and managing on as little as EUR1.80 a day. and readily available through a network governments and support project An affordable, safe and nutritious of local corner shops and drug stores implementation and training. supply of white cheese is therefore and affordable to even the poorest. Sharing expertise: we draw on our seen as a priority in the sustainable experience to help our customers development of the country. understand the complexities of market distribution, develop viable strategies and logistics, devise distribution solutions and create appropriate, effective merchandising material. Strengthening the value chain: through a network of Dairy Hubs, we offer training, education and practical support to help local farmers build a sustainable business.  ddressing the material aspect A FOOD AVAILABILITY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 14 PROTECTING FOOD IN ACTION A nutritious start for youngsters, Myanmar The challenge: According to the UN World Food Programme, one in three children in Myanmar is chronically malnourished. The initiative: The Myanmar School Milk Programme was launched in 2013 by the government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, with technical support from Tetra Laval Food for Development. The goal has been to grow the school milk programme into a nationwide programme providing every child in Myanmar 26,000 with nutritious milk. children benefiting from the Myanmar School Su Sanda Hlaing is the manager of Milk Programme since 2013 the programme, now reaching 26,000 children. Her team monitors and develops the programme and The value: The nutritious milk has been maintains close collaboration with widely accepted by the children and Ministry of Education counterparts. the community. Enrolment and dropout They visit each school on a regular rates have improved considerably in basis and are in direct contact with targeted schools. The Institut de teachers, parents and community Recherche pour le Developpement is representatives to assess how the milk conducting a nutrition impact study of is making a difference. Safe storage the school milk programme, which will protocols, milk consumption reports, be finalised in 2017. waste handling and all other safety and Looking ahead: There is an important quality protocols are being followed to link between school milk and the dairy ensure that the milk is of the highest sector, since the demand for milk hygiene and safety standards. in schools is a key market for local smallholder dairy farmers. A nationwide school milk programme would not only benefit all the children but also many smallholder farmers, in turn developing local milk production. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 15 PROTECTING FOOD IN ACTION Playing our part in school feeding, Bolivia 339 municipalities funded The challenge: In Bolivia, the World by the Ministry of Food Programme reports that around Education 39 percent of the population lives below the poverty line, with levels of undernourishment the highest in South America (15.9 percent). For children under five, malnutrition stands at 18 percent and many children over five go to school on an empty stomach and struggle to concentrate simply because they’re hungry. The initiative: Recognising that safe, quality food is key to learning and development, the government introduced official legislation in 2014. The school feeding programme is now in 339 municipalities funded by the Ministry of Education, with technical The value: We are proud to be part support from international nonof a nationwide initiative to improve governmental organisations including nutrition and, in turn, the educational the World Food Programme, as well outcomes of children in Bolivia. From as the private sector. many years’ experience in school Following the positive experiences of feeding, we know that this intervention existing school feeding programmes in directly improves children’s attendance the North, Central and South Americas and educational performance, as well region, we took our expertise to Bolivia as their physical height and weight. in 2016 where our customers started We are working with municipalities to supply fortified nectar in Tetra Brik® recommending best practices to Aseptic 200ml packages to 47,000 track programme impact, comparing Looking ahead: There is a potential for primary school children in 83 schools. the results with schools not involved the programme to stimulate further Throughout the year, we worked in the programme. This includes local dairy supply chains by including together with the local food processing acceptability studies to understand milk provision multiple times a week industry to improve the existing what products and packaging are to complement the fortified nectar. programme by advising on nutrition accepted by children. We also seek to support more around for improved health and access to safe post-consumption reuse of our We also continue to partner with food across more regions of Bolivia, packages, since recycling infrastructure customers and schools directly to as well as providing practical support is largely unavailable across the ensure that the distribution and to implement and evaluate the school isolated municipalities we work in. storage chain follows the highest safety feeding programme. We have already seen how children and quality standards, regularly and schools can be innovative in checking procedures on the ground turning empty packages into works and providing information and advice of art or even containers to nurture around food safety. saplings for school garden projects. The shared ambition of all partners in the school feeding programme is for it to become self-sustaining and a permanent feature of Bolivian society. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 16 PROTECTING PEOPLE Safeguarding and enabling our people and supporting communities where we operate. Sustainable Development Goals we can impact: 98% Top material aspect: manufacturing site compliance to Occupational health and safety global occupational health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 Looking after our workforce Investing in our communities People are critical to our success and Our work to protect people extends that starts within our own business. into our communities, for example our Ultimately, it is our employees who work around child health and nutrition, deliver on our vision. That’s why their sustainable livelihoods and economic learning and development is so critical, development. as is ensuring a fair and inclusive work We are focused on supporting those environment for all. We also act on our who live and work where we operate responsibility to protect the health and and we strive to play a responsible safety of employees, partners and and active role at a local level through customers and have therefore made a wide range of initiatives. it a key business priority. READ MORE about how we protect people 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 17 PROTECTING PEOPLE SAFE, HEALTHY WORKPLACES Lost time due to accidents We strive to ensure that 10 9.5 individuals are free from harm Lost days per million working hours 8.3 8 during every project and 7.5 activity. We believe that 6.5 6 working as a team is the best 4.9 4.9 4.3 way to achieve our aim of zero 4 3.7 3.8 4.1 3.5 3.7 4.0 3.3 3.2 accidents and work-related 3.1 3.0 2.9 3.1 2.4 2.4 illnesses. 1.8 2.0 2 We made a number of improvements 0 0.0 to our global occupational health and Packaging Additional Supply chain Processing Capital Manufacturing materials operations systems equipment total safety (OHS) management system in production sites manufacturing 2016, with 19 more manufacturing sites 2013 2014 2015 2016 (98 percent) achieving certification to OHSAS 18001 (against our 2017 target of 100 percent). With the reporting of OHS incident data extended to A culture of safety non-manufacturing sites in 2015, as well To support our global OHS policy, our as our manufacturing sites, we were for focus in 2016 was on building a positive the first time able to track a global Lost culture of safety through a number of Time Accident Rate (LTAR) trend. behaviour change programmes and materials. We launched Safety And Me, While maintaining zero workplace a ‘train the trainer’ approach to embed fatalities, unfortunately the LTAR a positive safety behaviour model for increased marginally in 2016 (2.10, up factory working. By the end of 2016, from 2.04 in the 2015 baseline year). 19 factories were implementing it This was mainly due to improved and we aim to fully roll it out across reporting from non-manufacturing the remainder of our 41 supply chain sites, and a slight increase in accidents One message; multiple channels operations manufacturing sites. at manufacturing sites (see chart). Our manual on OHS at customer sites We now have a detailed action plan We also launched a set of ’key safe provides a set of mandatory to drive improvement in this area. behaviours’ to encourage employee procedures applicable to all Tetra Pak ownership of OHS, and we will employees working at customer continue to explore the best ways to premises. It is helping teams report monitor behavioural change across against 19 standards and design action our diverse sites and markets. plans. We monitor performance against the manual with a maturity It is important that our OHS teams have matrix based on five levels of Andrew Jones, our Corporate the skills and knowledge to support compliance and any deviations against Director for Occupational Health our changing business. So, as well as the manual results in a performance and Safety chairs the Conference recruiting two global OHS managers improvement plan. A shorter handbook Board Health and Safety Council, to support our Services Packaging and complements the manual with succinct a global network of companies Processing Systems teams, we also ran health and safety guidance. In 2016, we that convene to share health seven training workshops for 110 OHS made an app version of the handbook and safety best practice officers, with highly positive feedback. so that engineers can access guidance and challenges. Each factory now has a three-year plan anytime, anywhere. and our focus for 2017 will be on supporting sites to deliver their plans. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 18 PROTECTING PEOPLE Health and wellbeing DIVERSITY AND We are objective, transparent and Health and wellbeing has, until 2017, been managed by our local markets, INCLUSION proactive when it comes to increasing the number of female future leaders. and as a result there have been We believe that our ability to This is embedded within our talent variations in best practices region-byinnovate and grow is rooted review process, which is based on region. We have initiated a programme in the diversity of thought and ability and potential, above all other to provide a more holistic, centralised attributes. In 2017, we welcomed a approach with rolling initiatives and creativity of our people. Fresh gender advisory panel made up of consistent governance to drive ideas are born in workplace 15 men and women across the business improvements, irrespective of where cultures that promote inclusion to help us understand cultural factors our people live in the world. and equality. affecting women gaining leadership positions, and develop an action plan. All companies currently must ensure Balanced gender representation full compliance with legally required A balanced gender representation medical examinations for high risk groups. Many manufacturing sites also benefits both individuals and the business. Although the diversity 22% focus on employee health and wellness landscape is changing, some industries more broadly, from offering regular still struggle to attract and retain of employees (24 percent of hearing and eyesight tests, routine women. Like many other companies middle managers) are female vaccinations and ergonomic risk in our sector, we face a challenge in assessments; to stress management achieving a balanced gender programmes, complementary representation in our workforce. therapies, nutrition, healthy living We are therefore taking a proactive advice, and alcohol and drug support. approach to hiring women and providing developmental opportunities Healthy living across the Americas aimed at increasing gender diversity. We offer annual medical examinations as an employee benefit across the region. In Mexico, teams ran conferences Gender diversity in the leadership pipeline and workshops on sexual health, oral diseases, healthy living, drugs and 100 addiction, stress management and eye 72% 69% 70% Men health in 2016. Every April, the Monte 80 Women Mor and Ponta Grossa converting factories in Brazil run a ‘healthy week’. 60 The week includes a flu vaccination campaign, now extended to include 40 Tetra Pak engineers who work at customer sites. 20 28% 31% 30% 0 Potential High potential Succession At our Global Information candidates (all) Management site in Sweden, we run an annual ‘highway to health’ READ MORE about diversity and inclusion programme, raising awareness about available training, healthy food, sleep, stress and mindfulness. In 2016, the focus was on work/life balance, alongside our occupational health department. READ MORE about safe, healthy workplaces Addressing the material aspect OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 19 PROTECTING PEOPLE TALENT Total number of learning hours We want our people to enjoy rewarding careers with us and 650,000 607,149 30 Average learning hours per employee we want to be able to attract Number of Learning Hours 520,000 the very best to begin their 471,860 24.1 20 journey with us. This means 382,572 390,000 18.7 building a high-performance 260,000 15.2 culture that helps people 10 perform at their best. 130,000 Learning and development 0 0 2014 2015 2016 Employees can expect continuous learning and development, aligned to their personal goals and contributing to our corporate strategy. We help our people develop their competencies across corporate functions, from customer understanding, leadership and project management; to sales and portfolio management. Our Leadership Acceleration programme aims to develop the next generation of senior managers. In 2016, we supplemented the programme with a global leadership workshop; a three-day event designed to align senior managers, including the global leadership team, with our business strategy. At the start of 2017, we launched myFuture, a fresh approach to people management at Tetra Pak that aims to improve and personalise learning and development across our diverse “ Innovation is key to ensuring the Our global mentoring programme markets. We will report back on this needs of the market and enabling Our global mentoring programme is for initiative in 2018. future success. We work closely with employees we identify with leadership our suppliers, but more than that, potential who have been with us for Future talent we try to create real partnerships five to 10 years. It provides a platform Our global Future Talent Programme and have open and collaborative for people to expand their connections is a strategic approach to harness relationships with them.” and get to know people from parts of and develop the next generation the organisation they don't normally of talented employees. It involves  Ylan Mathieu, see. The programme includes a a long-term commitment to hire Young Talent Supply Manager year of mentoring, where we connect graduates; a strategy to establish experienced managers with emerging long-term partnerships with selected In 2017, we have committed to hiring leaders and offer monthly mentoring universities; and a globally structured 230 graduates around the world. This meetings and job shadowing. We run training and development for graduates. is the first time we have a consistent this biannually and the last programme global approach and we have took in 18 employees that we identified significantly increased our investment as emerging leaders. The next R  EAD MORE about talent to support this programme. mentoring intake will be in 2017. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 20 PROTECTING PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT AND Employee Excellence Awards COMMUNITIES RECOGNITION Any employee can nominate a colleague for an Excellence Award in Our work to protect people Our success depends on our four categories: customer, innovation, extends into our communities, people performing at their best operation or leadership. We also for example our activities around – and for this they need to feel recognise teamwork with our awards child health and nutrition, motivated, connected and for market and factory of the year. sustainable livelihoods, youth valued. By making sure our employability and consumer employees are engaged, we engagement. create a culture of personal Child nutrition responsibility, diversity and We offer our partners practical support innovation. in implementing and evaluating school feeding programmes, while also We track engagement levels with a advising on food safety, quality and the survey run every second year. Since importance of fortified and nutritious 2016 was a non-survey year, our focus beverages for children. We even advise was on addressing issues raised during on carton reuse and recycling within the 2015 survey. These included: schools. communication and the pace of change and the need to revitalise Sustainable livelihoods our process orientation. These were Our established Dairy Hub model is central themes in our Global OUR VALUES helping create sustainable value chains Leadership Workshop. by building the capacity of smallholder farmers. We are also working with Looking ahead Customer focus and the World Wide Fund for Nature Going forward, we will monitor long-term view to establish local forest owners’ progress against actions identified associations and strengthen the as we prepare for our 2017 employee Quality and innovation competences of smallholders to create engagement survey. As part of our Freedom and responsibility sustainable, profitable businesses. continued commitment we will review In 2016, we supported a new project, our employee engagement strategy Partnership and fun the Fair Wood Program, which supports during 2017 and we will investigate and smallholder and community forest determine additional tools to be used management. to measure engagement, looking at the total employee experience Engaging consumers throughout the employee life cycle, By giving consumers the information from attracting future talent, to the to make discerning purchasing choices employees who leave the company. and recycling their cartons, we have the potential to bring resource efficiencies R  EAD MORE about engagement and at a vast scale. To do this, we need to recognition work closely with our customers and consumer organisations. Donations and emergency relief We contribute to specific appeals for support. For example, in 2016 we helped our recycling partner in Kenya to set up the first Information and Communications Technology Centre in Kibera, Nairobi’s largest slum neighbourhood. READ MORE about communities 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 21 PROTECTING PEOPLE IN ACTION Tetra Pak Academy Tetra Pak Academy offers a comprehensive business-driven learning portfolio that can be aligned with individual development needs, helping people develop the competences needed to support our own growth and that of our customers, and to realize their own potential. It also coordinates and manages learning activities across all Tetra Pak locations and functions. By bringing all our learning activities under one umbrella, we can avoid duplication, ensure that content and messages are aligned, simplify access to learning and clearly identify strategic priorities. All employees have access to Tetra Pak Academy Online, a virtual learning library with a broad range of materials from thought leaders and business Leading by example: “ We have an amazing amount of knowledge in Tetra Pak – often more schools around the world. The online Stefano Boccolari than we realise. We need to reach out tool allows each profile to be customised so that every employee Engineering Support Manager Stefano to our colleagues worldwide to tap has a bespoke development Boccolari was named winner of our into that, so that we become better experience. Leadership Excellence Award in 2016. equipped to deliver results. This also This award recognised how Stefano helps to build relationships and trust The focus during 2016 was developing inspired his team to deliver marked throughout the organisation. In my our five strategic capabilities. We saw improvements in quality and reduce 35 years of working life, I’ve never a significant increase in consumption claims by more than half over a seen a problem that has a single of learning (captured in our Learning five-year period. Stefano believes cause: there’s always more than one. Management Systems), with the total that these results are down to making That’s why it is important to involve number of learning hours increasing by 30 percent and the total number connections throughout the company, different people in your problem regardless of organisational solving. It helps you see the problem of consumed courses increasing boundaries and being willing to go from all angles and to get all the by 113 percent. the extra mile to understand the options for how best to solve it.” customer. This means not being afraid Stefano Boccolari, winner of the to try and test ideas and immersing 2016 Leadership Excellence Award oneself in the customer experience. He sees that bringing people and knowledge together can create a better, more productive atmosphere and thereby better results. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 22 PROTECTING FUTURES Supporting the sustainable future of our planet and the long-term success of our customers. Sustainable Development Goals we can impact: 81% of consumers say they look for environmental logos on the products they buy, according to our 2017 environmental survey of 6,500 consumers Top material aspects: supplier environmental assessment, supplier water use, packaging design and resource use, packaging renewability, energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, machines and equipment, waste generation, water use, packaging recycling and packaging climate impact A value chain approach Environmental and social value for communities through the use With a rapidly growing global responsibilities of recyclable materials. Our work under population and diminishing resources, Our environmental efforts have a Futures combines our efforts to support as a society we need to do more with significant social impact throughout sound environmental development, less. These global forces are now our value chain. Upstream, we expect strengthen communities and contribute shaping new market expectations and our suppliers to comply with our social to sustainable food value chains. the expectations of customers. That’s and environmental criteria. In many cases why we constantly strive to develop we are engaged in the development of READ MORE about how we protect futures new, innovative solutions that reduce leading sustainability practices and the environmental footprint of our standards. Downstream, we are products and services across their life informing consumers about responsible cycle, from the raw materials we source waste management and recycling, while through to the end of their life. We are also helping to create socio-economic also actively working to significantly minimise our operational footprint and impact. By protecting the environment, we are securing our future growth as well as societal development. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 23 PROTECTING FUTURES ENGAGING Sustainable packages In 2016, 100 percent of our paperboard CUSTOMERS Our long-term ambition is that came from Forest Stewardship all our packaging material will Council™ (FSC™) certified and other Our goal is to create and be made from 100 percent controlled sources. On polymers, we share value for and with renewable materials, without produce bio-based caps and laminate our customers through our compromising safety, quality or coatings and, while aluminium remains our smallest packaging component products and services. Many of functionality. With over threeby volume, we continue to explore our relationships stretch back quarters of our packages made how to make this protective barrier for years – and even decades. from paperboard, we continue more sustainable, while developing We attribute this to mutual to focus our efforts on alternative renewable barrier options partnerships based on a sustainable timber, while also for our non-chilled cartons. common desire to find the innovating around polymers most sustainable, cost-effective solutions to complex challenges. and aluminium. 100% A  ddressing the material aspects 43% PACKAGING DESIGN AND RESOURCE USE, PACKAGING RENEWABILITY of carton paperboard comes from FSC certified and other controlled sources of consumers say that environmentally sound packaging can drive brand preference (2015: 39%) Understanding our customers Tetra Brik® Aseptic 1000 Edge with with FSC-certified paperboard, Our annual Relationship Customer Bio-based LightCap™ 30 renewable materials comprise 80 Satisfaction survey, along with other In 2016, we launched the Tetra Brik® percent of the package, the threshold transactional surveys, helps us stay Aseptic 1,000 Edge with Bio-based for four-star certification from Vinçotte. ahead of market trends and meet the LightCap™ 30: the first aseptic carton It also boasts up to 17 percent lowerevolving expectations of our customers. package in the world to receive the carbon footprint than a standard In 2016, we saw positive scores yet highest Vinçotte certification for package, according to an independent again across all areas, with particular renewable content of packaging life-cycle analysis conducted by strengths around partnerships, our products. With polymer film and cap IVL Swedish Environmental Research commitments to food safety, marketing derived from sugar cane, combined Institute. and environmental impact, as well as marked improvements in innovation. READ MORE about sustainable packages As well as surveying customers, we also biannually survey the end consumer around environmental expectations. Our most recent survey (2017) polled 6,500 consumers across 13 global markets. R  EAD MORE about how we engage customers 17 percent lower-carbon footprint. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 24 PROTECTING FUTURES Sustainable equipment Value-adding services Giving our customers Every day, we work with our As well as our cutting-edge the full cost of ownership customers to find more efficient processing and packaging Our total life cost of ownership tool helps customers weigh-up processing and packaging technologies, we also offer maintenance versus environmental solutions. Our joint aim is to services that give a holistic view performance and capital expenditures minimise waste and spoilage, for both cost and environmental versus long-term operating costs. This while reducing energy and impact, enabling them to helps the customer make an informed water consumption – keeping identify where performance can choice when investing in new products efficiencies up and costs down. be optimised and savings made. or processes. Netherlands: with cheese production As part of our service, we help Our Environmental Benchmarking customers make savings and deliver being highly energy and water Service is one such example. It analyses efficient, sustainable products. intensive, Dutch cheese manufacturer, the entire plant for food and beverage From the Tetra Pak® E3 platform that CONO Kaasmakers, wanted to companies, from the processing and uses eBeam sterilisation and airtight become the greenest dairy in the packaging lines and water efficiency, separators to cut energy consumption world. CONO uses the Tetra Alcross to wastewater treatment, energy by almost 50 percent; to high-acid juice reverse osmosis unit to take out efficiency, product yield, waste and pasteurisation that reduces energy by 12 percent of whey solids, with water carbon. Based on this audit, our up to 20 percent – our innovative reused as rinsing water for cleaning technical service team can make thinking directly benefits our the equipment. The concentrated recommendations on specific areas customers. whey is further processed at the whey of improvement. powder factory using our equipment. Separators are estimated to use less INNOVATION than half the energy required by EXCELLENCE AWARD conventional separators. Overall, the solution saves approximately 25 percent in gas and electricity for our OneStep technology that and 75 percent in water, thanks to creates UHT milk from powder the improved separation of water and milk. A  ddressing the material aspects Pakistan: our teams spent a year MACHINES AND EQUIPMENT: WASTE helping Fauji Fertilizwer Bin Qasim GENERATION, MACHINES AND EQUIPMENT, ENERGY USE AND GHG EMISSIONS, use the total cost of ownership tool MACHINES AND EQUIPMENT: WATER USE to cultivate networks in the industry and meet joint-venture partners to understand the best approach to its new line of business. China: we’ve worked with Mengniu, the largest producer of ambient liquid dairy products in the country, applying total cost principles to streamline factory performance. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 25 PROTECTING FUTURES RESPONSIBLE Paperboard As well as being closely involved in SOURCING As a major user of paperboard, we have a responsibility to ensure the world’s implementing FSC standards and shaping sustainable forestry, we Responsible sourcing means forests are managed in a socially, support a number of voluntary looking at what we purchase environmentally and economically stakeholder initiatives. We are beyond the more traditional sound way. We are working to ensure members of the WWF Global Forest 100% of the paperboard in our and Trade Network, which is aspects of cost, quality and packages is from certified sources. advocating zero net deforestation delivery time. We do this by joining up with suppliers, and forest degradation by 2020 and Our focus on this means that we non-governmental organisations we are founding members of the High consider ethics, labour, and social and other stakeholders to promote Conservation Value Resource Network, and environmental aspects when responsible forest management working with others to identify, manage purchasing products and services, and strengthen traceability through and monitor conservation value as both for our direct and indirect certification and labelling. a step towards gaining certification suppliers. Responsible sourcing from major forestry and agricultural Tetra Pak was recognised, for a is one of three strategic objectives second consecutive year, as a sector commodity standard schemes. leader in CDP’s forests programme for our supply chain operations. for our performance in managing Polymers Supplier engagement and mitigating risks associated with A Tetra Pak package has a thin layer of the sourcing or production of timber. polymer, or plastic, to prevent moisture All new suppliers must commit to our Code of Business Conduct for getting in or out and to keep contents Suppliers (the Supplier Code) before we start any business relationship with 100% fresh. It is also in our caps, closures and straws. Our long-term ambition is for all our chilled and ambient packages to them. In the Supplier Code, we set out the expectations of our suppliers, be made from renewable alternatives FSC™ certified and other to oil-based plastics. By the end of based on the 10 principles of the controlled sources paperboard 2016, we had delivered over 100 million UN Global Compact. of these renewable packages to meet We see FSC™ as offering a credible customer demand. 97% universal standard; we also know that almost a quarter of consumers Despite considerable progress, bio-based polymers are still only in recognise the FSC logo so we actively a small fraction of our cartons and a of suppliers by spend (100% of encourage our customers to display niche product for the plastics industry. packaging raw material suppliers) the logo on their packages. In 2016, Our commitment remains to expand have signed the Supplier Code some 65 billion Tetra Pak packages with their use to cover more of our the logo appeared on retail shelves packages, across all sizes. The around the world, up from 54 billion in challenge becomes increasingly We are members of the Supplier Ethical 2015. Having achieved full FSC Chain complex when considering the social Data Exchange (Sedex), a not-for-profit of Custody certification for all our cost of alternative raw material sources membership organisation dedicated converting plants and market (e.g. local food availability and working to driving responsible and ethical companies, we can now supply FSCconditions) attached to bio-based business practices in the supply labelled packages from anywhere in polymers. We are working with a chain. We are also part of EcoVadis the world. For certification of the Chain number of our stakeholder partners sustainability ratings and scorecards to of Custody of our own operations, we to explore these issues, while also help our procurement teams monitor have chosen to work with the Rainforest continuing to assess alternatives like environmental, social and governance Alliance, one of the world’s largest other plant-based materials, organic issues in the supply chain. FSC-accredited certification bodies. waste and algae. A  ddressing the material aspects SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT, SUPPLIER WATER USE 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 26 PROTECTING FUTURES Aluminium ENVIRONMENTAL In 2016, we became the first company On the inside of our aseptic cartons, a layer of aluminium eight times thinner IMPACT in the food packaging industry to have our climate impact reduction targets than a human hair provides vital We are working with suppliers approved by the Science Based Targets protection from oxygen and light, and customers to minimise our initiative (SBT), a global partnership keeping perishable food safe without environmental impact across between CDP, the World Resources refrigeration and preservatives for Institute, World Wide Fund for Nature months. Although this layer is minute, the value chain, from sourcing and the United Nations Global aluminium production can be and production; to use and Compact to which over 210 associated with environmental and disposal. This covers not only companies have committed. social issues, ranging from land use greenhouse gas emissions, but Customers and hazardous by-products; to also resource use, waste, water With over 50 percent of our climate working conditions, health and safety. and chemicals. impact deriving from equipment use by Furthermore, as it is traded in an open our customers, we focus our efforts on market, it can be difficult to trace back Climate helping them find innovative solutions to the original source. Addressing Our goal is to cap our 2020 climate that reduce carbon footprint. these challenges is complex and impact across our value chain at 2010 requires continuous research and levels, regardless of business growth. Tetra Pak operations innovation, as well as working with In 2016, we managed to achieve a To meet our operational emission multiple stakeholders. While 16 percent reduction, despite a targets, we need to increase energy undertaking this work, we are 19 percent increase in packages sold. efficiency, buy and invest in renewable continually innovating to make the Working with the Science Based electricity and install more onsite layer as thin as possible, while Targets initiative, we have committed renewable energy systems. Electricity investigating alternative barrier to reducing operational greenhouse consumption in our factories has materials. gas emissions by 42 percent by 2030 remained stable since 2005, despite and 58 percent by 2040, from a 2015 our business growing more than baseline. Also, we commit to reduce 30 percent during this time. A PARTNERSHIP APPROACH value chain emissions by 16 percent per unit of revenue by 2020 (2010 Our work as a founding member baseline). of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) seeks to address some of the issues described above at an industry level. In GHG emissions across the value chain 2016, we were elected to the 18,000 board of the ASI. Along with Rio 109% 110% Tinto Aluminium, BMW, Nespresso, 16,000 108% 108% 106% 103% WWF and the International Union 100% 14,000 for the Conservation of Nature, kilotonnes CO2e among others, we are working 12,000 to establish a global standard that includes environmental and social 10,000 13,692 12,539 11,876 12,914 10,934 12,038 11,555 criteria for all stages of aluminium production and transformation. 8,000 Index Index Index Index Index Index Index The ASI aims to formally launch 100 92 87 94 80 88 84 its certification programme by the end of 2017. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Packaging material production volume 2020 GHG Target READ MORE about responsible sourcing (Standard packages) See full performance data 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 27 PROTECTING FUTURES Renewable energy Carton CO2e footprint Chemicals We see renewable energy as key to Beyond having our value chain climate The chemicals we use in our operations our carbon reduction strategy and goal, we also measure the CO2e are subject to approval before we announced our ambitious target footprint of our cartons through the introduction and their use is controlled to source 100 percent renewable Carton CO2 calculator. The CO2e and managed by environmental and electricity by 2030, through a public footprint of a product is the sum of safety staff at our sites. All our sites, commitment to RE100, a global all greenhouse gases emitted during including converting and other network of businesses that have its life cycle. This includes all the raw production sites in Europe, also have voluntarily pledged to source 100 materials used, the production, the obligations under EU REACH percent of electricity from renewable distribution, the consumption, as well regulations covering the registration, sources. In 2016, our total electricity as the end-of-life treatment of the evaluation, authorisation and restriction use was 845,058 MWh, out of which product. The climate impact is of chemicals. Similar chemicals 298,374 MWh was renewable electricity. measured in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). legislation is emerging in many other Solar PV installations on our plants geographies and we are working produced 1,044 MWh.  ddressing the material aspect A continuously to ensure that our PACKAGING CLIMATE IMPACT business, and the materials we use, are compliant. Colleagues responsible Water, Chemicals and Waste for chemicals at all sites are given Water training to understand how the REACH The amount of water used for regulations apply to their activities. production on our own sites is modest. “ Disclosing our emissions to the CDP’s Nevertheless, we are continually Supply Chain Programme allows us to Waste looking for opportunities to save this be transparent with our customers on resource, especially where we work in Using the latest technology, we can how we contribute to the reduction drought regions. Water is a more recycle close to 100 percent of material of their value chain emissions.” material impact in relation to the waste of our operations; the remainder being disposed of responsibly and in  Mario Abreu, Vice President equipment we develop and sell, so our line with current regulations. We use Environment, Tetra Pak efforts are focused on initiatives like our external certification in the form of Environmental Benchmarking Service the international environmental for customers and products such as the management standard ISO 14001 to Supply chain emissions Water Filtering Station. Water is also ensure that environmental issues and Our supply chain accounts for a particular issue in our paperboard impacts are managed in a systematic approximately 38 percent of the supply chain and we evaluate suppliers way. At the end of 2016, 92 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in our value annually for water use, as well as our factories were certified, with chain. We work closely with supplier stringently monitoring water pollution certification in progress for the partners to identify efficiencies, both in in line with legislation. remaining 8 percent. their operations and through their own supply chains. In 2016, we saw a 21 Any hazardous waste we produce is percent improvement in climate handled in line with local law and best efficiency among our packaging practice. We apply the precautionary material suppliers compared to 2010. principle throughout our operations; so where a potential risk is identified READ MORE about our climate impact we will seek to eliminate or reduce that risk by choosing a better alternative or A  ddressing the material aspects implementing risk reduction measures. ENERGY USE AND GHG EMISSIONS READ MORE about water, chemicals and waste 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 28 PROTECTING FUTURES POST-CONSUMER The new metrics measure our work Recycling cartons is possible: South Africa RECYCLING in different areas including working with associations around the world In South Africa, we have been working We are always thinking about to promote recycling, investing with Mpact, one of the largest paper the broader impact of our in awareness campaigns, joint and plastic packaging businesses in operations on the environment promotional activities with customers, southern Africa. Our joint messaging public outreach programmes, ensuring around carton recycling has reached and society, and we believe that access to recycling collection and over a million households. Tetra Pak post-consumer recycling is an improving recycling capacity. In the South Africa supported with information investment in our future. future, we will report against these and also covered the cost of printing new metrics. educational materials. The educational When recycled beverage cartons are information is now available in a given a new life, we protect natural number of local languages to reach resources, reduce climate impact and even more households. contribute to communities. Post-consumer recycling is an READ MORE about post-consumer recycling essential part of our environmental agenda. In 2010, we set ourselves a goal of doubling the recycling rate of beverage cartons to 40 percent by 2020. Since then, we have succeeded in increasing the percentage of packages recycled annually from 20 to 25 percent. Defining recycling success On our journey so far, we have come to understand that different markets have different needs and levels of maturity. Rather than focusing on a single indicator, we need to look instead at how well we are performing against the overall objectives which allow us to remain competitive and continue to meet the needs of our customers. Recycling rates remain a relevant metric but a global recycling rate will no longer be our main target. For 2017, we have therefore introduced a new set of metrics and targets that are market-relevant, reflect our objectives and allow us to focus on what’s important in any given A  ddressing the material aspect location. They are a richer and more PACKAGING RECYCLING comprehensive way of measuring our recycling work across the board, and a solid foundation for setting our future ambitions. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 29 PROTECTING FUTURES IN ACTION Partnering to change The value: by the end of 2017, ALDI consumer behaviour, SUISSE will have launched over 180 collection points in its stores across Switzerland Switzerland. Aided by social media The challenge: in Switzerland, nine communication, customer feedback out of 10 consumers want to recycle has been very positive and, just eight their beverage cartons but recycling months in, recycling rates are at 60 infrastructure has thus far not enabled percent around each collection point. it. Without legislation to provide a Looking ahead: for the first time in legal framework, the country’s used Switzerland, consumers can be beverage cartons were ending up in confident that beverage cartons will incineration. Voluntary initiatives across be separated and recycled. With the the value chain are therefore key to potential to save the equivalent of drive recycling of beverage cartons more than 11,000 football fields of in Switzerland. forest, the partnership is improving The initiative: Through our recycling infrastructure and stimulating membership in GKR, the Swiss new market opportunities. It is hoped beverage carton association, we have that the success of the programme will played an important role in facilitating attract further investment to expand to a partnership between GKR, the other plants and retailers, making this supermarket ALDI SUISSE, the sorter a model to inspire both municipalities Müller Recycling and the producer and retailers throughout Switzerland of individual solid and cardboard and in other countries. packaging Model AG to trial collection, separation and recycling of combined beverage cartons and plastic bottles. Initially, this began as a pilot project in over 90 municipalities. In 2015, ALDI SUISSE came on board, looking to offer combined recycling points for beverage cartons and other plastics in-store, following repeated consumer requests and in line with the company’s own environmental goals. At the same time, Müller Recycling opened the first high-tech plant in the country that could sort beverage cartons and plastic bottles from the same stream, and Model constructed a new pioneer recycling facility in Switzerland investing more than 35 million CHF. With combined recycling now possible, 60% ALDI SUISSE became the first retail partner to offer mixed collection points. recycle rates at mixed collection points 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 30 PROTECTING FUTURES IN ACTION Drinking yoghurt: moving The value: Skånemejerier’s drinking “ 60 years ago, we revolutionised the milk industry, when the glass bottles away from plastic, Sweden yoghurt is now available in our MiniV carton in stores throughout Sweden, were replaced by our smart and The challenge: with many of us with positive consumer feedback lightweight cartons. Now we see drinking on-the-go these days, we look around usability and environmental a new big shift. People on the for beverages that can be consumed sustainability. According to Armina move care about the environment easily. At the same time, more Nilsson, Sustainability Manager at and the carton bottle becomes the and more of us are looking for Skånemejerier, “we noted a growing obvious choice.” environmentally sustainable packaging. interest in environmentally smart,  Erik Lindroth, Environmental Director, Our customer in Sweden, Skånemejerier, on-the-go packaging. Younger Tetra Pak was looking for a sustainable generations, in particular, value the alternative carton for its drinking environment as well as the option to yoghurts and turned to us to assist. conveniently bring this product with them when on the go. Carton bottles The initiative: responding to the are developed with these aspects in environmental concerns of its customers, mind. Our consumers are engaged in for the first time in 2016 Skånemejerier these issues, not least since the introduced a carton for its yoghurt packaging is the first thing facing them drinks. It opted for our Tetra Top® 330 in the store.” MiniV carton for 2.1 million yoghurt products. Combining a very small layer Looking ahead: the Tetra Top® 330 of plastic with FSC™ certified MiniV carton is an example of futurepaperboard, the carton avoids proof packaging since it appeals to the 45 tonnes of plastic and, according to next generation who will be looking for our life-cycle assessment, produces convenience combined with only a fifth of the carbon emissions sustainability. compared to a traditional plastic bottle. What’s more, it is 40 percent lighter, reducing distribution emissions. A further advantage is that they fit together in transport and storage and can be delivered on a roll instead of ready-mixed as the plastic bottles. All of this makes distribution more efficient and significantly reduces the company’s carbon emissions. Once used, cartons are easy to flatten and recycle, with the screw cap also recyclable. 40% lighter than a traditional plastic bottle 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 31 RESPONSIBLE REPORTING Communicating about Aligning to global standards The GHG Protocol requires us to report As signatories to the United Nations on emissions in three areas, or scopes: our responsible business Scope 1: direct emissions from our Global Compact (UNGC) since 2004, practices and performance we are committed to the own operations, including fuel is an important part of our implementation, disclosure and consumption and the use of solvents overall reporting activity. promotion of its 10 principles on and refrigerants; human rights, labour, the environment We have been reporting Scope 2: indirect emissions related and anti-corruption. We submit an on our environmental data annual Communication on Progress to purchased electricity, heat, steam or cooling; and since 1999 and on broader and also actively contribute to the UN sustainability issues and best practice standards of the Scope 3: indirect emissions in Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™), our value chain from sources not since 2005. World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), owned or controlled by Tetra Pak. This summary accompanies the UN World Food Programme (WFP) Global verification and assurance dedicated Sustainability section and the Global Alliance for Improved Our practices, processes and of our website, which follows the Nutrition. performance are verified externally to materiality approach of the GRI G4 Measuring and reporting World-Class Manufacturing standards, Core guidelines, the most widely environmental impact ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, adopted international independent Since 1999, we have been reporting and Forest Stewardship Council Chain framework for sustainability reporting. on our environmental data according of Custody and Quality Assurance By using the GRI Guidelines, we to the following principles: Management certification. Our GHG disclose our most critical impacts – All data presented covers a full emissions data is externally audited. be they positive or negative – on the calendar year, January to December. environment, society and the economy. This framework helps us to generate We report on our greenhouse gas reliable, relevant and standardised (GHG) emissions according to the information to assess opportunities GHG Protocol principles developed and risks and enable more informed by the World Resource Institute and decision making – both within the the World Business Council on business and among our stakeholders. Sustainable Development. For selected data we also present an eco-efficiency indicator. These reflect the environmental impact in relation to a certain parameter, for example, production volume. In some cases, we have corrected previous years’ data when sites have reported corrections to historic data. This improves data quality and allows for more meaningful comparisons between years. Consequently, data See our full GRI Index presented in previous reports may differ slightly. In cases where we need to recalculate data, we do so according to our own recalculation policy which follows the GHG Protocol standards for Corporate and Scope 3 accounting. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 32 NOTES 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 33 NOTES 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FOOD PEOPLE FUTURES APPROACH 34 Read more about our sustainability work www.tetrapak.com/sustainability Join the conversation Designed by Salterbaxter MSLGROUP © Copyright Tetra Pak ® 2017 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT tetrapak.com/sustainability
