ON THE WAY TO SUSTAINABILITY United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Table of 1. INTRODUCTION 4 Contents Statement of continued support 4 of the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles About Neptune Lines 6 2. HUMAN RIGHTS 8 Principles 1 & 2 8 Assessment, Policy and Goals 8 Implementation 9 Measurement of outcomes 9 3. LABOUR 10 Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6 10 Assessment, Policy and Goals 10 Implementation 11 Measurement of outcomes 11 4. ENVIRONMENT 16 Principles 7, 8 & 9 16 Assessment, Policy and Goals 16 Implementation 17 Measurement of outcomes 19 5. ANTI-CORRUPTION 22 Published: September 2017. Principle 10 22 Assessment, Policy and Goals 22 Implementation 23 Measurement of outcomes 23 Neptune Lines Sustainability Contact Desk Abbreviations and Acronyms 24 Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprises S.A 5-9 Iassonos Street, GR 18537, Piraeus, Greece Department of Health, Safety, Quality & Environment (H.S.Q.E) Tel. +30 210 45 57700 hsqe@neptunelines.com www.neptunelines.com This Communication on Progress has been developed with the support of Global Sustain. Creative design and layout: 3 1. INTRODUCTION Neptune Lines reaffirms its support of the Ten We are excited to build upon, develop, and further Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the strengthen our commitment to this initiative while areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and striving to promote sustainable business practices for Anti-Corruption. For each of these four areas, this the benefit of our employees, our customers and the Communication on Progress (COP) outlines our communities in which we operate. policies, goals and assessments as well as the implementation and outcomes to integrate the Ten We see our investments in these areas as good Principles of the UNGC into our business strategy, business and the right thing to do. We are culture and daily operations. committed to sharing our efforts and performance in terms of sustainability with our stakeholders, using Neptune Lines is a leading short sea, car carrier our primary channels of communications, including operator, specializing in the transportation of finished this COP. vehicles, and other rolling and static cargoes for the world’s largest automotive manufacturers and logistics This COP (Active level) covers the reporting period providers. from 01/01/2016 to 31/12/2016. The largest proportion of global transportation is We welcome your comments and feedback to seaborne and this makes shipping an important pillar advance our corporate responsibility and sustainability of international trade. As a leader in its business practices. segment, Neptune Lines has taken significant steps over the last three years in identifying and assessing its economic, environmental and social impact at both national and international levels. Our Company has already issued two Sustainability Reports, communicatYours sincerely, ing non-financial information to our stakeholders since Melina Travlos 2014, using internationally accepted guidelines such as President & CEO the GRI and the UNGC. The year 2016 was full of exciting corporate responsibility initiatives and one of our main objectives was meeting the expectations of our stakeholders. This was achieved by continually providing outstanding quality services and by strengthening our relationships with both our customers and our people. 4 5 “ Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprises S.A. (Neptune Lines) is a leading car carrier operator in the short sea transportation “ sector About... NEPTUNE LINES Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprises Neptune Lines mission is to be the most trusted car S.A. (Neptune Lines) is a leading car carrier operator carrier company in the areas we operate, always in the short sea transportation sector, controlled and delivering flexible and tailor-made solutions to our ultimately owned by the Travlos family. Neptune client-partners by investing in our most valuable Lines is a finished vehicle logistics provider, offering asset, our people. transportation and shipping solutions to manufacturers and shippers of cars and high and heavy cargoes. It is an integral part of our vision to be pioneering whether in our services and markets served, Through our modern fleet of Pure Car & Truck Carrier environmental standards, or supporting actions to (PCTC) vessels and our expansive agency network the communities we operate. and operational expertise, we provide short sea transportation in the Mediterranean basin, extending Established in 1975, Neptune Lines has been from the Atlantic ports of Vigo and Casablanca in the conducting business for over 40 years now based on West, to the Black Sea in the East. the founding values of Trust, Flexibility, Confidence, Integrity, Pioneering, Human Capital, Excellence and In June 2016, Neptune Lines launched its new Ro/Ro Responsibility. transportation service in the Gulf currently connecting the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain. Neptune Lines has always been proud to combine its family-owned enterprise values – such as personal attention to customers and service flexibility – with the efficiency and professional management of a thoroughly modern shipping company. The Company’s service is backed by an unwavering 17 +50 11 25 3 402 commitment to conducting business in a socially Vessels Ports Trade Routes Countries Continents Employees responsible and ethical manner. 6 7 Goals 2.HUMAN With regards to the Human Rights Principles, the Company is setting the following targets: • Continuous monitoring of performance with RIGHTSINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of respect to internal corporate human rights policies and international declarations and initiatives. • Continuous support of UN Global Compact internationally Human Rights Principles. proclaimed human rights • Maintain zero-tolerance in human rights abuse. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit Implementation Neptune Lines goals for 2016 with respect to in human rights abuses human rights were mainly achieved by training through internal arrangements such as meetings, Assessment, Policy Neptune Lines itself was recognised for its news and presentations of induction documents and Goals sustainability efforts as a service provider and for new employees. Neptune Lines aims to be a achieved the Renault Supplier Award for company for which people want to Corporate and Social Responsibility in June 2016. Human rights awareness has been achieved work, a company that boasts about through the following actions and initiatives: Furthermore, the same month, Neptune Lines an interesting working environment • All employees are signing Neptune Lines policy achieved the bronze award from the Corporate acceptance clause related with human rights both at sea and ashore. Neptune Lines Responsibility Index (CR Index), an initiative and principles as part of their induction and its management board are introduced by “Business in the Community” a programme. committed to supporting and protecting responsible business network. the Universal Declaration of Human • Provision of training for all management team Rights within their sphere of influence and members. All Neptune Lines suppliers must be aware that throughout their business activities. It is • The Global Compact Human Rights Principles child labour is unacceptable and that the have been a subject of attention in employees further declared that the Company’s policy is employment of young workers should adhere to and managers’ meetings. neither to permit nor to tolerate but to prevent local regulations. Neptune Lines suppliers are • Neptune Lines documents regarding corporate any kind of discrimination and/or harassment of expected to treat all employees fairly and not responsibility, where human rights policies and its employees on board or ashore on the grounds discriminate against any group in employment commitments are included, are accessible to all of race or ethnic origin, gender, religion or belief, practices and also respect human rights in the employees and other stakeholders through the disability, age or sexual orientation. areas of their operation. The Company is aiming Company’s intranet. Neptune Lines chooses its business partners to continually improve its social and environmental • Continued training activities for employees and based on their efforts to respect human rights, performance through its worldwide supply chain seafarers in 2016. comply with laws, protect the environment and and for that purpose has issued a Code of • The Company encourages all employees to address social issues, as well as considerations Conduct for Suppliers. formally report any concerns of assault or other such as quality and price. The Company shares its bullying behaviour as well as any incident of Also within its management system Neptune stance regarding fulfilment of social responsibility, harassment or discrimination to Lines has established a reporting procedure that including respect for human rights, compliance Human Resources Manager enables and with laws and protection of the environment, with (grievance mechanism). encourages all its business partners and encourages them to take their own voluntary initiatives. employees to Measurement of report any outcomes non-conformity In 2016, there has not been any or compliance suspected or unethical behaviour regarding the reported, nor concerns about possible Maritime Labour breaches of the Company’s Code of Convention (MLC) and Conduct or violation or abuse of human rights. other applicable national, international or internal rules No legal claims have been made against the and regulations. Company by any of its employees or other RENAULT SUPPLIER AWARDS 2016 stakeholders regarding violation of human rights. 8 9 3.LABOUR • Is committed to respecting multicultural issues Principle 3: (beliefs, cultures, religions) and is committed to Businesses should uphold the freedom treating people with respect, courtesy, honesty, of association and the effective recogniintegrity and fairness. tion of the right to collective bargaining • Is committed to eliminating discrimination Principle 4: regarding gender, ethnicity, religion, culture The elimination of all forms of forced and social profile and is also committed to and compulsory labour offering all employees fair and equitable Principle 5: treatment. The effective abolition of child labour • Does not tolerate any form of child labour and Principle 6: it does not tolerate any form of forced or The elimination of discrimination in compulsory labour. respect of employment and occupation The Company has in place appropriate policies against discrimination and harassment and all complaints of unlawful harassment, intimidation Assessment, Policy marital status, place of origin, membership in a or bullying are handled in an absolute discreet and Goals union or staff association, political affiliation, race, and confidential manner. Once the matter has Neptune Lines has in receipt of public assistance, record of offences, been reported it is promptly investigated and any place policies that sexual orientation or any other personal necessary corrective action is taken where fully support the labour characteristics by or within the organisation. additional training opportunities to all. appropriate. Any employee found in violation of principles of the this policy will be disciplined, up to and including • To continue improving employee satisfaction International Labour Neptune Lines: rate, as well as the crew retention rate. immediate termination of his or her employment. Organization (ILO). As of August 2013, • Recognises and respects cultural differences. all vessels of Neptune Lines fleet comply All employees are treated strictly according to Independent contractors found to be in violation of this policy may be subject to contract Implementation with the MLC 2006 (Maritime Labour his or her abilities and qualifications in any The Company ensures that all labour regulated cancellation. All Neptune Lines suppliers must Convention). MLC establishes minimum employment decisions, including but not activities are reviewed according to the countries’ prohibit the use of forced labour and give working and living standards for all seafarers limited to hiring, advancement (promotion), specific regulations and the Labour Principles are workers, whether local or migrant, the right and working on ships flying the flags of ratifying compensation, benefits, training, layoffs and applied. the ability to leave employment when they countries. Neptune Lines complies with the termination. choose. For the health and safety of its employees, current labour market legislation of the country • Is committed to treating with fair, objective and in which the individual is employed. transparent manner the professional Neptune Lines has in place strict procedures, such Neptune Lines promotes a no-blame culture and development of all its employees and no as emergencies training and drill plans, that are motivates staff to ensure that they understand and Neptune Lines is committed to providing a discrimination is practiced in respect of rehearsed and performed at regular intervals, embrace the requirements of the Company’s working environment free from any form of employment, dismissals, relocations, onboard the ships and ashore. Neptune Lines management system. harassment, intimidation or bullying. The promotions, determination of salary and working ensures that all employees are fully prepared for Company defines bullying as persistent, conditions or competence development. Additionally, Neptune Lines provides that all all emergencies, as the implementation of safety malicious, unwelcome, severe and pervasive identified risks to its personnel are being assessed principles and of environmentally friendly mistreatment that harms, intimidates, demeans, and appropriate processes exist to ensure that no practices improve the safety of the working offends, degrades or humiliates an employee, unacceptable or avoidable risks are taken. environment and help in preventing injuries and ill whether verbal, physical or otherwise, at the place health. of work and/or during employment. Goals Neptune Lines is committed to supporting the Measurement of outcomes Bullying behaviour includes, but is not limited to Neptune Lines maintains a policy of providing Labour Principles and sets the following main abusive and offensive language, insults, teasing, employees with equal opportunities for goals: spreading rumour and innuendo, unreasonable development of skills and offering new challenges criticism, unfairly blaming for mistakes, criticizing • To maintain zero loss-of-life incidents and minimize Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) within the Company. All employees are treated in public, and trivializing of work and rates. The target for 2017 is set at a LTIF equally, irrespective of ethnic background, achievements. reduction of at least 0.25. gender, religion or age and they are offered equal The Company, also prohibits discrimination and • Ensure that the Company continues to be opportunities for development and promotion to harassment and protects the right to be free of compliant with applicable rules, regulations and higher positions. Gender-based discrimination is hate activity, based on age, ancestry, citizenship, laws. not allowed in terms of recruitment, promotion or creed (religion), colour, disability, ethnic origin, • To continually improve the training wage compensation. family status, gender identity, level of literacy, performance of its employees and to provide 10 11 2015 2016 Neptune Lines provides equal employment opportunities and endeavours to recruit more women to its Number shipping operations. 38 (61%) 40 (61.5%) & Percentage Permanent of Employees 62 65 Contract Employees Training (Shore based (Shore based) Each department within the Company is responsible to identify the training needs of its employees and request 24 (39%) 25 (38.5%) & Shipboard the relevant seminars. Technical, Commercial, Accounting / Finance matters and English language, were the main training topics for 2016. The performance indicators for 2016 for the shore based personnel are shown workforce) below. by Gender 319 (98%) 330 (98%) Shore Based Personnel Average (2015 & 2016) Fixed Contract Training Number of training Employees (Shipboard) 326 337 Training Performance Gender hours Percentage employess trained hours per Indicators (2016) employee 7 (2%) 7 (2%) 27 12% 3 9 TOTAL 388 402 MANAGERS 4 2% 1 4 Workforce by Employee Category & Gender (2015 & 2016) 124 53% 11 11 2015 2016 4 4 EMPLOYEES 78 33% 11 7 3 (75%) 3 (75%) SENIOR MANAGEMENT 1 (25%) 1 (25%) TOTAL 233 100% 26 8.9 11 11 Average Training Hours 7 (64%) 9 (82%) per Employee (2015 & 2016) MANAGERS 20 4 (36%) 2 (18%) 44 50 15 28 (64%) 27 (54%) EMPLOYEES 10 19 (36%) 23 (46%) In 2015 there was a massive training performed due to the completion of projects which triggered the need for 5 training such as the change of the main TOTAL 62 65 17.3 8.9 communication system, the implementation of business reporting tools (target) as well as the completion of English training courses. 38 24 39 26 2015 2016 12 13 Seagoing personnel have undergone training activities onboard the ships. Training activities were based on computer Absentee Rates (2015 & 2016) training (DVD training materials) for CBT, CST and CES. Onboard test results have shown that an average score of more than 80% was achieved (minimum pass level is 60%). % 0.0078 Onboard Personnel – Average Test Results (2016) Master 0.00009 90% 88% Electrician 0.0040 Chief Officer 90% 88% Bosun 2 nd rd & 3 Officer 89% 87% Deck Ratings 0.00004 Apprentice Officer 88% 86% Engine Ratings Chief Engineer 91% 86% Chief Cook 3rd & 4th Engineer 89% 84% Messman 2015 2016 2015 2016 nd 2 Engineer 89% Absentee Rate Absentee Rate Shore-based Shipboard Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIF) Office pre joining tests were also performed for Greek Officers. Pre-joining tests included Navigation, STCW, Fire-fighting, MLC 2006, Maritime English and GMDSS. The average score (%), per crew category for 2016 is shown In comparison with the 2015 figure (2.49), the frequency of the injuries reduced, resulting in 1.01 LTIF incidents. in the following graph. Crew Retention Rate (per nationality & per category) Average Scores Pre Joining Master Chief Officer Tests (2016) 61% 70% Greek Crew Retention Rate Filipino Crew Retention Rate Ukranian Crew Retention Rate 2015 Year 2016 2015 Year 2016 2015 Year 2016 2016 90% Masters 100% 80% Masters 100% 100% Masters 100% 90% Senior 88% 88% Senior 85% 95% Senior 93% 2nd & 3rd Apprentice Officers Officers Officers Officer Officer 66% Junior 90% Junior 88% Junior 92% 56% 87% Officers 86% Officers 92% Officers N/A Ratings N/A 90% Ratings 87% 90% Ratings 93% The above figures indicate that Neptune Lines has a high retention rate of its crew. Absentee Rate (AR) The absence rate figures recorded at shore and on ships increased. Our occasional absences from work increased Report to Labour Standards Violations since 2015 due to employees’ sickness as well as due to childcare and eldercare. Home/family responsibilities remain There have not been any reported possible breaches of Labour Standards since Neptune Lines became a among the top causes of short-term absence. Human Resources Department is handling each case separately trying signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2015. Furthermore, the Company has not reported any breach of to facilitate the best possible course of action for each one of our employees. any labour principles since its establishment. 14 15 Goals 4.ENVIRONMENT Neptune Lines is strongly committed to the protection of the environment and society, by The goals set by Neptune Lines are: adhering to the following commitments: • Minimisation of environmental impact. • Comply with international and national • Compliance with applicable laws and Principle 7: regulations. legislation in all countries in which it operates. Businesses should support a precautionary • Compliance of Company’s suppliers with the • Promote its initiatives and programmes related approach to environmental challenges to environmental and social components and Company’s policies and procedures. Principle 8: encourage its stakeholders to engage actively. Undertake initiatives to promote greater • Sustain the ongoing communication with its Implementation environmental responsibility stakeholders regarding the development of Efforts to enhance the energy efficiency of the Principle 9: environmental and social initiatives and shipboard operations include: Encourage the development and diffusion programmes. • Implementation of an Environmental of environmentally friendly technologies • Measure its environmental and social impacts. Management System supported with several • Mitigate and reduce the environmental environmental programmes with the objective Assessment, Policy footprint deriving from its operations and to continually increase energy efficiency and and Goals business activities. minimise energy waste. A set of SMART targets Neptune Lines fully supports the • Obtaining and maintaining all permits and are established and maintained related to a Principles 7, 8 & 9. The Company approvals required for its business and the combination of design optimisation, in-service constantly works on developing proper handling, storage and disposal of performance monitoring and best-practice instructions and procedures and takes materials. operational management processes. measures to ensure the safe operation • All suppliers and subcontractors shall operate in • Establishment and maintenance of a Ship of all its vessels regarding environmental full compliance with relevant laws and Speciﬁc Energy Efﬁciency Management Plan protection. regulations applicable to their operations and (SEEMP) that is regularly reviewed and employment in the countries in which they approved by the management. SEEMP, Neptune Lines has implemented a operate. developed specifically for each vessel and Management System that is under annual • All major suppliers must have a written provides standard procedures and practices on evaluation for effectiveness and continual environmental policy appropriate to the size best energy management under the various improvement. The “Neptune Lines and nature of their operations. operational modes of the vessel. Management System” (NL-MS), combines ISO • All suppliers must abide by all legislation and • Energy efficiency awareness through training to 9001 and 14001 as well as OHSAS 18001 regulations related to the protection of the the shore and sea-going personnel and standards and MLC 2006 concurrently with the environment and the handling of dangerous implementation of energy related campaigns ISM Code mandatory regulatory requirements. and hazardous materials. and other personnel incentive/motivating The Company is assessing all identified • All suppliers should work actively to improve programmes. environmental risks that may emerge within its the environment in the communities in which • Monitoring and compliance with all applicable sphere of influence or through its business they operate and pursue initiatives to bring legal requirements related to ship energy activities and is committed to continually improve about such improvement. management. its employee skills and abilities, with regard to • All clients shall comply with every regulation environmental protection. and policy related to Neptune Lines operations. • Continually access all identified environmental Neptune Lines as part of its commitment for the risks that may emerge within its sphere of protection of the environment is a member of the influence or through its business activities. Clean Shipping Index (CSI), a business to business tool, for cargo owners to select clean Neptune Lines has also an Energy Efﬁciency ships and quality ship operators, driven by a Management Policy, as it believes that although non-profit organisation. shipping is the most fuel-efficient mode of transport, additional actions must be taken to The Company has also taken measures and improve the energy efficiency of ship related initiatives to promote greater environmental operations. Energy efficiency is controlled responsibility and encourages the use of primarily through well-planned and properly environmentally friendly technologies. Neptune managed ship operations that require the Lines has in place an Environmental Protection personal commitment of everyone involved. Policy, which dictates that all employees are committed and dedicated in the protection of the environment and pollution prevention. 16 17 As part of the membership of the CSI, Neptune Through its Environmental Protection Policy In 2016, Neptune Lines implemented all “ Lines has participated in a workshop organised by (pursuant to the ISO 14001 standard) the necessary measures and procedures to comply VW in 2016 in Germany and presented and Company aims to: with the SOLAS Ch. XI-1, Reg. 7. MSC. 380 (94) discussed its experience related to the • Reduce total weight of waste by type and use regulation, which requires atmosphere testing implementation of CSI, especially the major issues more environmental disposal methods, by instruments for enclosed spaces to be carried Neptune Lines faced during implementation phase, which was completed in 2016 including the verification implementing zero-tolerance in water pollution from oil, implementing zero-tolerance in water onboard the ships. has set targets and is process. pollution from garbage, reducing total Neptune Lines also adopted the regulation EU MRV (monitoring, reporting and verification of continually monitoring generated quantity of plastics, reducing sludge The Company has also taken important measures, generation and increasing oily waste disposed CO2 emissions from maritime transport). The MRV several parameters set targets and implemented technologies that regulation aims to quantify and reduce CO2 quantities at dedicated shore facilities. that affect “ affect the vessels performance, making them • Maintain zero-tolerance to water pollution from emissions from shipping and will create a new more environmental friendly. These measures are touching elements from operations to mechanical micro-organisms that may disrupt the native ecology of visited ports, from negligent and benchmarking system in Europe. The implementation is expected to be completed by the end of 2017. enviroment modifications and ships coating as well as training improper management of ballast water. activities. • Minimise total direct and indirect greenhouse Measurement of outcomes Neptune Lines has set targets and is continually Neptune Lines also participates in the gas emissions (by weight) by reducing CO2 monitoring several parameters that affect the • Use of paints emissions and by monitoring SOX air emissions POSEIDON MED (part I and part II) – LNG EU environment. These parameters and their The monthly consumption was reduced in 2016 (by weight). in comparison with 2015 from 188 to 143 sponsored project. The Company provides design monitored target results are presented below. • Optimise materials use (by volume and weight) liters/vessel/month. Maintenance is monitored information and operational data for one of its by optimising paint, chemical, paper and lube during onboard attendances from Superintendents. vessels, which will be a candidate for conversion oil consumption. • CO2 emissions to LNG. As part of POSEIDON MED part II, which A total reduction of 8.64% on CO2 emissions started in 2016, a detailed conversion design will • Monitor water withdrawal by source by was achieved since January 1st, 2010. The • Use of chemicals reducing fresh water consumption and by The monthly consumption was reduced in 2016 be performed on one of the Company’s vessels. target for 2016 was an annual reduction of 0.5% maximising fresh water production on board in comparison with 2015 from 191 to 179 Neptune Lines participates in this project, by but due to increased speed demands for the vessel. liters/vessel/month. providing vessel’s plans and drawings so a retrofit fulfilment of contractual agreements with the • Reduce incineration process and increase the LNG installation could be feasible. The first phase of the project completed with the preliminary use of more environmentally friendly disposal customers, this figure was not achieved. • Paper consumption methods. Nevertheless, Neptune Lines for each year design and risk assessment performed with the The majority of monthly forms needed for • Ensure compliance with environmental following 2016, is aiming for a further annual participation of Lloyds Register. The second periodical reporting are forwarded by email and legislation, regulations and other requirements reduction in CO2 emissions of 0.5% until 2018. phase started in February 2016 and included are being filed electronically in the office. by maximising third party inspections and Electronic filling onboard the vessels is not yet detailed design drawings and cost related studies audits performance. • Waste disposal at sea implemented since proper filling arrangements for the retrofitting of LNG Since 2013 Neptune Lines implements a as well as for the design • Implement, periodically review and communicate by using appropriate software tools need to be the Policy to all employees and other zero-tolerance policy for waste disposal at sea. and cost of the land-based implemented. Paper consumption has slightly stakeholders. Further to this policy and after February 2016, port infrastructure. increased in comparison with 2015 (from 4.61 • Provide adequate resources to promote this no waste was disposed at sea. The amount of to 4.73 packets/vessel/month). Policy. garbage discharged at sea for 2016 was the • Assess all identified hazards and manage risks minimum amount of 0.008 m3/vessel/month • Cooking oil consumption to its ships, personnel and the environment by and is expected to be eliminated in 2017. Consumption of cooking oil increased from establishing appropriate safeguards (risk 1.33 (in 2015) to 1.36 liters/crew/month in 2016. assessment). • Oily water and sludge generation • Provide appropriate training to all personnel Oily water increased for 2016 (0.49 m3/day) in • Consumption and production of whose work may create a significant impact on comparison with 2015 (0.45 m3/day). However, fresh water the environment. sludge generated for 2016 (0.37 m3/day/vessel) Fresh water consumption for 2016 was slightly • Continual improvement of the overall was reduced in comparison with 2015 (0.39 reduced compared to 2015 (5.5 tons/vessel/ environmental performance. m3/day/vessel). The environmental character of day). Fresh water production was reduced from • Continuously cooperate with its suppliers and Neptune Lines HMD vessels (eight Vessels) do 5.93 tons/sailing day/vessel in 2015 to 5.27 in contractors for their environmental not allow any drains to be directed overboard 2016. improvement. but on the contrary to be collected in oily water • Review objectives and targets on annual basis tank and further processed through 15 ppm or through established KPIs. discharged at dedicated shore facilities. 18 19 • Incineration process • Installation of shaft power meters Incineration processes need to be reduced as Neptune Lines installed shaft power meters for much as possible while shore disposal of eight vessels being now able to more garbage and sludge is being compulsory at accurately control the performance of the home ports like Barcelona and Piraeus. motor engine, hull and propeller cleanliness. Garbage incineration process reduced from 0.55 in 2015, to 0.44 m3/month in 2016, while • Water in oil monitor installation on sludge incineration process reduced from 0.225 11 vessels to 0.158 m3/month. Eleven vessels are equipped with water in oil monitors attached to the main engine to Neptune Lines has taken the following monitor continuously the water percentage in environmental measures during 2016, the lub oil. All installations are presently encouraging this way the development and working, while two more were implemented in diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies: 2016. • Operational measure for speed • Installation of VSD drives on sea optimisation and ship efficiency to water pumps and E/R fans reduce fuel consumption On the eight Korean built vessels, VSD drives In 2016, Neptune Lines continued with the were installed on the sea water pumps and the speed operation for most vessels at 16 knots. E/R fans and the results have been successful. This is an operational measure for monitoring • Energy efficiency improvements for • Car deck lights turning off at sea results in the fuel consumption. Neptune Lines two of the Company’s ships Neptune Lines continued turning off the car • Coriolis flowmeters changed its policy in the use of the constant (Neptune Aegli and Neptune deck lights on 12 vessels during sailing. Only On eight vessels Coriolis flowmeters were RPM mode on the Korean fleet (six vessels). If Dynamis) the emergency lights are left on. Savings on installed for accurate measurement of the fuel the speed is above or equal to 16 knots they Both vessels have now been re-bladed and auxiliary engine consumption have been oil consumption for motor engine and continue to use the constant RPM mode and if their efficiency has improved. reported through this measure. Instructions also auxiliaries. On two new vessels, Coriolis the speed is less than 16 knots the combinator provided for turning off lights in various spaces flowmeters were installed for accurate mode is used. The owned fleet has run more • SOX emissions reductions onboard the vessel when these are not used. measurements during bunkering. For the eighth year, Neptune Lines restricted Special stickers are installed in most spaces to miles in 2016 as compared to 2015 due to the the mean sulphur content of the HFO fuel remind users to turn off the lights. increase in the fleet size (3.7% increase in miles). The total fuel consumption per ton mile bunkered for the fleet to below 2.8% S content. Flag performance was increased by 2.3% due to increased idle The global limit has been reduced as from • Led lights installation test A total of eight flag inspections were performed in periods of the vessels (utilisation reduction). January 2012 to 3.5%. For 2016, the mean (continuation) 2016 and six observations were raised, having an value was 2.7%. In 2015, Neptune Lines installed on Neptune average of 0.75 deficiencies per flag inspection, The fuel oil consumption of the motor engine Odyssey and Neptune Iliad about 50 pieces of thus achieving the target set for 2016 (i.e. less per nautical mile (indicating the hull • Energy savings device on propeller Led tubes replacing some of the fluorescent than two deficiencies per flag inspection). The performance) was reduced by 0.1%. No Installation and use of energy saving device on tubes. The Company is presently monitoring improvements in hull (re-coating) took place in figure for 2015 was 1.08. propeller of six vessels. their performance and durability in preparation the first period of the year. for a large-scale implementation. RO Performance • Trim optimisation and reduction of • Alpha lubricator usage and A total number of seven external audits, covering ballast carried / GM control scavenge drain analysis • Telemetry system (continuation) ISM, ISPS, MLC and ISO-OHSAS scopes, were With the installation of the Alpha lubricator on On the two new ships, Neptune Lines installed performed in 2016 and zero observations per Trim optimisation and ballast control is now the new ships, Neptune Lines reduced the a telemetry system to monitor real time 24 audit were identified. The target is to maintain applied to 12 vessels in the fleet, using cylinder oil consumption to very low levels up parameters – from ship performance to energy zero non-conformities at all audits and less than specialised software. to 0.6 gr/kwh (the normal is 1.0 gr/kwh). Two consumption. All these can be monitored three observations per audit (mean value), a • Foul release and advanced A/F new ships were entered also on this remotely from the Company’s office or target already achieved. coatings to reduce fuel consumption programme. The results of cylinder oil elsewhere. Neptune lines continues monitoring the consumption of the 2-stroke vessels have been Port State Control (PSC) Performance performance of the eight vessels coated with consistently low throughout the year. The two • Installation of kwh meters A total of 19 PSC inspections were performed in silicon anti-foulings and the three with new vessels reduced their cylinder oil Neptune Lines installed kwh meters presently 2016. The average number of deficiencies issued advanced efficiency A/Fs. The performance is consumption significantly through this on eight vessels and is monitoring the auxiliary per PSC inspection was reduced by 3.3% in very good. In 2016, the Company dry-docked programme. Neptune Hellas from 249 to 158 power usage monthly. This will assist in comparison with the 2015 figure (0.84 compared one of the Fincantieri vessels and re-coated the liters/day and Neptune Horizon from 205 to measuring the effects of any improvements that to 0.87), achieving the target set for 2016 of less silicon with the Hempel Hempaguard X7 silicon 149 liters/day in 2016 respectively. will be made to the auxiliary power usage than two deficiencies per inspection. based antifouling system. systems onboard. 20 21 5.ANTIImplementation Neptune Lines is a member of the Maritime Neptune Lines has also addressed the following topics regarding the 10th Principle: CORRUPTION Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), a global business network working towards its vision of a The Company provides anti-corruption training maritime industry free of corruption that enables to those employees for whom it believes it is most relevant of their role or in response to specific Principle 10: fair trade to the benefit of society at large. incidents. Every new employee at Neptune Lines MACN’s mission is to promote good corporate Businesses should work receives relevant familiarisation training regarding practice in the maritime industry for tackling against corruption in all its bribes, facilitation payments, and other forms of the established anti-corruption policies. Existing forms, including extortion corruption. Neptune Lines HSQE Manager and personnel receive a refreshment course on the and bribery Legal Advisor attended the MACN annual established policies, every two years, or upon any meeting held at London on April 2016. Neptune alteration or revision effected to the already Lines participates in best practice sharing implemented anti-corruption policies. The webinars and reports corruption incidents faced Company is currently exploring possibilities for during Company’s vessels' day-to-day operations, further investing on anti-corruption training for its through a web-sharing MACN platform which governance body members (decision-makers), Assessment, Policy may eventually lead to a collective action shore-based and seagoing employees as well as and Goals programme depending on the severity and those business partners who may have a higher Neptune Lines fully adheres to the Neptune Lines has also in place a Fair Business repetition status of the incidents reported. risk of facing or raising incidents of corruption. 10th UN Global Compact Principle. Practices Policy, which dictates that the The Company adopts a zero-tolerance Company and its employees: In 2015, for the 40th anniversary of Neptune Neptune Lines Code of Conduct explicitly policy to bribery and corruption • Do not engage in unfair price fixing, collusion, Lines, the Company has held the Neptune Lines prohibits engaging in bribery and corruption in practices. According to its Anti-Corruption dumping or any other actions that hinder free 1st Agents Conference to promote relationships any form. The Company has a responsibility to its & Anti-Bribery Policy, all employees competition. and communication between all Company’s major employees and to the countries and communities should refrain from: • Do not provide or accept gifts or entertainment Port Agents from all over the Mediterranean and it operates to be ethical and lawful in all business • Offering, giving or promising a financial or that may cause suspicion regarding the Black Sea. Among the topics discussed and given dealings. other advantage to another person with the Company’s fairness. attention was the number of corruption practices and Neptune Lines abides by all relevant international intention to induce or reward them to • Do not give or accept money or gifts during perform an improper act. work with the Company’s business partners. incidents amongst port laws and principles and has zero-tolerance • Requesting, receiving or agreeing to receive a • Keep meals and entertainment with the authorities in some ports of the policies for corruption and anti-competitive financial or other advantage from another Company’s business partners within socially Company’s operation – a practices, for both the Company and its person with the intention of being induced or acceptable limits only. continuous challenge for stakeholders. rewarded to perform their responsibilities or Neptune Lines. duties inappropriately. Neptune Lines is committed to act against any Measurement of outcomes unlawful act such as bribery, fraud, money Neptune Lines has undergone a thorough risk “ Any employee found in violation of this policy will laundering or abuse. Employees or representatives assessment regarding corruption issues with the be disciplined, up to and including immediate of Neptune Lines must not offer, provide, accept, assistance of an external legal firm. The top-level termination of his or her employment. Independent contractors found to be in violation or promise, either directly or indirectly, any undue financial or other advantage to a public and/or The Company management has been informed about the outcomes of this risk assessment and was trained of this policy shall be subject to contract private official for obtaining any favourable has a responsibility on corruption issues. cancellation. treatment or business advantage. to its employees No incidents of corruption have been recorded Goals and no legal actions have been taken against the The goals set by the Company regarding the 10th and to the countries Company and/or any of its employees. Principle are: and communities • To continually monitor its performance and the compliance with anti-corruption laws and it operates to be regulations including its Anti-Corruption & ethical and lawful in all “ Anti-Bribery Policy. • To continually monitor the compliance of its Fair Practices Policy. business dealings • To expand training on corruption to all levels of employees. 22 23 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF Anti-Fouling (coating) AR Absentee Rate CBT Computer Based Training CES Crew Evaluation System CO2 Carbon Dioxide COP Communication on Progress CR Corporate Responsibility CSI Clean Shipping Index CST Computer Simulation Training E/R Engine Room EU European Union GM Gravity Metacentre GMDSS Global Maritime Distress and Safety System GR Grams GRI Global Reporting Initiative HFO Heavy Fuel Oil HMD Hyundai Mipo Dockyard HSQE Health, Safety, Quality, Environment ILO International Labour Organization IMO International Maritime Organization ISM International Safety Management (Code) ISO International Standardization Organization ISPS International Ship and Port Facility Security KPI Key Performance Indicator(s) KWH Kilo Watt Hour(s) LNG Liquefied Natural Gas LTIF Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate MACN Maritime Anti-Corruption Network MARPOL MARine POLlution MLC Maritime Labour Convention MRV Monitoring, Reporting, Verification (Regulation) MSC Maritime Safety Committee NL-MS Neptune Lines Management System OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Assessment PBCF Propeller Boss Cap Fins PCTC Pure Car & Truck Carrier PPM Parts Per Million PSC Port State Control RO Recognised Organization Ro/Ro Roll-on/Roll-off RPM Revolutions per Minute S Sulphur SEEMP (Ship) Specific Energy Efficiency Management Plan SMART Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic and Time sensitive SO Sulphur Oxide SOLAS Safety of Life at Sea STCW Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping UNGC United Nations Global Compact VSD Variable Speed Devices 24 Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprises S.A 5-9 Iassonos Street, GR 18537, Piraeus, Greece www.neptunelines.com
