Annual Report 2016 1 Perfil Table of Contents 01 02 03 About the Message from the Profile Report Management Page 18 Page 04 Page 16 04 05 06 07 Ethics and Corporate Compliance Risk Governance Management Management Strategy Page 22 Page 28 Page 34 Page 46 08 09 10 11 Social and Human Capital Relationship and Intellectual Financial Natural Capital Capital Capital Capital Page 54 Page 82 Page 94 Page 106 Corporate Summary of GRI Attachment GRI Information Contents Page 128 Page 118 Page 120 2 3 Perfil About the Report We present our 2016 Annual Report, a docMúltiplo, which, in 2016, contributed with ument that brings the main initiatives and 70.3% of BB’s operating income. results of the period. With this publication, we disclose our way to accomplishing the In line with the trends of integration of ecomanagement of the business and the imnomic, social and environmental informapacts of our activities on the economic, ention, we moved toward with the adoption of vironmental and social spheres. the basic principles of Integrated Reporting (IR) in this cycle, showing a more concise Our report is published only by electronic and relevant corporate reporting. G4-23 means since 2010, on the Investor Relations website , in line with the assumpAs an innovation, we discussed the resourctions of Social and Environmental Respones used and generated by the Company sibility (SER). This document was ensured and the way we interact with the Financial, by KPMG Auditores Independentes. Human, Intellectual, Manufactured, Natural and Social and Relationship Capital, showIn line with the good international sustaining our way to generate value for the Orgaability and account rendering practices, we nization and for our stakeholders. See our adopted the guidelines of the Global ReportBusiness Model on page 12. ing Initiative (GRI), with the comprehensive “agreement” option of the G4 version, includOur New Materiality G4-18 | G4-19 ing the financial sector supplement. The GRI initiatives can be found throughout the text or, In 2016, we reviewed our materiality acin more details, in Attachment GRI. In the tacording to GRI G4 guidelines, complying ble of contents, GRI indicators are associated fully with the stages of identification, prioriwith the principles of the Global Compact and tization, and validation of topics relevant to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), the definition of the content of this report. launched by the United Nations (UN) in 2015. 01 It is worth mentioning that, in order to inteThe economic and financial data is in comgrate the reporting with the management, our pliance with Act No. 6,404/76 (Business relevant themes represent sustainability chalCorporation Act) and with the standards lenges agreed upon in our Sustainability Plan, issued by the Brazilian Securities and Exreferred to this year as Agenda 30 BB, in alignIn this cycle, we moved change Commission (SEC) and by the Cenment with Agenda 2030 Global and the SDG. tral Bank of Brazil (Bacen). The amounts toward with the adoption are related to Banco do Brasil and its subOur challenges are mapped from the assessof principles of Integrated sidiaries, in compliance with the standards ment of national and international trends of in force and the Brazilian practices applisustainability, market indices, demands of Reporting, focused on cable to financial institutions, according to society in general and, especially, the conrelevance and brevity. As the financial statements available on the nection of our business strategies with SDG. Investor Relations website . We also take into account our Corporate an innovation, we listed the Strategy. As a result of such evaluation, 25 resources used and generated The information related to social and enchallenges in sustainability distributed into vironmental indicators comprises Banco five pillars of the Sustainable Development by the Bank and the way we Goals have been identified: Prosperity, Partinteract with the capitals nership, People, Planet, and Peace. 4 5 About the Report Our stakeholders G4-24 G4-18 | G4-19 Relevant Theme Consultation In line with the steps of prioritization of the Customers Internal stakeholders  Press/Media Competitors Partners and Analysis Process G4-45 challenges and definition of actions for the Our materiality is defined from the two update of our Sustainability Plan – Agenda premises of GRI G4, the impact of each 30 BB, the activities of engagement with our challenge and their influence on the insight stakeholders also supported the preparation of stakeholders, as follows: of the content of this report. The results of Suppliers Shareholders/ Sustainability Civil society Government such process are as follows: Investors experts representatives Analysis of Our • Consultation with stakeholders through Challenges – Prioritization an online process and interviews. The G4-25 | G4-26 consultation process was comprehensive Our Challenges G4-27 and had the participation of 7,145 stakeInfluence holders, where 7,117 were through online • Interviews with external stakeholders means and 28 through in-depth inter• Online survey with external stakeholders views. Based on our map of stakeholders, Prosperity Partnership People Planet Peace • Media Research (insight) we analyzed and consolidated the contri• Sector studies butions according to the priority of each •C  hallenge 1: to align • Challenge 6: to •C  hallenge 11: to en• Challenge 16: to de• Challenge 21: to category. In this step, ten challenges were the governance of strengthen the role of sure greater proportionvelop financial solutions develop a social initially prioritized. Banco do Brasil to the Banco do Brasil in the ality of representation of and business models (includes human rights Impact best international pracpursuit of social business gender and race in all that promote the tranand labor practices) tices and strengthen through comprehensive, the hierarchical levels of sition to an inclusive and environmental • Consultation with executives •  In the 27th Sustainability Forum, our exthe role of the Senior efficient and innovative Banco do Brasil. green economy. due diligence process Management in the solutions aligned with to assess the impacts • Consultation with internal stakeholders ecutives evaluated and discussed the 25 sustainability strategy. public policies. • Challenge 17: to of operations and • Competitors challenges in sustainability and, after the  hallenge 12: to expand •C improve the managecommercial relations • Challenge 2: to identify programs on education ment of the climate of Banco do Brasil. • Evaluation of the sustainability validation process, 13 challenges were deand manage medium •C  hallenge 7: to enchange theme in Banand awareness-raising and strategy areas of BB fined as relevant to guide the content of this and long-term non-fihance Banco do Brasil’s in sustainability for interco do Brasil in such a •C hallenge 22: to nancial and/or emerging initiatives towards the manner that it considreview and develop the • Megatrends report, and challenges 2, 19 and 24 were nal stakeholders and risks that may signifiproductive developthe society. ers the governance, commitments of Banco added to those identified as prioritized in cantly impact Banco do ment, entrepreneurship risks, opportunities do Brasil set out in the the first step. Minor adjustments have been Brasil’s businesses. and the promotion •C  hallenge 13: to and adaptations. guidelines of sustainof social and improve the model of ability for the credit and made to the texts, and the most impacted financial inclusion. variable compensation • Challenge 18: to controversial issues. challenge was 19, in which an addendum • Challenge 3: to idenof employees, including improve the Environtify innovations in the •C  hallenge 8: to the Senior Management, mental Management •C hallenge 23: to imon controversial issues was included. Still, financial sector (busistrengthen the dissemiexpanding the social System (EMS) and the prove management and all other challenges will continue to be ness and technology nation of the sustainabiland environmental criteeco-efficiency practices reporting practices models) and anticipate ity topic in the entities ria and considering the in the pursuit of reducing of Banco do Brasil worked on our corporate routine. the trends in order to affiliated with Banco the ecological footprint of on the sustainability individual performance. ensure the perpetuity do Brasil. Banco do Brasil. performance. and longevity of Banco •C  hallenge 14: to •  In our VI Sustainable Development Workdo Brasil. •C  hallenge 9: to en• Challenge 19: to im•C hallenge 24: to strengthen the role shop, the result of our materiality matrix hance the role of Banco of Banco do Brasil prove the management improve the integration • Challenge 4: to do Brasil as an advisor with regard to human of social and environbetween the Private was presented to the Senior Management enhance customer for financial education. mental risk from social Social Investment and capital, considering the of the Organization, for the purpose of the relationship managemanagement of health, and environmental the business strategy. ment and increase •C  hallenge 10: to criteria in the granting subsequent definition of actions that prosafety and well-being, the satisfaction and improve the managethe development and of financings, consider•C hallenge 25: to mote access to sustainability challenges retention index. ment of social and the retention of talents. ing also the controverensure transparency planned for the next three years. environmental risk from sial issues. in communication and • Challenge 5: to ensocial and environ•C  hallenge 15: to ethics in the marketing hance the management mental criteria in the strengthen the role of • Challenge 20: to of products of Banco do Brasil’s tax supply chain and in the Banco do Brasil with improve the manageand services. strategy, with a focus process of sustainable regard to the ethics and ment of social and on governance, tax purchases. anti-corruption theme. environmental risk from risks, and transparency. social and environmental criteria in own investNote: The relevant challenges were highlighted in color. ments and the asset management. 6 7 About the Report Materiality Matrix Our Materiality Process Rendering of accounts Review of the challenges Semi-annual reporting Assessment of trends and to the Board of Officers demands of sustainability and Annual reporting to the society in general Board of Directors Corporate Strategy Annual reporting to the stakeholders in the Annual Report 15 16 6 22 4 7 1 Influence 21 14 Planning and Consultation and 11 3 13 2 action analysis process 19 Assessment of the 25 Assessment of the 18 25 challenges to the materiality with online 10 23 17 establishment of actions consultations and 12 for the next three years interviews 9 Analysis of internal and external documents 20 24 8 Validation Validation of challenges Impact prioritized by executives on BB Sustainability Forum Relevant challenges according to the process of materiality Relevant challenges added to the validation process Irrelevant challenges This process, which occurs every two years, resulted in our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB for the period of 2017-2019. To learn more about our sustainability stratFor more financial and governance information, visit egy, see the Strategy chapter. the Investor Relations website; to learn more about our sustainability management practices, visit www. bb.com.br/sustentabilidade. To contact our teams, see the data in Informações Corporativas (Corporate Information). Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-22 | G4-23 | G4-28 | G4-29 | G4-30 | G4-37 8 9 The Integrated Reporting Intellectual Capital Financial Capital Natural Capital Capitals and their meaning for Banco do Brasil Manufactured Social and Human Capital Relationship Capital Capital It consists of intangible assets It is funds available or investIt consists of all environmensuch as the value of our brand, ed in own or third-party busital, renewable and non-rethe accumulated technical nesses obtained through bornewable resources, used or knowledge and our ability to rowings, provision of services impacted by our business, and innovate in the development and the supply of products to that support the prosperity of of new products, services, and our customers. the Bank. It includes mostly technologies, aimed at the perwater, air, land, forests, biodipetuity of the business. versity, and ecosystem health. It is our facilities and equipIt is the ethical relationship we It is our employees, their exment, including buildings, a maintain with our stakeholdpertise, experience and canetwork of branches, ATMs, ers – customers, shareholdpacity for innovation. It insystems and applications. ers/investors, suppliers, regcludes their alignment with ulatory bodies, society and our good governance practicGovernment – and shows our es and ethical values; ability ability to share values and imto execute our strategy; the prove the individual and colmotivation to improve prolective well-being. cesses, goods, and services; and ability to direct, manage and collaborate. 10 BB Headquarters Building – Brasília/DF 11 Perfil OUR Business BUSINESS Model • Loan • Pension Plan • Asset Management A market Bank • Investments • Fundraising with public spirit • Means of Payment • Customer Service Channels • Service Network OUR STRATEGY s Custom loyee ers p Sh Values Em a nvestors • Public Spirit • Efficiency Reg rs/I • Ethics • Innovation ula to OUR lde • Human • Customer “To be the most rs Potential View PROCESSES ho reliable and relevant re Bank to the lives C o m p e tit o r Strategic Drivers • Risk Management • Profitability, Risk and of customers, Capital Management • Internal Controls employees and for ss • Environmental/Eco-Efficiency • Customer Experience • Digital Transformation the development Pre Management System of Brazil.” s • People Management • Information Security • Knowledge Management Pa en t • Supplier Management rt n er m Brand Management s e rn Su G ov Sustainability Plan – p p li y Agenda 30 BB ers S o ciet VALUE CREATION Human Capital Intellectual Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Manufactured Financial Capital Capital Capital Employee satisfaction Engagement and support for public policies Development of financial solutions Bank as an agent of Digital Bank to meet the demands of society that contribute to the transition to a Capillarity – service economic development Training and career green economy stations and types advancement Brand innovaCustomer satisfaction and retention Compensation to shareholdtion and Environmental impacts mitigated Modernization of the ers, employees, GovernJob and income Contribution of funds to social, environmental perception in the value chain Administrative and ment, suppliers, generation and cultural projects of public interest – Technological Centers reinvestments Fundação Banco do Brasil and support for Reduction of consumption of natural 12 sports and culture resources – Eco-efficiency 13 About the Report Key Indicators G4-9 | G4-EC1 G4-9 | G4-EC1 Balance Sheet Items (R$ billion) 2014 2015 2016 Social Business (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 Assets 1,290.5 1,401.1 1,401.4 Total 61,729 76,580 89,749 Shareholders’ Equity 80.6 81.5 87.2 Fund for Financing the Higher Education Student (Fies) 13,594 19,480 27,106 Loan Portfolio – Broad Definition(1) 742.0 798.4 708.1 BB Accessibility Credit 119 160 169 Deposits 468.2 464.4 446.0 Minha Casa Minha Vida Program (PMCMV) 10,662 17,006 19,979 Profitability (%) 2014 2015 2016 Microcredit for Production with Guidance (MPO) 1,371 663 560 Adjusted Return on Equity 14.9 12.0 7.2 National Family Agriculture Development Program (Pronaf) 35,983 39,271 41,935 Global Spread 4.4 4.8 5.1 Natural Resources 2014 2015 2016 Productivity (%) 2014 2015 2016 Power Consumption (TJ) 2,651 2,607 2,536 Cost-to-Income Ratio 44.3 41.6 39.7 Water Consumption (million liters) 1,913 1,678 1,566 Fee Income/Personnel Expenses 129.0 118.9 122.1 Paper Consumed (t) 8,516 6,601 6,082 Fee Income/Administrative Expenses 74.7 70.5 73.8 CO2 Emissions Inventory (tCO2e)(2) 2014 2015(2) 2016(3) Loan Portfolio Delinquency Indicators 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 6,610 11,547 10,833 Provision/Total Portfolio (%) 3.8 4.7 5.5 Scope 2 98,982 90,358 57,559 Coverage +90 days (%) 203.5 209.2 167.7 Scope 3 66,562 66,619 85,240 Capital Structure 2014 2015 2016 Distribution of Value Added (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 Leverage (times) 16.0 17.2 16.1 Total Distributed 39,465 39,437 44,342 BIS Ratio (%) 16.1 16.1 18.5 Staff 17,109 19,994 21,340 Tier 1 11.4 11.4 12.8 Taxes, Fees, and Contributions 8,444 1,993 11,851 CET1 Ratio 9.0 8.2 9.6 Return on Third-Party Capital 1,191 1,308 1,442 Total Quantity of Shares (million) 2,865.4 2,865.4 2,865.4 Equity Compensation 12,721 16,142 9,709 Structural Data 2014 2015 2016 Other Relevant Indicators 2014 2015 2016 Branches 5,524 5,429 5,440 Ranking of Complaints of the Central Bank of Brazil 8th 6th 5th Own Service Network 18,956 17,614 16,625 Contributions to Fundação Banco do Brasil (R$ million) 83.1 81.5 76.9 Customers (thousand) 62,184 63,566 64,798 Checking Accounts (thousand) 38,085 37,841 37,307 (1) It includes private securities, guarantees provided and the balance of individuals’ credit portfolio acquired with co-obligation, in compliance with Resolution CMN No. 3,533/08.  fter external verification under the GHG Protocol Program, the data of Scope 1 and 3 of the inventory of 2015 base year was rectified. The emissions of Scope 1 have been (2) A adjusted from 5,628 tCO2e to 11,547 tCO2e, due to the inclusion of sources of refrigerant gas. In the case of Scope 3, emissions have been updated from 66,674 tCO2e to Individuals (thousand) 35,655 35,420 34,902 66,619 tCO2e, due to adjustments in the calculation methodology. (3) The 2016 inventory data is being verified by an independent third party. Companies (thousand) 2,430 2,421 2,405 Staff 116,931 113,257 102,950 Employees 111,628 109,191 100,622 Interns 5,303 4,066 2,328 Market Share (%) 2014 2015 2016 Deposits 24.9 23.4 22.2 Loans 20.4 20.4 19.8 Agribusiness 60.9 60.9 59.2 Asset Management 21.7 21.5 22.4 Import Exchange 24.1 17.0 15.5 Export Exchange 27.2 21.8 16.8 14 15 Perfil G4-1 In 2016, the domestic and foreign macroeconomin view of the new digital reality, in order to provide ic scenario was characterized by uncertainties high-value experiences to customers. which directly and indirectly affected the business Message from the environment of the financial institutions. The inIn order to improve efficiency, we began the proternational economy continued showing a slight, cess of institutional reorganization. One of the inithough unbalanced, recovery. External and intiatives was the adequacy of our service network: ternal uncertainties impaired the evolution of the inspired by the profile and behavior of our customManagement Brazilian economy in various dimensions. Investers, we have increased the use of synergies, opments, consumption, and GDP retracted in real timized structures, and enhanced digital services. terms and the domestic job market and financial Our customers now have a more agile and dynamG4-1 conditions of the companies deteriorated, affectic system of relationship and business, in addition ing directly the credit market. to extended service hours in digital channels. Despite the poor performance of the economy, inAnother highlight of the year was the update of our flation remained constrained, leading the Central Sustainability Plan that, from 2017, will be referred Bank to keep monetary conditions tight. Despite to as Agenda 30 BB, reflecting the premises of the difficult scenario, 2016 was also characterized global Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Developby a major change in the political economy, which ment Goals (SDG), launched by the United Nations shows promising prospects for the macroeconom(UN) in 2015. Agenda 30 – which replaced Agenda ic scenario over the next few years. 21, valid from 2005 to 2016 – is an instrument to 02 improve our businesses and processes, aligning Although the market conditions have been chalthem to the best world practices, contributing to lenging, we achieved positive results. Net income disseminate the theme and to generate more and was R$8 billion. The shareholders’ remuneration more sustainable results. was R$2.4 billion, with net income per share of R$2.84 in the year. The loan portfolio – broad defiOur social and environmental performance is nition was R$708.1 billion, maintaining our leaderproved by the permanence, for the fifth consecship in this market, with 19.8% share. utive year, in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) of the New York Stock Exchange, and for In line with the role of an agent of economic dethe twelfth time in the Corporate Sustainability velopment of Brazil, we have an essential perIndex (ISE) of B3 (former BM&FBOVESPA). We formance in loans to agribusiness, with 59.2% of further emphasize our entire commitment with the market share. Such portfolio grew by 2.8% in the 10 principles of the Global Pact. year, totaling R$179.8 billion, representing 25.4% of our total portfolio in the period. In the asset manIt is worth mentioning that without the commitment agement segment, BB DTVM is a leader in the naof our more than 100 thousand employees and tional industry of investment funds since 1994 and the trust of our 64.8 million customers, such retotaled R$730.9 billion in funds managed at the sults would not be possible. We thank them and end of 2016, an amount corresponding to 20% of reaffirm our commitment to creating value for the market. such stakeholders, as well as to investors, suppliers, and society, by creating a righteous circle of Our results are a direct reflection of our Corporate social development. Strategy. Between 2017-2021, we will continue Our results for the period were in the pursuit of improved operational efficiency, business growth and increased return to sharePaulo Rogério Caffarelli Banco do Brasil’s CEO positive, despite the challenging holders. In these terms, we will continue prioritizing the simplification of processes and the digital Fabrício da Soller economic scenario; net income transformation, keeping our innovative positioning Chairman was R$8 billion and shareholders’ remuneration was R$2.4 billion 16 17 Perfil Banco do Brasil S.A. (BB) is among the largest financial institutions in Latin AmerWe are a mixed-capital company, controlled by the Federal Government, and we are R$1.4 ica, being a benchmark in confidence and part of Novo Mercado, a segment of B3 that trillion in solidity, and occupying a prominent posicounts with the companies with best practicassets tion in their business segments. G4-3 es in corporate governance. G4-7 With over 200 years, and aligned to our Our social and environmental performance 19.8% mission of being a market Bank with public is proved by the presence in the Corporate of loans spirit, we are one of the main agents of the Sustainability Index (ISE) of B3 and in the market economic and social development of Brazil. Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) of share Operating responsibly to promote social inthe New York Stock Exchange. clusion through job and income generation, we support the agribusiness, micro and With over 100 thousand employees and small companies and foreign trade. 64.8 million customers, we have the largest 64.8 service network among the Brazilian instimillion Profile tutions, both in Brazil and abroad. customers 66.5 thousand service points, the largest Shareholding Structure (%) network in Brazil Treasury Shares 03 2.8% 100.6 thousand employees Others R$731.0 22.2% billion third-party assets under With over 200 years, and management aligned to our mission Foreign Capital of being a market Bank Federal Government R$446.0 20.6% billion in with public spirit, we are deposits 54.4% one of the main agents of economic and social development of Brazil 18 19 100.622 Clientes 64,7 milhões Demais 22,4% Pontos de atendimento 66,5 mil Profile Países 23 Sul 24,1% Capital União Rede de Funcionários 100,6 mil Estrangeiro Federal Distribuição Lucro líquido 8,0 bilhões 20,4% 54,4% 66.496 No mundo Segmentos Business Segments de negócios G4-4 | G4-8 Rede própria Agências 11 Manufactured Capital 16.625 – Abroad Service Network G4-4 | G4-8 | FS6 Service Network G4-8 The main purpose of our branches Subagências and cor4 With 66.5 thousand stations, Agências distributed respondent banks abroad is to serve the Escritários as wellde 7 5.440 among branches, correspondent banks, Brazilian companies and individuals, Representação Asset Insurance, Payment Other and a shared network, we have the largas to facilitate the commercial flow of Brazil Banking Investments management pension plan, methods segments est service network in the Redes MaisBB Country. 1 We are in the foreign market. and capitalization Mais Subsidiárias present in 99.7% of the municipalities, and 13.630 e Sucursais 11 It comprises It comprises the Operations of Products and Services of Credit recoour 5,440 branches represent 23.2% of the At the end of 2016, the Bank totaled 38 own deposits and loan structuring of purchase, sale, services to filing, collection, very, IT, share of the financial system. Rede units in 23 countries, in addition to maintaining Unid de Serv portfolio, among others, directed primary and secondary and custody of securities, personal and property processing and financial operational support and Compartilhada2 agreements with 883 financial institutions and Compartilhada 5 The shared network has 36,241 service stathus ensure the presence in 105 countries. to individuals, market transacmanagement of insurance, as settlement of purchasing 36.241 tions, with almost 20 thousand 24/7 banking Presente em 24 países companies, and tions, in addition portfolios, funds well as suppletransactions pools. Government. It is to equity and investment mentary pension by electronic service terminals, 13 thousand lottery kiosks e conta comuma rede no (1) Correspondentes no País e Banco Postal Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-6 com 38 pontos responsible for interests and the clubs – through plans and means. and(2)more Rede compartilhada: Lotéricasterminals than 3 thousand (CEF), in partexterior the most signifiprovision of BB DTVM. capitalization ner banks. The correspondent banks, idenBanco 24h e TAA (BrB+CEEF) de atendimento. cant portion of financial servithrough BB tified by MaisBB brand, amounted to 13,630 the income of BB. ces through Seguridade. service stations and associated establishBB-BI. ments at the end of 2016, among which 6,146 were stations of Banco Postal. The mobile and Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-13 | G4-17 internet banking Soluções de atendimentos para cada perfil de cliente In addition to our network, we have digirepresented 65.9% tal platforms that gain more and more im5,4 mil agências, além dos postos de atendimento portance and are an important differential, of total transactions XX agências exclusivas • Novo modelo de relacionamento XX agências segmentadas para large corporate, Varejo próprios, de correspondentes e compartilhados digital (Estilo Digital e Exclusivo) speeding up and facilitating the access to a Atacado corporate e empresarial (middle market) in 2016 Governo • Autoatendimento Setor • Atendimento via redes sociais wide range of products and services. In line • Autoatendimento BB na internet e para smartphones • Gerenciador Financeiro on-line e para smartphones Público na internet e (Facebook e Twitter) with the Corporate Strategy and the new • Central de Atendimento BB (telefone) • Central de Atendimento BB para Empresas (telefone) para smartphones trends of behavior, the mobile and internet banking represented 65.9% of total transactions in 2016. Learn more in the Attachment GRI FS13 | FS14 The shared network has 36,241 service stations with almost 20 13 over 3 thousand thousand thousand terminals in 24/7 banking lottery kiosks partner banks service terminals 20 21 Perfil Corporate CHALLENGE 1: TO ALIGN THE GOVERNANCE OF BANCO DO BRASIL TO THE BEST INTERNATIONAL PRACTICES AND STRENGTHEN THE ROLE OF THE MANAGEMENT IN THE SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY. Governance In Banco do Brasil (BB), we are constantly improving our mechanisms of corporate governance to ensure alignment with best pracOur management is aligned with the tices, ensuring fairness of shareholders’ rights, transparency in the management and renderinterests of the shareholders of the Bank ing of accounts to investors and society, ethics and the society and complies with the in relations with the various stakeholders and guidelines of the Code of Corporate the sustainability of the business. Governance and the Code of Ethics, both available on the Investor Relations website. The excellence of our corporate governance practices is attested by the membership, since 2006, in Novo Mercado of B3, a segment that counts with companies with a high standard of corporate governance. In addition, we are listed in the Special Tag Along Stock Index (ITAG), Special Corporate Governance Stock Index (IGC), Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and Dow 2016 Progress Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) of the The internal regulations of the New York Stock Exchange. Compensation Committee, Audit Committee and Board of Auditors and the Code of Corporate Governance were enhanced. 04 The Bylaws of Banco do Brasil was revised, pursuant to the new State law, Decree No. 8,945/16 and the CGPAR Resolutions. We Our good corporate also created the Related-Party Transaction Policy, available on governance practices our IR website. are attested by the membership in Novo Mercado of B3, a segment that counts with companies with high standard of corporate governance 22 23 Corporate Governance Structure of the Meeting, BoD and Executive Board Management Structure G4-34 Our management structure is composed of the Bank, the administrative structure of of the Board of Directors and the Executhe Directorships and the creation, extincShareholders’ General Meeting tive Board. The Board of Directors has a tion and operation of committees within the strategic guiding, elective and supervising Executive Board. responsibilities, not covering operational or Board of Auditors executive duties, and it is composed of eight At all levels of the Bank, decisions are taken Remuneration Committee members, with a unified term of office of two collectively. In order to involve executives years, elected at the General Meeting. on the definition of strategies and approval Board of Directors Internal Audit of proposals for the various businesses of The Board of Directors’ members follow up BB, the Management uses strategic comAdvisory Services to Audit Committee the Audit Committee monthly the economic and financial permittees that ensure agility and security to formance of the company, overseeing and the decision-making process. Such a conguiding the performance of other bodies. figuration contributes to the sharing of adIndependent Audit Executive In order to assist their activities, they rely ministrative vision, dissemination of knowlBoard Board of Officers on the Audit Committee, responsible for reedge and risk mitigation. Chairman viewing the financial statements and overseeing the effectiveness of internal conIn order to supervise the acts of administratrols, and the Compensation Committee, tive management and protect the interests 9 Vice-Presidents which revises annually the policy of comof shareholders, we maintain permanently pensation of administrators of the Bank. the Board of Auditors. It is composed of five members and their deputies, elected at the 27 Officers The Executive Board, responsible for the General Meeting, with a one-year term of management of the Bank, has the attribuoffice, and minority shareholders have the tion for enforcing the Bylaws and resoluright to choose two of its members. tions of the Shareholders’ General Meeting and the Board of Directors, always complying with the principles of good banking and corporate governance practices. The Executive Board is composed of the members of the Board of Officers and the Statutory For more Directors. The Directors are active employinformation, visit: ees of BB and have a three-year term of Transparency Governance of Social and office, with the right to re-election. In order to ensure transparency in our acEnvironmental Responsibility Policies adopted G4-DMA Portfolio of products | G4-34 | G4-35 tivities, we present our earning results to to ensure a good The Board of Officers, composed by the the market on a quarterly basis, including We seek to increasingly incorporate – with governance. Chairman and 9 Vice-presidents, is responteleconferences in Portuguese and Enmore quality – the principles of sustainability sible for executing the policies, corporate glish. At least once a year, we conduct a into the planning and execution of each of Responsibilities strategy, investment plan, master plan and public meeting with analysts, investors and our actions, in accordance with our Specific of Boards and general budget established by the Board other stakeholders to disclose informaSocial and Environmental Responsibility Committees; members of Directors; approving and executing the tion concerning the economic and finanPolicy (PRSA) . and their resumes are plan of markets and the work agreement; cial situation, projects and perspectives of available in section 12 of and deciding on the internal organization our institution. Finally, on an annual basis, For that purpose, we maintain structures the Reference Form. G4-38 we also publish our Sustainability Report. dedicated to the execution and monitoring Stakeholders can find the documents, preof the theme, according to the infographic on Bylaws. Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-35 | G4-36 | G4-39 | G4-40 | G4-41 | G4-42 sentations and other information related to the next page. | G4-43 | G4-44 | G4-45 | G4-46 | G4-47 | G4-49 | G4-50 | G4-51 our businesses, performance, policies and Code of Ethics. goals on our Investor Relations website . In 2016, in continuity to the process of improvement of our social and environmental man24 25 Corporate Governance Governance Structure which addresses the Sustainability theme Non-unique instances on Sustainability G4-45 | G4-48 agement, we updated the Sustainability Plan Entities Affiliated with BB of Banco do Brasil for the 2017-2019 period, G4-DMA Active share control Board of Board of Strategic which now is referred to as Agenda 30 BB, in We seek to align the governance of Entities Directors Officers Committees alignment with the Sustainable Development Affiliated with BB (ELBB) to the best interGoals and our Social and Environmental Renational practices, according to the guideAnnually: it follows up Biennially: it approves On demand: sponsibility policy (see details in Sustainability lines adopted by the Bank. In these terms, the BB's social and the BB’s Sustainability they discuss and environmental perforPlan actions. decide on matters Strategy, in the Strategy chapter). in 2016, we created and shared with the mance and initiatives related to sustainabiEntities Affiliated with BB the document rein progress. Semi-annually: it follows lity in the context of The directions on sustainability are evaluatferred to as Institutional Sustainability Perup the BB’s Sustainability the themes that are On-demand: it Plan actions. the responsibility of ed through indicators defined from the Corformance – BB, which includes our main decides, within its each committee. porate Strategy, ranging from strategic level, initiatives regarding the theme. operation sphere, on On-demand: it decides, with the Master Plan, to the operational levmatters that seek to within its operation sphere, improve BB's social on matters that seek to el, in the Work Agreement of branches. Although the Entities Affiliated with BB are orand environmental improve the BB's social and ganizations with independent legal personaliperformance. environmental performance. The indicators include the assessment of rety, with business strategies and own policies, sults in the operational plans of the branches, we sought to disseminate our resolutions and impacting the variable compensation of the guidelines so they can serve as a basis for statutory officers and employees. The analdecisions on the sustainability theme. In adUnique instances on Sustainability ysis of results, thus, verifies the financial and dition, in order to encourage this ongoing pronon-financial performance, including the concess of alignment of principles and practices tribution to society, the concern with the enviin sustainability, actions are planned in 2017ronment and organizational behavior. 2019 Agenda 30 BB. Sustainability Stakeholder Forum/Business Sustainable Panel Executive Development The Management’s Variable Compensation In 2016, we disclosed to employees involved Workshop Teleconferences Committee Program, subject to the distribution of Profit with governance and processes of acquiOn demand: Biennially: Quarterly: it supports Biennially: it Sharing (PLR) to employees, considers 12 sitions and strategic partnerships of those it assesses the the process of incorpoevaluates trends they align corporate indicators, and two are associated institutions the social and environmental criBank's social ration, alignment, and and demands procedures and and environmendissemination of the related to the guide the tactical with social and environmental policies. In the teria of the Specific Policy of Investments in tal performance principles and practices sustainability and operational case of employees, the variable compenEquity Interests. and presents of sustainability of BB; theme and units on the sation is linked to the work agreement and improvement follows up social and proposes actions development of demands to environmental initiatifor the Sustainasocial and consider information about the efficient use support the ves and the implemenbility Plan of BB. environmental of resources (water, energy, paper and selecLearn more in the Attachment GRI G4-DMA Active share control | FS11 creation of the tation of the BB’s actions. tive waste collection) and the involvement of BB's SustainabilSustainability employees in social and voluntary causes. ity Plan. Plan actions. Compacts and Agreements G4-15 Learn about the initiatives in favor of sustainability that we support or sign. 26 27 Perfil Ethics and Compliance Ethics management strengths one of our most CHALLENGE 15: TO STRENGTHEN THE ROLE OF important corporate values and consolidates BANCO DO BRASIL WITH REGARD TO THE ETHICS our integrity and transparency in the conduct AND ANTI-CORRUPTION THEME. of business, in addition to making explicit the commitment and the respect we have towards Management our stakeholders. The challenging political and economic scenarios of the Country led us to devote even more attention, resources and efEthics Committees forts to improve the instruments of control and 28 Ethics combat to illegal practices and maintain compliance with legal obligations. Total: We strongly invested in education and comCommittees, where one is munications to disseminate our policies, at a Higher level and 27 actions, and expectations regarding the beState-owned ones. havior of all administrators and employees of BB. In addition, we have a structured model of internal controls and established Function: to analyze and standards and procedures for the treatment judge ethical misconduct of potential cases of non-compliance with committed by employees. our Code of Ethics and Rules of Conduct, policies or regulations. We participated in the National Forum of Election: State Ethics in State-Owned Companies and Committees have employee the Working Group of the Business Pact for representatives, chosen Integrity and Anti-Corruption, promoted by Ethos Institute . by votes. In 2016, our Board of Directors approved the 05 Integrity Program, which brings together the actions adopted by our institution to prevent, detect and punish detrimental act practices qualified as corruption against public, national or foreign administration, practiced by an employee or third party in the interest or benefit of the Bank. AWARD Seal of Empresa Pró-Ética The program included the participation of 2016 (2016 Pro-Ethics all our Strategic Units, which evaluated Company), established by their processes and identified situations in which we could be considered as potential the Ministry of Transparency, In addition to strengthening one of our perpetrators or victims of corruption, the Supervision, and Office of the Comptroller-General and the most important corporate values, ethics degree of risk involved and the possible corresponding mitigating actions. G4-SO3 Ethos Institute of Business and management consolidates our integrity and Social Responsibility. transparency in the conduct of business and our respect for stakeholders 28 29 Ethics and Compliance Management G4-57 The result of the evaluation will contribute to prevention and fight against corruption in the of ethical guidelines in the company, pointing tronic System for Prevention of Conflict of the improvement of controls. 61 major Entities Affiliated with BB. out good examples and deviations detected, Interests (SeCI), of the Ministry of Transparand encourage employees to report susency, Supervision, and Office of the CompWe also validated the Planning of PrevenCode of Ethics and picious situations to the Internal Ombudstroller General, for questions on this subject, tion and Fight Against Corruption for 2016Rules of Conduct man. In 2016, we created, on the portal of such as those related to the exercise of a 2017 and the Planning of Prevention and G4-DMA Anti-corruption | G4-DMA Public policies | G4-DMA Comthis body, a link to clarification of questions parallel professional activity. Fight Against Money Laundering and Terpliance | G4-DMA Non-discrimination | G4-57 about the enforcement of the code, which rorist Financing (PLD/FT). We disclosed a Annually, or whenever revisions are carried are solved by State Ethics Committees. Our The failure to comply with the guidelines of the Specific Internal Control and Compliance out, administrators and employees of BB, employees may also recourse to the ElecCode of Ethics and Rules of Conduct of BB Policy internally and to our Affiliated Entiinside or outside the Country, are required ties (Entities Affiliated with BB), Sponsored to read and acknowledge our Code of EthCompanies and Foundations. A survey was ics and Rules of Conduct. Through notices conducted on risk management focused on and newsletters, we explain the enforcement We reinforce constantly, in Measures Adopted in 2016 our corporate media, ethical Actions in defense of ethics and to prevent and combat corruption. guidelines of the Company + + + + Issuance of specific guidelines Mapping of The inclusion of antiThe inclusion of a specific for the conduct of the Process risks related to corruption procedures analysis about the risk of of Prevention and Fight corruption in in the Code of Ethics corruption in the internal Against Corruption in the Strategic Units. and the Rules of process of creation and Entities Affiliated with BB. Conduct of the Bank. revitalization of products. + + + The inclusion of Revision of the guidelines for Revision of the Specific Policy for the integrity requirements employees regarding conflict Relationship of the Bank with Suppliers, for donations, of interest in the Code of with the prohibition to buy or hire services sponsorships, loans Ethics and the Rules from companies considered to be not and financing. of Conduct. reputable by the Federal Government or that have been punished for damage to the public, national or foreign administration, + and the inclusion of prohibitions related to potential conflict of interests. Creation of a unified register to record all donations requested and fulfilled by the Bank. + + Participation in actions of the National Training event Challenges of the Anti-Corruption Act, to the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Money Executive Board of the Bank, conducted by the Minister of the Laundering Strategy. Office of the Comptroller General (CGU). 30 31 Ethics and Compliance Management may result in penalties, according to the seconflict”, relating to violations of laws, the In any of the existing channels, the whisporate University and whose completion is verity of the case, its circumstances and the Code of Ethics, the Rules of Conduct and/ tleblower can opt for the anonymous or idena prerequisite for career advancement or level of participation of each party involved. or our internal standards, are analyzed and tified report, and we ensure the confidentialactivity in the company – was incremented The penalties include the awareness letter resolved by the body. ity of the source and the information. Cases with the Learning about the Code of Ethics and the dismissal for cause. of corruption practiced by employees are and Rules of Conduct module. Our External Ombudsman , in turn, reassessed, analyzed and judged with confiLearn more in the Attachment GRI ceives the claims of customers and users dentiality, through disciplinary action. With We also launched the Prevention and Fight G4-SO5 | G4-SO6 | G4-SO8 of products and services via email or teleregard to senior management, the members Against Corruption course, with content phone. Although not primarily intended to are subjected to specific rules, the Corporelated to the innovations brought by Act Contact Channels receive reports of irregularities, we allow rate Law and the Code of Conduct of the No. 12,846/2013 (Anti-Corruption Act ) G4-DMA Labor practices grievance mechanisms | G4-DMA Environmental grievance mechanisms | G4-DMA Grievance mechanisms claimants to report them by these means. Federal Senior Management. and the measures historically adopted by for impacts on society | G4-DMA Product and service labeling | BB to fight against this issue. Training Sessions G4-37 | G4-57 | G4-58 Another option to report potential misbehavWe guarantee means for our stakeholdiors is to contact the Audit Committee, The awareness of ethical principles and We also provided a range of courses reers to report suspicious or illegal practices via the internet, to report eventual frauds or rules of corporate conduct by our adminislated to the Prevention and Fight Against committed by our administrators, employbreaches of the legislation or standards. trators and employees is incremented and Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing. ees or partners. encouraged through the provision of trainFinally, we maintained Empresa Limpa ing. In 2016, our Ethical Trail series of trainLearn more in the Attachment GRI G4-SO4 In the Internal Ombudsman, we receive via Channel to collect reports on actions ing sessions offered since 2014 in our Coremail, corporate intranet, telephone, letter committed against the assets of the Bank or in person, reports about conflicts in the or against the public, Brazilian or foreign adworkplace of BB and accusations about ministration, by employees or third parties misbehaviors, fraud, and violation of instilinked to our institution or our Entities Affiliattutional standards. Active employees (in ed with BB. The reports through such chanBrazil and abroad), interns, apprentices nel can be performed by the internet, on BB and contracted workers may use the chanPortal, the intranet or the units of the Bank. Ethical Trail with the nel. Reports not classified as “interpersonal “Learning about the Code of Ethics and Rules of Conduct” module Course of Prevention and Fight Against Corruption Our Internal Ombudsman Courses of Prevenensures the free tion and Fight Against communication Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and is available to active employees in Brazil and abroad, interns, apprentices and employees from companies contracted 32 33 Risk Management Risk management is essential to the suscommittees, with the participation of representainability of the banking system, protecting tatives from various areas of the Bank, in adRisk Management financial institutions in times of crisis and dition to the Chairman, Deputy Chairmen and supporting the generation of positive and Executives, covering the following aspects: sustainable results. Segregation of duties in the Financial activities and their risks combusiness and risk areas; plexity increases in a scenario of constant changes in the world financial environment, from the emergence of new products to the integration of markets, and technological Specific structure sophistication. Recent financial disasters of risk management; bring lessons and reinforce the importance of risk and capital management in the banking industry, which are factors that also influence regulators. Defined management process; We have a formalized policy of management of risk factors and a solid system of governance in which all decisions are made Clear rules and collectively and according to standards and authority structure; guidelines. Subsidiaries, affiliates and holding companies define their directions based on such guidelines, considering their speReference to the best cific needs and the legal and regulatory asmanagement practices. pects to which they are subject. We invest continuously in improvement of the processes and practices of risk and capital management, always in compliance 06 with the best practices of the international market and the rules of the regulatory and supervisory bodies. AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Our Board of Directors (BoD) is responsible We received Banking Awards 2016 – Best We continuously invest for approving specific risk policies, which are ESG Risk Management Team, an award in the risk and capital reviewed annually and in cases provided for by the regulation. The Higher Committee for granted by English publication CFI.co – Capital Finance International. management processes Global Risk (CSRG) performs a key role in improvement. Compliant with the governance of risk and capital management by establishing strategies, global expo the evaluation of 2016 of the Dow Jones In the international market best sure limits and risk-based capital allocation. Sustainability Index (DJSI) of the New Decisions are communicated to intervening York Stock Exchange, we were the world practices and the regulatory areas through documents that express obbenchmark and with a score of 100 in Antiand supervisory bodies rules jectively the positioning taken by the ManCrime Policies/Measures, Financial Stability agement, ensuring enforcement at all levels of the Organization. and Systemic Risk and Business Risks and Opportunities themes, among others. Our model of governance for risk and capital management includes higher and executive 34 35 Risk Management Our governance structure is shown in the following figure: G4-2 | G4-EC2 the credit and the situation of the guarantees (SER) and the ability to generate jobs and and projects are checked. The result of the income of contractors must be considered. inspection is described in a standardized reWe do not assume commitments with cusport and sent to the branch conducting the BoD tomers with legal restrictions or that jeopoperation. The procedure, in cases of irregardize our image; with proven bad reputaularities, begins with customer notification Coaud tion or lack of integrity; that are involved in and request for regularization, and it may BoO crimes of money laundering or concealment also result in the early settlement of the opof assets, rights and values; that offer guareration, as provided for in a clause included antees from illicit activities; that have caused in the credit instrument. CSRG CSGAP damage to the environment; that subject workers to degrading working conditions or We ensure our Sustainability Guidelines for those similar to slave labor; or that commit Credit and Controversial Issues, whose purCERC CERML CERO CEGC CEGAP sexual abuse of minors or child labor. pose is to seek guarantees for us to contribute with our products and services to stimuWe adopt the guidelines of the Ecuador Prinlate good initiatives and, at the same time, Liquidity Image Capital ciples, set of social and environmental criteria avoiding negative impacts on ecosystems PCLD (Allowance for Risk Forum Risk Forum Forum Loan Losses) Forum of voluntary adherence by financial instituand the quality of life of people. Therefore, Forum of tions referenced in Performance Standards the social and environmental criteria in the Integrated Technical Operational and Scenarios on Social and Environmental Sustainability of analysis for the grant of financing and the Forum for Legal Risk ManaEvaluation of gement Forum the International Finance Corporation and the evaluation of potential risks are continually Credit Risk, Collection and Guidelines for Environment, Health and Safety strengthened. In 2016, we began the reviDebt Recovery Technical Forum of the World Bank Group. Based on the prinsion of criteria for the grant of funds to eight Models and of Evaluation Collection ciples, we require customers to sign contracts specific sectors of the economy. In 2016, we of Operational Strategies Risk Models undertaking to act in compliance with relevant began the revision of criteria for the granting social and environmental laws, regulations and of funds to eight specific sectors of the econBoD – Board of Directors CEGC – Executive Committee for Capital Management licenses of the country that operate in all mateomy, with the articulation of the various interCoaud – Audit Committee CERML – Executive Committee for Market and Liquidity Risk BoO – Board of Officers CERC – Executive Committee for Credit Risk rial respects, under penalty of the declaration vening parties in the Civil Construction and CSRG – Higher Committee for Global Risk CERO – Executive Committee for Internal Control and Operational Risk CSGAP Higher Committee for Assets and Liabilities and Liquidity Management CEGAP – Executive Committee for Assets and Liabilities and Liquidity Management of the accelerated maturity of the operation. Electric Power sectors. With regard to the With respect to the projects of Categories A other sectors – Agribusiness, Irrigated Agriand B, we request evaluation documentation culture, Mining, Oil and Gas, Transportation, Social and Environmental Risk must include measures to minimize, mitigate and Pulp and Paper – we perform strategic G4-DMA Portfolio of products | G4-DMA Investments | G4-DMA In addition to following specific policies, our Non-discrimination | G4-DMA Freedom of association and collective and offset negative impacts in a relevant manmonitoring of the macro-environment, aimDocument Risk risk management structure is also defined bargaining | G4-2 | G4-14 | G4-EC2 | G4-HR9 ner and compatible with the nature and scale ing to identify legal and market requirements Management Report by the Statement of Risk Appetite and TolerIt refers to the possibility of losses arising of the proposal. In these cases, specifically, related to socioenvironmental issues specif– Pillar III , pubfrom exposure to damages caused by our ic to each of the sectors. ance, the strategies and processes, accordwe also demand that the customer develops lished quarterly on the activities. It is divided into two categories: ing to the specificities of each risk and defined or maintains a Social and Environmental ManInvestor Relations, social, resulting from impacts on the well-bewebsite, brings the standards of action and responsibilities. The ing of employees, customers, shareholders, agement System. Throughout the process, the main risks monitored risks, reviewed annually, are identified and suppliers, creditors, competitors, Governcustomer undertakes to act in compliance with by the Bank, to which classified by a structured process, based on ment and community; and environment, the System and provide periodic reports in a we add the social and related to the possibility of harmful effects environmental ones quantitative and qualitative criteria. format agreed with the Bank, which are precaused on nature, directly or indirectly. and emerging themes. sented to the financial agents by independent We manage social and environmental risk socioenvironmental experts. Progress in the processes of grant and conduct of In 2016, we developed the Social and loans and financing, in administrative pracIn rural loans, we require the customer and Environmental Risk Indicator Manual, which tices, in the supplier relationship, in people the project to be socioenvironmental complicontributes to the control and reporting of CHALLENGE 19: TO IMPROVE THE MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL management and in the support to busiant with. Rural loans are subject to in loco exposure to the hazards and sets corporate AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK FROM SOCIAL AND ENVIRONnesses and operations. inspection, in accordance with the criteria indicators and operational limits related to MENTAL CRITERIA IN THE GRANTING OF FINANCINGS, CONset out in the Rural Credit Manual of the them. We classified the BB’s portfolio macroSIDERING ALSO THE CONTROVERSIAL ISSUES. Our Specific Credit Policy establishes that Central Bank of Brazil (MCR – BCB), when sectors – companies – in view of the social the Social and Environmental Responsibility aspects related to the correct investment of and environmental risk exposure. 36 37 Risk Management Project Finance Contracted We use the best practices of corporate enplementation of the Social and EnvironmenFrom the perspective of the Equator Principles in 2016 G4-2 vironmental management, for the purpose of tal Responsibility Policy. In the second half of reducing consumption of natural resources 2016, the update of the Social and EnvironSector Category A Category B Category C and disposing of non-hazardous and recyclamental Risk and Credit course was disclosed Mining 0 0 0 ble waste in an environmentally appropriate in UniBB. Infrastructure 1 0 0 way. We created a division responsible for overseeing the risk management for the EntiOil and gas 0 0 0 ties Affiliated with BB that includes social and For the social and environmental criteria used in Energy 0 0 0 environmental issues; and we use a model of the relationship with our suppliers, see the Social Others (Industry) 0 1 0 social and environmental risk assessment of and Relationship Capital – Suppliers chapter. Subtotal 1 1 0 suppliers, considering the premise of green Region supply chain management. We offer training To learn more about our practices in people to our employees with courses intended for management, see the Human Capital chapter. The Americas 1 1 0 the social and environmental risk, aligned Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 with the envisaged by the action plan for imAsia 0 0 0 Subtotal 1 1 0 Designation of the Country Designated country 0 0 0 Non-designated country 1 1 0 CHALLENGE 2: TO IDENTIFY AND MANAGE MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM NON-FINANCIAL AND/OR EMERGING RISKS THAT MAY SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT BANCO DO BRASIL’S BUSINESSES. Subtotal 1 1 0 Independent consulting Yes 1 1 0 No 0 0 0 Emerging Themes Among other actions, we created the BanSubtotal 1 1 0 We evaluate continuously the internal and co do Brasil Advanced Laboratory, based in Total 2 external scenarios, checking macro-enviSilicon Valley, California, for the purpose of ronmental and financial industry perspecincubating and developing innovative techtives as a way of mapping the risks and nology companies. In doing so, we are the Project Finance Advisory Services opportunities for the Bank. Among the curfirst large national bank to be present in one From the perspective of the Equator Principles in 2016 rent trends, the main ones are the intensive of the main creative centers in the world, use and the accelerated development of which gives us conditions to establish straSector Quantity technology, changes in labor relations, the tegic partnerships to develop solutions. Mining 0 increase in the requirement and empowerStill, aware of the changes in employment Infrastructure 1 ment pattern and the engagement of conrelationships, we encourage the formation, sumers. In the financial industry, particuappreciation, and retention of talents with Oil and gas 0 larly, with the increase in the use of IT, the digital skills. Energy 0 business growth and digital financial serOthers 0 vices are of particular relevance. Therefore, We also devote attention to combat cyTotal 1 we invested in Digital Transformation (for ber-attacks, a growing threat in the world. Region Quantity information about our Model of Digital ReIn order to avoid them, we introduced a lationship and Digital Business, see Capital series of measures to ensure the preserThe Americas 1 chapter), improving processes and practicvation, inviolability, and reliability of our Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 es in pursuit of excellence in the managesystems, corporate information and data of Asia 0 ment of potential threats, one of the desired our customers and partners (see more in Total 1 attributes in our Corporate Strategy (more Security Management). details in the Strategy chapter). We are also aware of the consequencLearn more in the Attachment GRI G4-2 es of climate change, which can interfere Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-DMA Child labor | G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labor | G4-14 | G4-EC2 | G4-HR1 | G4-HR4 | G4-SO2 38 39 Risk Management in various economic sectors and in our operInternal Audit, and independent auditors. InSecurity Management G4-DMA Customer privacy ations. Therefore, in 2015, we approved our ternal control practices are organized and sysSocial and Environmental Responsibility Poltematized in order to ensure the achievement We perform constant investments in sysWe maintain a constant evolution in the securiicy, and updated, in 2016, our Sustainability of the goals at all levels and corporate protems, policies, and processes to ensure the ty of Information Technology (IT) assets and we Plan – Agenda 30 BB (for more information, cesses. The factors of greater sensitivity are security of facilities and information, assessrespond in a decisive manner to cyber-attacks. see the Strategy chapter). prioritized and shortcomings are addressed ing the external environment and potential We have a structure dedicated to the functions through corrective actions monitored by the threats to create mechanisms of control. of security governance, management, archiIn order to anticipate and mitigate risks arisgovernance of the Bank. Our employees are trained in events and tecture, construction and operation, including ing from climate change, we adopted tools campaigns to strengthen the culture of ina team that monitors and responds to security such as the Agricultural Climate Risk Zoning The areas operate in an integrated and costitutional security. In 2016, 8.8 thousand incidents 24/7. We also resort regularly to spe(ZARC), which is essential for the financing ordinated manner, following a model based employees participated in the Information cialized companies for the testing of invasion in of main crops in Brazil, and the Technical on the concept of lines of defense, in which Security Fundamentals course. our IT systems and infrastructure. Agricultural Reference (RTA) System, which those responsible for the development and contributes to the selection of viable promarketing of products and services must duction systems more resistant to climate maintain effective controls and ensure comProtection to Customers change from a database fed by more than pliance with policies and standards, both in200 agricultural sciences professionals. ternal as external. The monitoring of the efSuch team also monitors weather events to fectiveness of the procedures is carried out ensure the return of credits granted by the by an independent Board and by the Internal Bank: in 2016, 1,316 municipalities were Audit, which conducts periodic and indepenfollowed up. In addition, we provide cusdent audits. Simplified Review of limits in Validation of the tomers with products such as Agricultural BB Code automatic service new mobile device offer terminals out of Insurance, seguro faturamento (price assurThe Internal Audit also assesses the adhervia SMS + Google ance), Proagro and Proagro Mais. ence to social and environmental policies banking hours account (Android) and sustainability commitments assumed Internal Controls and Audit by the Bank, such as the Ecuador PrinciG4-DMA Audit ples. When there is a need for improveFor BB, the internal control mechanisms are ment, corrective actions are implemented. essential to achieving strategic goals, to ensure the proper implementation of the policies The independent auditors check our financial and procedures for risk management and to statements, in compliance with the term of meet the expectations of regulators, customfive years for replacement of the technicians Release of a card Simplification National Social ers, employees, investors, and society. The responsible for this process and all other obof limit with biometrics and the introduction of Security priorities are constantly discussed and defined ligations set out in CMN (National Monetary customization this identification Institute – INSS from information such as financial relevance, Council) Resolution No. 3,606/2008 and its feature in more cards with chip losses occurred and reports from regulators, subsequent amendments. terminals Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-DMA Audit Extended Communication Option of campaign to guide hours for Drivers creating different customers on how payments via transactional to avoid frauds Our structured internal control system evolves from the consolidation of roles the internet limits and increase and responsibilities, based on world-renowned drivers, such as the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission – Framework for the Evaluation financial security of Internal Control Systems (COSO 2013) and Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (CobiT). 40 41 Risk Management To minimize the impacts of suspensions in execution of this set of actions, the number of strategic processes, we adopt the methexternal theft attacks was reduced by approxodology of Crisis and Business Continuity imately 35%. Management (BCM), which ensures the operation of essential services even in critiAnother initiative is the constant monitorcal situations and is based on the best Maring of processes, services, and products ket Prices. to prevent them from being used in illegal practices related to money laundering, terIn order to reduce incidents such as robberies, rorist financing, and corruption. Our prodOur Crisis kidnappings, and depredation of terminals, we ucts and services are enhanced to estaband Business reinforce the security in payment times and inlish ways to prevent them from being used Continuity Management (BCM) troduce new features in ATMs. We spread the in illicit practices. In addition, we train our ensures the operation of esculture of risk and personal security through managers and employees to engage in sential services actions with the network managers. With the fighting these crimes. even in critical situations The safety and adequacy of our tax stratWe recognize that international cooperaTax Strategy egy are guaranteed by actions carried tion and the provision of tax information Our tax strategy considers the specific out continuously and with the global and contribute to the fulfillment of the internaneeds of companies and the legal and regintegrated practice among the various artional agreements, treaties, and convenulatory aspects to which they are subject, eas, activities, and businesses. Conducttions signed by Brazil, always taking into applied in business plans, investments COMPANIES’ NEEDS ed consistently and safely, the tax affairs account the need to protect the Informain other countries, corporate structuring comply with the tax rules and are guided tion confidentiality. projects, companies takeover, service by principles that aim to maintain our credcontracting, partnerships and banking and ibility and a transparent and cooperative In compliance with the applicable law, we financial product launches. relationship with the tax authorities of the disclose systematically in our financial locations where we operate. statements and financial analyses consoliIn our work, we also consider the payment dated information on tax expenses, tax asof taxes, in an appropriate and timely manLEGAL AND In BB, the tax affairs correct management sets and liabilities, major legal provisioned ner, in exact amounts to avoid fines and REGULATORY ISSUES is an essential part of the corporate culture discussions involving taxes and main tax accumulation of tax liabilities. Through and practice. Policies, procedures, and rates of taxes on business and results. the in-depth knowledge of legislation, we programs take into account the tax govadopt alternatives that allow us to minimize ernance for the perfect adequacy to the BB, as the final multinational group controlimpacts and mitigate tax risks, obtaining legislation in all countries in which we opler, in compliance with the actions stipulatgreater tax effectiveness to keep the tax erate, including those considered to have ed in BEPS (Base Erosion and Profit Shiftburden at the levels required by law, which a more favorable taxation. ing) Plan, provides related information and is positively reflected in our results. indicators: the location of its activities; to We are in constant movement to act in accorthe amount of the total revenues obtained ENFORCEMENT dance with the local and international tax rules from related and unrelated parties (Transand guidelines, with regard to tax avoidance. fer Pricing); taxes paid and due, as well as 42 43 Risk Management all the entities that are part of the group logood standing, in order to minimize losses • The relationship with the Brazilian Internal The tax strategy involves: financial risk, cated in those jurisdictions; and economic through standardized routines, appropriRevenue Service (IRS) and other adminbusiness risk, and image risk. The main activities carried out by them. ate and timely procedures for calculation, istrative tax departments to prevent and tax risks mitigated with specific legal and payment, tax withholding and collection. resolve tax issues in defense of the direct technical structures are related to: The provision of this information in the These actions integrate the strategies and indirect interests of BB; Country-by-Country statement, from 2017, associated with the Bank’s operational • Incorrect or insufficient interpretation of is reflected in the best pratices standard risk management; • Advisory services to strategic areas of the legal and regulatory tax standards, inincrease to be implemented in the tax plan. Bank and corporate structuring and investcluding the ones regarding exemptions • The monitoring of the measures effectivement projects, by presenting tax standardfrom payment of taxes, appropriate tax In these terms, in addition to complying ness for tax risks treatment, to continuously ization-related information. With this, it is rates, special taxation regimes, tax credand follow the terms of the law, our tax improve processes and systems and minipossible to support and guide the use of its, tax incentives, and benefits; management obligations considers the mizing losses; exemptions in the payment of taxes, approlaw and doctrinal understanding about the priate tax rates, special taxation regimes, • Non-compliance with the rules for payment, intent of the law. Transactions involving • The support in decision-making and in the tax credits, tax incentives and benefits bewithholding and collection of taxes and contax aspects are carried out in such a way strategy definition to mitigate such risks; sides allowing the adoption of corrective tributions, as well as other tax obligations; as to demonstrate clearly the business measures aimed at the good standing and results and tax impacts, without priority • The detection of changes in the legal and compliance when necessary; • Non-acceptance by the Tax Authority of dependence of these impacts to the busiregulatory environment that may impact BB; a tax planning related to new businesses ness feasibility. • The adoption of contentious administrative or corporate and investment structuring; • The monitoring, identification and reporting and legal measures, in order to protect the Focuses of the Tax Risk Control of audits and assessment notices of the rights and interests of BB; • Non-timely adoption of corrective meaThe implementation and dissemination of National, State and Municipal Departments sures aimed at regularity and compliance our tax strategy are guaranteed by specific of the Treasury, through the analysis and • The studies for the taxes and contributions when they are identified and necessary; technical and legal structures, whose core follow-up of tax procedures and processto be calculated and paid (Bank as a taxfocuses are: es such as Supervisory Procedure Orders payer) and withheld and collected (Bank • Non-acceptance by the Tax Authority of (SPO), Tax Verification Instruments (TVI), as a tax responsible) in an appropriate and information and documents provided in • The preventive identification of tax risks, Tax Reports and Notices of Violation drawn timely manner, in exact amounts, seeking response to the supervisory procedures their mitigation and the maintenance of up by these departments; tax efficiency and strict compliance with the and assessment notices. appropriate levels of tax compliance and legal and regulatory rules governing the tax compliance and good standing. 44 45 Perfil Strategy The essence of the Banco do Brasil brand Folha Institute) in the mind of the populaexpresses the sense of purpose of our tion (customers and non-customers) in the company, what makes us unique and difbank category. ferentiates us in the market: A market Bank with public spirit. From the essence of the In 2016, we developed prospective scenabrand, we defined the way we view our burios for the 2017-2021 cycle, considering siness and our performance, based on our the main trends of the macro-environment, attributes and our positioning. the financial industry, and specialized business industry. These scenarios were used As a result of our actions, for the fifth conas an input to the process of formulation secutive year, we are part of the portfolio of and revision of our Corporate Strategy for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) the period. of the New York Stock Exchange, which brings together companies with the best sustainability practices in the world. Also, Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-2 | G4-56 we are the first “Top of Mind” brand (Data07 Our strategy follows the brand essence and was Strategic Priorities: revised during the year, defining as drivers the people and knowledge Service revenues Gains in Profitability Loss reduction management, customer efficiency experience, digital transformation, profitability and risk and capital Improvement in productivity through the simplification of Innovative High-value experience management processes and digital positioning to customers 46 47 Strategy The innovation is part of our history and is Innovation Incentive G4-DMA Product and service labeling Strategic Drivers and digital financial services and the change included in the Corporate Strategy. One of We defined our strategic drivers, that is, in the configuration of the branches due to the drivers of the culture of innovation is the Frentes de Atuação do Pensa BB em 2016 the Essence (Belief, Mission, Vision, and the incorporation of digital technologies. Innovation Incentive Program – Pensa BB, Values), the Challenges and Strategic which mobilizes employees and dissemiWith internal employees: we Goals, with the respective indicators and In 2016, we approved a set of measures for nates the theme in the organization. Such goals, from analysis of the internal and exinstitutional reorganization, with the main initiative encourages the generation of innolaunched 32 innovation challenges ternal environments. purposes of reducing costs and improving vative ideas which could contribute to overand collected 5,785 ideas from 2,737 operational efficiency. One of the solutions coming our challenges by identifying possibauthoring employees, an increase One of the macro-trends identified in the was the change of the service network to le developments in business and technology of 77% in the number of ideas and prospective scenarios for 2017 to 2021 was meet and adjust to the new profile and behamodels. In 2016, 16 innovative ideas were 74% in the number of authors when the accelerated technological development. vior of customers, with the use of synergies, implemented from the program. In the financial industry, it is worth mentiothe optimization of structures and the expancompared with the previous year. ning the growth of relationships, businesses sion of digital services. The main solutions implemented in the 2016 edition of Pensa BB, ended in December 2016, were: With external employees: we •GAT Mobile: selected as the best one of created a contest of ideas and the edition, introduced a digital solution suggestions to customers of the through which customers can choose the university segment. The pilot Customer branch where they could get their service experiment was made available to tickets using the BB application. experience 1.2 million university customers, •BB Elo Cidade: the idea reinforces citizens’ and the first 45 thousand customers identification with their city. It is a card with who registered could participate. a package of advantages that stimulates Profitab ital Customer the population of small municipalities to ili Dig ation buy in local establishments, strengtheRisk and C ty, Digital business: ActionBB is an event rm ning trade, reducing the transactions of Managem apita Sharehol er sfo physical currency and avoiding evasion of stom of innovation and entrepreneurship de an To be the most Cu funds to neighboring cities. The product is Tr reliable and that works on dynamics of digital en l rs relevant Bank to the a finalist in Abecs Awards for Best Practit lives of customers, employees and for ces of companies of electronic means of business acceleration and the development payment, and the expansion of the pilot is incubation. It gathered together, of Brazil under approval. in December, the creators of the solutions of 2016 Pensa BB s Em pl ee oy lo y • Universidade do Cliente (Customer Uniees mp versity): it was tested on a trial basis with program – five were chosen (Visitas E Kn ow respect to Pensa BB Program, in the uniPJ Application; Application BB pl M e t na le o en versity customers-oriented modality. The channel for investment consulting; ge d g e P e ge m a tests involved a contest of ideas with the payment of online purchases using me na university people, requesting them to subBB Code; system for estimate of nt M a mit suggestions for innovation for BB. queues in branches; and real estate • Provision of Credit to National Social financing tracking by BB Application) Security Institute – INSS Pensioners: teto be incubated and developed, chnological solution available in various encouraging entrepreneurship and channels for INSS beneficiaries not yet CHALLENGE 3: TO IDENTIFY INNOVATIONS IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR (BUSIregistered to update their registration forgenerating innovation opportunities NESS AND TECHNOLOGY MODELS) AND ANTICIPATE THE TRENDS IN ORDER TO ms, enabling the expansion of BB’s busifor the Bank. ENSURE THE PERPETUITY AND LONGEVITY OF BANCO DO BRASIL. ness with these stakeholders. 48 49 Strategy CHALLENGE 4: TO ENHANCE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT AND INCREASE THE SATISFACTION AND RETENTION INDEX. During the year, we improved the strategies In 2016, the Plan was revised and updatrelated to efficiency, results, innovation and ed. From 2017, it is referred to as Agenda customer satisfaction, favoring the digital 30 BB, reflecting the premises of global transformation. Investments in technology Agenda 2030 and in line with the Sustainincreased the offer of solutions and the serable Development Goals (SDG), launched vice convenience, in addition to providing faby the United Nations (UN) in 2015. vorable results in both cost reduction and in the increase of customer experience. The alignment of Agenda 30 BB to SDG is a response from our organization to the United The new features, complemented by the Nations’ call so that companies can advance physical network, reflect our focus on in the sustainable development through inimproving the processes and service, vestments, solutions, and practices. having as a principle the quickness and easiness in operations. Thus, we also The update of the actions included in our contributed to the financial and digital inSustainability Plan is a systematic process clusion of new customers. that involves the whole Organization and our main stakeholders. The implementaSustainability Strategy – tion of actions also involves almost all our Agenda 30 BB Strategic Units. AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB is Euronext Vigeo Index – Emerging 70” – we were listed for an instrument to improve our businesses The performance of our initiatives is folthe second time among the 70 companies with the most and processes, aligning them to the best lowed up on a quarterly basis by the BB advanced economic, environmental and social performance in world practices, contributing to disseminate Sustainability Forum and continues up the theme in the organization and to generto the highest administrative authorities. the Emerging Markets region. ate more and more sustainable results. The Board of Officers approves and follows up the execution of actions through Global 100 – we were included for the 2nd time in the Global From 2005 to 2016, such Sustainability the half-yearly rendering of accounts. The 100 sustainability ranking of Corporate Knights (CK). Plan was referred to as Agenda 21 BB, Board of Directors, in turn, follows up the aligned to Agenda 21 Global, a commitsocial and environmental performance Ranking The Banker/Brand Finance – Top 500 Banking ment to this century that sought to promote and initiatives in progress through annuactions that integrate economic growth, soal reporting to the agency, in the annual Brands 2016 (52nd place). cial justice and the protection of the envimeeting of October, when the main adronment. During this period, approximately vances, challenges, opportunities and acRanking Kantar Vermeer – The top 10 Brazilian brands most 400 strategic actions were carried out. tions to be developed are presented. valued in the decade (5th place) – Dinheiro magazine and the WPP British group. Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-37 Top of Mind 2016 – Instituto Datafolha. Ranking Interbrand – The Most Valued Brazilian Brands in Brazil 2016 (5th place). 50 51 Strategy Sustainability The update process, which occurred in 2016 and resulted in the adoption of Plan Update G4-37 new 2017-2019 Agenda 30 BB, was structured into the following steps: Training of the Executive Board and executives of BB and some Affiliated Entities; presentation of the Materiality Matrix; the beginning of the process of definition of 01 actions for the new Sustain02 Validation of the relevant themes and challenges, ability Plan – 2017-2019 Agenda 30 BB. Construction Theme of Materiality the definition of the Panels maturity of the themes in Matrix society and in the Bank and proposal of Stakeholders: Executive innovative actions and Board and executives of BB and solutions that served as some Entities Affiliated with BB. an input for the update of the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB. Discussion on the relevant issues and Stakeholders: Identification of challenges and proposal of innovative actions and executive managers themes for improving sustainasolutions that served as an input for of the Bank. ble practices from demands of stakeholders and analysis of the update of the Sustainability Plan – studies, research and best Agenda 30 BB. The themes of the world practices. three panels conducted were: Green Economy and Eco-Efficiency; Private Social Investment and social business; SDG with emphasis Virtual consultation with internal and external on Human Rights. 03 04 stakeholders for prioritizing Sustainability VI Sustainable challenges; in-depth survey Forum Development Result: the panels with internal with stakeholders defined as Workshop stakeholders were an opportunity for having priority to the Bank. managers and advisors who work in Strategic Units responsible or associated with the themes listed to receive training, discuss and propose solutions. Stakeholders: internal and The update of the actions included external stakeholders. in our Agenda 30 BB is a systematic process that involves the whole Stakeholder: managers and Organization and our advisors of the areas directly main stakeholders involved with the themes. 52 53 Perfil CHALLENGE 4: TO ENHANCE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT AND INCREASE THE SATISFACTION AND RETENTION INDEX. Social and Customers Relationship Capital We started, in November, the structural tive and take into account indications of other reorganization process to make the Bank consumers to make their choices. With this dieven more dynamic, agile and competitive, rection, we created new relationship models, as well as to strengthen the sustainability we have more digital tools now for communiof our businesses. The goal is to enhance cation and conducting businesses and estabcustomer experience and, consequently, lished an extended customer service hours. resume profitability indexes compatible with our peers in the market, in the medium term. Internally, new analysis technologies reinforced the knowledge on consumption Digital transformation is an essential part patterns and expectations of these stakeof our strategic progress. Studies show the holders, which allow us to perform more aschange in banking consumer behavior, which sertive offers of customized products and nowadays gives priority to electronic media. services, which ensures greater satisfacConsumers are more informed and collaboration, in addition to increasing the retention and profitability index. Our Customers INDIVIDUALS: Private, Estilo/Estilo Digital, Personalizado/Exclusivo, Varejo e Mercado Emergente – segmented according to income and assets • New model for prospecting customers and businesses, with complete and qualified service to Private customers, customizing both corporate solutions and the provision of advisory services to managers in their asset management; • Leadership in the high-income retail in the Country, with approximately 4 million Estilo, Exclusivo and Personalizado customers; • Incentive to self-service network access and the responsible use of credit, with lower-risk solutions for the Varejo e Emergente segments, in particular, proceeds receivers and beneficiaries of INSS (National Social Security Institute); • For rural producers, social and environmental solutions, such as the Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar – Pronaf (National Family Agriculture Development Program) and models of relationship with teams specialized in 08 rural credit, investment experts and consultant agronomists for advice to customers; • The main agent of rural and agribusiness segments, with credit offer in the industry; • Social and environmental solutions, such as the Pronaf; • Models of relationship with teams specialized in rural credit, investment experts and agronomists. Our relationship with customers, shareholders, suppliers and civil society COMPANIES: Large Corporate, Corporate, Empresarial Upper Middle, is based on ethics and Empresarial Middle, Empresa, Pequena Empresa e Microempresa – segmented according to the company’s revenues transparency. In particular, PUBLIC SECTOR: • Solutions from working capital to financing and foreign trade; Federal, State, and Municipal digital transformation, an • For small and very small companies, course offerings in order to guide and encourage business models that promote the inclusive economy; • For Public Sector customers, financial education and essential part of our strategic • In 2016, expansion and improvement of the service model for corporate public administration services. Micro e Pequena Empresa – MPE (The progress, to enhance the customers with revenues greater than R$1 million, with the expansion of the network of Corporate Branches, which offer specialized service; Public Sector Unibb Portal) completed one year, totaling customer experience, among • New model for prospecting customers and businesses in wholesale, with complete and qualified service to Wholesale customers, customizing both more than 150 courses, articles and video classes on municipal management, other goals corporate solutions and the provision of advisory services to managers in their asset management. with 4.5 thousand registered managers. 54 55 Gestãoand Social de risco Relationship Capital Customer Satisfaction Total complaints Service Specialization In 2016, we stood in a good position in public complaints indicators, occupying the best position among the five largBacen and Procons Specialization is essential in the new models of relationship. est banks in the Country in the list of the Central Bank of Brazil (Bacen) and also BB: 18,915 in Consumer Protection Branches (Procon) integrated to the Consumer ProtecCompetitor with the BB Estilo Escritório Relacionamento tion Information System, with a difference worst position: 64,968 of 71% compared to the worst position, Digital Exclusivo Digital para Empresas which registered 64,968 entries, while our total was 18,915. Difference: 71% 1 ESTILO 2 EXCLUSIVO 3 EMPRESA Customer Satisfaction Program Income > R$8 thousand Income > R$4 thousand Annual Gross Revenues > R$120 Invest. > R$40 thousand thousand/year The Customer Satisfaction Program takes into account the high level of Invest. > R$100 thousand Potential Contribution Potencial contribution demand and increased competition and integrates all the agents responsible Margin > R$450 margin > R$200 for the service quality in BB. The program aims to raise the level of customer satisfaction of individual customers with face-to-face service in branches from 84.5% in 2017 to 85.5% in 2019. Agência Especializada Especializada Empresa Produtor Rural Valid Complaints in the Central Bank of Brazil 3,660 3,205 PRODUTOR 4 EMPRESA 5 RURAL Annual Gross Revenues Rural Producers 1,989 R$1 million/year 5th Position Bank and finance companies with over 4 million customers Módulo de Negócios Varejo Colabora Commercial approaches oriented to retail Operational integration and customers who do not go to the branches cooperation among networks 2014 2015 2016 Source: Central Bank of Brazil/2016 Data – 2H16 56 57 Social and Relationship Capital The interaction with the consumer defense measures when necessary. During the year, Service agencies was positive during the year, with six of the ten items had a tendency to fall. Some changes have been made in our service network to improve customer satisfaction: several actions. We created an operation flow to the joint efforts of debt renegotiation, Such a good result reflects our commitment which totaled 20 in the period; and Procon to the improvement of the complaint manageFone (Procon Phone) for debt renegotiation ment. Our External Ombudsman participates Retail, Estilo Digital Private, Estilo Individuals, Micro was enhanced to facilitate for customers to monthly in qualified forums to discuss proband Business Office and Personalizado and Small Enterprises access information about debts and proposlems and shortcomings, curves of complaints Service Tickets: since the release of Conta Fácil (Quick Account): implementWe improved the Solução de Dívidas (Debt als about the service provided in Procon. by subject and actions adopted by managers the functionality, on November 28, ed in November 2016, Conta Fácil made financial assistance Solution) Portal is a G4-DMA Product and The average daily phone calls were 10. to mitigate difficulties. In addition, the Omuntil December 31, 2016, over 110 the account opening process easier, module via chat for pioneering initiative in the service labeling budsman presents semi-annual reports to the thousand tickets were generwhich now is performed by the customcustomers of these National Financial System, We have a complaint governance system Board of Officers and the Board of Directors. ated for face-to-face service in the ers: in three minutes, the account is segments. In 2016, providing customers the BB’s application. The solution will open and, in 10 minutes, customers can approximately possibility of debt renegotithat monitors the actions of managers and enable the pre-service, through make deposits and other operations. 56 thousand ation with a reduction of follows up information from the OmbudsIn 2016, the Ombudsman’s Office received which customers can specify the Since the launch of Conta Fácil and until clients were served, 96% in the operation time man’s Office to create the Top 10 Ranking 10,308 complaints deemed to be valid, out service they need and schedule December 2016, BB opened more than with a result of when compared to the of Complaints. This allows us to make the of a total of 27,550 complaints received in an appointment.. 223,053 digital accounts. Only on R$1.3 billion in time spent in branches. November 30, 15.1 thousand fundraising. correct management and adopt appropriate this body. accounts were opened by cell phone against 9.6 thousand by the traditional way. Top 10 Ranking of Complaints – Second Half of 2016 Follow-Up G4-PR4 Process Improvements From the findings of our complaint management system, we enhanced some processes in 2016: FEES – ACCOUNTS 01 + The envelope processing in ATM was enhanced + We offer mechanisms of + We allocate the module 02 with the creation of a tracking mechanism by the information to customers of security in cloud CARD – TRANSACTION customer via smartphone, the creation of a daily on the stage of analysis, infrastructure and open the OBJECTION map and follow-up of cases of envelopes out of formalization, and release record of card objection 03 base received in the electronic processing, in of mortgage, disclousing calls directly by the HUMAN addition to the regulation review. the maximum deadlines for customer through the SERVICE each stage. mobile channel. 04 CONTRACTING – ACCOUNTS CONSUMER DIRECT LOAN – CDC – INSTALL05 Safe Behavior MENT DEBIT With approximately R$557 million in 06 SECURITY – SUSPECTED FRAUD losses avoided with preventive actions, the Comportamento Seguro (Safe Behavior) DEBT RENEGOTIATION 07 Project brings together initiatives and 08 ATM – SST – ENVELOPE PROCESSING actions that mitigate risks with fraud, further increasing the safety of customers, avoiding BLOCKING – ACCOUNTS 09 financial losses and image risk. 10 QUEUES Linear Projection – Last six months Increase Decrease Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-DMA Product and service labeling | G4-PR4 | G4-PR5 | G4-PR7 | G4-PR8 | G4-PR9 58 59 Social and Relationship Capital OUR COMMITMENT: in 2017, mobile devices will be protagonist as a relationship channel. We are going to conduct surveys with customers In addition to having our application to measure the level of satisfaction with segmentation per state (monthly), per region for mobile phones, in social media, (quarterly) and per branch (four-monthly). we maintain a relationship with our customers on Facebook and Twitter Our service network has several options: G4-PR3 Service Channels G4-PR3 In cases where it is not possible to resolve CABB Service immediately the demand addressed to SAC by phone, we register a ticket for a solution •CALLS ANSWERED – ELECTRONIC MEDIA CHANNEL CONTACT SERVICE within five business days. In the last year, 135 MILLION 23 thousand events per month, on average, were registered for subsequent treat•CALLS ANSWERED – HUMAN ment – the total number of phone calls per 29 MILLION Customer month, on average, is 430 thousand. •CALLS FOR SERVICES OFFERING Service of •4004-0001 Bank Banco do Brasil •0800 729 0001 transactions 8,1 MILLION (CABB) In addition to the demands by phone, those •VOLUME OF TRANSACTIONS IN RECEPTIVE received by the internet/APF, cell phone INTERACTIONS – R$138,8 MILLION application and websites consumidor.gov and Reclame Aqui are also forwarded, •VOLUME OF TRANSACTIONS IN ACTIVE INTERACTIONS totaling around 30 thousand events per R$118,6 MILLION month. These demands, plus the events •PEOPLE SERVED VIA CHAT – 56 THOUSAND •0800 729 0722 via phone (0800) with subsequent treatConsumer •0800 729 0088 Information and ment, had an average treatment time of •FUNDRAISING OF INVESTMENTS VIA CHAT Support Service (for speech and questions related (SAC) hearing-impaired to problems 2.6 business days. R$1,3 MILLION people) •ACQUISITION IN INTERACTIONS WITH CARD, With regard to social media (Facebook LOAN, VEHICLE FINANCING AND DEBT SOLUTION – and Twitter), in 2016, approximately 14 R$43 MILLION thousand monthly issues were solved. The information of SAC is used as an input BB SAC Service •0800 729 5678 in the improvement of products and services •0800 729 0088 Demands not with a focus on improving the customer exOmbudsman’s (for speech and resolved in SAC •430 THOUSAND MONTHLY CALLS Office hearing-impaired perience and operational efficiency. people) •94.5% RESOLVED IN A FIRST SERVICE CONTACT 60 61 Social and Relationship Capital OUR COMMITMENT: in 2017, we will develop a new way to browse the electronic service for easy browsing by the customer with more options for transactions AWARDS and verifications, and a quicker and more integrated Case “#partiubancodobrasil: service. In the coming years, we also intend to rearrange Soluções agora! the electronic service through the telephone; service Relacionamentos eternos” improvements with the new integrated platform; and won the Gold trophy in the strengthening of partnerships with companies contracted “Melhor Estratégia Multicanal” as correspondents in the individuals loan segment. (Best Multi-Channel Strategy) category of the 2016 LATAM Award. The award was established by the Latin American Alliance Individual Customers Our 64.8 million individuals customers are of Customer Interaction segmented according to their characteristics. Organizations (Aloic); In 2016, we achieved a total of 1.1 million The Exclusivo segment also increased, with the strategy of the digital transforma B SAC won the Silver B customers served in the Estilo segment, reaching 175 thousand customers served in tion of the Bank. It can be opened quickly trophy in the “Melhor consolidating our leadership in the high-inthe digital model, which offers tools such as via mobile devices in BB application. The Estratégia de Mídias Sociais” come market in Brazil. Banco do Brasil Esemail, instant messaging and video conferproduct brings several digital solutions. In (Best Social Media Strategy) tilo Digital strategy success, which, at the ence, combined with an extended customer just two months, between November and category with action “Os end of the year, had 250 branches with an service hours, from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. At the late December 2016, 296 thousand acmaestros do atendimento increase of 16%, on average, in customer end of the year, it totaled 34 offices. counts were opened. satisfaction index, according to Net Proque tocam seu coração”; moter Score. Customers of Retail and Emerging segRural Producer Customers F  ale com seu Gerente ments were encouraged to use self-service We are the main financial agent of the channels, concentrate their cash flow in BB Brazilian agribusiness, contributing sig(Contact your Manager) and use credit responsibly, with lower-risk nificantly to the supply of loan demand in tool won in the “Multicanais” lines offering. In this segment, the main ones the segment. According to data provided (Multichannel) category of are proceeds receivers and beneficiaries of by the Central Bank of Brazil, we had a CIAB FEBRABAN Award the National Social Security Institute – INSS. 59.2% market share at the end of 2016. – Congress and Exhibition The National Family Agriculture Developof Information Technology Available to anyone who performs up to ment Program (Pronaf) had a record balof Financial Institutions, the R$5 thousand in transactions per month, ance of R$41.9 billion, 6.8% higher than Conta Fácil was created in 2016, also in line the same period of the previous year. largest technology event for the Latin America financial market; Customer Management T  he relationship in the social network (Facebook and Twitter) Increased OUR COMMITMENT: we will continue improving the digital relationship models to serve all kind of Increased customIncreased efficiency won in first place in Finance er satisfaction in managed profitability of customers in a quick and simple way. For the relationship with Retail customers, we will focus on segment at International Social index: service: customers: three contexts: flow management in branches; improvement in the call center; and relationship in 16% 35% between 20% Bakers Award – The World digital channels. For 2017, we are planning the performance of the network of correspondent banks Socially Devoted Ranking, and 40% in priority locations to keep the face-to-face service after the reorganization of the physical network. relating to the first three quarters of 2016. 62 63 Social and Relationship Capital an alert before the expiration of the StateThese innovations modernize the agriculment of Eligibility to Pronaf (DAP). tural and cattle-breeding segment, promoting financings with the agribusiness chain Agribusiness The other innovation related to the agriand contributing to bring more technology Loan Portfolio business in 2016 was the Automatic Asset to the segment. Valuation (AAV). The tool, intended for internal use, enables the automatic valuaIn addition, we have a network of agricultur59.2% of market share tion of rural properties and their improveal science professionals distributed among in the industry ments, reducing time and valuation costs. the main producing regions in the Country. It also won the 2016 Efinance award, in the The team performs analyses and studies Agribusiness is one of “Soluções para Agronegócio” (Agribusithat make it possible to scale the situation ness Solutions) category. of agricultural and cattle-breeding activities, the main sectors of the their risks and profitability margins. Brazilian economy, with an essential importance for the growth and development of the Country. OUR COMMITMENT: in 2017, we will expand digital solutions intended for rural producers for contracting of rural financing and availability of funds that support the technical services of the sector with optimization and operational efficiency. Corporate Customers In 2016, innovations included the new verital solutions, financing of investments and sion of the Financial Manager for Mobile foreign trade, as well as several other options Devices, which added new features, such related to cash flow, social security, pension as the verification of statements of court orplan, and services. The various segments of Specialized Service In 2016, we started to use BB application ders, digital signature in currency exchange Companies, including Individual MicroentreGeoMapa Rural, which records the locaagreements and a new menu of release preneurs (MEI), are from financial alternaDuring the year, we innovated tion of financed areas and sends it to the and statements of receivables. tives to business models that promote the in the relationship model database, providing customers with convetransition to an inclusive economy, by offerspecializing branches for nience, security in information collection and Our foreign exchange and trade products ing financial education courses conducted compliance with the legal requirements. This have self-service options and digital soluin partnerships. More information can be acagribusiness in Dourados (MS), solution was one of the winners of the 2016 tions that improve the customer experience cessed on the Empreendedor website . Araçatuba (SP), and Cascavel Efinance award, in the “Soluções para Agroand count on their membership: in 2016, (PR), offering services provided negócio” (Agribusiness Solutions) category. 63% of export exchange transactions and In 2016, we opened 17 offices intended to by qualified staff, extended 38.4% of import exchange transactions serve MSE, which were added to the three customer service hours (by The options in self-service channels were performed by the internet. existing ones. We served 36 thousand appointment), advisory services, (mobile, internet and ATM) were also imcustomers that have digital channels for investment experts and more proved, with the possibility of verifying the We offer a complete portfolio for Micro and relationship and extended customer serstatement of rural financings, with the hisSmall Enterprises (MSE), with working capvice hours. agility in operations analysis. tory of entries, debit balance and amounts to be debited. Pronaf participants receive 64 65 Social and Relationship Capital Improvements in Customer The Investment Urban Proger, intended for ings to assist the sales force to execute the Service the acquisition of goods, services, and resbusiness strategy and solve the needs of torations of facilities, had a disbursement of customers; and Novo Cliente 360°, a more Expansion of the R$566.3 million, an increase of 44.16% comfunctional relationship tool for fund manmodel of service to pared to the same period of 2015. On social agement. The expected results are an inCorporate Retail and environmental area, there are Corporate crease in the average contribution margin customers with an Urban Proger, Tourism Investment Proger of customers, an improvement in operaAnnual Gross Revenue of over and BB Corporate Credit, which finance items tional efficiency and an increase in the satR$1 million; related to photovoltaic power generation and isfaction level. energy efficiency. Creation of new During the year, we advised a Brazilian comCorporate Branches, The Corporate and Empresarial segments pany on its operation of issuance of bonds, providing specialized developed, in 2016, new solutions along which resulted in the raising of 6.8 billion dolservice, totaling 38 with the digital transformation project of the lars. That was the largest external issuance Corporate Branches, Bank. The highlights are the Profitability of a Brazilian company since March 2014. with 300 portfolios and 45 thousand Model, which creates insights and offercustomers; Improvement in the level of operational OUR COMMITMENT: in compliance with the strategy of efficiency and efficiency in the conincrease of customer satisfaction in this segment, the new relationship duct of business; model for Corporate and Empresarial is in the qualification stage. It Credit for Working Capital estimates a new cutting point of access to Wholesale (gross annual Another 71 Busirevenues of R$45 million), new customer segmentation model considering One of the main implementations in 2016 is credit for working capital, ness Offices are expected to be opened factors such as potential and complexity, in addition to revenues and a new which totaled R$1.07 billion in operations: for this segment; division of activities among front, middle and back office. Working Capital Urban Proger – its purpose is the maintenance of employment and income, by providing funds for the purchase of Creation of a raw material, payment of suppliers and taxes or improvements in specialized supthe business. On the other hand, the company needs to make a plementary service commitment to maintain the same number of jobs until a year after the structure for the franchise and cooploan; in case it has ten or more regular employees, it must also hire erative groups. a Young Apprentice. Launched on July 15, at the end of the year, it totaled 9,984 operations, with the disbursement of R$809.9 million. BNDES Progeren Working Capital – the credit line that aims to increase production, employment and the payroll was reopened. The contracts were resumed on September 26 and, at the end of 2016, 2,238 operations, totaling R$264.7 million had been carried out. Additionally, the lines of the Investment Urban Proger, intended for the acquisition of goods, services, and restorations of facilities, had a disbursement of R$566.3 million, an increase of 44.16% compared to the same period of 2015. On social and environmental area, there are Corporate Urban Proger, Tourism Investment Proger and BB Corporate Credit, which finance items related to photovoltaic power generation and energy efficiency. 66 67 Social and Relationship Capital Public Sector Customers States and In compliance with our strategic guidance, social security contributions, support for Municipalities Payment Methods we support public policies and social and fundraising from culture and sports incentive Our strategy to improve the customer expeeconomic development of Brazil. The spelaws, management of funds and payment of rience inspires continuous improvement of cialized service to the public sector was exscholarships and social benefits. In addition, Loan processes and the implementation of new panded by 14.9% in 2016, in a process of we are the preferred institution for receiving portfolio RECOGNITION solutions to our debit and credit cards in order expansion that will reach all the municipaliof salaries of civil servants and retirees. balance: Ourocard application to facilitate the purchasing process, without ties with population over 20 thousand inhabneglecting the security. itants in 2017, in addition to the States and Our focus on sustainable development inR$39 won the Efinance award, granted by the Federal Government. spires actions complementary to Government programs such as Minha Casa Minha Vida billion Executivos Financeiros The digital transformation allows us to meet the demands of an audience ever more We are responsible for the legal and volun(Real Estate Lending) Program (PMCMV). magazine. tuned to these means. One of the hightary transfers from the Federal Government lights of the year was the launch of Ouroto the other entities of the Federation, in In December, we entered into an agreement card application, which allows the payment Projects: BB application was particular, in areas essential for the developwith the Federal Public Prosecutor to impleby approaching the cell phone device to considered as one of ment of Brazil – such as health, education, ment anti-corruption measures in the hanurban the five most important a payment terminal. We are precursors of and social assistance – and we offer tools dling of federal public funds. The purpose is this technology in Brazil. The model is in that help bodies to manage these funds. to establish restrictions on the transactions infrastructure in the everyday life of constant improvement and our main chalAmounts of the National Social Assistance in accounts linked to the transfer of federal and mobility people in a survey of lenge is to popularize the functionality. Fund (FNAS), National Fund for the Develfunds, held by state and municipal governthe U.S. consulting firm opment of Education (FNDE) and Nationments, with respect to voluntary transfers eMarketer. We developed BB Elo Cidades, a unique al Health Fund (FNS), among others, are (Decree No. 6,170/2007) and legal transsolution to promote trade in small-sized passed on to the states and municipalities fers (Decree No. 7,507/2011). Among the municipalities. Elo Serviços company, through Banco do Brasil. measures to be implemented by the Bank Ourocard was the founder of Elo payment arrangement, is the statutory limitation of the withdrawal in appointed for the eighth reached in 2016 the milestone of 100 milOur partnership with the Federal Governcash and the identification of the purpose of consecutive year as lion debit and credit cards issued. ment includes the collection of taxes and payments in order to provide traceability to the preferred card of public spending. the Brazilian people Another highlight is the beginning of the opaccording to the 2016 erations of the Bank’s integration with Livelo, which has risen as one of the largest customNational Credit Card er loyalty companies in the Country and with Survey, carried out the proposal to change the way the Brazilian Incentive to Foreign Trade by CardMonitor and people relates to loyalty programs. At the We operate as an exclusive agent of the Federal Government in the Export Financing Program (Proex) and one of the agents in Instituto Medida Certa. same time that favors the Bank, with gains the Income Generation Program (Proger) Export, public policy instruments for productive development, entrepreneurship, social and financial inclusion, and foreign trade. from the scale of the new business, it benefits the customers, who can have access to more options to exchange or send points. 34% above the 184 Delinquency control and financial eduProex: R$1.44 billion total of 2015 companies served cation G4-DMA Marketing communications | G4-PR3 We are a reference in delinquency control; we recorded, in 2016, percentages lower than those of the National Financial System 23% above the 424 (SFN) and credit risk index less than the avProger: R$53.6 million total of 2015 companies served erage of the competitors, among other advantages. We create weekly flow monitoring system and management of prevention and 68 69 Social and Relationship Capital G4-PR3 collection, complementing this operation with ployees. After the testing and improvement an incentive to the responsible use of credit. phase, it will be made available to customCHALLENGE 21: TO DEVELOP A SOCIAL (INCLUDES HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR PRACTICES) AND ENVIRONMENTAL DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS TO ASSESS THE ers and non-customers and will be available IMPACTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMMERCIAL RELATIONS OF BANCO DO BRASIL. In order to encourage and disseminate the in the cell phone application. Its purpose importance of planning before borrowing, is to assist customers in following up their we proceeded, in 2016, with ad campaign budget, showing how they can spend their Uso Responsável do Crédito (Responsible money, helping them in financial control. Use of Credit), which has as its target audience customers with difficulties in man•O Trato Application: it assists parents in fiSuppliers G4-DMA Procurement practices aging budgets, and it was broadcasted in nancial education since childhood. The tool The relationship with our suppliers is guidself-service terminals, applications and makes the theme fun and approaches famied by respect and transparency. The qualSMS. In social networks, messages were lies together, enabling the inclusion of tasks ity control and the principles of Social and sent with guidance and tools to perform fiwith challenges to be met by the children in Environmental Responsibility guide this innancial management. exchange for rewards defined by their parteraction, whose premises are formalized ents. The goal is to raise the awareness of in the Supplier Relationship Policy, disThe following are other initiatives that proyoung people to value their choices. closed on our website . The selection is Total of move financial education: Shareholders made by a bidding process, pursuant to Act No. 8,666/93. Our chain comprises several contracts of the • Seu Bolso e Você Workshop: is conWe adopted the practice of inviting market ansectors and activities, such as goods and year: 15,787 ducted by volunteers of the Integration alysts to conferences whenever the Managechattels and equipment; surveillance, adviProgram, created to promote a closer ment believes to be necessary to clarify spesory, engineering and architecture and real relationship with retired employees. The cific topics about the company. We conduct on estate leasing services. volunteers are trained by teams specialan annual basis an Apimec meeting, in São ized in didactics and conduct classes Paulo, and organize meetings with investors in Our commitment to assess business relain poor communities. The content was New York. Our team carried out nine non-deal tions based on social and environmental prepared to assist, mainly, families and roadshows (relationship visits) abroad; and we criteria inspired the improvement of rules small individual entrepreneurs to manparticipated in nine conferences in Brazil and for contracting. Our bylaws include several age the monthly budget in order to maintain the financial health and stimulate 13 others abroad, in addition to promoting four teleconferences about the result. We maintain standards to strengthen the culture of sustainability between the Bank and its suppliNumber of business growth; a team dedicated to the relationship with aners (value chain). We created a standard suppliers: alysts and investors, which served, until Desustainable purchasing and disposal doc2,989 •Minhas Finanças Application: launched in cember, 947 people, including participation in ument with practices of bids and contracts December 2016, it is being tested with emmeetings and phone calls. in order to meet the legal requirements and social and environmental commitments undertaken by the Bank. Total payments: R$7.2 billion Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-DMA Child labor | G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labor | G4-DMA Security practices | G4-12 | G4-EC9 | G4-HR4 | G4-HR5 | G4-HR6 | G4-HR7 | G4-HR9 | G4-HR10 | G4-HR11 | G4-HR12 71 Social and Relationship Capital Supplier Management G4-DMA Supplier environWith this classification, it was possible to Sustainable Purchases G4-DMA Procurement The discussions already resonate internally, mental assessment develop an action plan for each segment, practices | G4-DMA Products and services | G4-EN27 with the development of projects and proceBased on the review conducted, in 2015, in considering main characteristics, strategic In the institutional area, we acted in the dures related to the subject, such as the anthe guiding principles of supplier relationship, importance and level of engagement of BB Special Study Commission on Sustainable nouncement of the purchase of servers that a study was developed for the segmentation with the supplier, and create a project to Purchases of ABNT, a group that helps includes the reverse logistics instrument in of our suppliers. We used two main analysis incorporate social and environmental risk determine principles and guidelines of this its clauses. The requirements indicated by variables – the value of the contract and the variables, having economic, environmental subject. The work, carried out in coordinaISO 20400, when it was published, will prorisk and branch of the activity – to structure and social dimensions as premises. tion with foreign commissions, will be revide important references for enhancement the matrix in four segments. sponsible for the publication of ISO 20400. of supply chain management. Supplier Segmentation Social and Environmental Requirements for Purchases In 2016, we required the following documents from the suppliers of furniture: Environmental Certificate of Regularity Tactical: low value Leverage: Critical: Strategic: high Operating License from the Federal contracted and low high value low value contracted value contracted (LO) issued by Government’s File of risk in the branch of contracted and low and high risk in and high risk in the competent Potentially Polluting the activity risk in the branch the branch the branch environmental Activities that Use protection body; Environmental Resources for the wood industry; The social and environmental risk assesshigher-risk segments of the activity/sector ment model was guided by the development and higher-value contracts, according to of an own questionnaire that considers the supplier segmentation parameters develspecificities of the financial sector. The data oped by BB. will enable to obtain a global view of each Environmental Compliance Certification RoHS (Restriction of supplier, or even an isolated verification of – Ecolabel of the Brazilian Certain Hazardous each dimension (economic, social and enTechnical Standards Substances); Certificate vironmental), and will serve as an input to Association (ABNT) or of Activity of Waste of operation strategies. The results of the first Falcão Bauer Eco-Seal Environmental Interest (except for steel furniture); (Cadri) and Solid Waste cycle are planned for November 2017. Management Plan; Dissemination of Good Practices The general supporting service We adhered to the Supply Chain Program contracts establish that suppliers of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), promote the training of their which aims to assess the environmental employees in practices such as impact on the supply chain. In doing so, we selective waste collection and will have quantitative and qualitative data reduction of consumption of electrical In the case of technology power and water. equipment, the products For purchase of household related to the risks and opportunities assoIn 2016, we reviewed the rules must be in compliance with appliances, the products ciated with climate change, management governing the hiring of general must have the “A” rating European directive RoHS and of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) and water supporting services, with the inclusion aligned to the National Solid in the energy efficiency resources of the value chain of suppliers. of sustainability criteria for the Waste Policy; of the National Institute cleaning and conservation service. of Metrology, Quality, and The schedule forecasts activities during Technology (Inmetro). For 2017, from the awareness-raising and moThe new contracts include clauses bids of the equipment for the for reducing and treating waste bilization of suppliers, data collection, and improvement of water quality generated by the cleaning activities, for human consumption, treatment to the presentation of the results as well as prohibiting the use of suppliers are also required through a technical report. Up to 500 supmaterials potentially harmful to human to offer certified equipment pliers will be evaluated, with a focus on health and the environment. according to the Compliance Learn more in the Attachment GRI Assessment Regulation. G4-EN32 | G4-EN33 72 73 Social and Relationship Capital Civil Society G4-DMA Indirect economic impacts | G4-EC8 We seek to create a virtuous cycle that can be summarized in the following diagram: CHALLENGE 6: TO STRENGTHEN THE ROLE OF BANCO DO BRASIL IN THE PURSUIT OF SOCIAL BUSINESS THROUGH COMPREHENSIVE, EFFICIENT AND INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS ALIGNED WITH PUBLIC POLICIES. Private Social In line with our mission to be a competitive Investment and profitable bank, acting with the pubSocial technologies lic spirit in each of our actions, we seek to Social and Productive Inclusion Projects contribute effectively to generate income AABB Community Program BB Volunteer Program and to the development of the Country on AWARD a sustainable basis. This commitment is in In 2016, we were certified line with State policies, the demands, and for the second time as one expectations of the communities and other stakeholders, in addition to following the of the 100 Best Companies guidelines of the senior management. in Corporate Citizenship, by company Gestão RH, Our performance extrapolates the traditioncomprising organizations al community investment actions to direct listed among the 1,000 Best efforts to the achievement of social busiand Largest (Exame) and Benefits for ness, characterized as cost-effective ini150 Best Companies to Work Benefits for the tiatives seeking solutions to the problems Business Community of society, contributing to several benefits For (Época and Exame). Image Return while ensuring business return. Income generation Training Relationship and contribution margin Training of the participants with the Bank Reduction/Sequestration BB employee satisfaction with its of carbon emission social investment Social Business Microcredit for Production with Guidance Minha Casa Minha Vida (Real Estate Lending) Student Financing Fund National Family Agriculture Development Program BB Accessibility Credit 74 75 National Family Agriculture Development Proand services of assistive technology based gram (Pronaf): created by the Federal Govon Act No. 12,613/2012. ernment, it aims to promote the sustainable development of family agriculture, in order to Fund for Financing the Higher Education provide increased productive capacity, genStudent (Fies): we act as the financial eration of jobs and income improvement. We agent of the fund, a student public policy act as the largest lender of agribusiness in all of the Federal Government intended to fisegments and stages of the production chain, nance the Higher Education degree to stuincluding in the context of family agriculture. dents who cannot afford to pay their educaPronaf operates with credit lines characterized tion costs. It enables the financing of up to by differentiated conditions, especially with re100% of face-to-face undergraduate coursgard to financial charges, risk mitigating faces with interest of 6.5% p.a., a grace peritors and the marketing of production. od of 18 months after the completion of the course and period of amortization of three Accessibility Credit: line of financing to distimes the number of semesters financed. abled people who are customers and have Only the payment of interest, with a maxSocial Business ing financial education to credit offering a gross monthly income of up to 10 miniimum amount of R$150.00, is required The priority of our social business is the desuited to the needs and conditions of the mum salaries, for the acquisition of goods during the use and grace period phase, on velopment of initiatives to minimize social undertaking. Therefore, it is possible to a quarterly basis. problems by using market mechanisms plan the loan according to the business and in order to resolve social and economic their ability to pay, so they can remain in differences, in a sustainable manner, engood standing over time. suring income, productive inclusion and access to public services. The initiatives In 2016, we improved the strategic partCHALLENGE 7: TO ENHANCE BANCO DO BRASIL’S INITIATIVES TOWARDS THE include the Microcredit for Production with nership with Movera, a company affiliated PRODUCTIVE DEVELOPMENT, ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE PROMOTION OF Guidance (MPO), Minha Casa Minha Vida to BB for activity in MPO, intensifying our SOCIAL AND FINANCIAL INCLUSION. (Real Estate Lending) Program, National operations in microfinance. An innovative Family Agriculture Development Program service was launched in the first half for (Pronaf), BB Accessibility Credit and the the release of funds: MPO Conta Fácil, Fund for Financing the Higher Education which serves non-banking entrepreneurs, Student (FIES), which play an important offering a simplified and agile way for obrole in the promotion of public policies and taining loans. contribute to improving the quality of life and promoting social inclusion. Minha Casa Minha Vida (Real Estate Lending) Program (PMCMV): we are the finanMicrocredit for Production with Guidance cial agent of the Federal Government’s (MPO): credit to improve the cash flow or fimeasure set that aims to facilitate the acnance the purchase of equipment, furniture quisition of houses by low-income families or tools for individual micro-entrepreneurs and reduce the Brazilian housing deficit. (MEI) with revenues up to R$60 thousand per year. In addition to promoting banking PMCMV brings an important contribution inclusion, it helps in financial planning, with to reducing the housing deficit in Brazil. appropriate guidance and in the right meaIn 2016, 237 works financed by the Bank sure for each entrepreneur. were completed, totaling 46,230 new housing units. In addition, we allocated funds to Our performance in the MPO has as main acquire other 27,509 units under the prodifferential the fact of providing entrepregram, contributing to the goals of the housneurs with guidance from agents, combining policies of the Country. 76 77 Social and Relationship Capital Since 2013, we use the Integrated PerforOur branches use the Sustainable DevelCHALLENGE 24: TO IMPROVE THE INTEGRATION BETWEEN THE PRIVATE SOmance Model in Sustainable Development. opment Action Plan (SDAP) tool, with which CIAL INVESTMENT AND THE BUSINESS STRATEGY. Our goal is to contribute to the construction it is possible to identify the potential and the of sustainable businesses and the generaneeds of localities and register and monitor tion of perennial results, operating from the the implementation of the economic, social integrated view on the location of operation and environmental actions planned. Private Social Investment customers (individuals and companies), and supporting public policies, ongoing Our work in Private Social Investment (PSI) employees and external stakeholders to projects of partner entities, specific professeeks to combine the interests of our stakethe entities affiliated to the National Consional segments, among other initiatives. holders with the company’s business goals. federation of Institutions of Support and Assistance to Children and Young People with The Work Agreement (BB and ATB Synergy) Cancer (Coniacc). gathers together a set of initiatives that are Sustainable Development Action Plan (SDAP) aligned to our principles of Social and EnviDuring the year, the Bank and Fundação ronmental Responsibility (SER), in particular, Banco do Brasil, through the BB-FBB Volthe social effectiveness index whose purunteer Project, supported 76 social and 3,365 pose is to strengthen the SER culture within productive inclusion, environmental and the Bank, in addition to increasing employee education care projects, in the amount of involvement in social and voluntary causes. R$4.2 million, in addition to investing in other 1,933 74% Such index has increased the number of initiatives through Entities Affiliated with BB. employees enrolled in performing volunteer of increase during activities, encouraged the training about the the year subject, reduced the consumption of natural Fundação Banco do Brasil: Effective Actions resources and increased participation in local committees that contribute to the developFundação Banco do Brasil (FBB), which completed 31 ment of communities. years in 2016, is the main facilitator of Private Social Investment, responsible for identifying and mobilizing Volunteer Program different social players in the search for effective solutions BB Volunteer Program was enhanced to key aspects of sustainable development of the Brazilian 2015 2016 during the period and reached 25,343 uscommunities. The performance line is defined according ers registered as volunteers, 18,609 volto the assumptions of the business strategy of the Bank. Note: We reviewed the total of SDAP in 2015, so the figure above is untary actions carried out and 2,436 social For the 2016-2018 period, the foundation defined as a different from that disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report. entities registered. core objective to improve people’s lives by promoting the social and productive inclusion, sustainable development Our employees maintained the tradition of and social technologies. supporting social causes with the donation of The actions are focused on five vectors: water, agromore than R$2.7 million, 245 tons of food and ecology, agro-industry, solid waste, and education. 890 million items (clothes, medicines, school The participating stakeholders are the less advantaged strata of the Brazilian population, with special attention and hygiene supplies, among others) to varito adolescents and women, because they are population ous entities around the Country. segments more sensitive to social inequalities and more exposed to violence. Infância e Vida (Childhood and Life) action, In the last ten years, more than 3 million people had which gathers together several initiatives of their lives transformed by almost 6 thousand projects the Bank and partners aimed at combating supported and social investments totaling R$2.3 billion. the causes of children and young people More information about FBB can be found at www.fbb. cancer, had its second edition during the org.br, and the Annual Report is in the Midiateca section. year, consolidating the campaign with emThe foundation receives funds based on criteria ployee engagement. The total amount colestablished according to the bylaws, between 0.3% and lected in 2016 represented five times the 5.0% of our operating income. amount of the previous campaign, totaling more than R$1 million in donations from 79 Social and Relationship Capital Contributions to FBB per source FBB (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 The investment in culture totaled R$41.6 million in the period, and out of which R$24.6 BANCO DO BRASIL 51.8 47.6 48.3 million were encouraged by Rouanet Act, which represents 59% of the total amount. A total of 126 projects that generated more than BRASILCAP 7.8 9.3 3.8 AWARDS R$844.7 million in spontaneous media for the Bank were carried out during the year. Shell de Teatro Award of Best BBDTVM 0.3 0.5 0.5 Lighting for the Estudo para During 2016, exclusive visits to customers, Missa para Clarice play. online appointment, exhibitions and meetFENABB 23.1 24.2 24.2 ings with curators and artists were carried T  he highlight of Tourism Note: The amounts and the form of presentation of the contributions to FBB have been revised and will use this new format. out. This action was relevant to the loyalty CIETH/OAB RJ for CCBB Rio of customers, reinforcing the bond and exde Janeiro, considered as the panding the perception of appreciation of Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-SO1 | G4-SO11 these stakeholders. best cultural center of the city. Social and Environmental Actions RECOGNITION Social and environmental actions of the four CCBB added: Empresa Amiga da Criança (Children-Friendly Company): the Bank was recognized for the 13th consecutive year for social actions for the EDUCATIONAL FREE TRANSEDUCATION SELECTIVE DIRECT INDIRECT promotion and defense of the rights of children and adolescents by PROJECT PORTATION TRANSPORJOBS JOBS WASTE Fundação Abrinq – Save The Children. TATION COLLECTION 429.075 visitors 72.998 19.671 children of 5.863 29.315 720 people tons served the Education Investments in Sports and Culture cooperatives; use of recycled or certificated Program Sports – We sponsor sports projects which materials in the production of supporting maare in line with our assumptions of sustainterial; use of power-saving techniques; hiring ability. In 2016, we invested R$149.3 million, of workforce provided by disabled people or Donations Encouraged (R$ million) G4-EC1 and most of these funds were intended to those indicated by entities that support needy athletes and modalities that evoke the nacommunities; and offsetting of carbon emis2014 2015 2016 tional identity. Out of the total, R$16.6 million sions, among others. were invested through the Sports Incentive Act and benefited court volleyball, beach Culture – The Cultural Centers of Banco do Culture Support Rouanet Act 46.3 38.0 24.6 volleyball, and handball projects. The sports Brasil (CCBB) is our main tool in culture. In sponsorship aims to add positive attributes 27 years of operation, we received more Sports Incentive Act 11.7 12.0 16.6 to the brand, generate opportunities of rethan 84.8 million visitors and carried out lationship with customers or potential future more than 3,850 projects. Our cultural marFunds for the Rights of Children and Adolescents 4.3 2.0 9.8 customers and contribute to the developketing strategy adds value to the brand by ment of modalities. demonstrating the appreciation of the stakeholders, strengthening our mission. National Fund for the Elderly 4.3 2.0 10.0 In the sponsored events, whenever possible, considerations of social and environmental In 2016, 5.1 million people visited the National Program for Cancer Care Support (Pronon) 4.3 2.0 9.6 responsibility are prioritized: selective waste CCBB in Belo Horizonte (BH), Brasília (DF), collection; donation of recyclable materials to São Paulo (SP), and Rio de Janeiro (RJ). Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-EC7 80 81 Perfil Present in our Corporate Strategy, outstandThe 2017-2021 Corporate Strategy of Banco do Human Capital ing in our Vision of the Future, the people management theme is a priority topic on our Brasil – ECBB sets out strategic drivers related to agenda and relevant in the organization. We intellectual and human capital, respectively: adopt policies and practices that support the creation of value and the achievement of the and Intellectual strategic goals, favoring the satisfaction and engagement of employees. Our work is based on three key assumpCapital tions: meaning, organization, and skills for the job. Annually, we review the strategic Knowledge Management: which emphasizes planning in the people management area the importance of the sharing of experiences considering the corporate drivers, employee and the acquisition of knowledge as a differential for the Company. satisfaction analyses, and market trends. In these terms, our initiatives include the employee’s link with the Bank, the improvement in the organizational environment, the construction of the sense of work, quality of life, health and safety at work, the idenPeople Management: which signals the importification and development of skills, the tance of the development of professional skills, the recognition of talent, the exercise of leadership, training of leaders, the offer of customized the succession program effectiveness, the digital 09 educational solutions to the areas of perfortransformation and the quality of workplace as mance and the dissemination of the culture essential requirements for compliance with the of productivity and operational efficiency. Bank’s strategies. In order to achieve these goals, we have a set of policies and practices that, synergistically and systematically, leverage, attract and retain talents. Our employees can plan their development based on a strucFor us, innovation culture, tured plan of career and succession that, combined with the performance evaluation knowledge and brand process, facilitates the achievement of their management, and the professional ambitions. The infographic on the next page shows this interactivity and solutions in information reveals the importance of the Corporate technology are important University in this set of initiatives. factors of our intellectual Our policies and practices of people management aim capital. For more to increase employee satisfaction and engagement, information, read about supporting the creation of value and alignment with corporate education in this the strategy same chapter and about the other topics in the Corporate Strategy chapter. 82 Gestão de risco Policies Structured Maximized management performance AWARDS practices The level of excellence of our practices and policies of people management is attested by several national and international awards, among which we can mention: 2016 Top Employers Certification – Top Employers Institute 2016 Você S/A Guide – As 150 Melhores Empresas para Você Trabalhar (The Best 150 Companies to Work For), for the fourth consecutive year – Você S/A magazine and Fundação Instituto de Administração (FIA/USP) Ranking of the most attractive employers in Brazil in 2016 (3rd place) – Universum Comunications and Exame.com Corporate University 30 Companies Most Admired by HRs in the Country (prominence in DF) – Grupo Gestão RH The Best Companies in People Management Practices (PGPs) – Grupo Gestão RH Employee Satisfaction G4-DMA Labor/Management relations | G4-DMA Diversity and equal opportunity | G4-DMA Equal remuneration for women and The systematic monitoring of climate and satFace-to-face and General and Continuing men | G4-DMA Labor practices grievance mechanisms isfaction is an important tool to achieve our distance-learning specific topics education The improvement of quality in the workplace goals and assess the quality of relations in the courses has gained strategic importance in recent workplace. This analysis comprises conflicts, years with the linkage of climate research critical points, strengths and weaknesses, to the Bank’s management instruments and outlining ways to understand themes, such as variable compensation of managers and statturnover, absenteeism, poor motivation, fall in utory managing officers. output and retention of talents (see more on Staff Profile item). Employee satisfaction is part of our General People Management Policy, which attests our commitment to a continuous schedule of actions to strengthen the bond of employees with the Bank. TRAINING CAREER ADVANCEMENT Training, development and Career and The recent institutional refresher course succession reorganization must influence the perception of employees. Our main challenge in 2017 will be to keep the satisfaction index in 82.3% obtained in the latest PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS Organizational Climate Improvement plan Surveys and Job Satisfaction. 84 85 Human Capital and Intellectual Capital To this end, we offer the following tools to improve the climate and satisfaction: CHALLENGE 11: TO ENSURE GREATER PROPORTIONALITY OF REPRESENTATION OF GENDER AND RACE IN ALL THE HIERARCHICAL LEVELS OF BANCO DO BRASIL. •Organization Climate Management Workshop: approximately 80 classes per year, representing over 1,500 managers; Men: 59,073 •Developing the Organizational Climate Methodology: approximately 140 method+ The promotion of diversity is based on the appreciation of human rights, the fairness ologies per year – three meetings with a of internal relations and the elimination of duration of 1:30h conducted by facilitators; all sources of prejudice. •O Clima e Você (The Climate and You) course: In 2010, we adhered to the Women Emincentive to the distance-learning course; Women: powerment Principles of the UN, and since 41,549 2007, we participate in the Gender and •Roadmap to Improve the Organizational Race Pro-Equity Program coordinated by Climate: incentive to the holding of meetTotal: 100,622 the Secretariat for Policies on Women of ings for the analysis of the results of the the Presidency of the Republic. At each survey and structuring of Action Plan. edition, we propose an action plan focused Statutory on the promotion of gender and race eqIn 2016, we participated in commissions uity in the Bank. For the sixth edition, our promoted by the Brazilian Federation of proposal was prepared based on suggesBanks (Febraban), which are composed tions submitted by employees in an open In BB, there is no difference in of representatives of the employees and banks, to discuss aspects related to health, forum, on our corporate intranet, and raised in events related to the International Womcompensation among genders. safety, equal opportunities, career adMen: 36 en’s Day promoted by Regional People vancement and conflict prevention. Management Offices (Gepes) Network. Staff Profile G4-DMA Market presence | G4-DMA Employment + All our corporate programs of career adLearn more in the Attachment GRI All employees of the Bank are hired through vancement have an affirmative gender G4-LA12 | G4-LA13 approval in a civil service examination, in and race action, which ensure greater compliance with the Brazilian Federal Constiparticipation in the face-to-face evaluation tution and the Bylaws of the company. The steps and extend the visibility of employee contracts are entered into in compliance with skills that fit this condition. Women: 1 the Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT). We seek to improve our mechanisms continuously to ensure diversity and equal career Total: 37 advancement opportunities. Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-10 | G4-11 | G4-EC6 AWARD 2016 Global Recognition in Good Practices for Disabled Workers – Department of the State for the Rights of Disabled People of the Government of the State of São Paulo. 86 87 Capital Humano e Capital Intelectual Processes, Learning and Growth and SoThe subsidies of Radar are used in the ManTAO Turnover Rate cioenvironmental – and it is carried out by agement Certification, created in 2016 and The system of the immediate superior, subordinates, peers intended for general and business managers Talents and Op(co-workers) and by the own employees of retail network and the Government. Such a portunities (TAO) (self-evaluation). In 2016, 99.68% of the recognition may result in career advancement assists employregular employees had their performance opportunities in the system of Talents and Opees in planning accompanied by such tool, and employees portunities (TAO) and makes the process clear their career and complies with the Men: Women: under experience agreement and statutory and objective. During the period, 6,303 manInstitutional Reorganization principle of shared managing officers were evaluated by a speagers were certified. management adG4-13 10.16% 10.76% cific method. opted by the Bank. The Extraordinary The discussions in the commissions of Considering the Stimulated Retirement Plan During the year, the processes were cenFebraban enabled us to define some proneeds and inter(PEAI) was established There was an increase in rates compared to the ests of professionprevious year due to the institutional reorganization. tralized in a web environment, which facilifessional development proposals, including during the year, offering als and organizaAmong the actions is PEAI, which resulted in the tates the verification of employees and the the Career Advancement Panel, in a more to employees, who were tional strategies, it removal of 8,760 people. During the same period, a consequent identification of professional modern and accessible format, a change in guides on opportuin a position to request retirement until December total of 1,428 employees were reinstated. gaps to be improved. In addition, the Rethe criteria for appointment, in order to give nities and enumer31, 2016, a set of benefits sult Management Trail was created, bringgreater visibility to the opportunities and ates the requirethat reconciles the ing together learning solutions to raise the more transparency to the process, in addiments valued. The Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-LA1 awareness about the impact of the activity tion to dealing with the advancement of PCD quality made this interests of the Bank and system a referthe applicants. Vacancies of each person on the results. (Disabled People) and female employees. ence in the market for stimulated retirement of recruitment and are being filled based Radar do Gestor (Manager’s Radar) is also an We maintain corporate talent identification selection. on criteria that favor important tool to align the work of the teams programs for promotions and admission in difthe democratization of Career and Succession with the Bank’s strategic goals. It monitors ferent areas of performance. In order to meet relocation opportunities, the performance of managers in the last five the demands of the Senior Management, in mitigating the impact of years on themes linked to Business, Process2016, we started the BB Leaders Project. The this initiative on employee CHALLENGE 14: TO STRENGTHEN THE ROLE OF BANCO DO es, People and Sustainability dimensions, for initiative mitigates potential succession risks to satisfaction. We created BRASIL WITH REGARD TO HUMAN CAPITAL, CONSIDERING the purpose of identifying strengths or items the functions of Vice-Presidents, Officers, and a map of vacancies to facilitate communication and THE MANAGEMENT OF HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELL-BEING, requiring improvement. General Strategic Unit Managers, in addition recruitment, with options to THE DEVELOPMENT AND THE RETENTION OF TALENTS. to guiding the development of the participants search by location, position and supporting succession decisions. or function, in addition to providing updated information constantly. One of our greatest differentials is the set of A special version of the practices based on the principle of shared system for recruiting and career management. With this system, we Corporate Programs registering competitions for can offer the ideal conditions for the achievevacancies was developed We completed, in 2016, some initiatives: ment of goals and objectives, translating our specifically for that corporate strategy into actions and encourcontext: the main goals are to encourage moves aging the engagement of employees. + + + Career Advancement Career Advancement Career Advancement Program First in laterality and identify The performance evaluation is one of the Program Regional Program Regional Investiture Retail: this edition had 7,598 and prioritize employees Retail Superintendent: most important components of the structured Corporate Superintendent: people enrolled, out of which 1,740 allocated in teams with 277 people enrolled, 71 people enrolled, out of people were recruited for the face-to-face excess headcount. career and succession system. Through the out of which 32 were which 9 were qualified; evaluation phase (technical-behavioral) Professional Performance Management qualified; and 509 people qualified. by Skills and Results (GDP) tool, we provide a formal evaluation to all employees. The analysis is carried out under five perLearn more in the Attachment GRI G4-10 Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-LA11 spectives – Financial, Customers, Internal 88 89 Human Capital and Intellectual Capital Compensation G4-52 Corporate Education G4-DMA Training and education | G4-DMA Portfolio of products First Investiture Managers Workshop, Investments in corporate We seek to keep our compensation comFor us, the continuous training of employees is a strategic resource which offers training and provides diploeducation: R$97.4 million patible with those of major competitors and and includes educational opportunities related to professionalizamas to managers of branches appointed other financial institutions. To this end, we tion, citizenship development, quality of life at work and organizafor the first time. A total of 300 employees conduct internal and external studies and, in tional culture. Our care with the development and retention of talwere trained in 2016. The Mentoring projParticipation in educational 2016, we used as a parameter the annual ents is present from the moment the employee is selected through ect, which seeks to improve the process events: 640 thousand survey from Mercer Human Resource Conthe civil service examination, with the Bem-Vindo ao BB (Welcome of management of managers with the exsulting Firm related to the banking segment. to BB) Program, until its separation. change of knowledge with more experiTotal hours of training: The amounts earned by our employees also enced professionals, had the participation 7 million include Profit Sharing program (PLR), which Our human capital performance indicators are monitored to measure of 261 managers in the year. offers a semi-annual variable compensation the execution of the strategy of development of such capital. Data is linked to our Work Agreement. checked, such as the number of employees with at least 34 hours of For Executives UniBB Portal annual face-to-face or distance-learning training courses prioritized by In 2016, reinforcing the work in Total visits: 5,747,867 The profit sharing program is negotiated BB for managers and other employees according to their function and developing and retaining talents, Online courses completed: 2 million between the company and the employees, area of performance, as well as courses chosen by the employees UniBB initiated the 2015 Career Total courses: 430 represented by representative entities, unthemselves. The average hours of face-to-face training per employee, Advancement Program – Executives Modes: video classes, flash animations, development phase. A total of 77 educational games, infographics, e-books, der the Collective Bargaining Agreement. hours of distance-learning training and daily access to the Portal of the employees listed in the program collaborative activities, articles, and booklets, The proposal is submitted to the annual Banco do Brasil Corporate University (UniBB) are also followed up. received training and were prepared among other approval of the Board of Directors and is sent to supervising ministries. for the challenges of the exercise of executive functions. UniBB Mobile Application 2017 Downloads: 26 thousand For information about the Management’s Indicator Description 2014 2015 2016 Goal(1) Visits: 1.6 million Variable Compensation Program (RVA), Total of courses completed: 308 thousand see the Corporate Governance chapter Percentage of 34 hours of employees with at Corporate Governance. training per 98.12 92.33 92.00 90% All employees have access, via UniBB least 34 hours of employee Portal and UniBB Mobile application, to annual training hundreds of online courses and learning (1) % of the percentage table. trails composed of face-to-face and disLearn more in the Attachment GRI tance-learning courses addressing multiG4-53 | G4-54 | G4-55 | G4-EC5 Our Corporate University systematizes educational actions, for ple topics relevant to the achievement of the purpose of improving the organizational performance and the corporate strategy. strengthening the image of the Bank, and offers access to knowlAWARDS edge in face-to-face and virtual classes, on the UniBB Portal and Educorp Award – Best Case in a UniBB Mobile application. Our physical infrastructure is comCorporate University of Brazil – Most Viewed posed of classrooms and laboratories in the regional units of peoHuman Resources Academy. ple management in all Brazilian states. Online Courses Among the 10 Cubic Awards Corporate University Bestmost completed in-Class (Universidade Corporativa do Ano We organize educational actions in all management segments and in various hierarchical levels of management. An example is the online courses in – Global – 2016) – International Quality & 2016, there are Productivity Center (IQPC). Ergonomics, with 47,500 completions, Learning & Performance Award – Best and Nutrition Broad Corporate University – Destaque 15 and Health, with anos – Institute for Learning Performance approximately MicroPower and Associação Brasileira de 38,000 completions. Recursos Humanos (ABRH). List of the Best Companies in OHDI – Organizational Human Development Index Learn more in the Attachment GRI – Grupo Gestão RH. G4-LA9 | G4-LA10 | G4-HR2 90 91 Human Capital and Intellectual Capital es, with an emphasis on occupational disFor employees who serve the public, and eases, in addition to assisting in adaptation therefore, are more likely to be the target and accessibility of disabled employees. It is of occurrences arising from public security also the responsibility of the Sesmt to advise problems, we created Pavas, which guarthe Internal Accident Prevention Commisantees medical, psychological, legal and sions (Cipas) and the Evacuation Groups security assistance. (GRUAs). G4-DMA SCustomer health and safety Actions in 2016 Completion of consultancy hired by FEBRABAN in 2013, which analyzed 20 aspects of Health and Safety at Work in ten banks. We had the second-best result among the studied organizations; Implementation of a new computerized system for Services Specialized in Safety Engineering and Occupational Health (SESMT). Health, Welfare, and Safety G4-DMA Occupational health and safety Our strategy of promoting the welfare of actions complementary to those of occupaemployees comprises actions in the area tional health and safety at work and conof occupational health, safety and quality tributes to the improvement in the results of of life at work, which shows the practical examinations of employees. application of our socioenvironmental responsibility. We have teams that care for We also have a network of Services SpecialThe other initiatives of the year include occupational health, safety at work, sick ized in Safety Engineering and Occupational the improvement of internal standards of leave, quality of life at work and the ProHealth (Sesmt), consisting of professionals occupational health, insertion of disabled gram for Assistance to Victims of Robbery of health and safety at work. Such network people and the return to work after a long AWARD and Kidnapping (Pavas). performs reviews on all of our branches, absence period. Prevention actions were through the Environmental Risk Prevention also carried out, such as the use of data BEST Our Occupational Health Medical Control Program (PPRA), Inspections of Safety at from periodic examinations to carry out iniPSYCHOLOGICALLY Program (PCMSO) aims to reduce occuWork (IST) and Ergonomic Work Analytiatives for the prevention of muscle pains HEALTHY COMPANIES pational risks and preserve the health with sis (AET), with the recognition, evaluation, and posture problems. – EPS (2016 HIGHLIGHT: standards and practices in health, hygiene, and control of risks. Based on this work, the BALANCE, LIFE, AND and safety. We also have the Quality of Life teams develop individual and collective acLearn more in the Attachment GRI WORK) – GRUPO at Work (QVT) Program, which promotes tions to promote health and prevent diseasG4-LA2 | G4-LA3 | G4-LA4 | G4-LA5 | G4-LA6 | G4-LA7 | G4-LA8 | G4-LA16 | G4-HR3 | G4-PR1 GESTÃO RH. 92 93 Perfil G4-DMA | Economic performance Our economic and financial performanThe loan portfolio performance is related ce reflects our commitment to generating to the balance comparison in 12 months. Financial sustainable results. For the next years, The indicators related to income are meawe seek to increase profitability, loss resured by comparing the amounts accrued duction, efficiency gains and productivity during the year. improve from process simplification and Capital digital transformation. In 2016, the following indicators were different from the expected: The main topics related to BB’s economic and financial performance in 2016 and Guia) Companies Loan Portfolio: the decreadance for 2017 are presented in the follose was influenced by lower demand wing pages. For more information, please and amortizations of securities combiconsult the MD&A, published quarterly, and ned effect; available on the Investors Relations . b) Agribusiness Loan Portfolio: performan• 2016 Performance and Guidance – The ce reflects the amortizations in agroinfollowing table shows the 2016 Guidance dustry portfolio; and its comparison with the year’s performance. We emphasize that the 2016 c) Administrative Expenses: influenced by performance was affected by the market the strict expenses control. conditions and by the domestic and international economies performance. 10 % 2016 Guidance 2016 Performance Adjusted ROE(¹) 7 to 8 7.5 Net Interest Income 11 to 15 13.0 Domestic Loan Portfolio – Broad Definition(²) -9 to -6 -8.6 Individuals 1 to 4 1.5 Companies -19 to -16 -19.2 Agribusiness 4 to 7 2.8 The simplification of processes and the ALL Expenses(³) 4,5 to 4,6 4.6 digital transformation will enable us to increase Fee Income 6 to 7 6.8 profitability, maintain default rates under control Administrative Expenses 4 to 6 3.5 and increase productivity  onswiders the adjusted shareholders’ equity, free from the effects of: (i) the restatement of assets and actuarial, liabilities arising from the Delibera(1) C tion CVM No. 695; and (ii) minority interests in subsidiaries. (2) Includes the classified loan portfolio in Brazil, private securities and guarantees. (3) 12 months ALLL expenses accumulated/12 months average classified loan portfolio. 94 95 Financial Capital •Net Income and Profitability – Banco do One-off Items (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 Brasil reported net income of R$8.0 billion in 2016, 44.2% lower than in the preAdjusted Net Income 11,343 11,594 7,171 vious year, and ROE of 8.4%. The result was mainly impacted by the increase (+) One-Off Items (97) 2,805 863 in provision expenses. Excluding oneoff items, the adjusted net income was Economic Plans (1,307) (403) (1,072) R$7.2 billion, which corresponds to the adjusted ROE of 7.5%. Extraordinary Provision for Law suits 404 (2,057) 882 Additional Allowance for Loan Losses (143) (1,876) 3,257 Allowance for Legal Law suits Param.Adj. and Agreements Politics 385 Tax Efficiency 260 Statement of Income with Reallocations – Variation 2014 2015 2016 Main Lines (R$ million) 16/15 (%) Tax Credit on CSLL 3,405 Net Interest Income 45,707 52,537 59,341 13.0 Funds and Programs Adjustment (127) Allow ance for Loan Losses (17,172) (23,671) (31,552) 33.3 Prov. for Commitment to Buy Loyalty Program Points from Partners (765) Net Financial Margin 28,535 28,866 27,790 (3.7) Cateno Gestão de Contas de Pagamentos S.A 11,572 Fee Income 22,185 22,470 24,004 6.8 Unrealized Earnings Cateno (3,474) Contribution Margin 46,650 47,015 46,678 (0.7) Extraordinary Incentivated Retirement Program (372) (1,401) Administrative Expenses (29,859) (31,709) (32,817) 3.5 BrasilPrev Effect in Minority Shares (65) (74) Personnel Expenses (17,538) (19,296) (20,238) 4.9 BrasilPrev, Susep Circular-letter 457/12 and 462/13 325 385 Other Administrative Expenses (12,321) (12,413) (12,579) 1.3 Exchange Rate Effect on Banco Patagonia (541) Commercial Income 16,465 14,839 13,435 (9.5) Investment Revaluation in Stocks and Shares (321) Civil Claims (963) (1,196) (1,590) 33.0 Tax Effects and Statutory Profit Share on One-Off Items 43 (2,546) (803) Labor Law suits (606) (771) (1,158) 50.2 Net Income 11,246 14,400 8,034 Other Income Components 1,682 2,895 28 (99.0) Income Before Taxes 16,722 15,934 10,944 (31.3) • Remuneration to shareholders – The EPS slightly higher than at the end of 2015. was R$2.84 in 2016. With a payout of The main asset lines are credit operaIncome and Social Contribution Taxes (2,436) (828) (1,179) 42.4 25% of the net income, it was allocated tions, securities and interbank investR$2.4 billion to the remuneration of our ments, which responded for 88.1% of the Statutory Profit Sharing (1,467) (1,790) (919) (48.7) shareholders in the year. total in the period. Commercial funding accounted for 43.8% of total liabilities. Adjusted Net Income 11,343 11,594 7,171 (38.2) •Main Balance Sheet Items – Our assets were R$1.4 trillion in December 2016, 96 97 Financial Capital Variation Main Balance Sheet Items (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 16/15 (%) •Net Interest Income (NII) – NII was R$59.3 billion in 2016, up 13.0% over the Total Assets 1,290,541 1,401,129 1,401,377 0.0 previous year. Among the reasons for this performance, we highlight the growth in Loan Portfolio – Broad Definition 741,981 798,371 708,059 (11.3) revenues from loan operations, influenced Securities 106,419 117,285 121,269 3.4 by the loan portfolio repricing process, and the increase of the recovery of write-offs. Short-Term Interbank Operations 302,482 352,742 405,712 15.0 Total Liabilities 1,290,541 1,401,129 1,401,377 0.0 Commercial Funding 632,913 669,506 613,611 (8.3) Variation Net Interest Income (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 16/15 (%) Total Deposits 468,176 464,420 445,981 (4.0) Net Interest Income 45,707 52,537 59,341 13.0 Demand Deposits 74,224 66,550 69,349 4.2 Loan Operations 80,273 94,749 101,637 7.3 Savings Deposits 148,699 151,845 151,763 (0.1) Funding Expenses (34,021) (42,539) (44,136) 3.8 Interbank Deposits 30,354 41,483 20,665 (50.2) Financial Expenses for Institutional Funding (11,960) (14,313) (14,778) 3.2 Time Deposits 214,899 204,542 204,203 (0.2) Recovery of Write-offs 3,312 3,717 4,571 23.0 Judicial Deposits 115,010 113,652 121,969 7.3 Treasury 8,103 10,923 12,047 10.3 Agribusiness Letters of Credit + Mortgage Bonds 116,481 152,944 142,039 (7.1) Money Market Borrowing 293,920 333,522 374,634 12.3 •Loan Portfolio – The loan portfolio – broad The companies’ loan portfolio declined Shareholder’s Equity 80,613 81,536 87,194 6.9 definition was R$708.1 billion in December 19.2% in the comparison 2016/2015, with 2016, a decrease of 11.3% compared to the a balance of R$294.7 billion. The perforend of 2015. The performance was influenmance was impacted mainly by the dele•BIS Ratio – The BIS ratio is calculator operational problems. In BB, this index ced mainly by lower demand. Considering veraging process of large companies and ed by the ratio of reference equity to was 18.48% in December 2016, remainthe domestic classified portfolio, which conlower demand from the very small and risk-weighted assets.This indicator is iming above the regulatory minimum. The siders the transactions in Brazil and exclusmall companies. portant because it reflects the ability of following table presents the main risk and des transactions with private securities, we the financial institution to absorb loan risk capital indicators. highlight our continued leadership in this Our agribusiness portfolio was R$179.8 market, with a 19.8% share. billion in December 2016, an increase of 2.8% in 12 months. The growth in this The individuals’ loan portfolio was R$187.8 segment, below our expectations, was Risk and Capital Indicators (%) 2014 2015 2016 billion in the period, an increase of 1.5% influenced by the amortizations of the compared to December 2015. The perforagroindustry portfolio (large companies). BIS Ratio 16.11 16.13 18.48 mance was influenced by our strategy, whiRegarding the rural portfolio, which does ch consists in concentrating the portfolio in not include the agroindustrial segment, the Tier I Capital Ratio 11.39 11.39 12.79 lower risk lines. Considering the organic growth was 8.6% in the same period, in classified portfolio, which does not consiline with the Guidance 2016. Core Capital Ratio 9.04 8.17 9.59 der the acquired loan portfolio, growth was 3.3% in the same comparison. Tier II Capital Ratio 4.71 4.74 5.69 Reference Equity (R$ billion) 126.6 135.6 130.5 Risk-Weighted Assets (R$ billion) 786.0 840.5 705.9 98 99 Financial Capital Another important indicator related to and additional) and the balance of ope20.4 20.4 19.8 the quality of the loan portfolio is the corations more than 90 days overdue. It is verage index (ALLL/NPL+90d). This inworth mentioning that BB has sufficient 798.4 dicator expresses the ratio between the provision to support potential scenarios total provision (minimum, supplementary changes, such as higher delinquency. 73.8 742.0 708.1 61.8 45.7 174.9 209.19 164.9 179.8 203.48 181.48 175.68 167.65 364.6 294.7 347.1 167.74 2014 2015 2016 168.1 185.0 187.8 ALLL/NPL + 90 DAYS – BB ALLL/NPL + 90 DAYS – BI 2014 2015 2016 INDIVIDUALS COMPANIES AGRIBUSINESS ABROAD MARKET SHARE BB (%) •Fee Income – The Bank aims for excelwas R$24.4 billion, up 6.8% over the prelence in customer relationship and servivious year. Highlight to the performance ce expansion volume. The assertive ofof account and asset management fees. fer of customized products and services •Delinquency and Coverage – Historically, the ratio between the operations more brings the needs of the clients closer to It is worth mentioning that fee income related BB has a delinquency ratio lower than the than 90 days overdue and the classified the solutions that the Bank offers, a strato 2015 includes part of the interchange reveBraziliian Banking Industry (BI), reflecting loan portfolio, was 3.29% in the period. tegy that generates greater satisfaction, nues from Cateno. Excluding these revenues, the consistent credit risk model. The deThe increase in 2016 was due to the deprofitability, and, consequently, increase the evolution of fee income in 2016/2015 linquency ratio (NPL+90d), which states cline of brazilian economy. in fee income. In 2016, the fee income comparison would have been 8.8%. 3.70 3.40 3.29 2.70 2.23 1.86 2014 2015 2016 NPL +90d – BB NPL +90d – BI 100 101 Financial Capital Variation •Administrative Expenses – In the last rational efficiency. In the comparison Fee Income (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 years, BB has been adopting structu2016/2015, the growth of expenses was 16/15 (%) ring measures on several fronts, such 3.5%, below the inflation of the period, as the restructuring of the service netreinforcing our commitment with expenFee Income 22,185 22,470 24,004 6.8 work and the staff, aiming greater opeses control. Account Fees 4,043 5,224 6,229 19.2 Variation Administrative Expenses (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 16/15 (%) Asset Management Fees 3,190 3,513 3,860 9.9 Administrative Expenses (29,859) (31,709) (32,817) 3.5 Insurance, Pension and Premium Bonds 2,704 2,915 3,123 7.1 Personnel Expenses (17,538) (19,296) (20,238) 4.9 Collections 1,485 1,699 1,679 (1.2) Other Administrative Expenses (12,321) (12,413) (12,579) 1.3 Loan Fees 2,058 1,718 1,684 (2.0) Credit/Debit Cards 3,661 1,806 1,372 (24.0) •Productivity Ratios – The cost-to-income raNII fee income, besides the strict expenses tio, the main productivity index used in the control. Additionally, in the next table, it can comparison between financial institutions, be observed that the personnel expenses Billings 944 1,045 1,046 0.1 expresses the ratio between the administracoverage ratio (fee income/personnel extive expenses and operating revenues. This penses) and administrative expenses coveindicator evolved in the 2016/2015 comparirage ratio (fee income/administrative expenInterbank 749 775 846 9.1 son due to the favorable performance of the ses) also evolded in the period. Capital Market 453 488 623 27.6 Productivity Ratios (%) 2014 2015 2016 National Treasury and Manag. of Official Funds 355 468 594 26.9 Cost-to-Income Ratio 44.3 41.6 39.7 Consortium 336 427 544 27.3 Fee Income/Personnel Expenses 126.5 116.4 118.6 Fiduciary Services 449 491 538 9.7 Fee Income/Administrative Expenses 74.3 70.9 73.1 Other 1,756 1,900 1,867 (1.8) 102 103 Financial Capital •2017 Guidance – The Guidance for 2017 •Net Interest Income: the recovery of writeThe forecasts for 2017 were prepared considering the following assumptions: is presented in the next table. We emphaoffs revenues is not added to NII and besize that our results depend on the market comes part of the ALLL expenses indicator. conditions and on the domestic and international economies performance. • Domestic Loan Portfolio – Broad Definition: the new indicator, organic domestic ASSUMPTIONS INFLUENCED BY MANAGEMENT Regarding the last year, two items have been loan portfolio, does not consider the acreplaced for the 2017 Guidance, as follows: quired loan portfolio, because it has a dif• Digital intensification service model, with investments in the operational ferent dynamic than the other portfolios. structure efficiently; •Adjusted ROE: the indicator was replaced by the adjusted net income value range. • Individuals Loan Portfolio: the new indi• Focus on service excellence, in order to increase the client portfolio The new indicator is not impacted by cator does not consider the acquired loan profitability and enhance revenues; shareholders’ equity fluctuations. portfolio, composed by payroll loan and auto loans. • Do not consider new acquisitions and/or partnerships that might be signed • ALLL Expenses: the indicator was reto exploit specific segment; placed by the ALLL expenses net of write• Companies Loan Portfolio: the new inoffs value range. The new indicator is not dicator considers the agroindustrial loan • Current business model maintenance, disconsidering the companies influenced by the average portfolio calcuportfolio, which was previously part of the disposal or Bank businesses, notably those fee generators; lation and considers the recovery of writeagribusiness loan portfolio. offs effort. • Adjustments in contracts with suppliers and collective bargaining • Rural Loans: the new indicator only conagreement (CBA) aligned with the market; Other five items have been changed for the siders the rural credit. 2017 Guidance, as follows: • Loan portfolio growth in macro strategic sectors observing economic conditions. % 2017 Guidance Adjusted Net Income (R$ billion) 9.5 to 12.5 ASSUMPTIONS THAT ARE NOT UNDER MANAGEMENT CONTROL NII (Net of Recovery of Write-offs) 0 to 4 • National and international regulatory changes in the financial market; Organic Domestic Loan Portfolio Broad Definition 1 to 4 • World economy growth at a moderate pace; Individuals 4 to 7 • Monetary conditions normalization in the USA; Companies -4 to -1 • Current domestic macroeconomic policy structure maintenance: floating exchange rate, inflation targets and fiscal discipline; Rural Loans 6 to 9 • Maintaining a high level of idleness in the domestic labor market; ALL Expenses net of Recovery of Write-offs (R$ billion) -23.5 to -20.5 • Domestic economy gradual recovery perspective (GDP). Fee Income 6 to 9 Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-EC3 | G4-EC4 Administrative Expenses 1.5 to 4.5 104 105 Natural Capital Natural Capital Our commitment to environmental issues is present in the strategies, practices, and businesses, which undergo continuous In broader terms, by extending our operation to society, we assume a commitment to water preservation. We participated in processes of improvement. We operate two important forums, CEO Water Maneffectively under two aspects: internally date, coordinated by the UN, and the by adopting measures to consume natuBrazil Section of the World Water Counral resources in an increasingly responcil. Our Água Brasil Program, along with sible manner and dispose of our waste the Brazilian Department of Water (ANA), correctly; and externally by acting with soWWF-Brasil and Fundação Banco do Bracioenvironmental responsibility in lending, sil (FBB), operates in order to develop investments, contracting of suppliers, destrategies to mitigate the socioenvironvelopment and improvement of products mental risk, identify new business opporand services with socioenvironmental attunities that promote a low-carbon econotributes and inducement of good practices my and the improvement of well-being and with the society, contributing so that the social equality; and in the dissemination of Bank is a benchmark in the transition to a sustainable practices in agriculture, catlow-carbon economy. tle-breeding and in cities, for the purpose of ensuring the water safety of the BrazilOur strategic priorities relate to operationian population. al efficiency focused on the processes and management, the improvement in the user This work is complemented by constant experience, the improvement in the digital pursuit in the development of solutions that 11 relationship model and the provision of digcontribute to combating climate change ital products and services. These directions and the use of socioenvironmental criteria contribute to the reduction of emissions of in the lending process and the contracting greenhouse gases (GHG) and comprise of suppliers, among others. For more inactions aimed at mitigating their effects. formation about the socioenvironmental Among the results, we obtained a reduction criteria in the lending process, see Risk in the power consumption of our facilities; Management – Socioenvironmental Risk decrease in transportations with the use Chapter. Learn more about our practices of video conference rooms; optimization of relating to the management of suppliers in transportation logistics with the sharing of the Social and Relationship Capital – Supthe infrastructure of self-service terminals pliers Chapter. with other banks; lower rate of customers coming in person to our branches with the Learn more in the Attachment GRI business digitization processes. G4-EN29 | G4-EN31 | G4-EN34 Our commitment to environmental issues inspires solutions that promote the responsible consumption of resources and the transition to a low-carbon economy 106 107 Natural Capital Environmental As part of the EMS, our Eco-Efficiency Program Management System Eco-Efficiency Program G4-DMA Products and services | G4-EN27 G4-DMA Materials | G4-DMA Energy | G4-DMA Water | G4-DMA includes: The management of water consumption, Emissions | G4-DMA Effluents and waste | G4-DMA Compliance | G4-DMA Transport | G4-DMA General carried out under Purágua, allows the values of monthly water consumption of Our Environmental Management Sysall the branches to be monitored through tem (EMS) organizes and follows up the Water Panel, made available on the the actions to control environmental imintranet. With this monitoring, total conpacts of our activities, coordinating efRational Water sumption has been reduced. forts internally to improve performance Consumption in water, energy, materials and wastes; (Purágua) The power consumption, which is manWater consumption the annual inventory of GHG emissions; aged by Procen, also reduced, avoiding and a set of green IT initiatives. Among an expenditure of R$13 million. A total of 2015: 1,678 million liters its premises is employee training in so19.6 million kWh was saved due to the cioenvironmental responsibility, the disadoption of behavioral measures and ad2016: 1,566 million liters semination of eco-efficiency concepts equacy of periods of operation of lighting and practices, the adjustment of spaces and air conditioning systems. and equipment in order to rationalize the Power Consumption Percentage reduction: -6,7% use and consumption of goods, the analRationalization (Procen) Our initiatives in eco-efficiency also caused ysis of processes from an eco-efficiency the reconditioning of 119,218 cartridges, perspective and the adoption of contracwhich is equivalent to 97.84% of the total. Learn more in the Attachment GRI tual clauses involving the environment. G4-EN8 | G4-EN10 In addition, we are constantly seeking to improve our system in order to certify our processes through ISO 14000 series, among other standards. Cartridge and Toner OUR COMMITMENTS: we will continue with Reconditioning (Prorec) the study of the economic feasibility of migration from the regulated contracting environment (ACR) to the free contracting environment (ACL) of the 200 largest power consumer Power consumption units, started in 2016. Profitable units will be the object of a bidding process for contracting 2015: 724.2 million kWh a company that will be responsible for the Green IT Initiatives During the year, we increased the percentaInventory and Management management and implementation of migration 2016: 704.5 million kWh ge of computers in automated hibernation, of Greenhouse Gas and purchase of electric power with the Board from 33.0%, in 2015, to 50.0%, in 2016. In of Electric Energy Commercialization (CCEE) 2017, we estimate that hibernation reaches Emissions (GHG) – with expectation of savings of up to 20.0% Percentage reduction: -2,7% all the computers in the office environment. in the amount paid for electric power in these We also increased the percentage of buildings. Another measure expected to 2017 computers with 80 plus-certified power is the replacement of the traditional lighting supplies, with active power stabilizers and Learn more in the Attachment GRI (fluorescent) with more modern and efficient G4-EN3 | G4-EN5 | G4-EN6 | G4-EN7 energy efficiency over 85.0%, from 47.0%, systems (LED). In addition, the air conditioner in 2015, to 55.0%, in 2016. In self-service terminals, this kind of power supply is already replacement program will be continued. Selective Waste used in 21 thousand equipment pieces, which is equivalent to 50.0% of the total. Collection 108 109 Natural Capital G4-DMA Products and services | G4-EN27 The reduction of GHG emissions is also a constant concern in the Bank. The Inventory of Emissions was improved during the year, including for the first time, fugitive emissions from air conditioners. New sources of information were also added for the calculation of During 2016, we reviewed the types of staff transportation for the adoption of a model that reduces the the cash transportation, distribution, and transuse of vehicles and the generation of waste in order to facilitate transportation in a safety and quick portation of employees from home to work, way. Such action is still in progress, expected to be deployed in 2017. making the report broader. The calculations of emissions from business air travel were calculated directly via GHG Protocol methodology. OUR COMMITMENTS: in 2017, we will review the processes of contracting of general Learn more in the Attachment GRI support services to reduce the production of waste. We will begin the replacement of airG4-EN15 | G4-EN16 | G4-EN17 | G4-EN18 | G4-EN19 | G4-EN30 conditioning equipment by others with greater energy efficiency, a project with estimated funding of R$52 million. Also as part of our EMS, the Selective Waste Collection Program, which comprises the management of recyclable non-hazardous solid waste (paper, plastic, metal and glass), reached in 2016 the milestone of 1,628 Environmental Certifications branches with the process implemented. + + + + ISO 14001 – related ISO 14064 – protocol ISO 20000 – Leadership in Energy to the environmental for a voluntary includes quality and Environment management system. accounting of management Design (LEED) – Indicator 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goal Altino Arantes greenhouse gases. of IT services. related to sustainable Building (in the City of We maintained the We renewed the construction. BB’s São Paulo), certified certification regarding certification in new headquarters, To expand the since 2010, was our management of 2015, which is valid in Brasília (DF), has selective waste audited by the BSI GHG emissions. for three years. been granted the seal collection Certification Body and of the U.S. Green Branches with selective waste collection implemented 1,165 1,458 1,628 program to recertified in 2016. Building Council. another 100 branches. Solid Waste Management Our plan was consolidated in 2016, with a In 2015, we approved the Banco do Brasurvey that indicated the existence of 1,542 sil’s Integrated Solid Waste Management tons of solid waste. With this data, we carPlan (PGRIS BB), which seeks to foster and ry out a bidding process for contracting a RECOGNITIONS aggregate internal initiatives and meet the pacompany specialized in recycling services, Gold Seal by the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program – our Inventory of GHG rameters of the National Solid Waste Policy including collection, transportation, storage, Emissions was recognized for fulfilling all evaluation requirements of the Program in (PNRS). Established by Act No. 12,305/2010, destruction, reversal manufacturing, dispo2016, with emphasis on external verification pursuant to standard ISO 14064. the policy provides for shared responsibility for sal and environmentally appropriate final disposal in all the lifecycle of products. disposal, in compliance with the legislation 2016 CDP Global Climate Change Report – we were listed for the seventh and technical standards in force. consecutive year among the best companies in carbon management. Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-EN23 110 111 Natural Capital Environmental Indicators The consumption of natural resources and ment, whose evidence is made available on a The Environmental Footprint Index components are as follows: the environmentally correct disposal of waste half-yearly basis to employees enrolled in the generated in our branches are monitored Internal Knowledge Certification Program. through environmental indicators, which aim at disseminating the culture and practice of In addition, in 2016, one of the challenges Evaluation by the accumulated average of monthly eco-efficiency among our employees. of the Innovation Incentive Program Penconsumption records of the branch, with a consumption target sa BB – was the development of ideas for WATER equal to or less than the established regional pattern. The Environmental Footprint Index (PSI), rationalization of the use of water, energy, an indicator present in our Work Agreement and paper. The selected suggestions, listed – the main instrument for the management below, are in the process of enhancement: of the results of the Bank –, enables our branches to be recognized for environmenA warning to turn off computers, peripherals, tal performance, with goals for the reducand lights during the staff exit command; Evaluation by the accumulated average of monthly tion of the use of natural resources (water, consumption records of the branch, with a consumption target electric power and paper) and the execuSignificant reduction in paper consumption; ELECTRIC equal to or less than the established regional pattern. POWER tion of selective waste collection by sending solid waste for recycling in compliance Elimination of card receipt letter; with current applicable public policies and legislation and aligned with our Specific Optimization of Linux operating system to Socioenvironmental Responsibility Policy. reduce energy consumption. Evaluation of the compliance with the historical pattern of consumption of the branch established by the ratio of Culture of Sustainability In 2017, we will disclose internally the best reams fulfilled to the volume of contracted operations, with We disseminate the sustainability theme idea based on the following criteria for seamong employees on two contexts. The first lection: benefits achieved and/or expected; a linear reduction target of 2.0% compared to the same one is the Sustainability Trail, which can be effectiveness of the action plan; perpetuity; period of the previous year for the Strategic, Tactical and accessed at UniBB Portal; and the second strategic alignment; innovation, applicabiliOperational Units. one is the Certification in Socioenvironmenty; financial potential and potential benefits PAPER Retail branches must present a consumption equal to or tal Responsibility and Sustainable Developand feasibility of implementation. less than the standard established, calculated from the sum of operations contracted in the current semester multiplied by the ratio of reams fulfilled to the volume of operations contracted in the previous year. Evaluation by the record of monthly volume of waste disposed selectively (paper, plastic, metal and glass) SELECTIVE and sent for recycling. WASTE COLLECTION Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-EN1 | G4-EN2 | G4-EN3 | G4-EN8 112 113 Natural Capital Green Businesses G4-DMA Portfolio of products| G4-14 | G4-EC2 | FS6 Highlights of Socioenvironmental-Bias Products G4-DMA | Indirect economic impacts| G4-EC8 CHALLENGE 16: TO DEVELOP FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS AND BUSINESS MODELS THAT PROMOTE THE TRANSITION TO AN INCLUSIVE GREEN ECONOMY. ABC PROGRAM – encourages the reduction in the Emission of Greenhouse We encourage the development of busiOur efforts to promote the green econoGases in Agriculture, combating deforestation, promoting the production on a ness models that contribute to improve my inspired various actions in 2016. We sustainable basis and the expansion of cultivated forests, among other actions. income, reduce emissions of greenhouse participated in the definition of the methIn 2016, the portfolio total was R$9.16 billion. The program includes agricultural gases and preserve natural resources. odology and study O Sistema Financeiro funding to finance no-till farming systems, a practice based on the potential of Nacional e a Economia Verde – MensuCO2 retention. It is worth mentioning the agricultural funding to finance no-till Our credit operations are guided by Credit rando Recursos Financeiros alocados na farming systems, which is one of the practices supported by ABC Program Sustainability Guidelines (forests and biodiEV (The National Financial System and based on the potential of CO2 retention in the soil, with an investment of funds versity, water, climate change, agribusiness, the Green Economy – Measuring Finanover R$20.0 billion in 2016. electric power, civil construction, mining, oil cial Resources allocated in EV), prepared and gas, transportation, irrigated agriculby Febraban, the Center for Sustainability ture and pulp and paper) and EnvironmenStudies of Fundação Getulio Vargas and tal Guidelines for Controversial Issues. The financial institutions. The initiative allows full content of the guidelines is available at knowing better the sectors that help in the Sustainable Credit Guidelines of Banco do transition to the green economy and the Brasil and “Controversial” issues. performance of the Bank, enabling the BB AÇÕES ISE JOVEM FIC – an index of BB DTVM composed of actions construction of future strategies. of companies with a broad corporate responsibility proposal, which considers In the case of financing operations classified aspects of good governance, economic efficiency, environmental balance and within the Equator Principles, we require that Also, in coordination with other institutions, social justice; 20.0% of the management fee is intended for Água Brasil Program the project is aligned to the Performance we participated in the Emissions Trading through FBB. In 2016, R$34.6 thousand were transferred and the shareholders’ Standards on Socioenvironmental SustainSystem (SCE) of Empresas pelo Clima equity amounted to R$8.6 million. ability of International Finance Corporation (EPC) Platform, an initiative of Empresas (IFC) and the Guidelines for Environment, Pelo Clima, Fundação Getulio Vargas, Health, and Safety of the World Bank Group. Bolsa Verde of Rio de Janeiro and BrazilProjects are categorized based on their poian companies. For the purpose of raising tential socioenvironmental impacts and risk. awareness and engaging corporate leaders For more information, see the Risk Managefor the management and reduction of emisment chapter, on page 34. sions of greenhouse gases and climate risk NATIONAL FAMILY AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PRONAF) management, the project will propose pub– offers various products with environmental attributes. An example is Pronaf Also, in terms of business opportunities lic policies for a low-carbon economy and Agroecologia (Agroecology), which encourages organic farming and had R$9.06 related to climate change, we have the a possible market in Brazil, considering the million in the portfolio at the end of the year. Other products are Pronaf Florestal Program for Incentive to Technological Incorporate vision in the theme. (Forest), which invests in projects that meet the requirements of the Department novation in Agricultural Production (Inovaof Family Agriculture for systems of agroforestry, ecologically sustainable gathering gro). The initiative favors loans to projects We made progress in the development of of raw material from nature and replenishment and maintenance of permanent adopting good agricultural practices and the model of Socioenvironmental Information preservation areas, among others, and had R$170 million in the portfolio; and Pronaf crop protection, as well as the environmenSupport system, which will support the analyECO, which promotes the adoption of renewable energy, environmental, water tal regularization of rural properties. In addisis and decision-making process with regard storage and other technologies; the amount in the portfolio, in December 2016, was tion, we participate in the Rural Sustainable to financing and improve the socioenvironR$218.0 million. Project, a partnership with Banco Interammental risk assessments, as well as indicate ericano de Desenvolvimento (BID) to enbusiness opportunities. courage practices of low emission of GHG. We manage the funds donated by the British Government, before being passed on to See the complete list of products bias socio-environmental in the Attachment GRI. rural producers selected by BID. 114 115 Natural Capital Under the Água Brasil Program, we prewere held with the attendance of 22 experts pared the Socioenvironmental Criteria among representatives from Banco do Brafor the Financing of Sugar Cane in Brazil sil, WWF-Brasil, Universities, companies, document, which translates and details and entities affiliated with the sugar-ethanol Compacts, initiatives, the industry overview, description of methodologies, job steps and results obtained. industry. Another initiative was the structuring of an action plan with business models and voluntary commitments To this end, between September 2015 and for large-scale forest recovery, wood forest October 2016, meetings and workshops treatment in Amazon, energy efficiency, and water efficiency. World Water Council (2011) Principles for Responsible Investment (2010) AWARD Caring for Climate (2009) The VI Corporate Forum of the Global Compact in Latin America and the Caribbean, in Lima, Peru, recognized the Água Brasil Program as one of the four benchmark corporate practices in the Environment theme. Água Brasil stood out for the actions Empresas pelo Clima (2009) in rural areas, implementing and disseminating good agricultural practices and those of natural vegetation cover in watersheds, in addition to actions in the urban environment, with the promotion of projects for the training and awareness on the Sustainable Amazon Forum (2008) consumption and waste disposal. Brazilian GHG Protocol Program (2008) CDP (2005) Business case Equator Principles (2005) Through BB Securities, we participated in the structuring and Global Compact (2003) distribution of the issuance of Green Bond of Suzano in the amount of Protocolo Verde (Green Protocol) (1995) 500 million dollars, with a 5.75% coupon and the deadline for 2026. The company will use part of the funds to finance projects involving forest management and water Learn more in the Attachment GRI G4-16 | G4-EC2 treatment and that are capable of reducing the consumption of water and chemicals. The projects will involve mainly the plants in Imperatriz (MA) and Mucuri (BA). 116 117 Natural Capital Capital Humano e Capital Intelectual Corporate Information G4-3 | G4-5 | G4-31 Banco do Brasil S.A. Setor de Autarquias Norte, Quadra 5, Lote B, Edifício Banco do Brasil, Brasília, Distrito Federal, Brazil Investor Relations Department Setor de Autarquias Norte, Quadra 5, Lote B Torre Central – 4º andar Asa Norte CEP (Zip Code): 70040-912 Brasília (DF) Email: ir@bb.com.br Strategy and Organization Directorship Setor de Autarquias Norte, Quadra 5, Lote B Torre Sul – 12º andar Asa Norte CEP (Zip Code): 70040-912 Brasília (DF) Email: direo.sustentabilidade@bb.com.br 118 119 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index G4-32 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General standard disclosures Page External assurance Global compact SDG – “in accordance” STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 7 Yes G4-25 6 Yes G4-26 6 Yes Comprehensive G4-27 7 Yes REPORT PROFILE G4-28 134 No G4-32 G4-29 134 No G4-30 134 No G4-31 119 No G4-32 120 to 127 Yes G4-33 178 to 181 Yes GOVERNANCE G4-34 24 and 25 Yes GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-35 25 and 135 Yes General standard disclosures Page External assurance Global compact SDG G4-36 135 Yes STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-37 32, 52 and 135 Yes 16 G4-1 16 and 17 No G4-38 24 and 158 Yes 5 | 16 G4-2 36 to 38, 129 and 138 Yes GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-39 142 Yes 16 G4-3 19 and 119 Yes G4-40 142 Yes 5 | 16 G4-4 20 and 21 Yes G4-41 142 Yes 16 G4-5 119 Yes G4-42 143 No G4-6 21 and 129 Yes G4-43 143 No 4 G4-7 19 Yes G4-44 143 Yes G4-8 20 and 21 Yes G4-45 6, 27 and 143 Yes 16 G4-9 14 and 15 Yes G4-46 143 Yes G4-10 129 and 130 Yes 6 8 G4-47 143 Yes G4-11 130 No 3 8 G4-48 27 Yes G4-12 130 and 131 Yes G4-49 144 No G4-13 88 and 131 Yes G4-50 144 Yes G4-14 36, 114 and 131 No G4-51 144 Yes G4-15 27 Yes G4-52 90 Yes G4-16 132 Yes G4-53 144 Yes 16 MATERIAL ASPECTS IDENTIFIED AND LIMITS G4-54 144 Yes G4-17 132 Yes G4-55 144 Yes G4-18 5, 6 and 132 to 134 Yes ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-19 5, 6 and 132 to 134 Yes G4-56 144 Yes 10 16 G4-20 132 to 134 Yes G4-57 30 to 32 Yes 10 16 G4-21 132 to 134 Yes G4-58 32 Yes 10 16 G4-22 134 Yes G4-23 5 and 132 to 134 No 120 121 GRI Content Index G4-32 G4-32 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and External Global DMA and External Global Material aspects Page Omissions SDG Material aspects Page Omissions SDG indicators assurance compact indicators assurance compact CATEGORY: ECONOMY CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA 95 No G4-DMA 108 No G4-EC1 14, 15 and 81 No 2|5|7|8|9 Materials G4-EN1 146 No 7|8 8 | 12 Confidentiality G4-EN2 146 No 8 8 | 12 restrictions – costs of G4-DMA 108 No measures taken G4-EN3 147 Yes 7|8 7 | 8 | 12 | 13 to manage Energy G4-EN5 148 No 8 7 | 8 | 12 | 13 the risk or the opportunity. We G4-EN6 148 and 149 Yes 8|9 7 | 8 | 12 | 13 do not disclose G4-EN7 148 No 8|9 7 | 8 | 12 | 13 the amounts 36, 37, 114 and invested in the G4-DMA 108 No G4-EC2 Yes 7 13 145 development G4-EN8 148 and 149 Yes 7|8 6 of the SocioNot applicable. Environmental There are no Information Water water sources Support System G4-EN9 significantly No 8 6 model and/or affected by other programs the removal of due to the water. confidentiality of the information. G4-EN10 149 No 8 6 | 8 | 12 Economic performance G4-EC3 145 No G4-DMA 108 No Currently not G4-EN15 149 No 7|8 3 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 available. G4-EN16 149 No 7|8 3 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 Other products that received G4-EN17 149 and 150 No 7|8 3 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 economic G4-EN18 150 No 8 13 | 14 | 15 subsidy are G4-EN19 150 No 8|9 13 | 14 | 15 missing. They will not be Not applicable. disclosed for Emissions of Emissions ozone-depleting strategic and G4-EN20 No 7|8 3 | 12 confidential substances G4-EC4 145 Yes (ODS) are not reasons. Due to the complexity significant. of consolidating Not applicable. these data, we Other are looking for emissions, a way to make G4-EN21 No 7|8 3 | 12 | 14 | 15 including NOx this information and SOx, are available not significant. through the 2019 Annual Report. G4-DMA 86 No Market presence G4-EC5 146 No 6 1|5|8 G4-EC6 146 No 6 8 G4-DMA 74 and 115 No Indirect economic G4-EC7 146 Yes 2 | 5 | 7 | 9 | 11 impacts G4-EC8 74 and 115 Yes 1 | 2 | 3 | 8 | 10 | 17 G4-DMA 71 and 73 No Procurement practices G4-EC9 146 No 12 122 123 GRI Content Index G4-32 G4-32 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and External Global DMA and External Global Material aspects Page Omissions SDG Material aspects Page Omissions SDG indicators assurance compact indicators assurance compact G4-DMA 108 No G4-DMA 72 No Supplier environment Not applicable. G4-EN32 152 No 8 assessment The significant G4-EN33 152 No 8 volume of water G4-EN22 is discarded No 8 3 | 6 | 12 | 14 G4-DMA 32 No for sewage Environmental grievance collection mechanisms G4-EN34 152 No 8 16 networks. G4-EN23 151 Yes 8 3 | 6 | 12 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUBCATEGORY: Labor practices and decent work Not applicable. We do not G4-DMA 86 No store significant G4-LA1 153 and 154 Yes 6 5|8 G4-EN24 volumes of No 8 3 | 6 | 12 | 14 | 15 Employment chemical G4-LA2 154 No 8 Effluents and waste products or G4-LA3 154 No 6 5|8 fuels. Labor/management G4-DMA 85 No Not applicable. relations G4-LA4 154 No 3 8 We do not use or transport G4-DMA 92 No G4-EN25 No 8 3 | 12 products G4-LA5 155 No 8 considered Occupational G4-LA6 155 and 156 Yes 3|8 hazardous. health and safety G4-LA7 156 No 3|8 Not applicable. The disposal G4-LA8 156 No 8 of effluents G4-DMA 90 No G4-EN26 is carried out No 8 6 | 14 | 15 G4-LA9 156 and 157 Yes 6 4|5|8 through sewage Training and education collection G4-LA10 157 Yes 8 network. G4-LA11 158 No 6 5|8 G4-DMA 73, 109 and 110 No G4-DMA 85 No Diversity and equal 6 | 8 | 12 | 13 | 14 opportunity G4-LA12 158 and 159 Yes 6 5|8 G4-EN27 73 and 109 No 7|8|9 | 15 Equal remuneration G4-DMA 85 No Not applicable. for women and men G4-LA13 160 Yes 6 5 | 8 | 10 Our basic activity consists G4-DMA 32 and 85 No Products and services of providing Labor practices services; we grievance mechanisms G4-LA16 160 No 16 G4-EN28 also have No 8 8 | 12 programs to SUBCATEGORY: Human rights mitigate impacts caused by used G4-DMA 36 No materials and Investiment G4-HR1 160 Yes 2 inputs. G4-HR2 161 and 162 Yes 1 G4-DMA 108 No Compliance G4-DMA 30 and 36 No G4-EN29 151 No 8 16 Non-discrimination G4-HR3 162 Yes 6 5 | 8 | 16 G4-DMA 108 No Transport G4-DMA 36 No G4-EN30 151 and 152 No 8 11 | 12 | 13 Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 162 No 3 8 G4-DMA 108 No Overall 7 | 9 | 12 | 13 | 14 | G4-EN31 152 Yes 7|8|9 15 | 17 124 125 GRI Content Index G4-32 G4-32 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and External Global DMA and External Global Material aspects Page Omissions SDG Material aspects Page Omissions SDG indicators assurance compact indicators assurance compact G4-DMA 162 No SUBCATEGORY: Product responsibility Child labor G4-HR5 162 No 5 8 | 16 G4-DMA 93 and 166 No G4-PR1 166 No Forced or G4-DMA 162 No Currently compulsory labor G4-HR6 163 No 4 8 available – we are evaluating G4-DMA 163 No Customer health and Security practices internally to safety verify the G4-HR7 163 No 1 16 G4-PR2 No 16 possibility of G4-DMA 163 No disclosing the Assessment information G4-HR9 36 and 163 Yes 1 on the 2019 G4-DMA 163 No Report. Supplier human rights G4-DMA 32, 49 and 58 No G4-HR10 163 No 2 assessment Product and service G4-PR3 60, 69 and 70 No G4-HR11 163 Yes 2 labeling G4-PR4 58 and 166 No 16 G4-DMA 163 No G4-PR5 166 and 167 Yes Human rights grievance mechanisms G4-DMA 69 No G4-HR12 163 Yes 1 16 Not applicable. SUBCATEGORY: Society We do not sell Marketing G4-PR6 prohibited or No G4-DMA 164 and 176 No communications questionable Local communities G4-SO1 164 Yes 1 products. G4-PR7 167 No 16 G4-SO2 164 No 1 1|2 G4-DMA 41 No G4-DMA 30 No Customer privacy G4-PR8 167 Yes 16 G4-SO3 29 Yes 10 16 G4-DMA 30 No Anti-corruption Compliance G4-SO4 164 and 165 Yes 10 16 G4-PR9 167 Yes 16 G4-SO5 166 Yes 10 16 SECTOR SUPPLEMENT – FINANCIAL SERVICES G4-DMA 30 No Public policy External Global G4-SO6 166 No 10 16 Material aspects DMA and indicators Page Omissions SDG assurance compact G4-DMA 30 No Compliance 25, 36, 90, 167 G4-SO8 166 No 16 G4-DMA Yes 7 10 and 114 G4-DMA 32 No Product portfolio FS6 21, 114 and 168 Yes 1|8|9 Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society FS7 168, 169 and 172 Yes 6 1 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 G4-SO11 166 No 16 FS8 168 a 171 and 173 Yes 6 Audit G4-DMA 40 and 175 Yes 10 G4-DMA 26 and 175 Yes Active shareholder FS10 175 Yes 10 control FS11 175 Yes 10 G4-DMA 164 and 176 Yes Local communities FS13 176 No 7|8 1 | 8 | 10 FS14 176 Yes 8 1 | 8 | 10 Product and service 32, 49, 58, 176 G4-DMA No 8|9 1 | 8 | 10 labeling and 177 126 127 Attachment GRI General Standard Contents G4-2 | Submit a description of key impacts, risks, Information about the main risks to which and opportunities. we are exposed and detailing on our risk In the current national scenario, we act in a timely manner to face management policy available in sections 4 the downturn period that reaches the financial conditions of the and 5 of the Reference Form. Attachment GRI companies and industries and the default rates. The more restrictive stance of the monetary authority, with a long process of moneG4-6 | Report the number of countries where tary tightening (Selic rate increase), required the entire industry to the organization operates and the name of make financial adjustments. the countries in which its main operations are located or that are specifically relevant In these terms, our Corporate Strategy (ECBB) provides for, in to the sustainability topics addressed in general, actions to reduce expenses with provisions for future lossthe report. es, minimize exposure to risks, allocate investments in technology Information available on Management Disand process improvement, reduce costs and expenses, increase cussion and Analysis (MD&A) – 4Q16, secservice revenues and improve customer experience. tion 10.3. Cross-Border Business, page 121. Additionally, when defining our ECBB, we considered possible G4-10 | Staff profile. conjuncture changes to anticipate scenarios for a period of five All our employees who exercise core activyears. The 2017-2021 ECBB addressed the growth of the Brazilities are contractually hired by us and have ian economy and the recent technological transformation of the a permanent employment contract in a fullfinancial sector as the most significant variables. In addition, we time regime. In order to join our staff, canbelieve the relevant trends are: didates must be approved in a civil service examination, and the external recruitment is • New business models focused on information technology, carried out by means of public notice. This as it influences the trust in non-banking companies for use of process is carried out by an external entity financial services, increasing the diffuse competition; in compliance with the legislation in force. • Investments in the Green Economy (GE), as it is able to encourage new business opportunities, in addition to being useful for attracting international funding and for the mitigation of risks; In order to move forward on concision and • Population growth in marginal decreasing rates, with popurelevance of our Annual Report, we decided lation aging, as it represents impacts on the financial industo bring additional information on the GRI G4 try, with reflections on business strategies, development of products and services and the appropriateness of channels for indicators for this Attachment. Indicators can be these stakeholders; found through the Table of Contents of GRI •  perational, commercial and capital efficiency, due to the regO ulation of the financial system and the growing demand for solutions that use digital and remote media – the increase in efficiency is stimulated with a focus on improving customer experience. 128 129 Attachment GRI G4-10 Software Fixtures 2.27% 0.03% Number of Employees per 2014 2015 2016 G4-12 Constructions/Engineering Employment Contract and Gender Our suppliers domiciled in Brazil are locat11.08% Men Women Men Women Men Women ed throughout the national territory. From Consolidated Labor Laws (CLT) 65,264 46,364 63,809 45,382 59,073 41,549 2017, we will have a specific methodology Equipment for presenting the data according to the 9.82% Statutory(1) 36 0 35 1 36 1 geographical area. Service providers are (1) The statutory ones are not considered in the sum of employees. responsible for over 60% of all contracts in Office force during the period. The works and ressupplies Number of Employees torations represented approximately 30% 1.13% 2014 2015 2016 per Region and Gender of the total commitments made. Men Women Men Women Men Women Chattels South 11,466 8,006 11,306 7,951 10,404 7,495 The following chart shows the percentage 0.70% of payments to suppliers, by sector, in 2016. Southeast 27,179 23,124 26,849 22,547 30 20,294 Midwest 11,325 6,552 10,919 6,456 10,320 6,029 Services North 3,037 2,047 2,946 2,002 2,785 1,904 74.96% Northeast 12,211 6,634 11,781 6,426 10,893 5,826 Overseas 46 1 43 1 41 1 Total per gender 65,264 46,364 63,844 45,383 59,073 41,549 G4-13 | Report any significant changes occurred during the period covered by the report with regard to the size, Annual total 111,628 109,227 100,622 structure, equity interest or supply chain of the organization. Information available in Explanatory Note 2 – Corporate reorganizations, in the Financial Statements document. In 2016, we had a total of 10,474 terminations, 8,760 through the Extraordinary Stimulated Retirement Plan (PEAI). Recorded on November 20, 2016, the terminations occurred until December 30, 2016. In contrast, during G4-14 | Report whether and how the organization adopts the approach or the principle of precaution. the same period, a total of 1,428 new employees were appointed. Thus, from 2015 to 2016, there was a reduction We follow principles of socioenvironmental responsibility and criteria when granting loans to companies or projof 9.2% in our headcount. ects. We consider the compliance with the law on the part of contractors and also the risks related to each transaction. We also take into account the socioenvironmental, credit, market, liquidity, operational, strategy and G4-11 | Report the percentage of the total number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. reputation risk analyses. The percentage of the number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements is 100%. We do not enter into agreements with customers who subject workers to degrading forms of labor or keep them under G4-12 | Describe the organization’s supply chain. conditions similar to slavery, and, for that purpose, we use information disclosed by the Ministry of Labor and Employment. We have selected suppliers through the bidding process, pursuant to Act No. 8,666/93. The following table shows the distribution of settlements performed by us – the number of contracts and amounts in Brazilian reais – to We do not grant loan either to applicants whose activities do not have a formal authorization of the competent partners, according to classification. body to, for example, incorporation of new areas in the production process, marketing of extractive products of plant origin and fresh fish, operations of investment in activities that require environmental resources or projects Supply contracts for capable of causing environmental degradation. 2014 2015 2016 BB sorted by type Amount Paid Amount Paid Amount Paid For rural credit in the Amazon Biome, for example, we require proof of environmental and land regularities of the propQuantity Quantity Quantity (R$ thousand) (R$ thousand) (R$ thousand) erties and we do not provide financing to producers included in the list of embargoed areas due to deforestation or Engineering 4,601 168,508 3,044 87,440 4,544 800,204 illegal burning disclosed by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (Ibama). Equipment 1,741 690,647 978 595,576 589 709,577 Finally, our contracts include extraordinary/anticipated maturity clauses for cases of breach of laws and regulaOffice Supplies 794 101,212 544 92,283 280 81,853 tions related to the Amazon Biome, environmental licensing, crimes against nature, labor rights, discrimination Chattels 973 118,643 608 93,284 324 50,796 of race or gender, sexual and moral harassment or criminal advantage from prostitution or property located in a Services 12,499 5,127,526 11,010 4,899,700 9,809 5,413,814 preservation area of archaeological heritage and/or land of traditional people and communities. Software 75 114,218 61 184,416 68 163,709 Fixtures 1,457 8,690 781 10,119 173 2,459 Total 22,140 6,329,443 17,026 5,962,818 15,787 7,222,412 130 131 Attachment GRI G4-16 | List participation in associations (e.g. industry associa• Ethos Institute of Business and Social G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-23 tions) and national or international organizations. Responsibility; • Others (discusses the collective aspect The application of a mathematical logic, based on the divisions creThe main bodies, entities or associations of which we are signatooutside the business scope, such as instiated, allowed the definition of the challenges methodically in three ries or representatives are as follows: • Brazilian Association of Development Fitutional partners and Non-Governmental main limits: inside, outside and both. nancial Institutions (ABDE); Organizations (NGOs), local communi• Sustainable Finance Theme Chamber (CTFin, coordinated by the Braties, Governments, environment, etc.). Material challenges are presented in descending order in the folzilian Corporate Council for Sustainable Development – CEBDS); • National Association of Banks; lowing table: • Brazilian Council for Market Sustainable Development (coordinat• Brazilian Association of Publicly-Held Prosperity Limit Sub-limit ed by CEBDS and by the Ministry of the Environment); Companies (ABRASCA); Challenge 1: To align the governance of Banco do Brasil to the best international practices and strengthen the role of the Senior Management in the Internal Internal • The Brazilian Committee for the Global Compact (CBPG, coordi• Brazilian Association of Agribusiness (ABAG). sustainability strategy. G4-1 | G4-34 | G4-35 | G4-36 | G4-38 | G4-40 | G4-42 | G4-43 | G4-44 | G4-45 | G4-46 | G4-47 nated by the United Nations – UN); G4-17 | List all entities included in the conChallenge 2: To identify and manage medium and long-term non-financial and/ • Caring for Climate Council (coordinated by the UN); solidated financial statements or equivaor emerging risks that may significantly impact Banco do Brasil’s businesses. G4-DMA Portfolio of products | G4-DMA Audit | G4-2 | lent documents of the organization. Internal Internal G4-14 | G4-EC2 | G4-EN15 | G4-EN16 | G4-EN17 | G4-EN18 | • Technical Council for Carbon Disclosure Program (CDP); Information available in Explanatory Note 3 G4-EN19 | G4-EN27 | FS6 | GFS9 (Economic performance, – Presentation of the Financial Statements, Emissions and Products and services aspects) • Commission for Social Responsibility and Sustainability of the Brain the Financial Statements document. Challenge 3: To identify innovations in the financial sector (business and technology zilian Federation of Banks (FEBRABAN); models) and anticipate the trends in order to ensure the perpetuity Internal Internal G4-18 | Process adopted to define the and longevity of Banco do Brasil. G4-EN6 | G4-EN7 | G4-PR8 (Energy • Commission for Special Study on Social Responsibility of the Bracontent of the report – the limits of the and Customer privacy aspects) zilian Technical Standards Association (ABNT); aspects. G4-19 | Material aspects idenChallenge 4: To enhance customer relationship management and increase the tified in the process of definition of the satisfaction and retention indexes. G4-PR1 | G4-PR2 | G4-PR3 | • Brazil Section of the World Water Council (Brazilian Department content of the report. G4-20 | Limit of G4-PR4 | G4-PR5 | G4-PR7 | G4-PR8 | G4-PR9 | G4-DMA Product Internal Internal and service labeling (Customer health and safety, Product and service of Water); the material aspect inside the organizalabeling, Marketing communications, Customer privacy and Product or tion. G4-21 | Limit of the material aspect service compliance aspects) • FEBRABAN; outside the organization. G4-23 | RePartnership Limit Sub-limit port significant changes with regard to • Federation of Industries of the State of São Paulo (Fiesp); periods covered by previous reports in Challenge 6: T  o strengthen the role of Banco do Brasil in the pursuit of social Scope and Limits of Aspect. business through comprehensive, efficient and innovative solutions • Brazilian Association of Savings Real Estate Credit Entities (Abecip); aligned with public policies. G4-DMA Product and service labeling | G4-PR1 | G4-PR2 | G4-PR3 | G4-PR4 | G4-PR5 | G4-PR7 | G4-PR8 External Customers, Suppliers, and Our process for the definition of the content | G4-PR9 (Customer health and safety, Product and service labeling, Others • Brazilian Association of Credit Card and Service Companies (Abecs); is described in the About the Report chapMarketing communications, Customer privacy and Product or service ter. However, the definitions of the limits of compliance aspects) • National Association of Credit, Financing and Investment Instituthe aspects are listed below. Challenge 7: To enhance Banco do Brasil’s initiatives towards the productive tions (ACREFI); development, entrepreneurship and the promotion of social and External Customers In order to capture the perception of stakefinancial inclusion. G4-EC7 | G4-EC8 | FS13 | FS14 (Indirect • Brazilian Association of Leasing Company (ABEL); holders set out in the GRI guidelines, we economic impacts and local communities aspects) proposed the evaluation of the challenges as • ABNT; generating impacts inside and outside the organization, and the outside impact group was • Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Market Entities (ANBIMA); evaluated in three subdivisions: • Brazilian Investor Relations Institute (IBRI); • Customers; • Association of Investment Analysts and Professionals of the Capital • Suppliers; Market (Apimec); 132 133 Attachment GRI G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-23 People Limit Sub-limit G4-35 | Report the process used for the delegation of authority on economic, environmental and social Challenge 11: To ensure greater representation of gender and race in all topics by the highest governance body for senior executives and other employees. G4-36 | Report wheththe hierarchical levels of Banco do Brasil. G4-10 | G4-LA3 | er the organization has designated one or more executive-level offices and functions as responsible for G4-LA12 | G4-LA13 | G4-HR3 (Employment, Diversity and equal Internal Internal economic, environmental and social topics and whether those responsible people report directly to the opportunities, Equal compensation for women and men and Non-discrimination aspects) highest governance body. Our Bylaws stipulates that the Board of Directors (BoD) is responsible for establishing the number and electing the memChallenge 14: To strengthen the role of Banco do Brasil with regard to human bers of the Executive Board who shall exercise the actions defined by the BoD. The environmental and social topics, capital, considering the management of health, safety and wellspecifically, are addressed by the Strategy and Organization Board, linked directly to the President. being, the development and the retention of talents. G4-11 | G4-LA1 | G4-LA2 | G4-LA4 | G4-LA5 | G4-LA6 | G4-LA7 | G4-LA8 | G4-LA9 Internal Internal | G4-LA10 | G4-LA11 | G4-HR7 | G4-HR9 (Employment, Labor Other areas related to the management of economic, environmental and social issues are as follows: relations, Health and safety at work, Training and education, Security practices and Evaluation in human rights aspects) a. Strategy and Organization Board (Direo), reporting directly to the President; Challenge 15: To strengthen the role of Banco do Brasil with regard to the ethics and anti-corruption theme. G4-41 | G4-56 | G4-57 | G4-58 | G4-SO3 | Internal Internal b. Vice-Presidency (VP) of Retail Distribution and People Management, reporting to the People Management Board; G4-SO4 | G4-SO5 (Anti-corruption aspect) Planet Limit Sub-limit c. V  P of Financial Management and Investor Relations (IR) – reporting to Finance Board and Controllership Board; Challenge 16: To develop financial solutions and business models that promote the transition to an inclusive green economy. G4-EC2 | G4-EN6 | Internal, Others and d. VP of Government – reporting to the Government Board. Both G4-EN19 | G4-EN31 (Economic performance, Energy, Emissions Customers and General aspects) G4-37 | Report the query processes used between the stakeholders and the highest governance body with regard to economic, environmental and social topics. If the query is delegated to other structures, bodies or Challenge 19: To improve the management of socioenvironmental risk from people, please indicate to whom and any existing processes of feedback to the highest governance body. socioenvironmental criteria in the granting of financings. G4-DMA External Customers As a result of the process of interaction with our stakeholders, we present below the rendering of accounts of the Portfolio of products (FS1, FS2, FS3, FS4, FS5) | G4-DMA Audit (FS9) | G4-DMA Active share control (FS12) | FS10 | FS11 actions taken in 2016 with respect to 2015-2017 Agenda 21 and the commitments of 2017-2019 Agenda 30 BB. Such interaction involved the Organization in the pursuit of the improvement in sustainable practices and busiPeace Limit Sub-limit nesses undertaken in our Sustainability Plan. Challenge 21: To develop a social (includes human rights and labor practices) and environmental due diligence process to assess the impacts of Rendering of Accounts – Agenda 21 BB operations and commercial relations of Banco do Brasil. G4-HR1 to G4-HR7, G4-HR9 to G4-HR12 | G4-SO1 | G4-SO2 | G4-SO11 Challenge 1. To improve the Expiration date: 12/31/2016 (Local communities, Mechanisms of complaints related to impacts on Internal Internal sustainability governance society, Investments in human rights, Non-discrimination, Freedom of Actions:  o develop and implement programs for training on the socioenvironmental T structure involving Senior association and collective bargaining, Child labor, Forced or slaveryresponsibility to the Board of Directors, Board of Officers and Executive Board. Management (Board of like labor, Security practices, Evaluation in human rights, Evaluation Directors and Executive of suppliers in human rights and Mechanisms of complaints related to Status:   ction not completed on time. However, given the importance of the A Board), reinforcing the human rights aspects) theme, a new action for this purpose has been approved for 2017-2019 commitment of the Bank Agenda 30 BB. to the theme. Challenge 24: To improve the integration between the Private Social Investment Expiration date: Continuous (on a half-yearly basis) and the business strategy. G4-EC4 | G4-EC7 | G4-EC8 | G4-SO1 Customers External Actions:  To establish differentiated business conditions and/or benefits to Individual, (Economic performance, Indirect economic impacts, and Local and Others Challenge 11. T  o enhance customer Corporate and Governmental customers through the use of online services communities aspects) relationship management and inhibition of prints. and increase the satisfaction index. Status:   ction completed on time considering the implementation of initiatives A G4-22 | Report the effect of any updates of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for related to the digital relationship model and use of online services for such updates. G4-28 | Period covered by the report (e.g., fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Individual, Corporate and Governmental stakeholders. G4-29 | Date of most recent previous report (if any). G4-30 | Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Our Report is published annually and, in this Edition, it covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2016. The previous report was published in June 2016. Eventual updates of information and their respective reasons are outlined throughout the document. 134 135 Attachment GRI Expiration date: Continuous (on an annual basis) Expiration date: Continuous (on an annual basis) Challenge 23. T  o improve the system of variable compensation Actions: T  o develop initiatives to increase the percentage of employees whose Actions: T  o adjust/develop innovative products and services with the of employees, including compensation is affected by the individual performance evaluation following assumptions: Senior Management, (management by goals and multidimensional performance evaluations). Wholesale Pillar: BBEcoEficiente, innovation and socioenvironmental taking into account the value creation. Examples include: Credit lines with a socioenvironmental Actions:  ction completed on time due to a proposed payment of part of the A individual performance. attribute for the financing of green technologies; carbon credit market; Remunerated Performance Program (PDG) in shares of Banco do Brasil. consulting services; Equity products with environmental attributes; fixedChallenge 26. T  o maintain and expand Expiration date: Continuous (on a half-yearly basis) income investments with environmental attributes; environmental and the Bank’s role as a climate change criteria across the credit and investment process. Actions: T o implement a performance model in sustainable development. driver of sustainable development through Status:  A  ction completed on time due to the expansion of the Sustainable Status: Action completed on time with the inclusion of BB MM Global Acqua financial inclusion and Development activity model. Challenge 15. To enhance and Private Fund in the Private Fund Allocation Model and implementation social business (MPO, Expiration date: Continuous (on a half-yearly basis) systemize the of the Operational Efficiency GPA enabling batch signature of up to 50 Fies, Minha Casa Minha identification of business exchange contracts at a time. Actions: T o determine concept, for BB, of “financial inclusion” and establish Vida, BB Accessibility opportunities for the indicators capable of measuring the performance of the actions of the Actions: Retail Pillar: BBEcoEficiente, innovation and socioenvironmental value Credit, Pronaf, among development of products Bank, with monitoring and reporting to Senior Management. creation. Examples include: Real estate financing for the acquisition, others), so as to integrate that meet the demands construction/restoration of sustainable developments; credit lines with a programs and public Status:  A  ction completed on time, in view of the adoption in BB of the concept of caused by environmental socioenvironmental attribute for the financing of green technologies; fixedpolicies, partnerships financial inclusion of the Central Bank of Brazil, but with a performance issues (trends/new income investments with environmental attributes; environmental and with the private focused on the use of banking services and the establishment of regulations about the use climate change criteria across the credit and investment process. sector and the BB’s the following indicators: Social Business ownership – (MPO, MCMV, of natural resources) and Status: Action completed on time with the review of internal standards for the sustainable development PRONAF, FIES, BB Accessibility Credit); Use of alternative channels; climate change (demand expansion of the target audience of Corporate Urban Proger and Tourism strategies (private social Products directed to the banking inclusion; Business with cooperatives. for infrastructure financing Investment Proger and with promotional campaigns with BB customers investment, volunteer for adjustment to Expiration date: Continuous (on an annual basis) for the purpose of disseminating and encouraging the lines for adhesion/ work, digital inclusion, climate changes). Actions: T o prepare an annual integrated communication plan on the BB’s results renewal of machinery and equipment with a focus on items related to the sustainable regional development, model for for the benefit of sustainable development. photovoltaic solar power generation. integrated involvement in Status:  A  ction completed on time with the preparation of an Integrated Communication Actions: Government  Pillar: BBEcoEficiente, innovation and socioenvironmental sustainable development, Plan aimed at the disclosure of the BB’s results towards the Sustainable value creation. Examples include: Credit lines with the socioenvironmental among others). Development with a focus on commemorative dates. attribute; financing/structured operations for solid waste, sanitation sector; carbon credit market; consulting services; Equity products with Challenge 26. T o maintain and expand Expiration date: 06/30/2016 environmental attributes; fixed-income products with environmental the Bank’s role as a Actions: To develop/propose guidelines for the development of new products, attributes; environmental and climate change criteria across the credit and driver of sustainable customer service channels, and services to deal with the target audience of investment process. development through the financial inclusion and social business actions. financial inclusion and Status:   Action not completed on time due to the rules on the contingency of social business (MPO, credit to public sector provided for in CMN Resolution No. 2,827/2001 Fies, Minha Casa Minha (and its amendments). Vida, BB Accessibility Challenge 19. To improve Expiration date: 06/30/2016 Credit, Pronaf, among socioenvironmental risk Actions:  include risk assessment models, the weighting of situations involving To others), so as to integrate management, based on illegal practices of damage to the environment. programs and public the provisions of CMN policies, partnerships Status:   Action completed on time considering the process of review of criteria for Status:  ction completed on time considering the guidelines for the development A Resolution No. 4,327. with the private risk assessment approved in the Subcommittee on Credit Risk. of new products and services, customer service and price for actions sector and the BB’s related to the financial inclusion and social business described in the Expiration date: Continuous (on a half-yearly basis) sustainable development Value Proposition and Relationship Model for the stakeholders concerned, strategies (private social Actions: T o develop strategies/initiatives to leverage sales of products with a reviewed annually. investment, volunteer socioenvironmental attribute that transfer funds to FBB. work, digital inclusion, Status:   ction completed on time due to the implementation of direct marketing A sustainable regional and commercial actions focusing on products with the transfer of funds development, model for to Fundação Banco do Brasil. integrated involvement in Challenge 20. To improve the relation sustainable development, Expiration date: 06/30/2016 (the action was extended) between the Private among others). Social Investment and the Actions: T  o develop and implement a management system for the Private Social business strategy. Investment (ISP), which includes the establishment, implementation, and monitoring of socioenvironmental and financial impact indicators related to ISP actions. Status:  Action not completed on time. However, due to the importance of the theme, three new actions for that purpose have been approved on 20172019 Agenda 30 BB. For more information, see page 131. 136 137 Attachment GRI 2017-2019 AGENDA 30 BB G4-2 PROSPERITY PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS PARTNERSHIP PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Deadline: 12/31/2017 Deadline: 06/30/2018 Action 4. To establish a Committee for Eligibility of the process of nomination Action 12. To review social business-related processes, with an emphasis on and evaluation, linked to the Board of Directors, to assist digitization in order to gain efficiency and comprehensiveness. shareholders in the nomination of members to the Board of Directors, Source:  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017A Board of Auditors, Executive Board and Advisory Committees to the 2019 Agenda 30 BB. Challenge 1: To align the governance of Banco Board of Directors. do Brasil to the best international Challenge 6: To strengthen the role of Banco Deadline: 12/31/2018 Source: Action from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017do Brasil in the pursuit of social practices and strengthen the role Action 13. To structure a model of fundraising, management, and investment 2019 Agenda 30 BB. business through comprehensive, of the Senior Management in the in social business of high social and environmental impact. sustainability strategy. efficient and innovative solutions Action 5. To create a Sustainability Committee or include the sustainability aligned with public policies. Source:  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017A subject as a theme under the formal responsibility of an existing committee, linked to the Board of Directors (BoD), with at least one 2019 Agenda 30 BB. member of the BoD in the composition. Deadline: 12/31/2018 Source: A ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017Action 15. To develop and implement social business training actions, with an 2019 Agenda 30 BB. emphasis on the use of digital media to potential social business and Private Social Investment customers and to internal stakeholders. Deadline: 06/30/2018 Source:  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017A Challenge 2: To identify and manage medium Action 7. To develop sectoral studies comparing risk and return of high-impact 2019 Agenda 30 BB. and long-term non-financial activities and a green economy for forwarding to the customer/ and/or emerging risks that may Deadline: 12/31/2017 product management departments. significantly impact Banco do Brasil’s businesses. Action 20. To define and implement procedures, from the identification of Source: A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017Challenge 7: To enhance Banco do Brasil’s business opportunities in the supply chain. 2019 Agenda 30 BB. initiatives towards the productive Source:  ction 16 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. A Challenge 3: To identify innovations in the Deadline: 12/31/2017 development, entrepreneurship financial sector (business and and the promotion of social and Deadline: 12/31/2017 Action 8. To identify innovations in the financial sector (business and technology models) and anticipate financial inclusion. Action 21. To review the Sustainability Trail for all hierarchical levels with an technology models) and anticipate the trends in order to ensure the the trends in order to ensure the emphasis on content about Social Business. perpetuity and longevity of Banco do Brasil. perpetuity and longevity of Banco do Brasil. Source: Action 32 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. Source:  Action 38 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. Deadline: 12/31/2017 Action 9. To evaluate the implementation of the process for external verification of information related to the number of customers using online financial services. Challenge 4: To enhance customer relationship Source:  Action 35 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. management and increase the satisfaction and retention index. Deadline: 12/31/2019 Action 10. To include the ethical marketing topic in employee training actions. Source: Action from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 20172019 Agenda 30 BB 138 139 Attachment GRI PEOPLE PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS PLANET PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Deadline: 06/30/2018 Deadline: 12/31/2018 Action 26. To develop and implement actions of staff training in human rights Action 44. To develop actions of training on “Inclusive green economy” to the in order to generate opportunities in gender, race and color matters. internal stakeholders, with an emphasis on business opportunities Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017by market segment. Challenge 11: To ensure greater proportionality of representation of gender and 2019 Agenda 30 BB. Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017race in all the hierarchical levels 2019 Agenda 30 BB. Deadline: Continuous on an Annual Basis of Banco do Brasil. Deadline: 12/31/2019 Action 27. To strengthen the gender equity in BB from the development of a corporate action plan, with the definition of indicators and targets Action 45. To adjust/develop real estate loan products and businesses (MCMV per organizational unit. (Minha Casa Minha Vida)/Employee’s Severance Guarantee Fund Challenge 16: To develop financial solutions – FGTS) and corporate real estate loan with the premises of ecoSource:  Action 44 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. and business models that efficiency, innovation and social and environmental value creation. Deadline: 06/30/2017 promote the transition to an Source:  Action  from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017inclusive green economy. Action 36. To establish a process for communication and/or negotiation with 2019 Agenda 30 BB. confederations and trade unions in the event of organizational changes. Deadline: Continuous on an Annual Basis Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017Action 46. To prospect and assess the feasibility of proposing, in conjunction 2019 Agenda 30 BB. with customer and product managers, financial solutions and Deadline: 12/31/2018 business models that promote the transition to an Inclusive Green Economy specific to the various business pillars of Banco do Brasil Action 38. To develop an action plan and implement measures that enhance (Wholesale, Corporate Retail, Individual Retail, Agribusiness, the levels of health and well-being of employees (to develop a Government and Private). model of prevention of stress at work, promoting the quality of life at Challenge 14: To strengthen the role of work and the satisfaction of employees). Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017Banco do Brasil with regard to 2019 Agenda 30 BB. human capital, considering the Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017management of health, safety 2019 Agenda 30 BB Deadline: 06/30/2017 7 – construction of socioenvironmental rating, from the and well-being, the development application of questionnaires and creation of the risk matrix. 12/31/2019 – Deadline: 12/31/2017 and the retention of talents. incorporation of loss data by socioenvironmental rating in the process of pricing Action 39. To strengthen competence development actions for digital of credit operations. transformation, operational efficiency, and people management. Action 64. To develop routines and procedures to identify, classify, evaluate, Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017monitor, mitigate and manage social and environmental risk in 2019 Agenda 30 BB. operations, in compliance with the provisions of CMN No. 4,327, Art. 8; and SARB No. 14, Arts. 3rd, 7th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th Deadline: 12/31/2017 Challenge 19: T o improve the management of and 18th. Action 41. C onduct an employee satisfaction assessment from a statistically social and environmental risk Source:  Action 60 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. reliable representative sample of the population of BB’s employees. from social and environmental Source:  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017A Deadline: 1  2/31/2018 – construction of the basis of losses to Social an criteria in the granting of 2019 Agenda 30 BB. Environmental Risk. financings, considering also the Deadline: 06/30/2018 controversial issues. Action 65. To define technical specifications and require the development of the IT Challenge 15: To strengthen the role of Banco system that supports social and environmental risk management. Action 42. To reevaluate and enhance communication plans and training do Brasil with regard to the Source:  Action 61 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. actions related to the ethics theme, with an emphasis on Human ethics and anti-corruption theme. Rights and the anti-corruption, to BB and its Affiliated Entities. Deadline: Continuous on an Annual Basis Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017Action 66. To update annually the Sustainability Guidelines for BB Credit, with two 2019 Agenda 30 BB. per sector and one per topic, and disclose them publicly. Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 20172019 Agenda 30 BB 140 141 Attachment GRI shareholders; 15.5 Shareholders’ agreement filed at the headquarters or of which the controlling shareholder PEACE PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS is part; and Section 16 Related-Party Transactions, at www.bb.com.br/pbb/pagina-inicial/relacoes-com-investiDeadline: 06/30/2019 dores/governanca-corporativa#. Action 69. To define and implement actions of training of internal stakeholders in issues related to socioenvironmental due diligence – financings. G4-42 | Report the roles performed by the highest governance body and the senior executives in the Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017development, approval and update of the purpose, in the statement of mission, vision and values and in 2019 Agenda 30 BB. the definition of strategies, policies and goals related to the organization’s economic, environmental and Challenge 21: To develop a social (includes Deadline: 12/31/2019 social impacts. human rights and labor The members of our Board of Directors (BoD), according to our Bylaws, approve policies, Corporate Strategy, practices) and environmental Action 72. To disclose the performance of BB publicly considering the process due diligence process to assess of socioenvironmental due diligence. Investment Plan, Master Plan and the General Budget, among other tasks. The documents define our purpose, the impacts of operations and Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017mission, vision, values and goals. commercial relations of Banco 2019 Agenda 30 BB. do Brasil. Deadline: 12/31/2019 G4-43 | Report the measures taken to develop and improve the knowledge of the highest governance Action 73. To define and implement actions of training of internal stakeholders body on economic, environmental and social topics. in issues related to socioenvironmental due diligence – supplier The Corporate University of Banco do Brasil (UniBB) offers training to administrators and executives regarding ecomanagement. nomic, social and environmental topics, offering courses aligned to our Corporate Strategy and on topics such as Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017corporate governance, business environment, strategic management, banking services and financial system in the 2019 Agenda 30 BB. global market. Deadline: 12/31/2017 Action 76. To review the guidelines for Private Social Investment of BB The Program for Training of the Executive Board, Board of Directors and Board of Auditors has a specific budintegrating them with BB conglomerate. get and offers approximately 20 courses from renowned business school on various subjects, in addition to the Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 20172019 Agenda 30 BB. integrated virtual platform with over a thousand of videos and 1.5 thousand articles and a magazine with trends, content and current concepts. The program also benefits general managers of strategic units. Deadline: 12/31/2017 Action 78. To identify and establish, in coordination with Fundação Banco do Brasil, the best models of Private Social Investment. Directors and executives can also access our training materials Sustainability Trail – with information on, for example, the management of socioenvironmental responsibility in the Bank – and Ethical Trail – with topics related Source:  Action 6 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. to the theme. Deadline: 12/31/2018 Action 79. To apply the methodology established by BB and FBB for G4-44 | a. Report the processes of evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body with Challenge 24: To improve the integration assessment of the Private Social Investment by using the bases of between the Private Social beneficiaries obtained at the Zero Milestone. regard to the governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Investment and the The performance of the Board of Directors (BoD) and the related committees and bodies is evaluated on an annubusiness strategy. Source:  Action 6 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. al basis, as provided for in our Bylaws and Internal Regulations of the BoD. Such evaluation includes goals set out Deadline: 12/31/2019 in our strategic documents and includes the expectations with regard to economic, social and/or environmental Action 80. To validate the information obtained in the assessment of the performance. Directors also promote a self-evaluation, but we do not have a formal process to respond to findings Private Social Investment and implement the Private Social Investment management system. of the performance of the BoD. Source:  Action 6 of 2015-2017 Agenda 21 BB. G4-45 | Report the role performed by the highest governance body in the identification and management Deadline: 12/31/2018 of impacts, risks, and opportunities derived from economic, environmental and social issues. G4-46 | Action 82. To evaluate the possibility to define and implement fundraising Report the role performed by the highest governance body in the analysis of the effectiveness of the systems for Fundação Banco do Brasil with the companies of the Conglomerate and customers of Wholesale and Private pillars. risk management processes of the organization for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 | Source:  A  ction from the process of update of the Sustainability Plan – 2017Report how often the highest governance body assesses impacts, risks, and opportunities derived from 2019 Agenda 30 BB. economic, environmental and social issues. Among the tasks of the Board of Directors (BoD) is to approve our policies, our corporate strategy, our investG4-39 | Report whether the chairman of the highest governance body is also a CEO. ment and capital plans, our master plan, our statement of risk appetite and tolerance and our general budget, The Chairman of the Board of Directors (BoD) does not exercise any function in our Executive Board. in addition to monitoring the economic and financial performance and impacts, risks and opportunities related to environmental and social aspects. After making its decision, the BoD forwards to responsible areas the guidelines G4-40 | Report the processes of selection and appointment for the highest governance body and its comfor the management of different themes and often determines the frequency with which the new results should mittees, as well as the criteria adopted to select and appoint the members of the highest governance body. be reported by them. For the follow-up, it uses mechanisms approved for the company, as well as specific reG4-41 | Report the processes used by the highest governance body to ensure the prevention and manageports. The BoD meets, ordinarily, at least once a month and, extraordinarily, whenever convened by its chairman ment of conflicts of interest. Report whether the conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. or at the request of at least two directors. The accounts related to our socioenvironmental performance are rendered Information available in Section 12 of the Reference Form, item 12.1 to 12.5, Description of the administrative on an annual basis. For more details, see the Risk Management Report. structure of Banco do Brasil, from page 218 on; in section 15, items 15.4 Organization chart of the controlling 142 143 Attachment GRI G4-49 | Report the process adopted to communicate critical concerns to the highest governance body. Our Board of Directors (BoD) follows up critical issues through specific management reports prepared by internal areas, according to the frequency of its meetings. The subjects began in the branches, Superintendence Offices Specific Standard Contents or Directorships and pass through Strategic Committees and the Board of Officers before reaching the BoD. G4-50 | Report the nature and the total number of critical concerns reported to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) adopted to address them and resolve them. Through technical notes containing the description of the problem, its relevance, and severity, we report monthly to the Board of Directors (BoD) various subjects. Those that require greater monitoring are included in a tool of control, with the indication of the person in charge and the deadline for resolution. Currently, there are 18 subjects Category: Economic classified as such, including macroeconomic scenario, legal and/or audit demands, risk assessments, digital business and result analysis. G4-EC2 | Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate changes. G4-51 | Report the compensation policies applied to the highest governance body and senior executives Review annually the socioenvironmental risks linked to our businesses to mitigate them and find opportunities. and how the performance criteria of the compensation policy apply to economic, environmental and soThe initiatives related to climate change are, among others: cial goals of these managing groups. Information available in Section 13 of the Reference Form. •  ow-Carbon Agriculture Program (ABC Program): we were pioneers in the operation and we are also L leaders in the contracting of financing within this initiative. G4-53 | Report how the opinions of stakeholders are requested and taken into account with regard to compensation, including the results of ballots on compensation policies and proposals, if applicable. • Pronaf Florestal, Pronaf Eco and Pronaf Eco-Dendê (Oil Palm) and Seringueira (Rubber Tree): support The compensation of our statutory members is approved by the Board of Directors (BoD), after a preliminary review projects that result in retention or reduction of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) in family agriculture. of the Compensation Committee and the Department of Coordination and Governance of State-Owned Companies (SEST), of the Ministry of Planning, Development and Management. The total amount decided in the BoD is subject • P  rogram for Incentive to Technological Innovation in Agricultural Production (Inovagro): lending to the decision of the Annual General Meeting of our shareholders, pursuant to the legal determination. support also to projects that enable adaptation to climate changes. The compensation of our employees and the annual adjustments are defined in the Collective Bargaining Agreement • Agricultural Funding: investment of funds over R$20 billion, in 2016, for the financing of no-till farming (ACT). Our Profit Sharing (PLR) program, which includes all employees, is submitted annually to the approval of the systems, a practice supported by ABC Program. BoD and is the subject of negotiation between us and employees, and is also integrated into the ACT. Once approved, the program is sent for approval of the Departments of the Treasury and, Planning, Budget and Management. • Sustainable Rural Project (partnership with Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento – BID): we manage the funds donated by the British Government, before being passed on to producers selected for the G4-54 | Report the ratio of the total annual compensation of the highest-paid individual in the organization practices of low emission of GHG. in each country where the organization has significant operations to the average total annual compensation of all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. We adopted tools such as Agricultural Climate Risk Zoning (ZARC), indispensable for the financing of main crops The ratio of the compensation is 9.7. Information available in the Financial Statements, Explanatory Note 30 – in Brazil, to anticipate and mitigate risks from climate changes. Another instrument used is the Technical Agriculletter (f), page 121. tural Reference (RTA) System, capable of contributing to the selection of feasible production systems more resilient to climate changes. Based on it, we direct rural credit operations, according to the risks identified. G4-55 | Report the ratio of the percentage increase in the total annual compensation of the highest-paid individual in the organization in each country where it has significant operations to the percentage inOur technical agricultural sciences staff monitors weather events that are logged as Alerts in a Crop Monitoring crease in the total annual compensation of all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the Panel – Monitoring of Climate Risk. During 2016, 1,316 municipalities were followed up in this respect. Finally, same country. we made available to our customers a portfolio of products such as Agricultural Insurance, Agricultural Revenues The ratio of the percentage increase in compensation is 103%. Information available in the Financial Statements, Insurance, Proagro and Proagro Mais. Explanatory Note 30 – letter (f), page 121. G4-EC3 | Coverage of the obligations set forth in the benefit pension plan of the organization. G4-56 | Describe the values, the principles, the standards and the rules of conduct of the organization, Information available in Explanatory Note 26 to the Financial Statements. such as codes of conduct and ethics. Information available at www.bb.com.br/pbb/pagina-inicial/sobre-nos/quem-somos# and http://www.bb.com.br/ G4-EC4 | Financial aid received from the Government. pbb/pagina-inicial/sobre-nos/etica-e-integridade#/. In 2016, financings under the National Plan for the Rights of People with Disabilities – Viver Sem Limite, carried out through BB Accessibility Credit, recorded a total of R$6.1 million, relating to the economic subsidy, in the form of interest rate equalization. 144 145 Attachment GRI G4-EC5 | Variation of the proportion of the lowest salary, broken down per gender, compared to local minG4-EN3 | Power consumption within the organization. imum salary in significant operational units. In 2016, we reduced by 12% the consumption of oil-based fuels intended for the fueling of vehicles. The drop The wage floor is applied, regardless of gender, to all employees who initiate their career with us. In 2016, when reflects the success of our Eco-Efficiency Program, which stipulates the lower use of automobiles. the national minimum salary was R$880.00, our lowest compensation was R$2,645.97, i.e. 3.01 times higher. Fuel (liters) (1) 2014 2015 2016 G4-EC6 | Proportion of members of the senior management hired in the local community in significant Total consumption of diesel oil for vehicles 39,121 42,400 58,129 operational units. Total consumption of diesel oil for generating set 585,162 550,980 392,722 The Board of Directors (BoD), the Executive Board, composed of the Board of Officers, and other Directorships are composed of Brazilian citizens, and all of them are residents in the Country as laid down in art. 24 of the Bylaws. Total gasoline consumption 2,826,056 2,409,250 2,200,062 Total ethanol consumption 671,712 578,194 518,281 G4-EC7 | Development and impact of investments in infrastructure and services provided. (1) In 2015, the form of calculating the consumption of diesel oil changed. In previous years, the assessment considered Diesel S10 and Diesel products, disregarding Through the Cultural Centers of Banco do Brasil (CCBB), we offer public culture equipment, available to the popthat the market offers other options. Therefore, from 2015 on, we opted for the assessment based on the type of engine that uses such fuel, in this case, vehicles ulation, with free or low-cost access. In 2016, we performed various investments in the maintenance of the infraand power generators. The amounts for diesel consumption presented in the 2014 Annual Report were recalculated based on new parameters to enable the comparison of the consumption of each period. structure of the buildings where CCBBs are located, offering more cultural resources to communities. It is worth mentioning the inauguration of the Museum of Banco do Brasil, in CCBB DF, with more than 6 thousand m². See more at culturabancodobrasil.com.br/portal/o-ccbb. We also recorded a decrease of 2.7% in the power consumption, according to data collected through our corporate system. G4-EC9 | Proportion of expenditures with local suppliers in significant operational units. In 2016, we had 15.8 thousand effective agreements with 2,989 companies. The payments made to suppliers Regional Parameters of Efficiency Indicators reached the amount of R$7.2 billion. Out of that amount, R$70.7 million (0.98% of the total) were paid to nine companies domiciled abroad (11 agreements). In other words, 99% of our payments were made to suppliers domiciled 21 kWh/m /month2 in Brazil, located throughout the national territory. Category: Environmental NORTH 20 kWh/m /month2 G4-EN1 | Materials used, broken down per weight or volume. The materials consumed are described below: NORTHEAST MIDWEST Paper Consumption (t) 2014 2015 2016 Total direct materials used 8,516 6,601 6,082 17 kWh/m /month 2 SOUTHEAST Consumption paper in office 3,361 1,061 924 Power 2014 2015 2016 Paper of materials stored in the storeroom and at the BB Print Shop 5,155 5,540 5,158 16 kWh/m /month2 Consumption GWh 736.5 724.2 704.6 TJh 2,651 2,607 2,536 Cartridge and Toner Reconditioning Program (Prorec – in units) 2014 2015 2016 SOUTH 14 kWh/m /month2 Note.: in order to convert GWh to GJh, we used the conversion value of 3,600. Total Consumed 110,517 115,105 121,849 Volume Reconditioned 107,178 112,800 119,218 Percentage of Items Reconditioned (1) 97 98 98 (1) The percentage informed is the result of comparing the consumption of reconditioned toner cartridges and the total number of toner cartridges consumed during the period. G4-EN2 | Percentage of materials used that came from recycling. In 2016, we used 408 tons of A4 paper recycled (7% of total inputs consumed) and 119.2 thousand cartridges reconditioned (98% of the total). 146 147 Attachment GRI G4-EN5 | Energy intensity. BB Power Intensity G4-EN8 For this measurement, we used the indiPower consumption (kWh)/Employee/Year Regional Parameters of Efficiency Indicators cator that relates power consumption with the number of employees of Banco do Bra6,597 sil. In 2016, the registered growth (1.14%) was due to the lower number of employees 64 liters/person/day during the period. 63 NORTH liters/person/day G4-EN6 | Reduction in power consumption | 6,291 G4-EN7 | Reductions in energy requirements Region 2014 2015 2016 6,220 of products and services. NORTHEAST North 54 64 64 In 2016, we recorded savings of 19.6 milMIDWEST Northeast 45 63 63 lion kWh compared to the previous year. A Midwest 15 58 58 reduction of 2.7% in power consumption is a result of the adoption of behavioral mea58 SOUTHEAST Southeast 45 53 53 liters/person/day sures and adequacy of periods of operation 2014 2015 2016 53 South 16 48 48 of lighting and air conditioning systems that liters/person/day (1) liters/person/day represented an expense avoided of R$13 million/year. The financial expenses resulting from that input presented an increase of 40.8% as a result of tariff realignment promoted by the Federal Government, which had an increase SOUTH of 3.6% compared to 2015. We use electric power supplied by utilities from various states. The reductions of other 48 energy sources are available in the GHG Emissions Inventory – BB table. liters/person/day G4-EN8 | Total water extraction per source. We do not use surface water, groundwater and stormwater directly collected by the Bank nor wastewater from G4-EN10 | Percentage and the total volume of water recycled and reused. another organization. We calculate the monthly water consumption (m³) of all branches through the Water Panel, There is no water recycled and/or reused. via the corporate intranet. In order to identify branches with higher-than-expected consumption, we use a specific indicator, referred to as Efficient water consumption, with values broken down per region. In 2016, we recorded a G4-EN6 | G4-EN15 | Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 1) | G4-EN16 | Indirect emissions consumption of 1,566 million liters, with a reduction of 6.7% in comparison with the previous period. of greenhouse gases (GHG) from the acquisition of electric power (Scope 2) | G4-EN17 | Other indirect emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG) (Scope 3). Water Consumption Inventory of GHG Emissions – BB 120 116 Variation (%) Scope Emission Source 2014 2015 2016(1) 112 2015-2016 1,913 6,610 tCO2e 11,547 tCO2e 10,832 tCO2e 1,678 1,566 5,008 tCO2e 4,208 tCO2e 3,939 tCO2e Mobile Combustion Ethanol – 578 thousand liters Ethanol – 671 thousand liters Ethanol – 525 thousand liters (own fleet vehicles) Gasoline – 2.83 million liters Gasoline – 2.4 million liters Gasoline – 2.2 million liters Water Consumption – Million liters Diesel – 39.7 thousand liters Diesel – 44 thousand liters Diesel – 62 thousand liters Scope 1 (6) 32.3 Total Employees – Thousand 1,602 tCO2e 1,420 tCO2e 975 tCO2e 28.8 28.5 Stationary Combustion Total Expenses – Million Brazilian Reais (electric power generator) Diesel – 609 mil litros Diesel – 580 mil litros Diesel – 398 mil litros 19 19 19 Total Facilities – Thousand Fugitive Emissions 5 5 5 -(2) 5,919 tCO2e 5,919 tCO2e Total Branches – Thousand (electric power panel) (refrigerant gases) Biogenic 2,060 tCO2e 1,764 tCO2e 2014 2015 2016 Scope 2 Purchase of Electric 98,982 tCO2e 90,358 tCO2e 57,559 tCO2e (36) Power 736 million kWh 724 million kWh 704 million kWh 148 149 Attachment GRI G4-EN17 G4-EN23 | Total weight of waste, broken down per type and method G4-EN29 | Monetary value of significant Inventory of GHG Emissions – BB of disposal. fines and the total number of non-monIn 2016, we disposed of 1,413 Self-Service Terminals (SST) with a etary penalties imposed as a result of Variation (%) Scope Emission Source 2014 2015 2016(1) total weight estimated at 1,342.35 tons. The chart below shows the non-compliance with environmental laws 2015-2016 distribution of SSTs by quantity and location. and regulations. 66,562 tCO2e 66,619 tCO2e 85,240 tCO2e In 2016, we did not record any judicial or adQuantity and percentage of SST per municipality ministrative proceedings that have generated TCM – 28 million km TCM – 33 million km TCM – 29 million km Transportation and with an existing warehouse in the Country. significant fine for non-compliance with enviDistribution (Upstream) Cash transportation – Cash transportation – Cash transportation – ronmental laws and regulations. diesel – 8.2 million liters diesel – 7.5 million liters diesel – 17 million liters Solid Waste Brasília (DF) 121 (9%) from the Operation Paper acquired – 8,516 ton Paper acquired – 6,601 tons Paper acquired – 6,082 tons G4-EN30 | Significant environmental imWastewater Generated Campo Grande (MS) 31 (2%) pacts from the transportation of products 1.5 million m³ 1.6 million m³ 1.5 million m³ in the operation 28 and other assets and materials used in Scope 3 59,981 air tickets 49,200 air tickets 38,504 air tickets Florianópolis (SC) 299 (21%) the organization’s operations, as well as Business Travel Ground Transp. – Ground Transp. – Ground Transp. – transportation of its staff. 16 million km 15 million km 23 million km Porto Alegre (RS) 163 (12%) The impact arises mainly from the greenTransportation house gas emissions from the vehicles and Distribution Diesel – 250 thousand liters Diesel – 245 thousand liters Diesel – 142 thousand liters (Downstream) Recife (PE) 168 (12%) used in the transportation of staff. We have Staff Transportation adopted a series of measures to minimize 5 million km 5.9 million km 3.3 million km (home – work) Salvador (BA) 146 (10%) this impact, such as contractual clauses Biogenic 5,696 tCO2e 6,953 tCO2e 5,379 tCO2e entered into with our suppliers requiring the (1) Data in process of verification by an independent third party. Sorocaba (SP) 485 (34%) adjustment of vehicles to reduce the emis(2) The sources of fugitive emissions were calculated from the GHG inventory of the reference year of 2015. sion of pollutants and the control of noise pollution caused by exhaust pipes. Also, we G4-EN18 | Intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The recyclable waste disposed of are managed by a specific system, in required from them the proper disposal of Information available at www.registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/participantes. which our branches register, by estimate, the quantities of waste by type tires and waste of the processes of mainteand destination (donation to recycling entities or public selective waste nance and cleaning of vehicles. G4-EN19 | Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. collection service), on a monthly basis. Organic and non-recyclable In 2016, with the actions related to the Environmental Management System, specifically the Eco-Efficiency Prowaste is intended for public collection. In 2016, 549.3 tons of mixed or We review regularly the contracted transporgram, it was possible to save in consumption of the main inputs and electric power, advancing considerably in non-recyclable waste were sent to public collection by the participating tation modes, in order to identify routes that the reduction of direct emissions (Scopes 1 and 2). Globally, those of Scope 1 decreased by 6% in comparison branches of the BB’s Selective Waste Collection Program. cause less environmental impact. to 2015, from 11,547 tCO2e to 10,833 tCO2e. This was possible due to the reduced fuel consumption. Thus, the emissions linked to the mobile and stationary combustion ranged from 5,628 tCO2e in 2015 to 4,913 tCO2e, in In 2015, the process of assessment of information and the own sysWe have introduced other measures that 2016, that is, they fluctuated, negatively, by 13%. tem of Selective Waste Collection Program data were updated to contribute to mitigating the environmental imcorrect inconsistencies and adjust to the process of expansion to pact caused by our transportation operations, The power consumption was 2.7% less – decreased from 724 kW to 704 kW in a year. This reduction, added to the various branches in the Country, as well as legal specifications. Consuch as: update of the factor of emission of the input of the National Interconnected System (SIN), represented a decrease sequently, we chose to restart the historical series of tracking of data of Scope 2 emissions of 36%. related to the Program, by defining such year as the ground zero of •  igital Image Clearing (CDI) System – the D the new series. process of scanning of all checks issued Despite the decrease recorded in most of the indicators related to indirect GHG sources, the increase in diein the Country, resulting in less need for sel-based transportation expenditure resulted in an increase of 28% in Scope 3 emissions (66,619 tCO2e in 2015 Waste under the BB Selective Waste Collection Program per Type (t) physical transportation of these docuand 85,240 tCO2e in 2016). However, we emphasize the important cutback of 22% in the purchase of air tickets 2015 2016 ments. Since 2012, such process has during the year, from 49,200 tickets in the previous period to 38,504 in 2016. Paper 2,040.8 2,067.3 eliminated approximately one thousand routes of ground transportation and 50 air Plastic 232.8 252.1 In 2016, we neutralized 63.3 tons of our carbon emissions in 11 events sponsored by BB and performed by the transportation, plus a few routes conductMetal 45.2 63.6 Brazilian Volleyball Confederation (CBV). The offset occurred through the assignment of definitive carbon credits ed by boats, avoiding the emission of 5 to a project – replacement of fuel oil with natural gas in Solvay plant (Santo André – SP) of PVC monomer proGlass 22.4 46.7 thousand tCO2e per year. duction. The project allowed other industries in the region to also use natural gas. All values have been certified Total 2,341.2 2,429.7 by specialized companies and are in compliance with standard ABNT NBR 15948:2011. Source: GRS. Verification date: January 10, 2017. 150 151 Attachment GRI G4-EN30 Category: Social • A  uthorized Direct Debit (ADI) – we recorded more than 10 million registered people in the Country, with apSubcategory: Labor Practices and Decent Work proximately 270 million annual payment slips issued digitally. We estimate that, for our operations, the measure represents a mitigation of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions in the amount of 23 thousand tCO2e. G4-LA1 | Total number and rates of new employees hired and turnover of employees per age group, gender, and region. • A  udio and video conferencing rooms – we have 437 audio and video conferencing rooms, which allows a reducThe turnover rate shows the percentage of the number of employees replaced in the total headcount. tion in the use of vehicles, the number of air tickets issued and reimbursement of taxi expenses. Turnover per Gender 2014 2015 2016 • S  hared Pouch Transportation FEBRABAN/Cash – we share the transportation of pouches and cash, which allowed a reduction between 15% and 20% of daily routes, which may affect the reduction of Scope 3 emissions. Number of Employees(1) Women 46,472 45,873 41,549 G4-EN31 | Total investments and expenses in environmental protection, broken down per type. Men 65,450 64,537 59,073 In 2016, we invested R$253.0 thousand in the acquisition of appropriate tools at the disposal of recyclable solid Total 111,922 110,410 100,622 waste, R$40.0 thousand in Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol initiative and R$12.8 thousand in certification ISO 14064 for the GHG emissions inventory. Separations during the Period 2016 New Hires Women 1,324 2,596 4,470 509 For environmental prevention and management, R$449.1 million were invested in Technological and Industrial Men 2,424 4,436 6,004 915 Development Program, R$2.0 million in transfers to WWF-Brasil and Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB) for the Total 3,748 7,032 10,474 1,424 execution of the actions of Água Brasil Program and R$26.2 million in the purchase of reconditioned cartridges. Turnover Rate (%) 2016 Hires Rate (%) G4-EN32 | Percentage of new suppliers selected based on environmental criteria. In 100% of our purchase processes, we consider environmental criteria. In the contracts that we enter into, there Women 1.18 2.35 4.44 0.51 is a socioenvironmental responsibility instrument and, in 2016, the Standard Sustainable Purchases and Disposals Men 2.17 4.02 5.97 0.91 document guided bids and contracts strengthening the culture of sustainability among our suppliers. Total 3.35 6.37 10.41 1.42 G4-EN33 | Actual and potential significant negative environmental impacts on the supply chain and mea(1) (Dismissals in the period/number of employees on December 31) X 100. 2014 and 2015 amounts recalculated to allow comparison. sures taken in this regard. In 2016, we did not identify suppliers with the high negative environmental impact that has motivated termination Turnover Rate per Age Rate of Rate of Separations New Hires Group in 2016(1) Turnover (%) Hires (%) of the relationship. Up to 30 years of age 318 Turnover (%) New Hires Rate of G4-EN34 | Number of complaints related to environmental impacts recorded, processed and resolved From 30 to 50 years 2,186 Hires (%) 516 0.51 through the formal mechanism. of age In 2016, no individual occurrences were registered classified as Complaints related to environmental impacts in Over 50 years of age 7,970 7.92 19 0.02 the External Ombudsman’s Office. Total 10,474 10.41 1,424 1.42 (1) The change in the calculation considering the number of employees on December 31 prevents the comparison with the data of previous years. 152 153 Attachment GRI G4-LA1 G4-LA5 | Percentage of the workforce represented in formal health and safety committees, composed of Turnover Rate per Region 2014 2015 2016 employees of different hierarchical levels, which help to monitor and guide programs of health and safety Separations During the Period 2016 New Hires at work. South 646 1,159 1,570 124 The Internal Commissions for Accident Prevention (CIPA) are scaled to the units that have more than 100 employees. Therefore, 27% of the employees are represented. Southeast 1,394 2,727 4,649 282 Midwest 822 1,200 1,833 311 In addition, we have Teams for Communication and Self-Development (Ecoas) that can act, for example, in acNorth 221 311 344 146 tions related to socioenvironmental responsibility, eco-efficiency, and quality of life of the employees. Its members Northeast 665 1,635 2,078 561 can assist CIPA on dissemination of prevention campaigns. Total 3,748 7,032 10,474 1,424 G4-LA6 | Types and rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and the number of Turnover Rate (%) Hires Rate (%) work-related deaths, broken down per region and gender. The Notification of Occupational Accident (CAT) is a legal obligation of the company and complies with the guideSouth 0.58 1.05 1.56 0.12 lines of ILO – Code of Practice on recording and notification of occupational accidents and disease. These guideSoutheast 1.25 2.47 4.62 0.28 lines are available on our internal standards. Midwest 0.73 1.09 1.82 0.31 North 0.20 0.28 0.34 0.15 Northeast 0.59 1.48 2.07 0.56 Safety and Health at Work Region 2015 2016 Total 3.35 6.37 10.41 1.42 Men Women Men Women North 0.12 0.14 0.01 0.01 G4-LA2 | Benefits granted to full-time employees that are not offered to temporary or part-time emploInjury rate (number of injuries/ Northeast 0.11 0.12 0.01 0.00 yees, broken down per the major operational units of the organization. number of employees) Midwest 0.04 0.07 0.00 0.01 All our employees, regardless of workload hours, receive the same benefits. Information available in Section Southeast 0.02 0.03 0.01 0.01 14 of the Reference Form at www.bb.com.br/pbb/pagina-inicial/relacoes-com-investidores/downloads#. South 0.02 0.05 0.00 0.01 G4-LA3 | Rates of return to work and retention after maternity/paternity leave, broken down per gender. North 0.09 0.12 0.00 0.00 Northeast 0.10 0.11 0.00 0.00 Rate of occupational diseases 2014 2015 2016 (frequency of disease/number Midwest 0.04 0.07 0.00 0.00 of employees) Southeast 0.01 0.02 0 0 Maternity/Paternity Leave-Related Women Men Women Men Women Men South 0.01 0.04 0 0 Indicators per Gender North 0.49 0.63 0.46 0.58 Employees Entitled to a Leave 43,367 65,279 67,184 47,657 41,549 59,073 Northeast 0.42 0.59 0.42 0.58 Rate of lost days (%) Employees Who Took a Leave 2,613 2,864 1,871 2,631 2,789 2,778 Midwest 0.34 0.62 0.36 0.62 (days(1)/hour) Employees who Returned Southeast 0.33 0.47 0.34 0.46 2,589 2,846 1,866 2,614 2,082 2,668 after a Leave South 0.25 0.43 0.27 0.42 Employees who Remained in North 26,941 23,501 25,777 22,161 764 286 2,613 2,864 2,914 2,834 the Bank 12 Months Northeast 93,219 71,137 91,072 67,729 Rate of Return (%) 99.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 74.7 96.0 Lost days (1) Midwest 72,641 75,855 74,652 75,204 Retention Rate (%) 98.0 99.0 99.0 98.0 71.5 94.1 Southeast 167,741 197,826 166,245 186,805 South 52,298 63,434 56,617 62,498 G4-LA4 | Minimum period of notification about operational changes and whether they are specified in collective bargaining agreements. The notification about changes in our operations is not specified in collective bargaining agreements. 154 155 Attachment GRI G4-LA6 G4-LA9 Safety and Health at Work Region 2015 2016 Training Session per Men Women Men Women 2014 2015 2016 Gender and North 3.93 5.01 3.7 4.66 Function Northeast 3.35 4.69 3.34 4.65 Men Women Men Women Men Women Absenteeism rate (%) Midwest 2.76 4.93 2.89 4.99 NonNonNonNonNonNon(lost days(1)/estimated days) Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Southeast 2.66 3.74 2.70 3.68 Final Count 23,694 41,153 12,856 33,287 23,506 40,303 12,782 32,600 21,469 37,604 11,521 30,028 South 2.00 3.44 2.18 3.34 Trained 23,623 40,878 12,821 33,083 23,347 39,642 12,720 32,178 21,441 37,238 11,517 29,803 North 0 0 0 0 Training 421,998 786,784 226,444 646,768 417,562 765,603 229,812 630,789 497,886 833,163 270,073 674,493 Northeast 0 0 0 0 Hours 1,969,136 3,600,772 1,052,703 2,940,805 1,811,867 3,054,828 956,420 2,438,866 1,633,626 2,697,812 855,433 2,084,435 Work-related deaths(2) (units) Midwest 0 0 0 0 Percentage Southeast 2 0 1 0 of Trained 99.7 99.3 99.7 99.4 99.3 98.4 99.5 98.7 99.9 99.0 100.0 99.3 People South 0 0 0 0 Training (1) Lost days due to sick leaves with occupational and non-occupational causes. Sessions per 17.8 19.1 17.6 19.4 17.8 19.0 18.0 19.4 23.2 22.2 23.4 22.5 Employee (2) The indicated death refers to the journey accident, i.e., it is not related to working conditions. Hours per 83.1 87.5 81.9 88.4 77.1 75.8 74.8 74.8 76.1 71.7 74.3 69.4 Employee G4-LA7 | Employees with a high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their job. There are no employees involved in occupational activities that present a high incidence or high risk of specific diseases. Training Sessions per Senior Management Management Advisory Operational Technical Employee Category G4-LA8 | Topics related to health and safety covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 The Collective Bargaining Agreement (ACT), which we entered with an entity representative of our employees, Final Count 229 240 36,059 32,750 7,989 7,270 60,779 56,122 4,135 4,240 addresses, in approximately 14% of its clauses, the health and safety themes. We guarantee a payment, for up to 540 days after the return to work, of the cash bonus to employees who were granted a leave of absence due Trained 218 228 35,849 32,730 7,952 7,242 59,752 55,572 4,116 4,227 to Repetitive Strain Injury (RSI). We also guarantee the salary complementation when granting Social Security Training 1,708 1,925 645,666 766,034 135,522 136,398 1,194,065 1,297,105 66,805 74,153 Sickness Benefit or Accident Sickness Benefit, and, for these same cases, the payment of the updated amount Hours 13,881 10,094 2,754,406 2,478,965 539,433 424,873 4,740,158 4,120,437 214,103 236,937 of the commission received on their last day of work before the leave for a period of 12 months. With respect to Percentage of employees with restrictions on the performance of their usual activities, we promote their rehabilitation, according Trained People 95.20% 95.00% 99.42% 99.94% 99.54% 99.61% 98.31% 99.02% 99.54% 99.69% to the medical indication and ergonomic evaluation. In 2016, we reinserted 82 people who were on a sick leave. Training Sessions 7.46 8.02 17.91 23.39 16.96 18.76 19.65 23.11 16.16 17.49 per Employee G4-LA9 | Average number of hours of training per year per employee, broken down per gender and functional category. Hours per Employee 60.62 42.06 76.39 75.69 67.52 58.44 77.99 73.42 51.78 55.88 Consolidated Training Indicators(1) 2014 2015 2016 G4-LA10 | Programs for the management of skills and ongoing learning that contribute to continued employFinal Count 111,628 109,191 100,622 ment relationship of employees in the period of preparation for retirement. Trained 111,020 107,887 99,999 In partnership with Previ, we have Caminhos para Aposentadoria (Paths to Retirement) Program for employees with 28 years or more of social security contributions, which provides the possibility to prepare a project of life for retirement, Training 2,092,867 2,043,766 2,275,615 using the organizational support and contemplating social, economic, emotional and health aspects. Hours 9,343,210 8,261,981 7,271,306 Percentage of Trained People 99.46 98.81 99.38 In addition, we offer undergraduate and graduate scholarships offered by Higher Education Program and courses in Training Sessions per Employee 18.75 18.72 22.62 Language Program that enable the continuous training of employees whose skills developed can be applied on active Hours per Employee 83.7 75.67 72.26 duty or after retirement. (1) Employees in situation 100, 211, 506, 510, 324, 326 and 580 were considered. All employees who have situation 580 and are assigned in prefixes of assignment Finally, in the Corporate University of Banco do Brasil (UniBB), there are various courses intended for employees’ personal informed by Dipes/Desaf.Classification considered for the definition of segments presented are excluded. improvement, topics applicable on active duty or after retirement, such as training of social educators, literacy teachers of BB Educar Program, voluntary action, and personal financial management. 156 157 Attachment GRI G4-LA12 G4-LA11 | Percentage of employees reResults. Employees in experience agreement and statutory manceiving performance and career developaging officers have their performance evaluated by a specific tool. General Indicators of Staff Diversity (%) 2014 2015 2016 ment reviews on a regular basis, broken Per Gender down per gender and functional category. Employees Who Have Had Their Performance Followed Up by GDP (%) Women 41.53 41.56 41.29 In 2016, 99.68% of our employees had 2014 2015 2016 Men 58.47 58.44 58.71 their performance followed up by means of 99.48 99.30 99.68 Per Age Group an instrument referred to as Professional Performance Management by Skills and Up to 30 Years of Age 13.71 12.81 11.19 From 30 to 50 years 67.92 70.52 75.26 Employees who Over 50 years of age 18.37 16.67 13.55 Participated in the 2014 2015 2016 Per Minority Groups GDP per Functional Level and Gender Indigenous 0.22 0.22 0.21 Women Men Women Men Women % Men % Afro-Descendant 2.55 2.62 2.79 Managerial 12,875 23,842 12,782 23,506 11,521 27.7 21,469 36.3 Brown-Skinned 18.79 19.12 19.62 Technical 1,806 3,639 1,757 3,544 1,651 4.0 3,555 6.0 Operational 10,381 10,061 10,497 9,746 9,774 23.5 8,932 15.1 Staff Diversity in 2016 (%) Managerial Technical Operational Advisory Others Advisory 2,849 4,385 2,750 4,073 2,528 6.1 3,776 6.4 Per Gender Others 18,453 23,337 17,596 22,940 16,075 38.7 21,341 36.1 Women 11.45 1.64 9.71 2.51 15.98 Men 21.34 3.53 8.88 3.75 21.21 G4-LA12 | Composition of groups responsible for governance and description of employees per category, Per Age Group according to gender, age group, minorities and other diversity indicators. Up to 30 Years of Age 1.61 0.32 2.59 0.21 6.46 G4-38 From 30 to 50 years 27.72 4.19 13.87 5.42 24.05 Diversity in Governance (%) (1) 2014 2015 2016 Over 50 years of age 3.45 0.66 2.13 0.63 6.67 Per Gender Per Minority Groups Women 3.92 5.56 3.39 Indigenous 0.04 0.01 0.05 0.02 0.10 Men 96.08 94.44 96.61 Afro-Descendant 0.81 0.13 0.53 0.15 1.17 Per Age Group Brown-Skinned 5.91 1.04 3.10 1.09 8.48 Up to 30 Years of Age 0.00 0.00 0.00 From 30 to 50 Years 56.86 48.15 61.02 Diversity 2014 2015 2016 Over 50 Years of Age 43.14 51.85 38.98 Race and Ethnicity Per Minority Groups Afro-Descendant, Brown-Skinned or Indigenous 24,071 23,979 22,765 Indigenous 0.00 0.00 0.00 Leading Position Afro-Descendant 0.00 1.85 1.69 Afro-Descendant, Brown-Skinned or Indigenous 7,283 7,319 6,808 Brown-Skinned 1.96 1.85 6.78 Disabled People (1) Includes members of the Board of Directors, the Executive Board, the Board of Auditors and the Audit and Compensation Committees. People with Special Needs 1,319 1,495 1,537 158 159 Attachment GRI G4-LA13 | Salary and compensation mathematical ratio between women and men, broken down per funcG4-HR2 | Total number of hours of training of employees on human rights policies or procedures contional category and relevant operational units. cerning Aspects of human rights relevant to the organization’s operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Average Compensation per Mathematical Ratio 2014 2015 2016 Training Gender and Job Course Learning Goal and/or Expected Performances between Men and Hours Category (R$) Women in 2016 Men Women Men Women Men Women Showing responsiveness and openness to learn, recognize Managerial 9,729 8,272 10,619 9,038 11,157 9,513 1.2 and accept cultural diversity; Intercultural Skill (code 5049) 6 hours Technical 8,588 8,032 9,412 8,741 10,117 9,308 1.1 Identifying the main cultural characteristics of the people, acting in a tolerant and respectful manner. Operational 4,527 4,371 4,747 4,632 4,910 4,820 1.0 Advisory 10,562 10,151 11,423 11,040 12,123 11,617 1.0 Preparing the staff for the preparation of the Social Work Others 3,588 3,414 3,813 3,695 3,882 3,767 1.0 Project (PTS), which should be developed with beneficiary Complementary Actions Minha Casa families, through a set of inclusive actions, of social and Minha Vida (Real Estate Lending) 8 hours educational nature, aimed at strengthening the autonomy of Program (code 4669) The compensation policy is independent of the geographic location of employees and complies with the clauses families, their productive inclusion, and citizen participation, negotiated in the Collective Bargaining Agreement And the relevant operational units are all operations in Brazil, contributing to the sustainability of the housing developments. without discrimination per size and region. Equidade de Gênero: uma Questão Promoting, in their daily routine, actions that promote gender Cultural? ( Gender Equity: A Cultural 1 hour G4-LA16 | Number of complaints related to labor practices recorded, processed and resolved through the equity, respecting women's participation in the organization. Matter?”) (code 6067) formal mechanism. In 2016, we received 1,409 complaints in the Internal Ombudsman’s Office regarding people management proRespecting and living together with differences among people, Diversity (code 3791) 1 hour cesses, which were addressed by the responsible areas. Out of these, 358 were considered valid and forwarded as a condition to follow up the ongoing social transformations. for resolution. Accessibility – Disabled Customer Service Identifying the peculiarities of the disabled customer service in 6 hours (code 4963) compliance with the legislation in force. Subcategory: Human Rights Identifying the different types of disabilities and their main Disabled People – PcD (code 5443) 1 hour G4-HR1 | Total and percentage number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include characteristics. human rights clauses or that were submitted for review regarding human rights. All our credit instruments have extraordinary/anticipated maturity clause in cases of non-compliance with the laws and rules relating to human rights. Complementary Accessibility Gender Actions Minha Disabled – Disabled Equity: A Course Diversity Casa Minha Vida Intercultural People – Total Under the Equator Principles, the contracts entered into stipulated criteria related to human rights. During the Customer Cultural (Real Estate PcD Service Matter? period, three operations, two related to project finance and one related to the project finance advisory services, Lending) Program were contracted. Managerial 4,822 419 423 411 3,890 956 1,786 Technical 455 71 46 116 625 168 355 Additionally, we inform that, in 2016, there were no investments in other entities so that we became the majority shareholder. Advisory 758 93 45 137 823 374 604 Operational 8,970 818 870 850 8,430 2,000 3,668 Others 71 0 17 9 87 29 38 Total 15,076 1,401 1,401 1,523 13,855 3,527 6,451 Hours 1 8 6 6 1 1 Trainees 15,076 11,208 8,406 9,138 13,855 3,527 61,210 Hours 160 161 Attachment GRI G4-HR2 G4-DMA | Evaluation. G4-DMA | Evaluation During the execution of the contract, in case a violation of conQuantity of suppliers in human rights. G4-DMA | tractual or legal provisions is verified, administrative proceedings Quantity of the Quantity of Quantity of 2016 of Training % Trained Final Count Trainees Hours Mechanisms for complaints related to huare opened aiming at the enforcement of an administrative penSessions man rights. G4-HR6 | Operations and supalty or, ultimately, unilateral termination of the contract. In 2016, Managerial 32,990 1,538 1,802 6,900 4.66 pliers identified as at a significant risk for out of 15,787 effective contracts, 25 (0.15%) were verified to be in Technical 5,206 369 435 1,548 7.09 the occurrence of forced or slavery-like non-compliance with labor legislation. Out of these, one was relatAdvisory 6,304 500 588 2,076 7.93 labor and measures taken to contribute ed to the engineering sector and the others of the service sector. Operational 18,706 1,197 1,372 5,454 6.40 to the elimination of all forms of forced or The following figure presents the type of penalty imposed and the slavery-like labor. G4-HR9 | Total number percentage with regard to breaches, after completion of the adminOthers 37,416 2,416 2,663 10,123 6.46 and percentage of operations subjectistrative proceedings, with proper defense guarantee provided to Total 100,622 6,020 6,860 26,101 5.98 ed to analysis or evaluations of human the supplier. rights of impacts related to human rights. 11 (44%) G4-HR3 | Total number of discrimination cases Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Performance StanG4-HR10 | Percentage of new suppliers and corrective measures taken. dards of the World Bank Group. selected based on criteria related to huIn 2016, we did not register any discrimination cases. man rights | G4-HR11 Actual and potential 7 (28%) In our relationships with suppliers, we consider the significant negative human right impacts G4-HR4 | Identified operations and suppliers in fulfillment of the requirements of socioenvironmental on the supply chain and measures taken which the right to practice freedom of association responsibility through our Supplier Relationship Policy in this regard. G4-HR12 | Number of com4 (16%) and collective bargaining might be infringed or and our Code of Ethics, which expresses the compliplaints related to human right impacts re2 (8%) there is a significant risk, and measures taken to ance with labor, social security and tax legislation – corded, processed and resolved through 1 (4%) support such right. including the non-use of a child or slavery-like labor. the formal mechanism. In compliance with the Equator Principles, in projects Such assumptions are required and monitored during Since 2005, we participate in the Compact for classified in categories A and B, we require our custhe provision of services. Combating Slave Labor proposed by Ethos Warning Warning Termination Termination No Penalties tomers to establish complaint mechanisms for receivInstitute. In 2016, we requested from the Minand fine and Suspension Applied ing comments and complaints about the socioenvironWe require that our suppliers undertake, through a istry of Labor and Employment (MTE), supmental performance of undertakings and to facilitate statement, not to employ a person under 18 years old in ported by the Information Access Act, the list In 2016, we did not identify operations and suppliers with signifthe search for solutions to the demands, which favors the night, dangerous or unhealthy work, as well as not of Registry of Employers that have subjected icant risk for occurrence of labor or slavery-like labor. No comthe guarantee of freedom of association of people. to employ directly or indirectly a person under 16 years workers to slavery-like conditions. plaints involving degrading or slave labor, or complaints involvold, except as an apprentice and with a guarantee of ing non-compliance with human rights were registered in the In the relationship with suppliers, we adopt selection school attendance. Our calls for bids establish that suppliers Internal Ombudsman’s Office. We had no contract terminated criteria that include the right to guarantee the exercise must submit various documents, including: for this reason. of freedom of association and collective bargaining. G4-HR5 | Operations and suppliers identified as at risk for the occurrence of cases of child labor and a) Proof of good standing with the NationG4-DMA | Security practices. G4-HR7 | Percentage of securiG4-DMA | Child labor. G4-DMA | Forced or slaverymeasures taken to contribute to the effective eradal Treasury for all federal taxes and the ty personnel trained on the organization’s policies or procelike labor. ication of child labor. Federal Overdue Tax Liability, including dures relating to human rights that are relevant to operations. Our Specific Credit Policy stipulates that we do not In 2016, no significant risks were identified and no social security contributions; We require, in agreement, that 100% of the employees of the compaconduct credit operations with customers that submit complaints were received. nies contracted in the area of security are trained on surveillance with workers to degrading or slavery-like forms of work or b) Proof of good standing in the Employee’s material approved by the Federal Police Department, that includes that commit the exploitation of child labor or sexual Severance Guarantee Fund (FGTS); aspects of human rights and relations at work. exploitation of children. In addition, we are signatories to the Ecuador Principles and apply the Socioenc) Proof of non-existence of debts in arvironmental Sustainability Standards of International rears in the Labor Court. We required and checked compliance with labor, social security, and tax obligations by analyzing evidence or complaints on possible violations and non-compliance. 162 163 Attachment GRI G4-SO4 In the bids area, 3,305 contracts contain a clause in which companies undertake to comply with the legal princiSubcategory: Society ples and prohibit the use of names of employees or companies that work on behalf of the Bank to obtain improper advantages. In 2016, we prohibited the participation of companies with Government officials in their shareholding G4-DMA | Local communities. G4-SO1 | Percentage of operations structure – including those who have occupied this function type previously – and their relatives up to the third with programs implemented for local community engagement, degree in bids. With that, BB mitigates risks, in particular, the conflict of interests and corruption. impact assessment, and local development. We work in partnership with Fundação BB (FBB), in 124 projfocused on consolidation of the infrastrucects contracted under the Minha Casa Minha Vida (Real Estate ture with Environmental Management and Managers Trained per State Lending) Program (PMCMV), National Urban Housing Program Control Programs of the project and EnviState Count Trained % State Count Trained % (PNHU), range 1. In 2016, 44 of them were fulfilled, i.e. 35.5% of ronmental Support and Offset Programs AC 77 8 10.39 PB 471 140 29.72 the total planned, comprising 20.3 thousand participants. for the Local Community. In all the projects AL 258 78 30.23 PE 975 260 26.67 categorized as A or B, we required the cusAM 264 118 44.70 PI 372 48 12.90 In the year, our Foundation also initiated the process of evaluatomer to develop or keep an Environmental tion of the effectiveness of social programs and projects related to and Social Management System. AP 120 19 15.83 PR 2,341 651 27.81 its practice vectors: Water, Agribusiness, Agro-Ecology and solid BA 1,603 368 22.96 RJ 2,580 638 24.73 waste, Education and Other initiatives. This occurred through the G4-SO4 | Communication and training CE 793 237 29.89 RN 500 123 24.60 application of questionnaires and information gathering. At the end on policies and procedures to combat DF 2,467 613 24.85 RO 247 55 22.27 of the period, we were still consolidating the data, which have not corruption. ES 532 141 26.50 RR 87 33 37.93 yet been disclosed. Our specific policy for the prevention and fight against money laundering, terrorist fiGO 955 213 22.30 RS 2,126 574 27.00 FBB performs monitoring of projects in progress, assesses complinancing and corruption is widely known by MA 593 153 25.80 SC 1,725 552 32.00 ance with the clauses of the agreement, the execution according to all members of our governance bodies. The MG 3,297 909 27.57 SE 232 47 20.26 the work plan approved and the fulfillment of the object proposed document is reviewed annually or extraorMS 494 147 29.76 SP 9,687 3,186 32.89 for the project. With that, we assess the impact of each action in its dinarily, at any time, and is available in nine different dimensions (social, economic and environmental) to oblanguages, to contemplate all the locations MT 631 139 22.03 TO 250 76 30.40 tain evidence that they helped to transform the reality of the comwhere we operate. In 2016, we approved the PA 654 162 24.77 Overseas 49 6 12.24 munities served. integrity program, which presents our actions Total in order to prevent, detect and punish practicTotal Count 34,380 Employees 9,694 Count (%) 100 Trained (%) 28.20 Trained G4-SO2 | Operations with actual and potential significant neges of detrimental acts qualified as corruption. ative impacts on local communities. In compliance with the Equator Principles and the performance Courses whose contents cover with specTechnical and Administrative Segment per State standards of International Finance Corporation (IFC), the largeificity the anti-corruption theme are offered State Count Trained % State Count Trained % sized projects in the pursuit of financing are evaluated on a matrix to the Senior Management staff (Officers, AC 218 177 81.19 PB 902 388 43.02 of socioenvironmental risk: Executive Managers, General Managers AL 577 223 38.65 PE 2,086 845 40.51 of Strategic Units and Regional Superin• Category A – with potential significant adverse socioenvirontendents). Out of the 218 employees that AM 435 321 73.79 PI 785 191 24.33 mental risks and/or impacts, which are multiple, irreversible comprised this professional category on DeAP 161 52 32.30 PR 5,971 2,530 42.37 or unprecedented; cember 22, 2016, 37 performed such type of BA 3,323 1,071 32.23 RJ 4,421 1,862 42.12 training, i.e. 17% of the total. It is worth menCE 1,602 690 43.07 RN 935 345 36.90 • Category B – with potential limited adverse socioenvironmental tioning the participation of employees of this DF 9,238 3,419 37.01 RO 471 184 39.07 risks and/or impacts, in a reduced number, generally local, widely segment in training contracted in the market. reversible and readily controllable through mitigating measures; ES 876 396 45.21 RR 134 86 64.18 In addition, the Corporate University of GO 1,673 620 37.06 RS 3,329 1,528 45.90 • Category C – without any adverse socioenvironmental risks and/or Banco do Brasil (UniBB) implemented the MA 1,185 455 38.40 SC 3,003 1,491 49.65 impacts or with minimum socioenvironmental risks and/or impacts. course of prevention and fight against corMG 6,473 2,736 42.27 SE 440 143 32.50 ruption, available to all employees. The MS 795 379 47.67 SP 19,228 9,746 50.69 In 2016, within category A, an operation was contracted to the intotal employees who received training in frastructure sector, in the North Region, in order to enable the outthe fight against corruption in 2016 are preMT 1,084 465 42.90 TO 478 199 41.63 flow of grain production through the waterway. Mitigating actions sented below. PA 1,186 461 38.87 Overseas 16 7 43.75 Total Total Count 71,025 Employees 31,010 Count (%) 100 Trained (%) 43.66 Trained 164 165 Attachment GRI G4-PR5 G4-SO5 | Confirmed cases of corruption and measures taken. Banco do Brasil hires marketing research institutes affiliated with G4-PR9 | Monetary value of significant In 2016, we did not register any judicial proceedings related to corruption filed against our institution and/or emthe Brazilian Association of Research Companies (ABEP) or the fines applied due to non-compliance with ployees and no case linked to practices of acts referred to in article 5, of Act No. 12,846/2013. Also, we did not European Society for Opinion and Marketing Research (ESOMAR) laws and regulations relating to the proterminate nor fail to renew any contract as a result of violations. to carry out satisfaction surveys for it. vision and use of products and services. In 2016, no cases of significant fine from However, we completed five administrative procedures with the determination of responsibilities in instances inThe survey is carried out in two phases, qualitative, aiming at raijudicial and administrative proceedings volving the charge or receipt of improper commission for a service provided, which resulted in the dismissal of five sing the attributes of satisfaction and perceptions of customers were identified. However, we recorded the employees, the authors of the torts, and other disciplinary penalties for those indirectly involved. about the bank. This occurs on average every three years. The amount of R$5.8 million relating to the sum second phase is quantitative, held annually in order to measure of penalties for non-compliance with laws G4-SO6 | Total amount of contributions to political parties and politicians, broken down per country and perceptions and satisfaction attributes assessed in qualitative step. and regulations relating to the provision and recipient/beneficiary. use of products and services and charges We did not provide financial support to political parties. Generally speaking, the attributes most valued by our customers relating to the time in the queue. in the composition of their degree of satisfaction are those linked G4-SO8 | Monetary value of significant fines and the total number of non-monetary penalties imposed as to the relationship with our employee responsible for their accouSector Supplement – Financial a result of non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. nt. The degree of satisfaction noted in the surveys of the last Services In 2016, we did not register any case of a significant fine. three years presented the results in the following chart, obtained by means of the weighted average of all stakeholders. They are G4-DMA Portfolio of products G4-SO11 | Number of complaints related to impacts on society recorded, processed and resolved through within the zone of satisfaction – grades 4 and 5 on the 5-point In 2016, we enhanced the offer of Sustainthe formal mechanism. Likert scale. able Development course in BB. Intended In 2016, we did not register any cases in the External Ombudsman’s Office, a channel responsible for receiving for all operators and managers involved with this kind of complaint. the theme, it represents our efforts to ensure 80,41 that the Model of Integrated Performance in Subcategory: Product Responsibility Sustainable Development is used for the implementation of our sustainability strategy. G4-DMA | Customer health and safety. G4-PR1 | Percentage of categories of significant products and ser75,24 vices for which impacts on health and safety are assessed seeking improvements. 74,38 In order to prepare employees for extending In all architecture and engineering interventions that we conduct, we comply with internal standards and legiscredit consciously and socially responsible, lation in force, including the Fire Department, Environmental Agencies, and Historical Heritage. We comply with the Socioenvironmental Credit and Risk legal standards in 100% of cases. course was updated in 2016. Since then, it has been performed by 3,706 employees. G4-PR4 | Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning information and labeling of products and services, broken down per type of results. We contribute to the universalization of social rights and citizenship. For this, we made availCustomer Complaint 2014 2015 2016 able courses Essence: Ethics and Learning Volume of Annual Volume of Annual Volume of Annual about the Code of Ethics and Rules of Conduct. Demands Index(1) Demands Index(1) Demands Index(1) 2014 2015 2016 Direct 19,980 32.41 24,479 43.68 27,550 46.54 We made available to all employees the Demands Closed Sustainability Trail, which aims to ensure by the External Central Bank 26,620 43.18 24,904 44.43 31,641 53.45 G4-PR7 | Total number of cases of non-compliance with regfurther alignment of training solutions in Ombudsman’s of Brazil Office ulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing commuthis topic to the corporate strategy. For Procon 10,256 16.64 15,793 28.18 17,099 28.89 nications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, managers, Sustainability Trail – LeaderLegal Court System 53,574 69,802 76,339 broken down per type of results. ship is available, comprising the evalua(1) The number of complaints divided by the number of customers, multiplied by 100,000 equals the number of complaints for every group of 100,000 customers. We did not identify any case of non-compliance. tion of managers of Business Units in the Total customers on the conjugate database of the Customer Register of the National Financial System (CCS) and the Credit Information System of the Central Bank (SCR). sustainability dimension. Note: from 2015, the demands related to Administrative Hearings in Procons of the Country were incorporated into the Volume of Demands. G4-PR8 | Total number of proven complaints regarding the violation of privacy and loss of customers’ data. G4-PR5 | Results of customer satisfaction surveys. In 2016, our External Ombudsman’s Office received 170 complaints Since 1997, we conduct customer satisfaction surveys, including all stakeholders (Individuals, Companies and from Individual customers related to the breach of bank secrecy, public sector). three of them considered reasonable. We did not receive complaints from regulatory branches. 166 167 Attachment GRI G4-DMA Portfolio of products Loan FS7 Both development trails are linked, on the UniBB (the Corporate University of Banco do Brasil) Portal, to the profile of all the employees of the technical/administrative and managerial segments, respectively. Total in the Number of Product Description Portfolio Transactions in 2016 Carried Out In 2016 FS6 | Percentage of the portfolio of each business line, broken down per region, size (e.g. micro, small, medium or large enterprise) and business segment. (R$ million) Information available in Explanatory Note 10 – Loan Operations, in the Financial Statements document Financial StateWorker Support Car financing line whose fuel are of a renewable origin intended for ment and Sustainable Credit Guidelines of Banco do Brasil. Fund (FAT) individuals. This line uses FAT funds and promotes the generation of 350.6 4,965 Tax Driver jobs and income. FS7 | Monetary value of products and services with social benefit, separated by each business line and Pre-approved credit line to meet the working capital needs of micro broken down per goal. FS8 | Monetary value of products and services with an environmental benefit, sepand small enterprises. The line comprises two types of credit – arated by each business line and broken down per goal. overdraft facility and fixed reusable credit, which adds social value by providing market differentials to micro and small enterprises. BB Giro Rápido 2,001.1 7,043 The product offers advantages such as the simplified process of extension of credit and contracts with the linkage of the guarantee Social Business of the Operation Guarantee Fund (FGO), which facilitates access to credit, including via mobile devices. Total in the Number of Product Description Portfolio Transactions Financing line intended for micro or small enterprises for investment in 2016 Carried Out In 2016 projects, with or without associated working capital, providing (R$ million) Proger the generation or maintenance of employment and income in 2,272.1 6,527 the urban area, in order to achieve sustainable development of It aims at professionalization of producers and their families, the modernizamicroenterprises and small enterprises, aligned to Urban Proger. tion of the production system and the appreciation of the family rural producer. Pronaf 41,934.6 562,950 It is intended for financial support of farming and non-farming activities exploited through direct employment of the workforce of rural producer family. Line of Financing to customers with a gross monthly income of up to 10 Agribusiness Loan FS8 BB Accessibility (ten) minimum salaries, intended for the acquisition of goods and services of 169.3 9,488 Credit assistive technology based on Act No. 12,613 of April 18, 2012. Total in the Number of Product Description Portfolio Transactions We act as the financial agent of Fies, a student loan public policy of the in 2016 Carried Out In 2016 Federal Government intended to finance the Higher Education degree to students who cannot afford to pay their education costs and the (R$ million) democratization of the access to quality education. Fund for Its main purposes are to reduce emissions of Greenhouse Gases Financing ABC Program (GHG) from agricultural activities and deforestation and stimulate the 9,166.2 3,438 Fies provides financing of up to 100% of face-to-face undergraduate courses. the Higher 27,106.4 80,398 recovery of degraded areas. From the 2nd half of 2015, the financing has the following characteristics: Education interest of 6.5% p.a., a grace period of 18 months upon completion of the Student (Fies) It aims to support investments in projects that meet the requirements course and period of amortization of three times the number of semesters defined by the Department of Family Agriculture/Ministry of Agricultural financed. Only the payment of the financing interest, with a maximum amount Pronaf Development for: agroforestry systems; ecologically sustainable of R$150.00, is required during the use and grace period phase, Florestal extraction exploitation; handling plan and forest handling, including the 170.3 88 on a quarterly basis. (Forest) costs related to the deployment and maintenance of the project; and It includes funding for projects that meet requirements such as the inclusion enrichment of areas that have diverse forest cover, with the planting of Minha Casa of elderly and disabled people; environmental prevention standards one or more native forest species of the biome. Minha Vida and attitudes, such as the use of equipment and solutions; fulfillment of Credit line intended for farmers eligible to Pronaf for investments (Real Estate recommendations on execution of works; and execution of discussions and Pronaf 19,978.6 60,527 related to specific projects of agroecological or organic production Lending) dissemination among its members of awareness of the reuse of materials, Agroecologia 9.1 93 systems, including the costs related to the deployment and Program rational use of natural resources, low-cost alternative measures of water (Agroecology) maintenance of the project. (PMCMV)(1) heating/degradable materials for construction or other uses, risks arising from the failure to preserve the environment and other irrelevant issues. Pronaf Line of credit intended for Individual and Corporate customers aligned Eco-Dendê Credit line intended for farmers eligible to Pronaf for investments in the BB Microcrédito with the National Program for Microcredit for Production with Guidance (Oil Palm)/ deployment of crops of oil palm or rubber tree, with associated costs for 10.8 2 Empreendedor (MPO), intended for working capital or investment, dedicated to meeting Seringueira maintenance of the crop. 560.1 411,643 (Rubber Tree) (Entrepreneur the financial needs of entrepreneurs of small-sized productive activities. Microcredit) It uses a methodology based on direct relationship with entrepreneurs, aimed at guiding and monitoring the business. (1) In the Individual segment, 27,547 operations were carried out, which results in the portfolio of R$19,437.7 million. On the Corporate segment, 32,980 operations were carried out, with R$540.9 million at the end of 2016. 168 169 Attachment GRI FS8 Means of Payment FS8 Total in the Number of Product Description Portfolio Transactions in 2016 Carried Out In 2016 Number of Cards 16/15 Product Description Issued in 2016 Growth (%) (R$ million) Line intended for farmers eligible to Pronaf who intend to deploy, use, Credit card specific to meet the Individual Micro-Entrepreneurs retrieve or adopt renewable and/or environmental energy technologies, Ourocard (MEI), exempt from the annual fee, for the purpose of leveraging Pronaf Eco 218.2 384 15,731 (19.9)% water storage, small hydroelectric plants, forestry or practices for Empreendedor the credit in this segment and facilitating the use of banking conservation and correction of acidity and fertility of the soil. services and the transaction of financial funds. Fixed credit line intended for agricultural investments with funds Our first card produced with recycled plastic. Each card requested, from BNDES. It promotes actions related to animal defense and the the customer donates R$5.00 to Instituto Terra, which promotes the implementation of animal traceability systems for human food. The Ourocard Origens recovery and sustainable management of forests of Atlantic forest 11,629 (17.4)% program supports the recovery of soils, in addition to promoting the sectors Reciclado region, adheres automatically to the service of invoice rounding and Moderagro 640.0 429 helps with the planting of one of 400 trees necessary to promote of production, processing, industrialization and storage of beekeeping, aquaculture, poultry farming, chinchilla farming, rabbit farming, floriculture, recovery from a spring. fruit growing, horticulture, fishing, sheep and goat husbandry, dairy farming, Card intended for the payment of expenses with actions of support frog breeding, sericulture and pig farming products. Payment Card and assistance to victims and recovery of essential services, used of Civil Defense 2,144 (9.3)% exclusively in emergency situations or public disaster situation and (CPDC) A program intended to finance the normal expenses of costing and recognized by the National Department of Civil Defense. investment, aiming to promote the development of rural activities Pronamp 24,560.3 124,443 of medium-sized producers and provide an increase in income and Ourocard-holding customers that adhere to this service will have employment generation in rural areas. their invoice amount rounded up to the next integer value, above, and the cents corresponding to the difference will be donated to a Warehouse It aims to support investments needed for the expansion and Rounding partner non-profit organization. Currently, donations are intended 96,522 27.5% Construction construction of new warehouses. Therefore, it contributes to the of Invoice 3.5 206 solely to Instituto Terra, which promotes reforestation of deforested and Expansion improvement of the income of rural producers and the distribution and areas of Atlantic forest and is responsible for the recovery of more Program (PCA) storage of food produced in the Country, supporting food safety. than 40 million square meters. Financing for the region of Sudene (Superintendence for the Development of the Northeast) with reduced financial charges regarding Semiárido rural financing to other regions of the Country. The region of Sudene 20,207.7 106,563 (Semi-arid) has as main feature the frequent droughts that may be characterized by the absence, scarcity, high spatial and temporal variability of rainfall. It is not rare the succession of consecutive years of drought. Financing with the use of a no-till farming system that follows the logic of forests. As well as the organic material fallen from trees turns into a rich natural fertilizer, straw decomposed from previous crops, macro Agricultural and micro-organisms, becomes the food of the soil. The advantages Funding with are a reduction in the use of chemical inputs and control of erosion 20,455.3 96,734 No-Till Farming processes since the water infiltration becomes slower by permanent soil coverage. The No-Till Farming System in the straw (SPDP) contributes so the soil is not taken by the erosions and store more nutrients, fertilizers, and correctives. Program for Incentive to Technological Innovation in Agricultural Production (INOVAGRO) supports investments necessary for the incorporation of technological innovation in rural properties, aiming Inovagro 2,129.6 1,216 at increasing productivity, the adoption of good agricultural practices and rural property management and the competitive insertion of rural producers in different consumer markets. 170 171 Attachment GRI Insurance and Capitalization FS7 Investments FS8 Share in the Shareholders’ Profitability in Product Description 2016 Total Revenue Equity in 2016 2016 (%) Product Description Revenues of the Portfolio in 2016 (%) (R$ million) BB Referenciado DI It transfers 50% of the management fee to FBB, in order to benefit 105.3 11.2% (R$ million) Social 50 social projects. It transfers to Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB) 50% of its revenue of It transfers 20% of the management fee to FBB, in order to benefit Ouro Vida 751.1 26.9% the initiatives of Água Brasil Program. The portfolio of the Corporate stipulation to be applied in the social programs of that entity. BB Ações ISE Sustainability Index (ISE) consists of shares of companies that BB Seguro Vida 8.6 11.7% It transfers to FBB 50% of its revenue of stipulation to be applied in the Jovem FIC present a proposal for comprehensive corporate responsibility, Mulher (Women 347.8 12.4% which considers aspects of good governance, economic efficiency, social programs of that entity. Life Insurance) environmental balance and social justice. Ouro Vida It transfers to the National Federation of Athletic Associations of Banco BB Multimercado 804.3 28.8% It invests part of its equity in Brazilian and global companies that Grupo Especial do Brasil (FENABB) 2.19% of the percentage of the stipulation. Global Acqua LP 254.1 12.9% include water treatment or processing in their production process. Private FI Customized It transfers the percentage of stipulation to FENABB. 133.8 4.8% It follows the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2), created by BNDES and Education – it transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.5% of total funds BB Ações Carbono B3, consisting of shares of IbrX 50 member companies, which adopt 4.0 27.1% Ourocard Torcida – raised in payment by subscribers of the second monthly payment and Sustentável FIA 349.1 6.2% transparent practices with regard to their GHG emissions. Monthly Payment 0.5% of the third monthly payment of capitalization bonds from R$600 to R$1 thousand through direct debit and credit card. Fund intended for own social security regimes established by the Federal Government, by States or by the Municipalities and Ourocap Torcida Education – it transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% of the total BB Previdenciário that follows the Corporate Governance Index (IGC) of B3, Brasil – Lump-sum funds raised in payment by subscribers of a lump sum of capitalization 524.1 9.3% 107.9 28.4% Ações Governança composed of companies recognized by good corporate payment bonds from R$600 to R$1 thousand through direct debit. governance practices, whose shares are traded in tiers I and II Environment – it transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% of the total of corporate governance in Novo Mercado. Ourocap Torcida funds raised in payment by subscribers of a lump sum of capitalization Structuring of a fund intended for the purchase of interests in Brasil – Lump-sum 874.0 15.5% bonds from R$2 thousand to R$5 thousand through direct debit and from companies that may be conducted at the stage of the global payment R$1 thousand to R$5 thousand through credit card. FIP Brasil de corporate governance company (pre-IPO), with solid fundamentals Governança of management, with the possibility of enhancement of corporate 151.5 (58.8)% Education – it transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% (point twentyCorporativa governance practices and application of self-sustainability five percent) of total funds raised in payment by subscribers of the concepts, with maturity for conflict management and treatment of second monthly payment and 0.25% (point twenty-five percent) of 233.6 4.1% environmental issues. the third monthly payment of capitalization bonds from R$400 to R$1 thousand through direct debit and credit card. Structuring of a fund intended to the purchase of interests in Brasil companies whose activities include projects with the potential to Education – it transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% (point twentySustentabilidade 215.9 7.1% generate carbon credits, with the incorporation of sustainability Ourocap Torcida five percent) of total funds raised in payment by subscribers of the FIP principles to investment decisions. Brasil – Monthly second monthly payment and 0.25% (point twenty-five percent) of the 234.4 4.2% Payment third monthly payment of capitalization bonds from R$200 to R$350 Structuring of a fund (FIP) intended for the purchase of interests in thousand through direct debit and credit card. Brazilian companies in which solid grounds have been identified and Education – it transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% (point twentythat can benefit from contributions of capital, in order to take them to five percent) of total funds raised in payment by subscribers of the Brasil Agronegócio the stock market. The focus of investments of the Fund will comprise 389.9 (24.8)% second monthly payment and 0.25% (point twenty-five percent) of the 579.1 10.3% FIP the entire production chain of agribusiness. Investees must adopt third monthly payment of capitalization bonds from R$60 to R$300 standards of socioenvironmental responsibility (seeking to minimize thousand through direct debit and credit card. possible impacts harmful to the environment arising from their activities) and adopt good corporate governance practices. Environment – It transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% (point twenty-five percent) of the total funds raised in the payment, Structuring of a fund (FIP) intended for the purchase of interests in Ourocap Estilo Flex by subscribers, of the 48 (forty-eight) monthly payments of 18.8 0.3% medium-sized Brazilian companies, already active in foreign trade, capitalization bonds PP 93 E, in the amount from R$250 to R$500, or that have the potential for internationalization. E.g.: high valuethrough direct debit. Fundo Brasil de added sectors, leading companies in national sectors and sectors Internacionalização 233.3 (2.2)% in which Brazil is competitive. Investees must adopt standards of Empresas FIP socioenvironmental responsibility (seeking to minimize possible impacts harmful to the environment arising from their activities) and adopt good corporate governance practices. 172 173 Attachment GRI Shareholders’ Profitability in G4-DMA Audit Product Description Equity in 2016 2016 (%) Our Internal Audit Unit conducts surveys, periodically and indeIn addition to the Ecuador Principles, we (R$ million) pendently, about the risks to which we are exposed. We plan the adopted socioenvironmental criteria in the actions of the mentioned body in compliance with the requirements evaluation of the study of the credit limit of Structuring of a fund (FIP) intended for the purchase of a company in of the Ministry of Transparency and Supervision – Office of the companies and investment projects. Curthe various sectors of logistics, including: port, dockside and storage Brasil Portos assets, distribution centers, assets for handling and transportation Comptroller-General (CGU). Therefore, we conduct audits at least rently, such procedures are applied to come Ativos of loads. Investees must adopt standards of socioenvironmental 226.8 (3.0)% every year and at most every three years, when we evaluate our panies or economic groups with Gross OpLogísticos FIP responsibility (seeking to minimize possible impacts harmful to the adhesion to environmental policies and commitments that we unerating Income (GOI) verified or estimated environment arising from their activities) and adopt good corporate governance practices. dertake. If we identify the need to improve our practices, we stipuabove R$200 million and investment projlate corrective actions, with people in charge and deadlines. ects with the amount financed by us less Structuring of a fund (FIP) intended for the purchase of companies than or greater than R$2.5 million. In 2016, and/or projects related to oil and gas production chain, in particular, Currently, we have the limited assurance by a third party about the 5,272 evaluations were applied to the study FIP Fundo Brasil service providers and manufacturers of capital goods. Investees information and indicators relating to sustainability theme within of the credit limit of companies and 24 eval80.4 (0.6)% Óleo e Gás must adopt standards of socioenvironmental responsibility (seeking to minimize possible impacts harmful to the environment arising from the scope of this Annual Report. uations of investment projects. their activities) and adopt good corporate governance practices. G4-DMA Active share control FS11 | Percentage of assets subject to Structuring of a fund (FIP) intended for the purchase of interests in For the General Meetings of the Entities Affiliated with Banco do environmental and social screening medium-sized Brazilian companies, already active in foreign trade, Brasil (ELBB), we recommend the attendance of the shareholder, (positive and negative). or that have the potential for internationalization. E.g.: high valueFundo Brasil de added sectors, leading companies in national sectors and sectors partner or legal representative – and their votes – regarding topics We, through BB Gestão de Recursos Internacionalização 343.8 2.8% such as: approval of accounts for the previous fiscal year, dividend DTVM S.A., managed R$730.9 billion in in which Brazil is competitive. Investees must adopt standards of Empresas II FIP socioenvironmental responsibility (seeking to minimize possible distribution, election of directors and stipulation of the amount of the third-party funds at the end of 2016. Out of impacts harmful to the environment arising from their activities) and overall compensation of the administrators. In 2016, we followed up this total, R$483.4 million were subject to adopt good corporate governance practices. the resolutions about socioenvironmental and sustainability issues some sort of socioenvironmental screenLine of financing intended for the states and the Federal District for in the meetings of the Board of Directors (BoDs) of the following ing, which corresponds to funds with socioBNDES Governo investments in public works, equipment, and facilities, focused on social 5.8 3 Affiliated Entities: environmental characteristics. benefits for the people affected by the actions. Line of financing intended for the municipalities for the purchase of machinery and equipment for interventions on public roads, • Ativos: we worked on the revision of the Unified Risk ManageWith regard to assets, in December 2016, Provias 1.1 1 ment Policy (including socioenvironmental risk); 1.1% of them were submitted to positive highways, and roadways, focused on the social benefits to the people affected by the actions. screening. For this kind of analysis, we Modernization of • Cielo: we participated in the review of the Socioenvironmental developed a methodology for the incorpoFinancing to support investment projects of municipal public Tax Administration Responsibility Policy; ration of environmental, social and corpoadministration focused on the modernization of tax administration and and Management rate governance aspects, which includes the improvement of the quality of public spending, aiming at providing 4.1 5 of Basic Social Sectors Program an efficient public management which generates revenue increase and/ • Banco Patagonia: we were present at the approval of the RSE general and specific indicators. The first or reduction of the unit cost of services provided to the community. Report, which details the socioenvironmental programs conones were segmented into four distinct pil(PMAT) ducted in the previous year; lars comprising issues related to the govBB Public Sector Financing, with the transfer of external or our funds, of programs and ernance structure, socioenvironmental asFinancing (operations actions specified in strategic planning of the states. It causes social impacts due to the improvement in the quality of life of the population. 150.3 1 • Neoenergia: there were voting guidelines, registration of votes/ pects and the positioning of the company with states) decisions and matters addressed/resolved involving environwith regard to sustainability indexes. The mental, socioenvironmental and sustainability issues. specific indicators were defined according to the needs of each area. FS10 | Percentage and number of companies in the portfolio of the institution with which the reporting organization interSuch methodology is aligned with BAacted regarding socioenvironmental issues. CEN (Central Bank of Brazil) Resolution Under the Equator Principles, in 2016, we interacted with customNo. 4,327/2014. These evaluations refer ers in the following number of processes/contracted operations: exclusively to third-party funds. i) project finance: 2; and ii) advisory services: 1. 174 175 Attachment GRI G4-DMA Product and service labeling G4-DMA Local communities | FS13 | Access points in areas with low population density or economically underprivileged population, broken down per type | FS14 | Initiatives to improve the access to financial serEducação Financeira BB (BB Financial Education) Portal – in order to stimulate the practice of vices by underprivileged people. responsible use of credit, we disclose guidance, courses, simulators, tips and links on the theme on the Portal at We are present in 99.8% of Brazilian municipalities, through our own network, corresponding channels (Banco Postal www.bb.com.br/educacaofinanceira. and Mais BB) and the shared network (Tecban, Caixa Econômica Federal – CEF – and Banco Regional de Brasília – BRB). Since 2012, our entire self-service park is in compliance with the accessibility standard ABNT 2005/15,250. Orientador do Crédito (Credit Advisor) – sa digital solution that “dialogue” with customers, whether account holders or not. Through answers provided, the tool helps them to identify the most suitable option for their situation. Our decisions about the opening or closing of service stations are taken through strategic positioning analysis and adoption of measures to improve our operational efficiency. The activity of the shared network and Banco24Horas Trato – this application helps parents to stimulate their children’s financial education since childhood. occurs from resolutions agreed with partners. Solução de Dívidas (Debt Solution) Portal – a tool that provides customers with a broader view of their financial In 2016, the network of correspondent banks presented normal turnover. A summary of the configuration of our commitment with us, with the possibility of renegotiation and adequacy of their monthly installments. service network is described below. Products and services – we promote financial education and banking inclusion through appropriate products and services to customers. Correspondent Region Branches Stations Banco24Horas Points Shared Banks Participation in events – in May 2016, we participated in the 3rd National Week of Financial Education (Enef) Opening Closing Opening Closing Opening Closing Opening Closing Opening Closing and promoted actions aligned with the guidelines defined along with the other banks participating in the Financial Education Committee, coordinated by FEBRABAN. North 2 55 111 155 58 145 38 41 Northeast 5 9 126 265 383 69 211 754 1,113 Financial advisory services and experts – through Banco do Brasil Estilo, we provide Financial Advisory SerMidwest 4 7 84 152 166 38 166 118 231 vice and, during the year, we added experts in investments, social security, pension plan and real estate credit to Southeast 10 4 11 595 1,183 1,621 180 350 565 559 the digital model. South 9 13 5 251 167 140 54 247 179 393 Minhas Finanças (My Finances) – in the testing phase, the functionality will be available on the BB application Total 28 17 34 1,111 1,878 2,465 399 1,119 1,654 2,337 for cell phone and will assist customers in monitoring their budget. G4-DMA Product and service labeling Credit Experts – we also prepared a team to act as Experts in Credit. In addition to branch employees, we also We promote a series of initiatives to educate our employees and customers financially and contribute so they can provide training to the call center staff members. recommend or make more suitable options when contracting or using their funds. Universidade do Cliente and Pensa Universitário – we launched, in November, bb.com.br/conhecereinovar, For external stakeholders, the activities developed in 2016 included: platform, which allows customers to access informational and collaborative content. Seu Bolso e Você (Your Wallet and You) Workshop – face-to-face, it involves the stakeholders of segments D and E of the population, beneficiaries of social programs, public policies and projects of FBB, microentrepreneurs, and community in general and provides them with training on personal, family and/or business financial planning. Portal do Banco do Brasil – it includes courses and digital content for individuals and micro-entrepreneurs about financial planning and how to manage personal and family budget. Tá na hora (It’s time) Portal – financial education webpage, intended for external stakeholders, bringing learning possibilities in three main axes: Deciding, Planning and Making dreams come true. Financial advice – we provide this service via telephone and, in 2017, service provided by credit specialists will also be available. Uso Responsável do Crédito (Responsible Use of Credit) Campaign – advertising campaign through radio, TV and social network, which stimulates education and financial management. 176 177 Attachment GRI Auditors’ Report G4-33 KPMG Auditores Independentes SBS Qd. 02 Bl. Q Lote 03 Salas 708 a 711 KPMG Auditores Independentes EdifícioAuditores KPMG João Carlos Independentes Saad SBS Qd. 02 Bl. Q Lote 03 Salas 708 a 711 SBS Qd. 02 70070-120 Brasília/DF Bl. Q Lote 03 Salas 708 a 711 Brasil Edifício João Carlos Saad Edifício Caixa Postal João 8587CarlosCEP Saad70312-970 Brasília/DF Brasil 70070-120 Brasília/DF Brasil 70070-120 Brasília/DF Telefone +55 (61) 2104-2400, BrasilFax +55 (61) 2104-2406 Caixa Postal 8587 CEP 70312-970 Brasília/DF Brasil Caixa Postal 8587 CEP 70312-970 Brasília/DF Brasil www.kpmg.com.br Telefone +55 (61) 2104-2400, Fax +55 (61) 2104-2406 Telefone +55 (61) 2104-2400, Fax +55 (61) 2104-2406 www.kpmg.com.br www.kpmg.com.br Independence Statement Independent Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report G4-33 Independence Statement To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Banco do Brasil S.A. To Brasília To the Board DF of Directors and Shareholders of The Board of Directors, Shareholders and Management Banco do Brasil S.A. Banco do Brasil S.A. Brasília DF Brasília DF Brasília, May 09, 2017 Brasília, May 09, 2017 Introduction In connection with the action to be taken with respect to the issuance of the Independent We have been contracted with the purpose of applying limited assurance procedures on the Auditors on the sustainability information disclosed in the Annual Report of the Banco of sustainability information disclosed in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil S.A., related to the year ended December 31, 2016. Brasil In connectionSA, related withto thethe year to action ended be takenDecember 31st 2016 with respect to the declare that weissuance of the KPMG is Independent independent Auditors on the in relation to the information Banco do Brasil sustainability SA and disclosed in thethere was no Annual conflict Report of theof interest Banco of in the Responsibilities of Company Management verification Brasil SA, related to the yearand of environmental ended social data on 31 thest sustainability December 2016 we declare information that KPMG in accordance is The management of the Banco do Brasil is responsible for the preparation and adequate with the rulesinofrelation independent the International to the Banco do BrasilofSA Federation Accountants and there was (IFAC) no Code conflict ofof Ethics interest andin the presentation of the sustainability information disclosed in the Annual Report according to local rule CFC Resolução CFC 1.312/10. verification of environmental and social data on the sustainability information in accordance the Guidelines for Sustainability Reports of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI (GRI-G4) with the rules of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics and and using the internal controls that it determined as necessary to enable preparation of local truly Very rule CFCyoursResolução CFC 1.312/10. such information free of any relevant distortion, even though it was resulted by fraud or error. Very truly yours KPMG Auditores Independentes Independent auditors’ responsibility CRC SP-014428/O-6 F-DF Our responsibility is to express a conclusion about the information in Annual Sustainability Original KPMG Auditores report in Portuguese Independentes signed by Report based on the limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with Marcelo Faria CRC SP-014428/O-6 F-DF Pereira Technical Notice (CT) 07/2012 approved by the Federal Accounting Council and prepared Accountant Original reportCRC RJ-077911/O-2 in Portuguese signed by in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits and Marcelo Faria Pereira Reviews), issued by the Federal Accounting Council CFC, which is the equivalent to international standard ISAE 3000 issued by the International Federation of Accountants Accountant CRC RJ-077911/O-2 applicable to Non-Historical Information. These standards require compliance with ethical requirements, including independence ones and also that the engagement is conducted in order to provide a limited assurance that the information disclosed in the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatement. KPMG Auditores Independentes, uma sociedade simples brasileira e firmaKPMG Auditores Independentes, a Brazilian entity and a member firm of the membro da rede KPMG de firmas-membro independentes e afiliadas à KPMG KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), uma entidade suíça. International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. KPMG Auditores Independentes, uma sociedade simples brasileira e firmaKPMG Auditores Independentes, a Brazilian entity and a member firm of the 1 membro da rede KPMG de firmas-membro independentes e afiliadas à KPMG KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), uma entidade suíça. International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 1 KPMG Auditores Independentes, uma sociedade simples brasileira e firmaKPMG Auditores Independentes, a Brazilian entity and a member firm of the membro da rede KPMG de firmas-membro independentes e afiliadas à KPMG KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), uma entidade suíça. International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 1 178 179 Attachment GRI G4-33 G4-33 A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) The objective of our work was to apply limited assurance procedures on the sustainability primarily consists of questioning to the management of Company and other Company’s information disclosed in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil, not including its greenhouse professional involved in preparing the information in the Annual Report and also applying gas emissions data, neither the assessment of the appropriateness of its policies, practices analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to make a limited assurance and sustainability performance. conclusion about the information taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires additional procedures when the independent auditor learns of issues which lead Conclusion them to believe that the information in the Annual Report, taken as a whole, could present Based on the applied procedures, described in this report, nothing has come to our material misstatement. attention that leads us to believe that the information contained in the Annual Report 2016 The selected procedures were based on our understanding of the issues related to the prepared by Banco do Brasil SA, were not compiled, in all relevant aspects, in accordance compilation and presentation of the information in the Annual Report and other engagement with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI (GRIcircumstances and considerations about areas where material misstatement could exist. G4). The procedures consisted of: a. the planning of the work, considering the relevance, amount of quantitative and qualitative Brasília, May 09, 2017 information and the operational systems and internal controls that served as a basis for preparation of the information in the Annual Report; b. the understanding of the calculation methodology and the consolidation procedures used to KPMG Auditores Independentes of the indicators through interviews with the personnel in charge of the preparation of the CRC SP-014428/O-6 F-DF information; Original report in Portuguese signed by Marcelo Faria Pereira c. the application of analytical procedures to the quantitative information and inquiries about Accountant CRC RJ-077911/O-2 the qualitative information and its relation to the indicators disclosed in the information presented in the Annual Report; and d. the comparison of the financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records; We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited conclusion. Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less extensive than those applied in an assurance engagement aiming to express an opinion about the information in the Annual Report. Due to this, it does not ensure us that we are aware of all the issues that would be identified during an assurance engagement which aim to express an opinion. If we had conducted an engagement in order to express an opinion, we may have identified other issues and possible misstatements which can be in the information presented in the Annual Report. Therefore, we are not expressing an opinion about this information. The nonfinancial data is subject to more inherent limitations than the financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate or estimate this data. Qualitative interpretations of the data's materiality and accuracy are subjected to individual presumptions and judgments. Additionally, we did not examine data informed for prior periods or future projections and targets either. KPMG Auditores Independentes, uma sociedade simples brasileira e firmaKPMG Auditores Independentes, a Brazilian entity and a member firm of the KPMG Auditores Independentes, uma sociedade simples brasileira e firmaKPMG Auditores Independentes, a Brazilian entity and a member firm of the membro da rede KPMG de firmas-membro independentes e afiliadas à KPMG KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG membro da rede KPMG de firmas-membro independentes e afiliadas à KPMG KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), uma entidade suíça. International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), uma entidade suíça. International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 2 3 180 181 Attachment GRI bb.com.br/ir bb.com.br/sustentabilidade 182
