CONTENTS OUR REPORT About Our Report 02 Messages to Our Stakeholders 03 About Corporate Profile 04 As Kordsa, we are proud to present our third sustainability Kordsa Facts and Figures 05 report that reflects our economic, environmental and social Products, Sectors, Markets 06 performance in 2016. With this report we would like to give our stakeholders the opportunity to evaluate our efforts to Strategy and Governance 08 measure, monitor and manage the impacts resulting from our Sustainability Management 09 operations. We would like our sustainability reports to be one Corporate Governance 15 of the major communication tools with our stakeholders to Business Ethics 16 share our best practices in our excellence journey of being a sustainable company. Economic Performance 17 Contributions to the Economy 18 The Scope R&D and Innovation 20 Unless otherwise stated, the data in this report covers Kordsa’s Procurement and Suppliers 22 activities from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. This year Customer Privacy 23 we expanded the scope of our environmental data and included all our plants. Stakeholder engagement with employees and Social Performance 24 customers also cover all our global operations. We explain Employment 25 how we defined our report content and topic boundaries in the Human Rights Assessments 28 Strategy and Governance section of this report. Training and Education 29 Occupational Health and Safety 31 The Principles Environmental Performance 34 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Energy and Emissions Management 35 Standards: Core option. In the process of identifying our Materials Management 36 strategic sustainability topics, we took into consideration Waste Management 37 GRI’s principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness, as well as the Water Management 38 principles of UN Global Compact that we signed in 2014, Biodiversity Conservation 39 and the International Finance Corporation IFC’s Performance Performance Indicators 40 Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability that Economic Performance Indicators 41 were established to pinpoint, assess and manage social and Social Performance Indicators 42 environmental risks in project finance. Environmental Performace Indicators 45 Next Report Annexes 48 We plan to publish our next report, which will cover our Memberships 48 sustainability performance of 2017, in the second half of 2018. GRI Content Index 49 Contacts 51 02 MESSAGES TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS We, at Kordsa, manage sustainability by innovating In 2016, we have also reached our target to achieve technologies with the focus on humans and accident-free working hours at our Chattanooga and environment, and with the aim of creating value for Laurel Hill plants in the USA, as well as at our Thailand our stakeholders, notably for our workers and our plant. customers. Today, 1 out of 3 automobile tires, and At Kordsa, ensuring equal opportunity for women and 2 out of 3 plane tires manufactured in the world are diversity are among our labor priorities. We are a signatory reinforced by Kordsa technologies. to the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles as well as the Equality at Work Declaration and we are We gathered the R&D and production processes in determined to continue supporting similar platforms. composite technologies under one umbrella in the Composite Technologies Center of Excellence, which We constantly support the personal and professional became operational in 2016. The composite materials development of our employees and long-term coming out of the center serve the automotive, aviation employability of our team through initiatives like KEEP and and rail systems industries. In addition to 32 inventions All Stars. we made in 2016, we also applied for 103 patents. In 2016, Kordsa is selected as the 7th Best Employer of We continue to lead the innovation way in global Bahia Region in Brazil by Great Place to Work Institute reinforcement market with our 407 patent applications and received the Unique Employer-Worker Relations and and 121 patent approvals in total. Serenity at Workplace award for the 7th time in Thailand Distinguished Stakeholders, Esteemed Stakeholders, from the Ministry of Labor. Not only we use our existing resources efficiently and Since the day our company was founded, invest in occupational health for a sustainable world, We are proud to share with you our third As a global reinforcer brand, environmental management we manage the economic, social and we also develop new technologies for it. In the future sustainability report covering our 2016 in production comes first among our operational priorities. environmental impacts of our operations performance. Our report is based on Global Throughout the report you can read about our various we will continue to create value for our customers and best practices regarding materials, energy, emissions based on the Ethical Principles of the Sabancı investors, support the development of our employees, Reporting Initiative’s new Standards launched and waste management along with water efficiency and Group. In 2014, we proved our commitment and expand our “Reinforce Life” vision all around the in 2016 and Kordsa is among the 100 biodiversity conservation. to global responsible business principles by world by producing lighter and more durable tires companies, which used this standard for the signing the UN Global Compact, that covers and composite materials using less energy and less first time in the world. In 2016, Kordsa was granted the Jury’s Special Award in the areas of human rights, labor, environment materials. the Project Contest on Energy Efficiency in Industry by the and anti-corruption in ten principles. In this With this annual performance report, we present you our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in Turkey and respect, we are pleased to share with you the Kind Regards, management approach to material sustainability issues, Composite Technologies Center of Excellence received and the related best practices we have introduced to LEED Gold Certificate, which is presented to energy and third annual sustainability performance report Cenk Alper improve the way we manage our impacts, as well as our environment friendly buildings by the United States Green of Kordsa. Chairman, Kordsa future plans and targets. The materiality works revealed Building Council. We also became a part of Istanbul Stock that business ethics, human rights, occupational health Exchange Sustainability Index. and safety, employment and labor practices and as well Our company was included in the Istanbul Stock as training and education are the sustainability aspects Our efforts will continue to reinforce our stakeholders, the Exchange’s BIST 50 Index in July 2016 as a result of life and the environment we live in, with the power of our that had priority for our top managers, employees and the quarterly assessments based on daily transaction innovative technologies, our sustainable management customers. volumes, and also included in the BIST Sustainability approach and our sustainable growth rate. Index in November 2016 to have its place among We continue to operate in five continents with a goal of the top 43 companies with the highest corporate zero accident, using effective tools like risk assessments I hope you enjoy reading our 2016 report of sustainability. and safety projects like Safety Experience Center. Please share with us, your questions as well as comments sustainability performance. While we create value for Experience Centers increase safety awareness among and suggestions concerning the information covered in our stakeholders on one side and for our shareholders all our employees with real time simulators of accident this report. on the other, we have the honor of being counted situations. After Indonesia plant in 2015, we opened among the sustainability forerunners in our country. Kind Regards, centers in Turkey and Brazil in 2016. Ali Çalışkan CEO, Kordsa 03 CORPORATE PROFILE As the global leader of tire reinforcement market, we allocate our reinforcement experience to composite and construction markets as well. We provide high quality solutions with our high level technological competence in order to maintain sustainable products and services. Today one third of the automobile tires and two thirds of the aircraft tires produced in the world are reinforced by Kordsa technologies. AWARDS and ACHIEVEMENTS Kordsa, along with the 43 companies with the highest corporate sustainability performance, entered Istanbul Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. November 2016 05 KORDSA FACTS AND FIGURES CORPORATE PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY PROFILE TL 1,908 Million 40.8% Turnover Operating profit growth USD 49 Million Regional Revenue Split ECONOMIC Investments EMEA 36% Asia Pacific 31% North America 18% 8 Production plants South America 15% 5 Countries 27% 73% 3,790 Employees Women* Men* 0 SOCIAL 43 Years Fatal occupational accidents and diseases 199,179 114.7 Total number of training hours Average number of training hours of our female employees USD 1.28 Million 2.13 Million Total savings resulting from Number of reused paper tubes the reuse of materials ENVIRONMENTAL 22% Emission Management 37% Waste Recycling USD 223,182 21% Waste Disposal Total amount of our environmental investments 12% Consultancy 8% Training * Data represents white-collar employees. Among all employees, the rate of women is around 11%. 05 PRODUCTS, SECTORS, MARKETS Kordsa operates in three business lines; tire reinforcement technologies, technologies to tire manufacturers spreaded all around the world. composite technologies and construction reinforcement technologies. Since 2014, we have transfered our experience and leadership in tire reinforcement materials into new markets. We serve the In tire reinforcement technologies, Kordsa is the leading global construction market with our concrete reinforcement technology supplier of high tenacity Nylon 6.6 and polyester industrial yarns as KraTos, and the composites market with our carbon fabric and well as single end cord products. We supply our tire reinforcement prepreg solutions. TIRE REINFORCEMENT TECHNOLOGIES COMPOSITE CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGIES REINFORCEMENT TECHNOLOGIES NYLON AND POLYESTER YARN SINGLE END TIRE CORD NEXT GENERATION INDUSTRIAL FABRICS AND MACRO-MICRO CORD FABRIC FABRICS FABRICS PREPREGS FIBER Mechanical Rubber Automotive Component Industry; Mechanical Rubber Aviation Goods Goods Infrastructures Cars Automotive Hoses Aircrafts Hoses Superstructures Rail Systems V-Belts Light Commerical Vehicles V-Belts Tunnels Maritime Conveyor Belts Work Machines Conveyor Belts Energy (Wind Heavy Vehicles Automotive Turbines) Component Industry Agricultural Vehicles 06 PRODUCTS, SECTORS, MARKETS Regions Products Turnover North America NY6.6, TCF TL 351 Million South America PET, SEC, TCF TL 287 Million NY6.6, PET, SEC, EMEA TL 687 Million TCF, SnFR Asia Pacific NY6.6, PET, TCF TL 583 Million Revenue Split by Product Segment TL 351 Million TL 287 Million TL687 Million TL 583 Million Tire Cord Fabric 76% Nylon Yarn 19% North South EMEA Adjacent 5% America America 07 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE At Kordsa, thanks to the efforts of our employees, we continuously improve our operational processes, balance the use of our global resources, and focus on growth that creates sustainable value for all our stakeholders. AWARDS and ACHIEVEMENTS Kordsa took its place among the best 12 companies in the Turkish Textile Innovation League. (Uludağ Textile Exporters Association) May 2016 Kordsa won The 3rd Best R&D Center Award in all sectors and The Best R&D Center Award in textile sector. (Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology) May 2016 09 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT As Kordsa, doing business in today’s rapidly changing while shaping our sustainability strategy match perfectly with SUSTAINABILITY ROAD MAP 2020 and competitive world and creating economic value, we Kordsa’s corporate values we based our growth strategy on. execute all our activities with the awareness of our social and Considering our material sustainability impacts as Kordsa, we prepared a five We believe that the core corporate values that our employees environmental responsibilities, which facilitate continuous year sustainability road map and it was approved by Executive Leadership take into consideration in their day-to-day business improvement and create value for our stakeholders. Team during the last quarter of 2016. Taking 2016 as base year we planned decisions will function as a road map in the expansion of our sustainability strategy and will facilitate its implementation by our sustainability management actions towards 2020. Our corporate values support the foundations of our vision and strategic initiatives. Our priority topics we identified our employees. SUSTAINABILITY TASK FORCE MISSION: Deliver high value added reinforcement solutions globally. With the participation of specialists and managers from different VISION: Agile Kordsa in high value businesses for sustainable growth. disciplines and departments, we established Kordsa Sustainability Task OUR SUSTAINABILITY Force in 2014. Members of the team are selected in accordance to our OUR VALUES TOPICS OUR VALUES material sustainability topics. Safety, Health and Environment Occupational Health and Safety Materials Sustainability Task Force plays an important role in implementing the We believe that all occupational and Energy environmental accidents can be sustainability strategy of our company along with the Executive Leadership prevented. Our target is to create a Water Results-Driven 100% accident-free and safe work Biodiversity Team and also contributes to the development our sustainability reports. Emissions As being the reinforcer in the environment and to manufacture with global reinforcement market, and 0% waste production. Effluents and Waste a company that continuously creates value for its shareholders, we provide our customers with the Commitment to Ethical Values Compliance highest quality services. The ethical values we are 100% Anti-Corruption committed to, regulate our relationships Supplier Assessments Member Name Job Title with employees, shareholders, Open-Minded customers, suppliers, business partners, Human Rights Assessments competitors, the environment, and Diversity and Equal Opportunity Innovation runs in our genes. Bulem Boyacı Global Sourcing Manager society. Building on years of experience, we continuously develop innovative Lawyer products, technologies, and Elif Göksel Yılmaz processes at our technology center. Customer-Focused Emel Eren Project Coordinator / Laboratory Leader We grow together with our customers who regard us as the strategic Global Collaboration Quality Department / Customer Privacy Ferhat Uzun technology partner of their choice, and Our strength stems from Continuous Improvement Coordinator offer them innovative, accurate, and collaboration – we replicate best tailor-made solutions. Miray Gönülşen Human Resources Specialist practices observed in one plant in all other locations. Brand Marketing and Corporate Nevra Aydoğan Communication Manager Continuous Improvement Employment Özge Sekmen Global Finance Specialist We continuously improve all processes Training and Education in the organization in line with our Özgün Apaydın Lean Manufacturing Engineer customer-focused approach and total Economic Performance quality management. Yoga Mardiansyah Global SHE / Sustainability Manager The names of the members are in alphabetical order. 09 COMMUNICATION WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS We define our stakeholders as people and organizations Regarding our target to be listed in the BIST that are influenced by our activities, and at the same Sustainability Index next year, we also included INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW time, have impacts on our company to achieve its biodiversity as one of the focus areas of Kordsa this 75% of our employees who responded to the sustainability business targets. While striving for sustainable growth year. at Kordsa, we aim to render the benefits we create for (GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44) assessment survey think that… all of our stakeholders sustainably as well. Sustainability Communication With Our We conducted a sustainability strategy survey during Employees Kordsa’s communication platforms to find out about the the first reporting period in 2015. Then, at one-on-one Every year we conduct a sustainability assessment ideas/suggestions or expectations of key stakeholders interviews with Executive Leadership Team and during survey to raise their awareness of our employees on the sustainability workshop held with Sustainability sustainability and our company’s impacts. Through (excl. employees) are adequate. Task Force, we reviewed all our key stakeholders that this survey, we collect our employees’ opinions on our had an intensive economic, social, and environmental company’s sustainability performance and we share interaction with our company concerning our strategic these views in the relevant sections of our report topics. annually. We grouped our key stakeholders by the extent they Students/ 330 white-collar employees including engineers, were influenced by our company’s activities and Potential Employees specialists, supervisors, managers, directors, and top their impacts on our company’s efforts to achieve its management, nearly 38% of which has been working Governmental business targets. We plan to review our stakeholders for Kordsa for more than 15 years, participated in and Regulatory Employees Families of every two years as we review our priority topics. the survey where 2016 performance was assessed. Institutions Employees (GRI 102-42) Customers Participants also selected the topics of their concerns and prioritized them. The ranking is given on page 12. Group Companies Local Sustainability Communication With Our Communities and Customers Governments Professional The communication platforms we employ for our Trade Unions Starting from the first year of our sustainability Chambers employees and other key stakeholders, together reporting we engage with our customers to either with their content and communication frequency, Suppliers Press Members receive feedback regarding Kordsa’s sustainability are given in the Communication Platforms With Our Investors performance or the strategic topics focused. Every Stakeholders table. Non-Governmental Organizations Research year we aim to increase the number of our costomers (GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44) Shareholders Institutions that we engage on sustainability. Financial Institutions Universities In the first year of sustainability reporting, we have Plants Participation interviewed two of our major customer representatives (Academics) (GRI 102-40) and received their feedback about our performance on sustainability. We have also asked their concerns on Turkey 30% which topics Kordsa should focus on. Both customers brought up the issue of supplier assessments on social Indonesia 17% and environmental impacts. We took this feedback into consideration and again took actions regarding better managing this topic. The details of our actions Brazil 18% take place under Supplier Assessments topic. USA 15% In 2016, we conducted a survey with the participation of 50% of our major customer representatives. Results 20% Thailand showed that the top priority topics for our customers are business ethics, occupational health and safety, human rights and customer privacy. 10 COMMUNICATION PLATFORMS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our Stakeholders Communication Platforms Objective / Content of Communication Communication Frequency Survey Sustainability strategy Once a year Sustainability Report Sustainability performance Once a year Reinforcer Magazine To share developments about the company, sector and technology Twice a year Annual Report To review the performance of the company in the previous year Once a year Customers Press section on website To announce new developments about the company through press releases Continuous Magazines and newspapers To announce new developments about the company through press releases and interviews in both national and international publications Continuous Social media To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous E-Newsletter To share developments about the company or collaborations exclusive to Big 6 segment Four times a year Trade fairs To establish contact with existing and new customers Several times a year Sustainability Survey Materiality and performance Once a year Sustainability Report Sustainability performance Once a year Plant newsletters such as the Kordsa Magazine To announce important developments about the company Several times a year People Clip To make notifications about the company Continuous E-mails by CEO To share important developments As needed Employees Yammer To enhance CEO communication and sharing developments about the Kordsa with employees Continuous Intouch To enhance CEO communication Four times a year All Stars To select the best projects and most successful activities within the company Once a year Global Leadership Summit (Kordsa GLS) To review the previous year and share the vision of the next year Once a year Social media To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous Face-to-face contact To discuss business issues At least once a month Trade fairs To discuss business issues Several times a year Suppliers E-mails To discuss business issues Continuous Factory visits To inspect, to discuss business issues Several times a year Social media To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous Earning calls To announce mid-year results Two times a year General Assembly To announce annual results Once a year Shareholders E-mail by request To convey information on e-mail for those shareholders who request Several times a year Newsletters To announce important developments about the company through the media Continuous TV programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Magazines and newspapers To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Investors Website To announce important information Continuous To publish the report of the Capital Markets Board Four times a year Public Disclosure Platform To announce special situations As needed Telephone/e-mails To respond to investors’ request for information about the company Upon request from the investors Social media To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous Newsletters To announce important developments about the company through the media Continuous Local Communities TV programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Website To announce important information Continuous and Governments Kordsa Magazine To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Newsletters To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous Sabancı Holding Newsletters To announce important information Continuous Group Companies SBU Spot Action To share a quarterly self-assessment of Kordsa with the Strategic Business Units of the Sabancı Group Four times a year Governmental and Regulatory Institutions Non-Governmental Newsletters To announce important developments about the company through the media Continuous Institutions Press Members Trade Unions TV programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Financial Institutions Website To announce important information Continuous 11 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Kordsa Materiality Matrix We reviewed our strategic sustainability topics The main objective of creating such a matrix with a sustainability strategy survey conducted was to clearly identify issues important for both with the participation of the Kordsa Executive our company and our key stakeholders, and to Leadership Team and the Sustainability Task develop our plans and set our targets around these Force. Consequently, we conducted employee topics. In the coming period, we aim to exchange and customer engagement surveys and ideas with a higher number of stakeholders and HIGH • BUSINESS considered their opinions as our key stakeholders to further develop the topics we will focus on and • CUSTOMER ETHICS while preparing our materiality matrix. our related targets. PRIVACY (GRI 102-46) • HEALTH AND In the matrix, topics that we place under Business SAFETY Ethics are compliance and anti-corruption. Non• HUMAN RIGHTS discrimination is disclosed under Human Rights Topic Boundaries and Limitations Influence on Stakeholders’ ASSESSMENTS Assessments. on Reporting • ECONOMIC Considering the BIST Sustainability Index The list of topics that we include on our materiality PERFORMANCE requirements, we have added biodiversity and matrix are all relevant for all our global operations. • SUPPLIER climate change in the evaluation process. Supplier Externally our suppliers and contractors also have ASSESSMENTS • EMPLOYMENT Assessments, as a topic brought up by our major impacts on these topics. customers last year, also took its place in the • TRAINING AND • DIVERSITY AND Our internal reporting limitation is the emissions EDUCATION matrix. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY data which is only available for scope 1. For (Assessments and Decisions on Kordsa) The upper right-hand part of the matrix displays economic performance, we provide some figures • MATERIALS topics that are of high importance for both which are not country specific but represent the • WATER our customers and Kordsa, and influence our company as a whole. • ENERGY AND company’s performance directly and significantly. (GRI 102-46) EMISSIONS These topics constitute the main topics of • WASTE the relevant sections of our report, and the relevant data on our company’s performance are extensively covered in the report. • BIODIVERSITY Priority Topics of Our Employees LOW 1. Occupational Health and Safety 8. Supply Chain Sustainability Significance of Impacts on Kordsa 2. Economic Performance 9. Energy and Emissıon Management (Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational) 3. Human Rights Assessments 10. Waste Management 4. Business Ethics 11. Water Management 5. Customer Privacy 12. Biodiversıty Blue: Economic topics Green: Environmental topics Red: Social topics 6. Training and Education 13. Materials Management (GRI 102-47) 7. Employment and Labor Practices 12 WE SUPPORT UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals Kordsa’s Related Material Issues Signing UN Global Compact in 2014, we started supporting its vision of SDG 1: No Poverty Employment (Indirect impact) “Sustainable and inclusive global economy” with our commitments. SDG 2: Zero Hunger Employment (Indirect impact) After the launch of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015 by UN, as Kordsa we aligned our material topics and related best practices with these global challenges. Our material topics are directly related to 13 of the SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being Occupational Health and Safety SDG’s where the rest are indirectly covered. SDG 4: Quality Education Training and Education SDG 5: Gender Equality Diversity and Equal Opportunity SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation Water SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy Energy (Indirect impact) SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Employment and Labor Practices SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure R&D and Innovation SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities Diversity and Equal Opportunity SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities R&D and Innovation (Indirect impact) SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Materials, Effluents and Waste, Water SDG 13: Climate Action Energy and Emissions SDG 14: Life Below Water Materials, Effluents and Waste, Water SDG 15: Life On Land Materials, Biodiversity SDG 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Human Rights, Anti-Corruption and Compliance SDG 17: Partnerships For The Goals R&D and Innovation 13 OUR SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS AND COMMITMENTS Performance in 2016 Strategic Topics Our Targets and Commitments 2016 Targets Towards 2020 What is achieved? Make the Composite Technologies Center of Excellence operational by 2016 Opened Technopark in the second Continue startup of Composite Technologies Economic Performance quarter of 2016 Center of Excellence Review Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy and customize it covering all operation countries’ related compliance In progress Complete and distribute it to all plants Anti-Corruption Maintain our performance of zero corruption cases at all locations No cases occurred Continuous Average turnover rate at all Kordsa Reduce the high-potential employee turnover rate in all our companies operations was 2.4. Continuous Employment Monitor the suggestion systems implemented at the plants and promote it to be more active Restructure the suggestion system to collect In progress sustainable ideas Achieved 24% decrease in recordable Achieve a zero-accident rate at all our locations Continuous cases at all plants Occupational Health and Safety Extend the Finishing Machinery Safety Project to include all plants abroad that have dipping units (Indonesia, Finished risk analysis at all plants and Implementation of machinery safety at all yarn Thailand, USA, Brazil), complete the risk analyses of these plants in 2015, and start implementations in 2016 mechanical closing have been installed and fabric plants globally Expand the Global Mentoring Program, increase its effectiveness, and ensure its continuity In progress Continuous Training and Education Improve the online platform and increase the number of KEEP training hours In progress Continuous Diversity and Equal Internalize and implement the principles of the Equality at Work Declaration Started implementing Continuous Opportunity Human Rights Maintain our performance of zero discrimination cases at all locations No cases occurred Continuous Assessments Start social and environmental supplier Review the current supplier assessment system, update policy and procedures considering sustainability topics New target assessments in 2017 Supplier Assessments Disseminate the use of Statement on Code of Business Ethics with the contracts of suppliers that we regularly do business with Started in Turkey Include all plants by 2018 Customer Privacy Maintain our company’s performance of zero complaints from customers about information security No customer complaints Continuous Maintain our performance of zero anti-compliance cases at all locations No cases Continuous Compliance Revise ethical rules and adapt them to current legislation if needed by following the latest developments in the Turkish legislation Achieved Continuous Monitor yarn recycle from all plant and sustain the process Collected data from all plants in 2016 Sustain yarn recycle rate Materials Management Monitor fabric recycle or reused process materials from all plants Initiated the project in 2016 Sustain fabric recycle or reused material rate Increase the scope and effectiveness of the ISO 50001 Energy Management System Continue data collection adding Brazil and two Collected Thailand and Indonesia data in 2015 US plants in 2016 Energy Increase number of projects from all Kordsa plants to reduce energy consumption Initiated the project in 2016 Continuous Monitor water usage and discharge of all global plants In progress Start Water Management Program in 2018 Water Management and disseminate at all plants by 2019 Start data collection from all plants for CO2 calculation and continue CDP Reporting (Scope 1, 2 and 3) Calculated Scope 1 of all plants in 2016 Collect Scope 1, 2 and 3 data of all plants Turkey plant verification reports have been Start CO2 Verifications Complete all plants in 2018 Emissions prepared for 2015 and 2016 Sustained all plants’ emission values below Continuously emit an emission that is under the national regulation limit Continuous each local regulations’ limits Complete ISO 14001 gap analysis in 2016 and certification within the following years Turkey plant is certified. In 2016, Indonesia Plan certification of Thailand, Brazil and two Biodiversity plant received the certification US plants in the following years Waste Management Comply and obtain ISO 14001 directive and local legislation Continued waste data collection from all plants Plan ISO 14001 certification of all plants in 2017-2018 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW 80% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… Kordsa manages all its business processes in line with corporate governance principles, being transparent, fair, accountable and responsible. Kordsa realizes its operations in conformity with the Corporate Governance Committees Women Responsibility on Responsibility on Responsibility on Key Principles published by the Capital Markets Board which are transparency, Reporting to the Environmental Stakeholders Members Economic Impacts Social Impacts fairness, responsibility and accountability. Board Impacts Represented Our Board of Directors consists of six members in total; one female member Economic Compliance Employees is also a member of Corporate Governance Committee and two independent Performance Anti-Corruption Shareholders Audit Committee 0% _ Materials Customer Privacy Customers members are also members of Audit Committee. Only the President and the Energy Supplier Assessments Suppliers Vice President hold executive functions. Investors Corporate Governance Compliance Employees The responsibilities that Board committees have regarding sustainability and Committee Anti-Corruption _ Shareholders the key stakeholder groups they represent are given in the following table. (Nomination 40% Economic Employment Investors Committee and Wage Performance Human Rights Local Communities Committee) Assessments and Governments Energy Employees Compliance Emissions Shareholders Early Risk Identification Anti-corruption Water Customers 33% All Impacts Committee Occupational Health Effluents & Waste Suppliers and Safety Materials Investors Customer Privacy Biodiversity Local Communities and Governments 15 BUSINESS ETHICS The Code of Business Ethics that regulates At Kordsa Turkey we have not received any INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW Kordsa’s relationships with its customers, monetary or administrative penalties during employees, shareholders, suppliers, business the reporting period for breach of any laws or 85% of our employees who responded to the sustainability partners, competitors, the environment and regulations, including those on the environment. assessment survey think that… society covers four main headings, namely legal There was not any case brought to our attention obligations, integrity, confidentiality and conflict of through conflict resolution mechanisms, either. interest. While protecting the rights of beneficiaries, Our goal is to continue our ‘zero negative impact’ Kordsa, in all its operations and relationships, performance of 2016 in 2017. Kordsa’s policies, trainings and audits on compliance abides by the Code of Business Ethics, approved including anti-bribery and anti-corruption are adequate. by the Kordsa Board of Directors. Anti-Corruption Anti-corruption is one of the ten fundamental The Kordsa Code of Business Ethics developed principles of the UN Global Compact that Kordsa by Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding and revised to suit signed in 2014. Communication and trainings on Kordsa is available in the native languages of the anti-corruption in Kordsa cover all our employees countries we operate in (Turkish, English, Bahasa, in line with our Code of Business Ethics. Ethics Thai, and Portuguese) and is published on our Committee and Internal Audit functions monitor website. cases on anti-corruption, whistleblowing being also in charge of sanctions and reports to Sabancı Stakeholders who would like to report an incident Holding Ethics Committee. or file a complaint can find the names, e-mail address (etik.tr@kordsa.com) and phone numbers In 2015, we published Kordsa Anti-Corruption of our Code of Ethics Consultants on our company’s and Anti-Bribery Policy, which is based on Turkish website. The Code of Ethics Consultant and/or law, covering all our employees, suppliers and Ethics Board is responsible for investigating and customers. It is publicly available on our web resolving complaints and reports the violations of site. We communicate our approach to all our ethical rules through Ethics Investigation Forms, stakeholders. In 2017, we plan to update our policy in line relevant policies within the context of the considering the relevant laws of the countries we Kordsa Code of Business Ethics. operate in. Compliance Management In the reporting period, there were not any The Legal Obligations topic under the Kordsa confirmed corruption or bribery cases concerning Code of Business Ethics governs the principles our operations; any cases where an employee of compliance management in our company. was dismissed or given a disciplinary penalty on We realize all our domestic and international charges of corruption; any contract with business operations and transactions in line with national partners that was terminated or failed to be legislations and international law, and provide renewed due to violations related to corruption; or accurate, complete and clear information to the any public lawsuit opened against our company or regulatory bodies and institutions in a timely our employees because of corruption. manner. 16 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Through our new products we developed with our knowhow, we export technology as well as the knowledge and experience of Turkish engineering to the world. Kordsa is among the leading producers of Nylon 6.6 and HMLS polyester products in the world. AWARDS and ACHIEVEMENTS Kordsa received The Export Star of The Year Grand Award. (Turkish Exporters Association) May 2016 Kordsa won the Primaniyatra Export Award which is given to the companies that support the development of the country’s economy. (Indonesian Ministry of Commerce) October 2016 Kordsa took its place among the 100 Fastest Growing Companies (Infobank Magazine Awards, Indonesia) 2016 Kordsa was announced to be the 145th largest company of the Turkish economy in terms of sales volume. (ISO Istanbul Industrial Chamber) 2016 19 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY At Kordsa we increased our profitability in our core The Value We Distribute to Our Stakeholders business by 40.8% in 2016 and ensured sustainable In direct proportion to the increase in profits in 2016, INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW growth. On one hand, we focused on efficiency in our community investments rose by 23%. We donated 80% of our employees who responded to the production and competitiveness in cost, and on the more than 8.53 million TL to educational institutions other, we improved our economic performance with our like Sabancı University and selected educational sustainability assessment survey think that… differentiation strategy. We continued to offer value to institutions in need, as well as NGO’s like TEMA, (The our stakeholders both with the economy we created and Turkish Foundation for Combatting Soil Erosion, For our investments in 2016. For our R&D and new building Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats) Kordsa creates significant economic value for its investments at Istanbul Technopark, we received around and the Spinal Cord Paralytics Association of Turkey. 20.8 million TL government tax discounts and incentives Just like the previous years, our suppliers received the key stakeholders. in 2016. highest share of the economic value we distributed to our stakeholders in 2016 by 72.5% and employees followed by 14%. Economic Value Distributed to Our Stakeholders Employees Government & Shareholders Profit Suppliers Communities 72.5% 14% 9% 2% 2.5% 18 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY Total Product Maintenance (TPM) Corporate results and gains Integration Contributing to a stronger corporate culture, perceiving and owning corporate goals at the operator level, enhancing TPM Project is regarded as one of the most essential corporate image, marching towards the future in confidence initiatives launched in 2015 under sustainability management with the cultural climate created by the company. because of the positive economic, social, environmental and corporate benefits it generates. Activities of 2016 We provided TPM Pillars awareness trainings to managers TPM Integration is designed to reach zero-accident target, and upper management. In line with the master plan we to preserve quality problems and to identify root causes of completed all TPM activities and trainings of blue and recurring failures and develop stable solutions to eliminate white-collar employees at the sites. Depending on the them. It started at Kordsa Turkey facilities in May 2015, deployment plans, we created Autonomous Maintenance, under the guidance of Tire Cord Fabric Production and Planned Maintenance and Focused Improved Committees Lean Management Department, with a feasibility tour and at the sites. an awareness-raising training. In Kordsa Turkey, our mother plant, we restructured With TPM, we aim to improve our staff’s knowledge, skills Recognition and Awarding Monitoring System covering the and competencies in monitoring, analyzing and taking suggestion system and Kaizen works. We evaluated the timely action about their responsibilities; elevate the level successful teams working on TPM through the Recognition of employee engagement at the factory in order to reach and Awarding System and selected the most successful zero-failure target that will boost efficiency and thus sustain ones. We plan to select and award the best TPM team customer satisfaction. evaluating all teams throughout the sites. Including methods trainings and consultancy services, ranging according to their size of site, we invest between During the reporting period; USD 70 thousand to USD 130 thousand annually for each o Kordsa Turkey continued to work on Autonomous plant that we implement TPM. Maintenance, Planned Maintenance and Focused Improved and also created 2017 plans to start working on Safety, We believe that our TPM integration targets, which are Health and Environment, Early Management, Office TPM reflected to our individual targets cascaded towards and Education & Training pillars. supervisor level and in parallel to our performance targets coming from our strategic plans, will create a positive o Kordsa Indonesia continued to work on Autonomous impact in reaching our corporate goals. Maintenance, Planned Maintenance and Focused Improved and also created 2017 plans to start working on Safety, Nevertheless, we started monitoring the positive impacts Health and Environment, Early Management pillars. of TPM activities on our occupational health and safety, customer satisfaction about quality, overall equipment o Kordsa Thailand and Kordsa Brazil continued to work efficiency (OEE) and, productivity and cost margin targets. on Autonomous Maintenance and Planned Maintenance Pillars. Economic results and gains Preventing labor and machine loss, reducing costs due to o Kordsa USA Laurel Hill focused on 5S and Autonomous Maintenance, whereas Chattanooga Plant high production based on increase in machine efficiency, focused on 5S activities. increasing employee productivity as a result of effective use of labor time. Our Future Plans Our future plans are to continue trainings where basic Social results and gains pillars and expectations of TPM are covered to increase, Creating positive working environment induced by zeroawareness and engagement of the management teams accident and zero quality defect, being a preferred place at the plants; activating all TPM pillars and make sure to work, increasing communication among employees, committees manage the processes, launch global sharing realizing similar perceptions, strengthening team spirit, platform to deploy Kordsa Improvement Groups projects sharing and owning responsibilities, improving personal throughout the plants, start preliminary preparations to skills and competencies. participate in TPM excellence award process and publish Environmental results and gains Kordsa’s TPM activity book. Managing waste effectively, increasing perception of employees on waste, increasing environmental sensitivity due to motivation created by contributing to environmental protection. 19 R&D AND INNOVATION In product and service differentiation R&D and Our goal in the projects we work on at the R&D Center innovation, which is an integral part of our corporate is to develop new products and technologies that culture, is located at the foundation of our business increase energy efficiency and reduce carbon dioxide Figures of R&D and Innovation strategy, together with operational excellence. emissions, with a focus on the environmental impacts. As our technology function at our R&D centers in At the Composite Technologies Center of Excellence 72 Approved R&D Projects Kocaeli and İstanbul, enables more effective conditions that we established in cooperation with Sabancı (Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology) for production through its research and development University in 2014, we will be active in postgraduate activities on materials, processes and equipment, we education, basic and implementer research, product achieve to be the market and technology leader, and development, production, incubation services and 407 Total Patent Applications offer our customers more competitive and innovative products. commercialization activities on composite material technologies. 121 Patents Granted As Kordsa we cooperate with institutions such as We also continue branding processes of new products. Tübitak MAM (Marmara Research Center), Sabancı In 2015, we added The Reinforcer brand to Twixtra, 69 Personnel (R&D Center) University, Boğaziçi University, Koç University, Bilkent Monolyx, Capmax, Hartech and Kratos brands we 17 Personnel (Composite Technologies Center of Excellence) University, University of Akron, the Tokyo Institute of created since the establishment of our R&D Center. Technology and Aachen University. In subject matters that come up in our projects but are outside the scope In 2016, we registered our green cord’s industrial USD 42 Million (New Product Sales) of our own area of expertise, we contact universities, design. We also established a concrete laboratory and work together with relevant experts and competent to speed of new product development works of academics. All projects are under the protection of Construction Reinforcement Business Unit. confidentiality agreements; and we are scrupulous TL 16.5 Million about the ethical components as well as intellectual At our Composite Technologies Business Unit we (Average annual budget allocated to R&D activities since 2014) property issues. achieved to produce prepregs by weaving carbon fiber materials. 20 INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS OF KORDSA Composite Technologies Kordsa Supports Engineering Center of Excellence Clubs at Universities Capmax® which is developed at Kordsa facilities in 2014, is a ready to use In August 2016, we officially opened the Composite Technologies As Kordsa, we support projects relevant to our business lines in textile reinforcement product that can be directly applied at the tire building Center of Excellence in cooperation with Sabancı University, with an order to enhance communication between universities and industry, machinery without the need of coating rubber. Capmax® decreases the investment value of USD 30 million. and contribute to the development of engineering and material production costs and increases efficiency, by eliminating many stages In order to maintain Kordsa’s sustainable and profitable growth, technologies. We sponsor Yıldız Technical University MAKTEK in tire production such as calendaring and cutting. By reducing rolling we decided to transfer our experience in tire sector to adjacent Student Club’s Formula Student project and Wind Power Club’s resistance, which contributes to the reduction in fuel consumption, sectors. With the investments in the composites market, we aim wind car project Bora, via our Composite Reinforcement Business Capmax® also creates cost advantage for the end users. The potential to reach aviation, automotive, maritime and rail systems sectors. Line leadership. market for Capmax®, is the global light vehicle tires market, where capOffering high value-added products and services our objective is to Formula Student is regarded as the world’s biggest engineering ply is utilized. contribute to our country’s targets for 2023. competition among university students where vehicles designed Our center serves as one of the best test laboratories and one solely by students are evaluated on categories such as acceleration, of the top producers of high performance composite material as cost, fuel efficiency, and business plan. Racing Aeolus, which we intermediate product. sponsored the participation of Bora vehicle is one of the world’s biggest sustainability themed competitions. Established to produce the technology of the future, Composite Technologies Center of Excellence, received LEED Gold Certifcate The goal of the Formula Student project is to design the vehicle Kordsa launched Twixtra® that can be acknowledged as the world’s lightest in 2016 as a result of its qualities of being an environment friendly so that the vehicle weight will be decreased gradually while paying hybrid cord product, in 2013. Products with combination of different kinds and sustainable building using the energy and water resources with attention to cost, performance and fuel efficiency. The goal of the of fibers in one cord are called hybrid cords. The manufacturers’ choice maximum efficiency. Bora project is to mobilize the vehicle via mechanical transmission in high performance tires is the Aramid-Nylon 6.6 hybrid cord structure. using wind power the most efficient way possible. The product is very much lighter compared to its predecessor, it allows Targeted Economic Gains the tire to be produced with less raw materials. Lighter tires mean better We aim to initiate projects geared towards minimizing Turkey’s As Kordsa, we supply carbon fabric and prepreg material besides fuel consumption. dependence on foreign product development and manufacturing providing technical consultancy in composite part designs in capabilities in strategic areas, in the shortand medium-term. both projects. We plan to continue supporting these projects and Positive sustainability impacts created by these products are; supplying materials. Targeted Social Gains As a first in Turkey, we host such an industry-university collaboration Targeted Social Gains Economic structure that is under one roof and which covers all phases from Enhance communication with universities and student groups. • New style ready to use product R&D to production of high technology high performance composite • Efficient and faster production process Targeted Environmental Gains products. • Improved total cost of use Achieve fuel efficiency in Formula Student project; draw attention to Social We would like this platform to be the technology base of Turkey wind power (clean energy) resources in Bora project. • More safety for all rubber goods and to make a significant contribution to solve the qualified human • Comfortable ride in higher speeds resources shortage in this field. Targeted Corporate Gains Environmental Increase knowledge accumulation and awareness on material Targeted Environmental Gains technologies in Turkey. • Lower fabric usage so less weight of goods Composite material enables vehicles to be more durable and • Higher endurance and so less pollution lighter creating energy efficiency. Our priority at the Composite Corporate Technologies Center of Excellence is to develop environment• High value-added product in portfolio friendly technologies. • Leverage for know-how • Prestige Targeted Corporate Gains We aim to enter the composites sector as a manufacturer of intermediate products, to prepare for future growth options, and to position Kordsa as the technology and innovation leader also in this market. 21 PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLIERS Supply Chain Our priority criterion in the selection of suppliers is The global purchasing function, located at our the provision of products, which meet our production headquarters in Istanbul, is responsible for the quality expectations. Before we start purchasing from INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW procurement of the raw materials used in at least 2 a supplier, its product has to be approved by our R&D 79% of our employees who responded to the of the 8 plants in 5 countries and/or whose supply is department. After this product approval, the supplier considered critical, in addition to capex and service assessment process starts. sustainability assessment survey think that… procurements above a specific budget, as well as the service procurements of a specified budget for our After the selection process, we conduct supplier headquarters. evaluations for our selected global suppliers by each Kordsa’s policies, trainings and audits on human site annually. The suppliers who receive 60 points and Local purchasing departments are responsible for the below during the evaluations are generally audited on rights concerning its suppliers’s operations are supply and follow up of all services and raw materials site, regarding all improvement areas in the following other than the above-mentioned items. The suppliers year. We aim to reach every supplier at least every four adequate. of which the trading terms are specified by Global years. Purchasing Department are also managed by local purchasing departments in terms of operational order Supplier assessments conducted by our Global and processes. The import ratio of Kordsa Turkey is 63%. Site Purchasing Teams includes the following criteria; Leadership and Quality Commitment, Process and Breakdown of Purchasing Expenditures In 2016, within the framework of spare parts category Product Design Quality, Supplier Quality Management, project overseen by Global Purchasing, we targeted Production Quality Management, Customer Quality total cost reduction as a result of consolidation of Management, Continuous Improvement, People / HR 2015 2016 spare parts at all plants, local purchasing of items and Safety & Environment. Raw Materials 57% 52% with high budget allocation, resource optimization and deployment of experience throughout the organization. To date our occupational safety inspection included Chemicals 8% 8% Concurrently, we carry out procurement from the local availability of OHSAH 18001 occupational health suppliers for the project of acquiring equipment to and safety management systems certification and Materials 3% 2% improve production quality. environmental evaluation included availability of a ISO Packaging 3% 3% 14001 environmental management system certification As Kordsa produces nylon and polyester yarns, cord at our suppliers. Starting from 2017, we will to include the Energy 14% 11% fabric, single end cord, concrete reinforcement fiber implementation of a more comprehensive sustainability and composite, our main procurement items consist of impact assessment in addition to our current processes. Other Products & Services 13% 19% raw materials and energy The sustainability scores of suppliers will directly impact Management Expenditures 2% 4% on the overall assessment system. Supplier Assessments In 2016, as a result of our audits, 5 suppliers fell in As Kordsa we require our suppliers and business ‘need to improve’ class and received corrective action partners to operate in accordance with the principles requests. Our Global and Site Purchasing Teams in the Statement on Code of Business Ethics prepared decided and planned to audit 3 of these suppliers in based on Kordsa Ethics Code. This code outlines our Shares of Purchasing Functions company’s expectations for the undersigned conduct 2017. regarding labor and human rights, health and safety, On the other side, we stopped working with one of our 2015 2016 environmental protection, ethics, and management materials suppliers as a result of its low performance on practices. Global Purchasing 69% 70% the general evaluations. At Kordsa our key suppliers are the ones that provide Local Purchasing 31% 30% the input products and raw materials for our production. 22 CUSTOMER PRIVACY INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW 85% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… Kordsa’s practices, audits as well as employee awareness-raising activities to ensure and protect customer privacy are adequate. As one of our values that support our strategic privacy is also examined in customer audits (external initiatives, being ‘customerfocused’ includes not only audits) and quality audits (internal audits), and practices offering innovative, accurate and tailor-made solutions are checked to meet customer expectations. to our customers and also protecting the privacy of these solutions. In that context, we ensure the privacy Complaints concerning any violations of customer of our customers, and keep an equal distance to all of privacy and loss of customer data are handled through them and strive for a “zero complaints” target in order the customer complaints management system. to make sure they are satisfied. The CRM Customer Relationships At Kordsa, we manufacture tailormade products for our Management program used by all locations supervises customers with the properties they specify because, due and monitors all customer complaints online. At Kordsa to the nature of the tire industry, customer requirements we do not have a written policy on customer privacy vary according to their own production know-how and other than its general policy within the scope of ISO technology. As our main customers are competitors in 27001 standards on information security. the tire industry, it is critical that the production product standards and technical specifications our customers Since we have not received any confirmed complaints, by require are kept confidential. This is safeguarded with any customer, regulatory body or third party, concerning both the confidentiality agreement we sign with our violations of customer privacy or loss of customer data customers, and the fact that the security of this category for the last five years, Kordsa has high reputation among of information falls under the responsibility of the its customers with regard to confidentiality. Moreover, whole senior management team and all staff in contact the fact that we engage in special ‘Joint Development with customers. Rules concerning the protection of Projects’ with our customers who are major players in customer privacy are included in the code of business the tire market, further proves that they consider our ethics signed by all Kordsa employees. company reliable. Feedback on customer privacy is elicited from our Information security in our company is not only customers through satisfaction surveys conducted on significant because of our customers, but also for our a regular basis in writing or in face-to-face settings, and technology and R&D activities. Therefore, Kordsa has a the results are reviewed and evaluated by the senior dedicated IP (Intellectual Property) department. management as well. In addition to that, customer 23 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE At Kordsa, diversity in human resources and sensitivity on human rights make up the foundation of our strong corporate culture. We consider the traditions and cultures of all the countries we operate in and treat our people and communities responsibly in compliance with our Code of Business Ethics. We manage our human resources of 3,790 including subcontractors in five countries, with practices based on our global strategy. AWARDS and ACHIEVEMENTS Kordsa is selected as the 7th Best Employer of Bahia Region in Brazil. (Great Place to Work Institute) May 2016 Kordsa received the Unique Employer-Worker Relations and Serenity at Workplace Award for the 7th time. (Thailand Ministry of Labor) July 2016 26 EMPLOYMENT Employees by Gender Employees by Age Group INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW 83% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… 89% 62% At Kordsa, the communication channels for employees to share their ideas and opinions with the management are 14% adequate. 11% 24% We see our human resources as the most in 2016. The dismissal rates, including retirements valuable capital of Kordsa. From recruitment to and completed contracts, was 10% for female Male 30 Years and below retirement our priorities are to secure their health employees and 8% for male employees, in 2016. Female 30 50 Years and safety, to enhance personal and occupational Detailed data on employee turnover for all our plants 50 Years and above development and to provide them with a pleasant work environment where their employee and human can be found in the social performance tables. rights are fully assured. We monitor our employee satisfaction through employee engagament surveys, roundtable Employee Dismissals Number of Employees Employees by Region by Region meetings with the CEO and ELT where they listen to employees’ opinions and receive their feedback and also with white-collar / blue-collar interaction meetings. All Kordsa employees are subject to regular performance and career development evaluations. 1,379 34% 36% 46.5% We provide overseas assignments to ensure the 32.2% personal development of employees, defined as 1,684 ‘talents’, and to develop a common culture across all Kordsa plants. There are 14 ex-pat employees working on long term assignments at Kordsa’s 310 8% plants overseas where 4 are assigned within 2016. 11% 10.5% 4.7% The average employee tenure across Kordsa plants 417 10% 1% 6.1% is 11.6 years. As of 2016, the longest period is in Indonesia with 14 years. Our 3.6% employee turnover rate in 2015 decreased and became 2.4% Europe South America Turkey Thailand Turkey Thailand Asia North America USA Indonesia USA Indonesia Brazil China Brazil *Includes sub-contractors * Includes retirements and completed contracts 25 In 2016, we grouped processes of climate, We began to observe the positive outcomes culture and engagement surveys under of these practices by the employee the roof of Reinforest brand and began to satisfaction survey we executed in 2016 conduct our human resources activities where engagement ratio in 2014 raised with this internal brand’s framework. from 44% to 62% in 2016. The Reinforest concept is derived from *Rainforests regulate the world’s climate the words rainforest which regulates by drawing water from the forest floor and earth’s climate, and our market placement releasing it back in to the atmosphere in the Reinforcer, which represents Kordsa’s form of mists and clouds and preventing reinforcement products, and is promptly droughts, which drive many other social embraced by our staff. We intend to and environmental problems. Rainforest empower our employees via Reinforest trees also absorb the carbon dioxide that brand, which we developed by integrating we exhale, and provide the oxygen we need Kordsa’s reinforcer positioning with climate, to breathe. culture and engagement components that interact and trigger each other, and with our practices that support it. Hiring Working Career Planning We strictly implement our We do not compromise We do not the principle of equality in discriminate in the non-discriminatory code of ethics education and hiring process development We provide regular training on ethics We employ the principle of We run an ethics survey each year equality in We do not post career planning discriminatory announcements We take measures based on our disciplinary procedures We warrant equality in our performance With designated lactation rooms, system lockers, and restrooms for women, we We do not ask female provide a proper working environment candidates if they plan to marry or We employ the principle of have children We respect work-life balance equality in the assignment of employees to new positions We provide equal pay for equal work 26 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW 73% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… Kordsa’s recruitment, placement, and remuneration practices to guarantee employee diversity and gender equality are adequate. At Kordsa, we mainstream equality from that women enjoy opportunities and resources recruitment to retirement providing equal work equally. environment for men and women. We support Besides the fair working environment for hiring, our approach complying with the principles of working, and career planning for women, international initiatives. In the previous years we also offer private health insurance that we signed Equality at Work Declaration and covers childbirth, and lactation rooms for their we started supporting United Nations Women’s convenience. Empowerment Principles. A total of male 56 employees from all plants, Both of these platforms we support work to fight who earned maternity leave during the previous against gender inequalities, encourage women’s Women’s Co. (Equality at Work Project) global targets, detailed analysis of women-men reporting period used their leaves fully and participation in business life, empower women employees, observation of women’s expectations returned to work at Kordsa for at least another in decision-making mechanisms and ensure In 2016, our Human Resources Department through surveys and their satisfaction level 12 months. launched Women’s Co. Project for women regarding the current situation, and designing employees at Kordsa plants across the globe. The development programs in line with the survey primary concern of the project is to raise awareness results. The objectives of the project that cover and consciousness among employees, starting numerous cultures in 4 continents are valid for the from the top management, regarding gender next 5 years. equality. Our objective is to design a systematic approach in equality at work and integrate all our efforts under this framework. Targeted Social Gains Empower women employees to become more 10 Kordsa employees are actively involved in the competent in their work and private lives. project in which we try to increase the number Targeted Economic Gains of women employees where the ratio is low, and Increase women employment empower them to become more competent in both their work and private lives. Targeted Corporate Gains Create opportunities for women employees to be The actions we took to incorporate these practices more effective in decision making mechanisms that in our processes are; identification of local and will lead us to reach our corporate objectives 27 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENTS INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW 83% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… Kordsa’s policies, trainings and audits on human rights in its locations are adequate. At Kordsa, our approach towards our people or involuntary labor and child labor are strictly is honest and fair. We commit to a nonprohibited across all Kordsa locations. discriminative working environment for all, making sure our people enjoy their employee Employees who feel or suspect a violation of our rights fully and properly. Fair Working Environment Policy, which is a part of our Global Code of Ethics, must notify their Kordsa Code of Business Ethics is our company’s line managers, other managers, the Local Code guiding policy for human and employment of Ethics Consultant, the Global Code of Ethics rights. The policy is valid for all Kordsa Consultant or the Ethics Committee. We have locations, companies and suppliers. Additionally, not received any complaints about discrimination Kordsa’s employment and labor practices from our employees in 2016. are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations in countries it operates. The total number of employees under any type of collective agreement in Turkey, in Indonesia, Like all our employees, our security staff is also and in Brazil is 1,798 with a ratio of 47%. Our trained on code of ethics including our human employees in USA, Thailand and China are rights policies upon recruitment. Human rights not unionized. Kordsa supports freedom of risks and complaints in the company are audited association and there has been no incidence both internally and externally by third parties. We of violation for freedom of association in 2016. have not received any complaints about human Our activities do not bear any apparent risk rights violation from our employees at any of concerning these issues. our locations, in 2016. In line with our Code of (GRI 102-41) Business Ethics and company policies, forced 28 TRAINING AND EDUCATION INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW Talent Management at Kordsa management. Global Development Programs focus Kordsa offers various talent management and life on developing technical expertise and leadership. 67% of our employees who responded to the sustainability long learning programs to improve competencies Mentorship: Starting in 2014, the mentorship assessment survey think that… of employees in the talent pool and to facilitate program is implemented across all Sabancı long-term employability. Alongside internal global development programs, trainings, and mentorship, Holding companies also accepts Kordsa talents we also provide financial support, as specified in at specialist-engineer and manager level, as Kordsa’s personal development and training programs our procedures, to our employees for MA/MB, ‘mentees’. provided for its employees are adequate. PhD, and certification programs they wish to attend Training: Besides internal training programs, depending on the type and institution of training. we also encourage our employees to take part Global Development Programs are; Generation in development programs organized by Sabancı Next for specialist-engineer level; Leadership Holding for specialist engineer level, such as Human Resources Department at Kordsa uses Among the tools and platforms, we use as the Young Sabancı program or Group Mentorship Fundamentals for middle-level management; and many different sources and practices to align feedback to improve our training and development program. SALT Sabancı Leadership Team for upper-level training and education activities, to bring a processes are the employee engagement survey, uniform perspective alongside local requirements training assessment results, post-training and needs, and to support employees in realizing development evaluations, trainer feedback, and their career goals as they perform their duties performance evaluations. safely and effectively across all plants of our Talent Management Trainings company. The total hours in training increased by 4% reaching 199,179 hours in the reporting period. 28% Kordsa Mentorship Program We use performance and competency evaluation The majority of training was career development results, employee development and career plans, with 68.5%. 16% Generation Next (Specialists and Engineers) and similar resources to identify employees’ training needs and to devise training plans; and Detailed information about training can be found we always consider company needs and legal in the social performance tables. 16% Leadership Fundamentals (Middle Management) requirements besides employees’ individual requests. 7% Group Mentorship Program 2% Young Sabancı Program Breakdown of Trainings 1% SA EXE (Top Management) 68.5% 20 % 1% 10.5% Career Development Health and Safety Personal Development Other 29 TRAINING AND EDUCATION All Stars Our employees can join personal development, At Kordsa, successful projects, employees by judging team, ELT reviews the results. technical development, corporate integrity, who take part in these projects, and high Submission of projects and evaluation take and other development trainings over the performing organizations (country-plant) are approximately two months. All employees are KEEP system, as well as managing their invited to awards ceremony that takes place in rewarded globally each year under ’All Star training plans, apply for classroom trainings, Awards’ scheme since 2006. the following year. and suggest new trainings. As the classroom training-planning module has been designed We pay utmost attention to implement a fair, In All Stars 2016, we rewarded USD 100 KEEP (Kordsa E-Learning & to run over the KEEP system, employees can thousand to 30 projects owned by 260 inspiring recognition and rewarding strategy Empowerment Platform) manage all training development activities over employees which of 830 participated with since we know it is critical to retain the skilled, Since 2010, KEEP serves as an easily the system in a ‘self-service’ mode. talented employees at all levels. All Stars is a different projects. accessible and individualized training program tailored to our company, and to cascade the We regularly share all updates and notices Global Recognition and Rewarding practice All Stars is very popular across all of our technical expertise of the world leader in with our employees since the launch of the run by Global HR on top of Local Recognition premises due to its engaging and encouraging the industry to all our employees in a more system through e-mails, videos, and posters and Rewarding processes managed by each scheme. In the last three years, the award efficient, quicker and time-effective method. All hung up in our plants, screensavers, intranet county’s HR teams. announcements, and various rewarding ceremony was broadcasted live through video employees with a corporate e-mail address can activities. In 2016, we delivered 792 hours of Each employee is encouraged to participate conference, which elevated the excitement access the e-learning sessions delivered over the KEEP system in local languages on various training over KEEP to our employees. with any project of her taste. The process and engagement by everyone at each country. categories anytime they want, in or outside starts at the end of each year. After evaluation company premises, on all our locations. 30 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW Safety Experience Safety Project for Dipping 89% of our employees who responded to the sustainability Center Machines Safety, Health, and Environment is our first value in The safety project for dipping machines initiated to assessment survey think that… our strategy house. We demonstrate this value by prevent accidents at dipping machines, has emerged investing on Safety Experience Centers at all our as a result of the statistical analysis of occupational plants. This project is aligned with our Total Production accidents, and has become the top priority project Kordsa takes necessary measures sufficient to oversee Management (TPM) Project. We initiated this project for occupational safety targets. Our aim is to prevent at Indonesia in 2015 and followed with Turkey and machine-related accidents. Although this project falls and secure health and safety of its employees. Brazil plants in 2016. US Chatanooga, US Laurel Hill within the scope of EN 12100 Safety of Machinery and Thailand plants are targeting implementations in Standard and other related industrial EN standards, it 2017. is entirely voluntary. Health and safety of our employees comes first We have Management-Worker Health and Safety Safety Experience Center is series of training In our Turkey plant we started the pilot risk analysis among our company’s strategic sustainability Committees in all our facilities with the same simulators, that is developed to make people in 2015. We started implementation of the project priorities. The common and only goal of all operating structure. 100% of our workforce is “experience” the accidents and “feel” its aftermath in 2016 where we had no accidents related with our people and departments in charge of represented in these committees. when it occurs. At the end of training, every member machinery safety in dipping unit. We expanded the occupational safety is to attain zero occupational is assessed and evaluated for their understanding. project scope to cover all plants with dipping units; accident and disease. Globally we are executing two projects on OHS; If expected awareness has not been achieved, Indonesia, Thailand, USA, and Brazil and completed Safety Experience Center and Safety Dipping the member will be retrained. Our aim is to train all risk analyses for all in 2015. We finished installation We implement “The 10 Golden Rules of Machine. Data on the OHS performance of employees and contractors in order to achieve our of mechanical guarding of Indonesia and Thailand Occupational Safety” we identified to prevent the entire plants can be found in the social injury-free days and as a result to create positive plants in 2016 and plan to start implementations at employee injuries across all our plants. There has performance tables. indirect economic impact on our company due to Brazil and US plants in 2017. not been any fatal accidents in any of our plants reduced lost days. or subcontractors during the reporting period. 31 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Mechanical Shut Down and Electronic Automation Works Term: Term: Project Name: Project Name: OHS Emergency Situation Mobile Application for Machine Safety at Dipping Units October 2015 – December 2017 March 2016 Objective: To make machines safer and prevent accidents Objective: To quickly access the staff at emergency situations, reduce check-in time from 30 minutes to less than 15 minutes Social: Securing the sustainability of safe work environment Social: We contributed to protection of employee health and motivation. Economic: Preventing accidents thereby reducing stops and Results and Environmental: We speeded up communication and reduced intervention span. Targeted Gains: employment losses Economic: We reduced employment losses. Gains: Corporate: Increasing employee motivation Corporate: We enhanced system reliability and added value to our business through technology based applications. Term: Project Name: Project on Preventing Huge Industrial Accidents Term: September 2016 – December 2016 Project Name: Line 1 Ergonomics Improvement Efforts February 2016 – January 2017 To prevent huge industrial accidents, reduce the impacts of possible incidents on people and Objective: environment, ensure high quality, effective and continuous security and design the necessary methods To abolish ergonomic difficulties and resolve problems, therefore contribute to security of work environment Objective: and prepare procedures in production lines containing hazardous materials Social: We contributed to protection of employee health and motivation. Social: We contributed to securing the sustainability of safe work environment. Results and Economic: We reduced lost times. Environmental: We contributed to environmental protection. Gains: Results and Corporate: We eliminated ergonomics problems and accident risks. Economic / Corporate: We prepared for the identification and prevention of accidents such as huge Gains: emissions, fires, explosions that occur because of one or more hazardous substances, which cause harm on humans and/or environment instantly or gradually and, which emerge internally or externally during the operations of the plant. Term: Project Name: Doffer Safety Improvement Term: October 2016 Project Name: Ergonomics Improvement at Pack Shop October 2016 – June 2017 Objective: To ensure the occupational safety of operators with doffer equipment, safeguard visitors entering the site, provide doffer equipment to operate continuously Objective: To eliminate ergonomic problems in the distribution, washing and collection processes of pack equipment and reduce total ergonomic risk points by 50% Social: We contributed to securing the sustainability of safe work environment Social: Securing employee health and motivation. Results and Economic: We reduced lost times by preventing accidents. Targeted Gains: Economic: Reducing lost time. Gains: Corporate: We contributed to the enhancement of employee motivation. Best Achieved Injury Free Hours at Kordsa Facilities 2015 2016 Turkey 1,964,071 1,964,071 Thailand 3,210,448 3,210,448 USA-CH 621,540 818,902 USA-LH 312,500 648,316 Indonesia 2,923,648 2,923,648 Brazil 1,252,333 1,252,333 32 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees Name of Committee Definition Legal / Voluntary Participants Emergency Response Organized for all shifts in the plant. Blue and white-collar Legally required Team employees Monitors energy use and ISO 50001; White-collar employees, Energy Committee prepares energy reports and manages Legally required and Maintenance energy reduction projects. Manager as Chairman Lays down all rules and standards on Mostly white-collar Electrical Safety electricity hazards in the plant; makes Company initiative and also blue-collar Committee inspections and provides training. employees Carries out activities and inspections for explosions, fires, leaks and Process Safety Company initiative White-collar employees occupational accidents that may arise Management from the production process. Have annual targets. Official meeting of the representatives Employer representatives, OHS Committee of the employer and employees. Legally required union representatives, All legal decisions are made by this managers, subcontractor committee. representatives OHSES (Occupational Works to improve OHSES Health & Safety, All department managers performance, disseminate OHSES Environment & Company initiative and representatives, and culture, manage improvement and Sustainability) Operations Director as development activities, and review Management Committee Chairman performance. Identifies hazards wherever chemicals Hazardous Chemicals are used, conducts risk analyses, sets White and blue-collar Committee safety markings properly and provides Company initiative employees trainings on chemical hazards. OHS Training Hours / Employee 2015 2016 Turkey 14 7 Thailand 15 17 USA CH 30 6 USA LH 14 13 Indonesia 16 12 Brazil 20 32 33 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Environmental protection is among the seven values underlying the Kordsa’s strategy. Our priority in all our activities and investments we carry out is to prevent environmental pollution through investing in clean technologies and waste management, reduce energy consumption and emissions as well to make efficient use of water. In Turkey plant, we invested over USD 223 thousand for environment protection in 2016. AWARDS and ACHIEVEMENTS Composite Technologies Center of Excellence received LEED Gold Certificate, which is presented to energy and environment friendly buildings. (United States Green Building Council) November 2016 Kordsa, with the energy efficiency practices it realized in the scope of its sustainability efforts, is granted the Jury’s Special Award in the “Project Contest on Energy Efficiency in Industry. (Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources) December 2016 26 ENERGY AND EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW 71% of our employees who responded to the sustainability 68% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… assessment survey think that… Kordsa’s investments and projects to assure energy Kordsa’s projects and preventive measures to monitor and efficiency are adequate. reduce emissions are adequate. Energy is one of the main inputs of production. taking 2011 as the base year. The calculation is For the first time in 2014 we calculated our We plan to complete data collection from all Kordsa’s strategic goals are achieving energy based on the ISO 50001 standard. In one of our greenhouse gas emissions in Turkey plant, plants for scope 1, 2 and 3 by 2020. efficiency, and reducing energy use per ton of plants our energy consumption increased upto approved by the Ministry in line with the GHG product, alongside other energy saving activities. 20%, on the other side, we have achieved up to Regulations and started CDP reporting. We At Kordsa, we aim to continue emissions 28% reduction rates in most of our plants by the started calculating and monitoring our direct management, monitoring and measurements, and To see the data trends in the reduction of energy end of 2016 compared with 2011. emissions (Scope 1) of Indonesia and Thailand to make systematic improvements for emission (electricity, steam, natural gas) consumption plants in 2015 and the rest of the plants in 2016. reduction. achieved through savings and efficiency initiatives All related data can be found in the environmental in the reporting period, we calculated reductions performance tables. in the manufacturing processes at individual plants Kordsa Plants 2014 (tCO2) 2015 (tCO2) 2016 (tCO2) NY Yarn CH / USA 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 92 78 88 85 72 Turkey 30,533 36,695 35,802 PES Yarn Turkey 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Indonesia n.a. 12,394 17,113 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 91 82 78 80 80 Thailand n.a. 6,670 7,078 Dipping Brazil 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Brazil n.a. n.a. 6,411 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 87 78 83 84 76 USA / CH n.a. n.a. 14 USA / LH n.a. n.a. 3,810 The data is calculated based on natural gas, diesel and LPG consumption. n.a.: data not available Term: Term: Project Name: Energy Efficiency in Lighting Through LED Project Name: Scrubber Gas Washing Systems August 2016 – October 2016 July 2015 November 2015 To eliminate the falling off, breakage and fracture problems and injury risks related to the To filter formaldehyde, ammonia and costic gas emissions into the atmosphere Objective: Objective: lighting fixture covers in spinning site. To reach a constant illumination level with lower in compliance with the Industry Related Air Pollution Control Procedure. energy consumption, while avoiding the efficiency drop the fluorescent lighting fixtures have due to aging. Social: Employee consciousness about the chimney emissions has increased. Environmental: We achieved further improvements on the emission levels released Social: Machine operators have a better sense of noticing and spotting the pollution from our sites, which were already within the legal limits, thereby contributing to the around the machines. environmental protection. Results and Environmental: We saved 16,000 kWh/year of energy. Results and Economic: We contributed to the prevention of future environmental damages, the Gains: Economic: We achieved 50% operational efficiency thereby dropping our annual Gains: results of which would be extremely difficult to reverse even by material action. electricity consumption from 6,000 /year to 3,000 /year. Corporate: Our company reached a more effective stage in fighting climate change and strengthened our relationships with the stakeholders such as visitors, auditors and clients who have witnessed our improvements. 35 MATERIALS MANAGEMENT INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW Project to Reduce Use of Materials 72% of our employees who responded to the sustainability As a result of monitoring our performance consumption even though Kordsa continued in the use of materials and our efficiency to impove its capacity optimizations in USA, assessment survey think that… efforts, we achieved improvements upto Brazil and Indonesia and R&D programs in 78% in the use of chemicals and flake rates Turkey. The table below shows the ratios of Kordsa’s practices for efficient use of raw materials are adequate. at our plants since 2014, our baseline year. data of materials and chemicals used at our plants. From the graph below we can see that there are no significant increase in chemical The selection and use of materials and raw material In addition to these targets, we work on the efficient use rank among the top indispensable elements of our of materials, producing the same quality product with company’s production. Raw material expenditures less material, enabling reuse of materials if possible, Materials Plants 2014 2015 2016 constitute about 75% of our total procurement. and using, transporting and disposing of materials so that their environmental impact is minimized. Dipping NY Turkey 1.12 1.13 1.14 Dipping PE Turkey 1.23 1.22 1.23 The targets we set with regard to materials management TCF Chemical Dipping LH / USA 1.03 1.03 1.19 include improving materials handling systems, Starting with our Turkey plant, we started projects to Ratio Dipping Brazil 1.16 1.14 1.16 enhancing warehouse organization, conducting field reuse materials and to decrease the consumption of Dipping TCF1 Indonesia 1.09 1.14 1.17 audits of the contracts concluded with suppliers, raw materials we use in the production and we aim to Dipping TCF2 Indonesia n.a. n.a. 1.27 and improving the system established for just-in-time generate ideas for projects of other recycling materials Dipping Thailand 1.10 1.08 1.06 delivery of raw materials. in the rest of our plants. NY Yarn Line 1 Turkey 1.22 1.17 1.18 NY Yarn Line 2 Turkey 1.07 1.02 1.02 Project to Reuse Paper Tubes We have duplicated this project in the rest of our NY Salt / Flake Ratio NY Yarn CH / USA 1.19 1.19 1.22 plants in the following years. In the below chart the In this project that we developed for Kordsa Turkey NY Yarn Indonesia 1.02 1.00 1.00 data of NY yarn product includes Turkey, Indonesia plant in order to increase the reuse of paper tubes and US Chattanooga plants and the data on PES our yarn products are wound around, we aim to SEC Turkey 1.30 1.28 1.28 yarn product includes Turkey, Indonesia and Brazil SEC Chemical contribute to the corporate budget and natural Ratio SEC Brazil n.a. n.a. 1.08 plants. Through this project besides directly creating resource savings. a positive impact on the conservation of natural n.a.: data not available resources, we saved around USD 1.2 million in 2016. NY Yarn Number of Reused Paper Tubes Savings (USD) 2014 640,329 384,197 2015 833,879 500,327 2016 1,154,218 692,531 PE Yarn Number of Reused Paper Tubes Savings (USD) 2014 874,720 524,832 2015 1,166,407 699,844 2016 980,055 588,033 36 WASTE MANAGEMENT INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW Use of the Recycle Chip Machine At Kordsa Turkey, we generate the waste • We turned Nylon 6.6 yarn waste into a high 74% of our employees who responded to the accumulated during Nylon 6.6 yarn production valueadded product, thus increasing its profitability. process into Nylon 6.6 chips to be used in • We contributed to the preservation of natural sustainability assessment survey think that… engineering plastics industry. resources thanks to the use of recycled Nylon 6.6 raw material. Kordsa’s practices to manage waste and We have been using the recycle chip machine for • In 2014, recycled 687,628 kg and manufacturing since 2013. The idea was selected saved USD 1,582,400. wastewater to prevent environmental pollution among innovative ideas as an R&D project. • In 2015, recycled 816,331 kg and saved USD 1,632,000. are adequate. Economic and Environmental Impacts and • In 2016, recycled 894,623 kg and Gains: saved USD 1,398,000. • Manufacturers of engineering plastics in Turkey In Kordsa plants, disposal, recovery and reuse segretate our waste based on hazardous and now import less Nylon 6.6 raw materials, and they of production wastes and wastewater occuring non-hazardous criteria. were able to increase their profitability by decreasing are among our regular activites as specified by raw material costs. In Thailand, our hazardous waste amount law. We dispose 100% of the wastes created decreased by %23, while it increased in Turkey at our plants through recycling, reclamation, and Indonesia due to capacity increases during landfill, incineration and direct disposal based on Recycled Chips (Turkey) 2016. We started collecting waste data of Brazil national regulations. and US plants in 2016. 894.6 kg Other priorities include reduction of hazardous 816.3 kg waste, increased recovery rates, and creating In 2016, with our onging projects to recover some reuse opportunities. At least 65% of wastes of our materials to reuse them in the production, 687.6 kg arising in Kordsa Turkey are either recoverable we have both efficiently used our corporate or reusable. In the rest of our operations, in resources and also prevented environmental accordance with national regulations, we pollution. Hazardous Waste (tons) 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 1,240 1,331 1,714 Indonesia n.a. 309 1,069 2014 2015 2016 Thailand n.a. 144 111 Increasing Recycling Rate of Term: USA / CH n.a. n.a. 466 Project Name: Packaging Materials April 2015 – June 2016 USA / LH n.a. n.a. 112 To reuse packaging materials after using them at our internal cord fabric production plant, and Objective: reduce costs, to assemble a station using scrap pallets, and fix and recover them, to ensure 50% Brazil n.a. n.a. 9 and above recycling rate for all packaging materials n.a.: data not available Social: Employee consciousness on circular economy has increased. Results and Environmental: We contributed to the reduction of environmental pollution through decrease in Gains: waste pallet and tube rates. Economic: We saved 43,000 €/year. 37 WATER MANAGEMENT INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW Wastewater Recovery Project With the objective to reduce water used and to gradually In 2015, the amount of treated and reused water was 66% of our employees who responded to the increase the amount of wastewater recovered at 131,490 m3/year in the Yarn Plant and with the new sustainability assessment survey think that… Kordsa Turkey plant, Directorate of Maintenance and investment completed in 2016, the total amount of Energy and OHSES Department started a project in waste water reused was over 200,000 m3/year. The 2014 to be completed by 2017. Within the scope of water produced by the new RO will be used as makeKordsa’s practices to manage and efficiently use the project, advanced treatment and reverse osmosis up water in cooling towers. (RO) systems have been constructed in the plant. water resources are adequate. Water use is of paramount importance for the At all plants and offices, we put efforts to use Term: manufacturing processes at Kordsa plants and water more efficiently, we encourage industrial Project Name: Recycling Treated Water auxiliary operations. Water quality, accessibility reuse of treated water through reverse osmosis December 2016 – June 2017 and preservation of usable water resources are sytem. In Turkey, we have treated and reused To contribute to the preservation of water sources by reusing water the essential for the sustainability of our production about 236 thousand m3 water in 2016. Objective: discharged into rainwater canal and cost control. In all our operations, we treat all the water we Social: Increasing employee consciousness on preservation of water sources. At Kordsa we gradually monitor the water used use at water treatment plants before discharging Targeted Gains: Environmental: Reusing 30 thousand tons of water that would otherwise be and discharged at 8 plants across 5 different it to river or any local goverment piping. Our discharged into environment as waste. locations. We started reporting our water investments ensure that our water treatment Economic: Saving USD 55,000 /year. performance in 2014 with Turkey and Indonesia capacity will meet the demand of future plants. We included Thailand in 2015 and Brazil expansions. and US plants in 2016. Starting from 2017, we plan to review our water Our water resources, which may vary according monitoring methods for more accurate data to the plant’s location, include municipality, gathering and to start water monitoring program ground, seas, rivers and lakes. In Turkey and for better water mangement at all our locations Brazil our main withdrawal source is ground and in 2018. city water while it is rivers and ground water in Indonesia and city water in Thailand and US plants. Ground Water from Recycled Water 2016 (m3/year) City Water Water Rivers Water Discharge Turkey 512,630 94,305 n.a. 235,959 134,218 Indonesia 4,551 n.a. 451,585 n.a. 51,600 Thailand n.a. 106,802 n.a. n.a. 84,866 Brazil 84,794 39,852 n.a. n.a. 60,212 USA / CH n.a. 120,514 178,749 n.a. 5,519 USA / LH n.a. 4,535 n.a. n.a. 3,382 n.a.: data not available 38 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER VIEW 65% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… Kordsa’s initiatives to conserve biodiversity in and around its plants are adequate. During our first sustainability strategy works at Indonesia: 2013 Kordsa in 2014, biodiversity has not brought up Reason: New plant construction by any of our stakeholders as a priority issue. Actions: Although there were no findings of Nevertheless, considering the ISE Sustainability endangered species under risk, we moved about Index requirements, conservation of biodiversity 110 trees outside the construction area and took its place among our global sustainability planted them in and around the plant to preserve topics. all flora and fauna. We implement Environmental Impact As none of our plants are adjacent to any Assessments (EIA) at our plants as needed. The protected areas like national nature and wildlife assessments completed to date and actions parks, any water resources and areas of high taken are listed in the following; biodiversity value, we did not need to involve with NGOs or other conservation organizations Environmental Impact in developing biodiversity action plans (BAPs) or Assessments other biodiversity initiatives. We plan to conduct EIAs in other countries of operation within the Turkey: 2006, 2010 and 2016 coming years. Reason: Establishment and capacity increases Actions: None (Negative impacts were not assessed.) 39 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 26 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED BY KORDSA Economic Value Generated & Distributed Currency 2014 2015 2016 Economic Value Generated TL 1,000 1,811,782 1,866,751 2,085,142 Economic Value Distributed to Stakeholders Operating expenses TL 1,000 1,479,798 1,419,689 1,511,811 Benefit to employees TL 1,000 221,590 253,929 292,597 Benefit to government TL 1,000 10,671 16,164 36,429 Benefit to providers of capital TL 1,000 0 60,615 57,662 Benefit to community TL 1,000 5,150 6,942 8,530 Economic value retained (profit) TL 1,000 94,573 116,354 178,113 Financial Assistance Received from Government Currency 2014 2015 2016 Turquality TL 1,000 1,693 1,041 635 Tax relief TL 1,000 24,073 8,381 20,775,907 Incentives TL 1,000 25,326 17,335 20,080 41 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KORDSA EMPLOYEE DATA By Type of Employment Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 By Gender Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 White-collar Women People 211 206 208 213 People 3,328 3,336 3,336 3,373 Men Ratio 88.77% 88.98% 89.08% 89.00% White-collar Men People 573 529 530 492 People 421 413 409 417 Blue-collar Women People 210 207 201 204 Women Ratio 11.23% 11.02% 10.92% 11.00% Blue-collar Men People 2,755 2,807 2,806 2,881 By Other Groups Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Women 0 1 0 1 Total People 3,749 3,749 3,745 3,790 Ratio 0.00% 0.03% 0.00% 0.03% By Location Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Expats Men 15 15 11 13 Turkey Women People 79 87 105 109 Ratio 0.41% 0.41% 0.30% 0.34% Turkey Men People 979 1,034 1,046 1,270 Women 1 2 1 0 IndonesiaWomen People 67 66 65 69 Ratio 0.03% 0.05% 0.03% 0.00% Indonesia Men People 928 1,086 1,114 1,225 Persons with disabilities Men 30 32 33 31 Thailand Women People 115 111 112 100 Ratio 0.80% 0.85% 0.88% 0.82% Thailand Men People 260 262 267 286 By Management Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Egypt Women People 1 4 4 0 Women 1 2 1 2 Egypt Men People 287 244 240 0 Ratio 0.03% 0.05% 0.03% 0.05% Executives (ELT) BrazilWomen People 31 33 36 51 Men 5 5 9 8 Brazil Men People 364 365 369 366 Ratio 0.13% 0.13% 0.24% 0.21% USA Women People 93 90 71 85 Women 3 4 4 1 USA Men People 288 276 230 225 Ratio 0.08% 0.11% 0.11% 0.03% Director Men 22 20 12 10 Germany Women People 20 19 13 0 Ratio 0.59% 0.53% 0.32% 0.26% Germany Men People 78 68 69 0 Women 20 24 29 31 China Women People 4 3 3 3 Ratio 0.53% 0.64% 0.77% 0.82% China Men People 2 1 1 1 Manager Men 83 78 102 104 Argentina Women People 11 0 0 0 Ratio 2.21% 2.08% 2.72% 2.74% Argentina Men People 142 0 0 0 Women 91 94 101 102 By Age Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ratio 2.43% 2.51% 2.69% 2.69% Women 54 51 59 71 Engineer & Specialist Men 214 216 210 210 Ratio 1.44% 1.36% 1.58% 1.87% Ratio 5.71% 5.76% 5.60% 5.54% 30 Years and below Men 593 840 837 846 Women 4 4 7 8 Ratio 15.82% 22.41% 22.35% 22.32% Ratio 0.11% 0.11% 0.19% 0.21% Supervisor & Technician Women 364 263 278 275 Men 125 113 131 136 Ratio 9.71% 7.02% 7.04% 7.26% Ratio 3.33% 3.01% 3.49% 3.59% 30 50 Years Men 2.087 2.043 2.042 2.067 Women 92 79 76 76 Ratio 55.67% 54.49% 54.52% 54.54% Ratio 2.45% 2.11% 2.03% 2.01% Officer (White-collar) Women 103 73 72 71 Men 110 114 81 92 Ratio 2.75% 1.95% 1.92% 1.87% Ratio 2.93% 3.04% 2.16% 2.43% 50 Years and above Women 206 198 191 192 Men 548 479 457 460 Ratio 5.49% 5.28% 5.09% 5.07% Ratio 14.62% 12.78% 12.68% 12.14% Operator Men 2,773 2,798 2,791 2,818 Ratio 73.97% 74.63% 74.45% 74.35% 42 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KORDSA MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE KORDSA TRAINING INVESTMENTS By Employee Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Board of Directors and ELT Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Man/ Executives (ELT) 3.0 6.0 13.0 14.2 Hours Women Ratio 0.03% 0.05% 0.03% 0.05% Man/ Director 89.5 117.1 97.4 95.6 Hours 30 Years and below Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Man/ Manager 149.3 67.9 150.1 97.3 Hours 30 50 Years Ratio 0.08% 0.11% 0.11% 0.16% Engineer & Specialist Man/ 230.6 173.2 232.0 207.9 & Officer (White-collar) Hours Man/ 50 Years and above Ratio 0.08% 0.08% 0.13% 0.11% Supervisor & Technician 145.9 186.5 214.3 219.2 Hours Man/ Operator 227.2 257.3 250.2 253.8 Expats Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.03% Hours By Gender Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Disabled Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Man/ Men 239.9 255.5 262.7 260.3 Hours Man/ Women 98.7 104.4 119.5 114.7 Hours KORDSA EMPLOYEE HIRES & DISMISSALS KORDSA TRAINING HOURS All Trainings Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Hires and Dismissals (All Kordsa) Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Career Development Hours 104,187 118,882 129,586 136,401 New hires Women People 29 45 27 49 Personal Development Hours 23,269 17,496 23,590 21,431 Health and Safety Hours 19,463 38,116 38,002 40,007 Dismissals Women People 66 44 59 41 Other Hours 14,578 1,966 1,261 1,340 Total Training Hours Hours 161,497 176,460 192,439 199,179 New hires Men People 348 487 332 338 Dismissals Men People 553 375 296 301 Total – Dismissals People 619 419 355 342 Total – New hires People 377 532 359 387 43 KORDSA OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY DATA Plants Turkey Thailand Incidents Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Frequency Rate 0.91 0.73 0.31 0.73 0.25 0.73 Severity Rate 20.84 23.38 7.76 7.30 0.00 23.38 Type of Recordable Number (Kordsa) 6 LWC, 3 MTC 9 LWC 1 MTC, 2 LWC 1 LWC, 2 MTC 1 MTC 9 LWC Case Number (Contractor) 6 MTC 6 MTC 2 LWC 0,00 0,00 6 MTC Plants USA / CH USA / LH Incidents Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Frequency Rate 1.26 0.00 1.03 0.80 0.00 0.00 Severity Rate 10.08 0.00 2.07 0.00 0.00 0.00 Type of Recordable Number (Kordsa) 3 LWC 0.00 1 MTC, 1 LWC 1 MTC 0.00 0.00 Case Number (Contractor) 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 LWC 0.00 0.00 Plants Indonesia Brazil Incidents Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Frequency Rate 0.30 0.00 0.36 0.46 0.73 0.74 Severity Rate 3.81 0.00 3.35 2.52 1.25 4.46 Type of Recordable Number (Kordsa) 3 LWC 0.00 4 LWC 1 LWC, 1 RWC 2 RWC, 1 LWC 3 LWC Case Number (Contractor) 1 LWC 0.00 0.00 1 LWC 0,00 2 LWC Lost Workday Case (LWC): When the worker cannot return to work the first workday following an occupational accident resulting in injury. Medical Treatment Case (MTC): When an accident occurs that require medical treatment and the injured person can return to work the first workday following injury. Restricted Workday Case (RWC): When the injured can return to work the first workday after injury, but is asked to work on another task, as he cannot perform his/her regular task. Frequency Rate: (Number of recordable case / Total working hours) X 200.000 Severity Rate: (Number of lost days / Total working hours) X 200.000 All accidents up to and including first aid level are not calculated within the accident frequency rate. Fatal accidents are not calculated within the accident frequency rate. Lost days are calculated based on calendar days. Lost day count starts the day after the accident. 44 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KORDSA ENERGY EFFICIENCY DATA Dipping NY Turkey 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 NY Yarn Line 1 Turkey 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 86.4 71.4 74.7 78.2 83.9 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 87.2 80 94 97.7 98.2 Other Energy Consumption ( kwh/ton ) 100 103.8 97.9 90.3 95.9 103.9 NY Yarn Line 2 Turkey 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dipping PES Turkey 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 118.3 103.6 107.9 134.9 120.2 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 99 91.9 91 94 105.5 NY Yarn CH / USA 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Other Energy Consumption ( kwh/ton ) 100 119.8 110.6 89 86.7 99.8 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 92 78 88.3 85.6 72.4 Dipping LH / USA 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 NY Yarn Indonesia 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 100.4 98.1 90.4 78.4 87.1 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 116.3 100.9 112 95.8 88.7 Other Energy Consumption ( kwhton ) 100 92.8 98.5 92.8 95.6 99.7 PES Yarn Turkey 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dipping Brazil 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 91.4 82.3 78.2 80 80.2 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 87.2 78.2 82.9 84.5 76.4 PES Yarn Brazil 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Other Energy Consumption ( kwh/ton ) 100 92.7 96.2 92.8 89.3 81.7 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 80.6 83.9 84 85.5 84.2 Dipping TCF1 Indonesia 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 PES Yarn Indonesia 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 91.5 85.3 87.3 91.1 108.4 Energy ( kwh/ton ) 100 105.3 98 83.7 87.3 86.5 Other Energy Consumption ( kwh/ton ) 100 101.6 95.1 90.3 86.4 91.6 SEC Turkey 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dipping TCF2 Indonesia 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 98.3 83.5 72.7 70.3 77.7 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 100 95 Other Energy Consumption ( kwh/ton ) 100 99 107.2 90.3 81.6 114.3 Other Energy Consumption ( kwh/ton ) n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 100 75 SEC Brazil 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dipping Thailand 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 85.3 85.9 90.4 87.3 97.6 Natural Gas ( kwh/ton ) 100 117.9 72.9 80.2 81.3 78.1 Other Energy Consumption ( kwh/ton ) 100 113.5 90.9 84.3 90.17 87.6 Other Energy Consumption ( kwh/ton ) 100 157.2 96.5 87.5 84 80.3 n.a.: data not available 45 KORDSA MATERIALS MANAGEMENT DATA Materials Plants 2014 2015 2016 Dipping NY Turkey 1.12 1.13 1.14 Dipping PE Turkey 1.23 1.22 1.23 Dipping USA / LH 1.03 1.03 1.19 TCF Chemical Ratio Dipping Brazil 1.16 1.14 1.16 Dipping TCF1 Indonesia 1.09 1.14 1.17 Dipping TCF2 Indonesia n.a. n.a. 1.27 Dipping Thailand 1.10 1.08 1.06 NY Yarn Line 1 Turkey 1.22 1.17 1.18 NY Yarn Line 2 Turkey 1.07 1.02 1.02 NY Salt / Flake Ratio NY Yarn – USA / CH 1.19 1.19 1.22 NY Yarn Indonesia 1.02 1.00 1.00 SEC Turkey 1.30 1.28 1.28 SEC Chemical Ratio SEC Brazil n.a. n.a. 1.08 n.a.: data not available KORDSA WATER MANAGEMENT DATA Water Withdrawal (m3 / year) 2014 2015 2016 Water Discharge (m3 / year) 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 525,000 488,200 606,935 Turkey 200,580 385,980 134,218 Indonesia 369,767 359,767 456,136 Indonesia 36,500 43,836 51,600 Thailand n.a. 96,140 106,082 Thailand n.a. 76,912 84,866 Brazil n.a. n.a. 124,646 Brazil n.a. n.a. 60,212 USA / CH n.a. n.a. 299,263 USA / CH n.a. n.a. 5,519 USA / LH n.a. n.a. 4,535 USA / LH n.a. n.a. 3,382 n.a.: data not available KORDSA EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT DATA Kordsa Plants (tCO2) 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 30,533 36,695 35,802 Indonesia n.a. 12,394 17,113 Thailand n.a. 6,670 7,078 Brazil n.a. n.a. 6,411 USA / CH n.a. n.a. 14 USA / LH n.a. n.a. 3,810 All data is calculated based on natural gas, diesel and LPG consumption. (Scope 1) n.a.: data not available 46 KORDSA WASTE MANAGEMENT DATA TURKEY THAILAND USA / CH Wastes By Type (Tons) 2014 2015 2016 Wastes By Type (Tons) 2014 2015 2016 Wastes By Type (Tons) 2014 2015 2016 Hazardous Waste 1,275 1,331 1,714 Hazardous Waste n.a. 144 11 Hazardous Waste n.a. n.a. 466 Non-hazardous Waste 3,008 3,118 3,157 Non-hazardous Waste n.a. 5 187 Non-hazardous Waste n.a. n.a. 8,030 Total Waste 4,283 4,449 4,871 Total Waste n.a. 149 298 Total Waste n.a. n.a. 8,496 Wastes By Disposal Method 2014 2015 2016 Wastes By Disposal Method 2014 2015 2016 Wastes By Disposal Method 2014 2015 2016 Recycling 2,987 3,114 3,156 Recycling n.a. 5 186 Recycling n.a. n.a. 8,030 Reclamation 1,238 1,310 1,691 Reclamation n.a. 82 111 Reclamation n.a. n.a. 466 Landfill 1 1 1 Landfill n.a. 0 0 Landfill n.a. n.a. 0 Incineration 57 24 23 Incineration n.a. 62 1 Incineration n.a. n.a. 0 Total Disposed Waste 4,283 4,449 4,871 Total Disposed Waste n.a. 149 298 Total Disposed Waste n.a. n.a. 8,496 INDONESIA BRAZIL USA / LH Wastes By Type (Tons) 2014 2015 2016 Wastes By Type (Tons) 2014 2015 2016 Wastes By Type (Tons) 2014 2015 2016 Hazardous Waste n.a. 425 1,069 Hazardous Waste n.a. n.a. 9 Hazardous Waste n.a. n.a. 122 Non-hazardous Waste n.a. 2,608 2,793 Non-hazardous Waste n.a. n.a. 1,150 Non-hazardous Waste n.a. n.a. 5 Total Waste n.a. 3,032 3,862 Total Waste n.a. n.a. 1,158 Total Waste n.a. n.a. 117 Wastes By Disposal Method 2014 2015 2016 Wastes By Disposal Method 2014 2015 2016 Wastes By Disposal Method 2014 2015 2016 Recycling n.a. 2,607 2,793 Recycling n.a. n.a. 1.149 Recycling n.a. n.a. 5 Reclamation n.a. 308 1,069 Reclamation n.a. n.a. 5 Reclamation n.a. n.a. 112 Landfill n.a. 0 0 Landfill n.a. n.a. 3 Landfill n.a. n.a. 0 Incineration n.a. 117 0 Incineration n.a. n.a. 2 Incineration n.a. n.a. 0 Total Disposed Waste n.a. 3,032 3,862 Total Disposed Waste n.a. n.a. 1,158 Total Disposed Waste n.a. n.a. 117 n.a.: data not available 47 ANNEXES MEMBERSHIPS TURKEY THAILAND ACC Legal Consultants Association AEO Thai Authorized Economic Operator Importer & Exporter Association DEİK Foreign Economic Relations Board FTI The Federation of Thai Industries Equality at Work Platform TNSC The Thai National Shippers’ Council İTKİB The General Secretariat of Istanbul Textile & Apparel Exporter's Associations DFT Department of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Commerce İTHİB Turkish Textile Employer's Associations Ayutthaya Personnel Management Group KALDER Quality Association BRAZIL Kocaeli Chamber of Industry Kocaeli Chamber of Commerce Bahia’s Spinning and Weaving industries Union LES Turkey Technology and License Executives Society COFIC Industrial Foment Committee of Camaçari PERYÖN Personnel Management Association of Turkey FIEB/CIEB TBCSD Turkish Business Council of Sustainable Development ABRAFAS Brazilian Association of Producers of Artificial and Synthetic Fibers TİDE The Institute of Internal Auditing Turkey American Chamber of Commerce TTSİS Turkish Textile Industry Employers’ Union USA TÜSİAD Turkish Industry & Businessmen Association AFMA American Fibers Manufacturers Association UN Global Compact ISIFM – International Society of Industrial Fabric Manufacturers INDONESIA APINDO The Employers’ Association of Indonesia Turkish American Coalition HIBERKIBRA Neigborhood Corporate Association LBG Scotland County Chamber of Commerce Indonesian Public Listed Companies Association 48 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Organizational Profile Location of Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organisation Page 51 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Pages 6-7 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 51 102-4 Location of operations Page 51 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporation 102-6 Markets served Pages 6-7 102-7 Scale of the organization Page 5 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 42 102-9 Supply chain Page 22 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Page 22 102-11 Precautionary principle Pages 34-39 102-12 External initiatives UNGC 102-13 Membership of associations Page 48 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 3 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Page 9 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Page 15 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 10 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Page 28 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Page 10 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Pages 10-11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Pages 10-12 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Page 51 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 12 102-47 List of material topics Page 12 102-48 Restatements of information Ongoing projects are restated. 102-49 Changes in reporting New environmental data from US and Brazil plants are included. 102-50 Reporting period Page 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2015 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 51 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 2 102-55 GRI Content index Pages 49-50 102-56 External assurance None 49 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 103 BOUNDARIES & MANAGEMENT APPROACHES OF GRI 200-300-400 TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 2016 Location of UNGC Location of Disclosure Disclosure MATERIAL TOPICS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and their boundaries Page 12 GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES GRI 103 GRI 301 Materials, 2016 P7, P8 103-2 The management approach and its components Web Links 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 36 GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS SERIES www.kordsa.com 301-2 Recycled input materials used Page 36 GRI 201 Economic Performance, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 200 GRI 302 Energy, 2016 P7-P9 GRI 204 Procurement Practices, 2016 www.kordsa.com 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Page 45 GRI 205 Anti-Corruption, 2016 www.kordsa.com 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Page 35 GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES www.kordsa.com GRI 303 Water, 2016 P7, P8 GRI 301 Materials, 2016 www.kordsa.com 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Page 38 GRI 302 Energy, 2016 www.kordsa.com 303-3 Water recycled and reused Page 38 GRI 303 Water, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 300 GRI 304 Biodiversity, 2016 P8 GRI 304 Biodiversity, 2016 www.kordsa.com 304-1 Operational sites adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Page 39 GRI 305 Emissions, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 305 Emissions, 2016 P7, P8 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste, 2016 www.kordsa.com 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 46 GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 306 Effluents and Waste, 2016 P7, P8 GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES www.kordsa.com 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 47 GRI 401 Employment, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment, 2016 P8 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety, 2016 www.kordsa.com 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Page 22 GRI 404 Training and Education, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 400 GRI 401 Employment, 2016 P3-P6 GRI 406 Non-Discrimination, 2016 www.kordsa.com 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Page 43 GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment, 2016 www.kordsa.com 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to part-time employees Page 25 GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 418 Customer Privacy, 2016 www.kordsa.com 401-3 Parental leave Page 27 GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance, 2016 www.kordsa.com GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety, 2016 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety 403-1 Page 31 committees Location of 403-2 Types and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, fatalities Page 44 GRI 200-300-400 TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 2016 Disclosure UNGC GRI 404 Training and Education, 2016 GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS SERIES 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Page 43 GRI 201 Economic Performance, 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Pages 29-30 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 41 404-3 Page 29 reviews 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Page 41 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity, 2016 GRI 204 Procurement Practices, 2016 P10 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 27 GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment, 2016 P1-P4 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Page 22 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Page 28 GRI 205 Anti-Corruption, 2016 P10 GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment, 2016 P2-P3 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 205-2 Page 16 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Page 22 procedures GRI 418 Customer Privacy, 2016 418-1 Complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Page 23 GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance, 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Page 16 50 CONTACTS HEAD OFFICE EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST and ASIA PACIFIC NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA AFRICA Alikahya Fatih Mahallesi Indonesia USA Brazil Sanayi Caddesi No: 90 41310 Turkey PT Indo Kordsa Tbk PT Indo Chattanooga Kordsa Inc. Kordsa Brazil S.A. Izmit/Kocaeli Kordsa Teknik Tekstil A.Ş. Kordsa Polyester 4501 North Access Road Rua Eteno, No 3832 Polo P: +90 262 316 70 00 Alikahya Fatih Mahallesi Jl. Pahlawan, Desa Karang Asem Chattanooga, Industrial de Camaçari Camacari, F: +90 262 316 70 70 Sanayi Caddesi No: 90 41310 Timur, Citeureup, Bogor 16810 TN 37415-9990 Bahia/Brazil Izmit/Kocaeli P. +62 21 875 21 15 P. + 1 423 643 8300 GSM: 42810-000 P: +90 262 316 70 00 F. +62 21 875 39 27 F. + 1 423 643 2726 P. + 55 71 2104-4500 Composite Technologies Center F: +90 262 316 70 70 F. + 55 71 2104-4701 of Excellence Thailand USA Sanayi Mahallesi Teknopark Bulvarı Thai Indo Kordsa Co. Ltd. Laurel Hill Kordsa Inc. No: 1/1B 34906 Rojana Industrial Park, 1/61 Moo 5 17780 Armstrong Road Pendik / Istanbul Khanham Subdistrict, Uthai District Laurel Hill, NC 28351 P: + 90 216 300 10 00 Ayutthaya 13210 P. + 1 910 462 2051 P. +66 35 330 221 to 9 F. + 1 910 462 5040 F. +66 35 330 230 China Sales and Marketing Office Room 1103 A Pacheer Commercial Center 555 Nanjing West Road, 200041 Shanghai P. + 86 021 62555910 F. + 86 021 62555911 (GRI 102-45) DISCLAIMER The information and analyses contained in the KORDSA sustainability report (hereinafter “report”) have The company, its managers, employees, and other persons and organizations who contributed to the been compiled from resources and information deemed as accurate and reliable within the timeframe drafting of this report cannot be held responsible for the damages that may arise from the use of the the report was prepared for informative purposes only, and not to be used as a basis for any investment information contained herein. All rights of this report belong to KORDSA. decision. Our report is prepared in digital environment and is not printed. Contact Information: Sustainability and Reporting Graphic Design Yoga Mardiansyah Consultant FikriFerah Communications Global OHS, Environment and SERCOM Consulting Özge Kaner Sustainability Manager Elif Özkul Gökmen ozgekaner@fikriferah.com Yoga.Mardiansyah@kordsa.com elif@sercomconsulting.com P. +90 533 273 14 96 P. +90 533 648 07 40 Nevra Aydoğan Brand and Corporate Communication Manager Nevra.Aydogan@kordsa.com 51
