2016 Sustainability Report Importaco: food, beverages and energy drinks energy Contents 08 Message from the President 10 Importaco 18 Corporate governance 24 Stakeholder engagement 27 Responsible supply chain 36 Total customer satisfaction 51 Talent and leadership 63 Environmental sustainability 71 Social responsibility 78 GRI Index table 7 2016 saw the development and reinforcement of our leaderThroughout 2016, Importaco has consolidated its Responsiship as a business group. As the full financial results for 2016 ble Supply project, collaborating with preferred stable supshow, our sales have grown to 452 million Euros, with a net pliers (internally known as PSs) and farmers to implement a profit of 16 million. Behind these figures lie the perseverance common work system that allows us to produce excellent, and commitment of all those who form part of Importaco and sustainable and accessible products for all consumers. who work every day to overcome new challenges and find I would like to invite you to find out more about these aspects new value creation opportunities. by reading our Sustainability Report, which showcases the One of the landmarks that singles out 2016 was the acquisidedication of all the professionals working in the company. tion of the Fuente Arevalillo, Refrescos Minerales and Font These people have laid the foundations and are a key factor in Teix mineral water and soft drink companies. By integrating our growth, as it is through their efforts and determination that these companies into our own, we have consolidated our we have been able to see the company develop sustainably. bid to expand our presence in the food and drink sector. After joining forces, we have 3 new brands, enabling us to approach new consumers and complete our range of products. The raison d’être of our company and our daily work is to improve peoples’ quality of life, providing them with a full range of products and services that help improve their well-being. This is reflected in our range of food products, in which consumers can find anything from healthy options to pleasure foods and to which we are committed to offering better products every day. Throughout the course of 2016 we have launched 35 innovations that were developed in our Technology Hub the company’s driving force for research, innovation and development. We believe that through global cooperation we can take challenges and turn them into opportunities by creating new working environments that allow us to cooperate on a global Francisco Pons and interconnected level. Proof of our constant progress in President of Importaco this field are the 1,170 people who are working all over the world to create a global and inclusive company. What they all have in common is a culture based on trust, rigour and participation. At Importaco we champion respect for human rights and sustainable development in our entire value chain. Another year on, we are committed to building a food system that is safer, more inclusive and more efficient, and that creates prosperity for all those involved, from the farmer to the consumer. 8 9 Importaco Importaco is a family-run business founded in 1940 whose professional activity is carried out within the food, drink and energy sectors. 1 Importaco has premises all over the world, with the company’s headquarters in Beniparrell (Valencia, Spain). Our mission is to contribute towards improving the health and nutrition of consumers through our commitment to innovation, ethical practices and respect towards the environment. The 1,170-strong team that forms part of Importaco works to accomplish this mission, sharing a culture based on trust, rigour and participation. Thanks to their efforts, our products reach millions of consumers every day. Commercial brands and products 1,170 people Importaco’s commercial brands can be found in over 50 countries, expanding its development through new launches and business alliances. · Food Under the brands of Casa Pons and Itac, we market dried fruit and nuts, desiccated fruit, chocolate-covered dried fruit and nuts, snacks and fried goods prepared in our production hubs. The Casa Pons brand is used for the retail market while the Itac brand serves the agri-food industry and the foodservice market on an international level. · Drinks We bottle natural mineral water under the Agua de Cortes, Agua de Bronchales, Aguadoy, Font Des Teix and Font S’ Artija brands for the retail and national foodservice market. With Refrescos Minerales we produce and bottle soft drinks under the Hacendado brand for Mercadona. · Energy Foener, we generate renewable energy, we manage energy and we implement energy management systems. 11 Work premises Importaco by geographical area Poland We have 33 premises distributed throughout 6 countries, providing California Production Hub Buying Office our services to clients all over the world. Our growth trajectory has Turkey 33 Production Hub enabled us to create our new Central Office in Beniparrell (Valencia, Buying Office Spain) and to build a new factory in Ortaklar (Aydın, Turkey), both China opened in 2016. Buying Office premises around the world Spain Production and logistics hubs (15) Administrative offices (11) Sales offices (5) Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Importaco Argentina Training Centre Buying Office Technology Hub Production Hubs Biale Blota (Bydgoszcz) Dried fruit and nuts Calera y Chozas (Toledo) Natural mineral water and soft drinks (2) Bronchales (Teruel) Natural mineral water Cortes (Castellón) Natural mineral water Vall d’Alba (Castellón) Almonds Ortaklar (Aydın) Desiccated fruit Bunyola (Mallorca) Natural mineral water Beniparrell (Valencia) Dried fruit and nuts, desiccated fruit, microwavable popcorn, porras and churros (3) Carlet (Valencia) Snacks Chella (Valencia) Dried fruit and nuts and chocolate-covered fruit Picassent (Valencia) Dried fruit and nuts and desiccated fruit 12 13 Development and diversification Since the beginning of business activity in 1940, our progress has CREATION ACQUISITION been based on perseverance and the search for new strategic opportunities to boost the company’s expansion and fulfil its mission. Elafruse 1994 Production of chocolate-covered We started out as a food company focusing on dried fruit and nuts dried fruit and nuts 1995 and desiccated fruit. However our dedication to expand the company has led us to offer value added products and to diversify our activities, entering the drink and energy sectors 1997 Helados Estiu * Production of ice-cream Since 2000 2000 Campo Seco 2016 Economic-financial data 1940 Production of chocolate-covered dried fruit and nuts 2001 Fritos Pérez (thousands of Euros) Production of snacks Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Importaco 2003 Domat Production of dried fruit and nuts 452​,277 Turnover 23,999 Operating margin 23,061 Earning before tax 2005 2005 Aguas de Cortes Bottling of natural mineral water 16,5​06 Profit after tax 2006 Frutos Secos Castellón Almond processing 1​07,559 Net worth Foener * 2009 16,987 Investments Generating photovoltaic power Natural Drinks Natural mineral water and soft drink retail company 2016 Operating data Importaco Turkey Desiccated fruit packaging 2010 2010 (in thousands) Food Foener Comercialización 2013 Energy management, sales, 74,382 Kilos representation and energy efficiency 2014 Agua de Bronchales Buying offices 2014 Bottling of natural mineral water 240,723 Packs United States, China and Argentina Importaco Terra Agricultural holding 2015 2015 Drinks Left page: 2016 Fuente Arevalillo 626,256 Litres The graph shows the group’s Bottling of natural mineral water Font Teix major milestones in terms of Bottling of natural mineral water 81,905 Packs starting up companies and buying Refrescos Minerales stocks and shares from 1990 * Minority holding Production of soft drinks Energy to 2016. These decisions have enabled us to follow our long-term development plans and grow into 342,534 Kilowatts-hour the business group that we have now become. Creation and acquisition of companies from 1990-2016 15 Steering Committee Importaco’s Steering Committee (internally known as the General Council) is responsible for the organisation, implementation and fulfilment of the company’s strategy, which is approved by the Board of Directors. Its work is carried out in line with the values, principles and policies of Importaco. The company is made up of corporate and business development structures that enable us to maximise operational efficiency and exchange best practices. This structure is client-focused, making it possible to coordinate and align steps taken within the different parts of the business group. Standing, from left to right · Jesus Olivares Muñoz Managing Director of Importaco Poland · Amancio Muñoz López Managing Director of Purchasing · Andrés Gallén Ceni Managing Director of Bebidas Naturales · Jaime Moreno Soler Corporate Director of Administration, Finance and systems · Teresa Cercós Fortea Managing Director of innovation, quality and environment · Armand Calatayud Olivert Managing Director of communication, human resources and values · Fernando Pons Casañ Managing Director of Foener · Javier Mora Puig Managing Director of Importaco Turkey · Santiago Chover Llacer Managing Director of Importaco Food Service · José Domingo Bort Operations Manager for Importaco Casa Pons · Gaspar Alapont Martínez Managing Director of Importaco Ingredients Sitting, from left to right · Amparo Pons Sancho Corporate Director · Francisco Pons Alcoy President · Juan Antonio Pons Casañ Managing Director of Importaco Dried Fruit and Nuts 16 17 Corporate governance 2 Our aim is to move forward in designing effective governance mechanisms to facilitate the company’s growth and expansion capabilities based on our values, commitment and transparency Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Corporate governance Best practices in corporate governance foster credibility and transparency, promoting the sustainable development of companies. At Importaco we want to push forward in the development of a governance structure that encourages growth and creates the conditions necessary to make the best strategic decisions, fulfilling the expectations of our stakeholders. The commitment of a family-run company From left to right: Amparo Pons Sancho Eva Pons Casañ Importaco is a family-run company led by the second and third genNatalia Pons Sancho Juan Antonio Pons Casañ erations of the Pons family. Its commitment to maintain ownership Bárbara Sancho Costa through survival, work and excellence has enabled the company to Fernando Pons Casañ Francisco Pons Alcoy expand while maintaining its original spirit. The company’s dedication Paco Pons Sancho to development and endurance is reflected in the Family Business ProJerónima Casañ Verdeguer Lucía Pons Sancho tocol, which was signed in 2001. Elena Pons Casañ 19 Corporate Governance System Ethics and integrity The Vision, Mission and Values of Importaco form part of its instituImportaco’s Corporate Governance System is based on its compliance tional strategy and are embodied in the Management Model and corwith the principles of ethics and integrity and is structured around porate policies. These elements serve as a guide for all those working sustainability, durability and value creation for all the stakeholders. in the company and as an inspiration for decision-making. This system is reviewed on a regular basis and includes the main developments made in regulatory compliance. · Vision, Mission and Values Vision. To be a leading company on the Spanish market and a · Code of Ethics. This code, which was approved in 2014, sets out Imbenchmark in the EMEA area (Europe, Middle East and Africa) basportaco’s commitment to stakeholders and provides its employees ing our management on the values of trust, rigour and participation. with a guide to ethical conduct. These values are shared by our employees, preferred suppliers and · Transparency Policy. This policy includes the rules and principles of partner customers, creating an international group that is able to how to run the business in an ethical and responsible way. During compete in specific markets with integrated efficiency. 2016 we carried out training sessions on Ethical Business, based on Mission. We are a family-run business group that works mainly in the RESIST Programme by Transparency International, in our aim to the food sector, more specifically in dried fruit and nuts and snacks, raise awareness and involve management and middle management Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Corporate governance and contributes towards improving the health and nutrition of conin its compliance. sumers in our bid for innovation, ethical practices and respect towards the environment. Guide for Values Trust everyone Rigour Participation · Management Model Running the company Importaco’s management model is the foundation that supports ethically is key to success and assimilates the efforts we make every day. It sets out the regulations that guide people in their decision-making and the responsiand social progress bilities that result from the principles. Gisela López and Maria José Vallés, Importaco employees. 20 21 General Shareholders’ Meeting This meeting is run according to the principles of transparency and participation. It is attended by all the company shareholders. Meetings take place at least once a year in order for the Board of Directors to approve the annual accounts and procedures and are convened whenever necessary or whenever requested by the Board of Directors. Name Position on Date of last Position in the Board appointment the company Board of Directors Francisco Pons Alcoy President 2016 Executive This board was established as the main governing and representative body of the company. Its members are elected by the shareholders Jerónima Casañ Verdeguer Vice President 2016 Non-executive and they control and supervise Importaco’s senior management. The Board of Directors’ responsibilities include the approval of the company’s values, mission and strategic objectives as well as its monitoring Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Corporate governance Eva Pons Casañ Secretary 2016 Executive their fulfilment. It is headed by Importaco’s president and has two external consultants. Lucia Pons Sancho Member 2016 Executive Presence on other boards Juan Antonio Pons Casañ Member 2016 Executive Importaco holds shares in the companies Helados Estiu and Foener and is a member of their Boards of Directors. On an institutional level, ImAmparo Pons Sancho Member 2016 Executive portaco also sits on the boards of Ainia, AVE (Valencian Business Association), EDEM Business School, Fedacova and the Étnor Foundation. Elena Pons Casañ Member 2016 Executive Ainia Natalia Pons Sancho Member 2016 Executive AVE EDEM Fedacova Fernando Pons Casañ Member 2016 Executive Fundación Étnor Francisco Pons Sancho Member 2016 Non-executive Configuration of the Board of Directors 23 Materiality Identifying stakeholders’ expectations of Importaco and communicating the progress we are making in sustainability are key aspects to 3 forging more sustainable development. Materiality analysis The process of analysing materiality starts with a study of global challenges and opportunities on an economic, social and environmental level. This information is used to identify relevant aspects and to asThis information sess their impact on the company. The sources we have used to prois used to identify duce this report are: the International Labour Organization, the Food relevant aspects and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, among others. and to assess their impact on the Using this analysis as a reference, an internal engagement process was carried out in 2016 in which over 200 people participated with company the aim of prioritising what employees feel to be the most important Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Materiality aspects. In addition to data obtained from other stakeholders through different management-related dialogue channels, this information is used to identify material aspects in a global way. The results of identifying and assessing material aspects are set out in the materiality matrix, in which the aspects are shown according to their importance and impact. Frequent analysis of material aspects enables Importaco to observe how stakeholder perception of sustainability issues changes, which enables us to adapt our strategy to face the challenges posed by economic, social and environmental issues. 25 Impact Responsible supply chain 4 5 3 2 1 5 6 12 9 7 4 11 8 17 15 13 10 4 18 Probability 14 16 19 20 3 3 4 5 1. Product quality and safety 11. Innovation management 2. Food quality and safety in the supply chain 12. Recruiting and retaining talent 3. Training and education 13. Work environment 4. Occupational health and safety 14. Diversity and equal opportunities 5. Water consumption 15. Emissions 6. Commitment to clients 16. Energy consumption 7. Human rights in the supply chain 17. Agricultural integration 8. Product improvements for consumers’ health 18. Stable relationships with suppliers 9. Product improvements to reduce 19. Labelling of products environmental impact 20. Consumption of materials 10. Waste management Materiality matrix Globalisation and the need to feed 8.5 billion people in 2030 is changInclusive: integration throughout the chain ing food and farming systems in an aim to foster the integration of all the links in the value chain, encouraging social and economic develThe economic and social integration of all the stakeholders in the value opment and respect for the environment. This challenge calls for the chain, including farmers, allows us to generate development and prosinvolvement of companies, producers and consumers through new perity while gaining insight into our products. Our supply chain is manconsumption and participation mechanisms. aged through a global management system, but acts locally through our network of buyers and technicians. These teams in turn work toIn line with these global challenges, Importaco is contributing together with suppliers to develop and establish numerous initiatives to wards building an inclusive food system that is safe and sustainable ensure excellent, and at the same time, responsible products. and manages its value chain according to the principles of stability Preferred and specialisation. This system allows us to work alongside our suppliIn agreement with our commitment to inclusion, in 2005 we created Supplier ers to ensure the excellence of all our products and their compliance the title of Preferred Supplier (PS). This title is given to stable suppliers with our standards. who work in line with the company’s objectives and comply with our codes and policies. In 2016, these suppliers have provided us with 83 per cent of the volume of raw materials, which is 15 per cent more Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Responsible supply chain than the previous year. Following the creation of the PS title, the PS Congress was created in 2006. It is a biennial conference that, together with annual, regional conventions enables us to share best trade practices, form alliances and foster cooperation among all the links in the value chain. In 2016, the Conventions in Turkey, California, Chile and China have given us the opportunity to share experiences and best practices in food health and quality with a huge number of suppliers from all over the world. Number of raw material suppliers by geographical · Agricultural Integration: a global project area in 2016 With the aim of moving forward in our inclusion strategy, in 2013 we took a step further by creating the Agricultural Integration Project. This project fosters the creation of strategic alliances with our PSs in a move towards integrating all the links in the chain, from the field Conventions: 26 21 to the consumer. These alliances have enabled us to collaborate Turkey suppliers suppliers (23%) with over 750 producers who grow produce such as peanuts, corn California (29%) and almonds. Chile 41 suppliers China (45%) 3 The philosophy behind this project is to work alongside farmers to suppliers (3%) grow and harvest produce in line with our Best Agricultural Practices Programme. The aim of the project is to increase quality and food safety, while reducing the company’s impact on the environment. 28 29 The methodology followed in this project allows us to guarantee traceability and compliance, as well as monitoring aspects of concern to consumers, such as allergen checks and the farming of non-genetically modified crops. In addition to aspects related to food quality and safety, the Programme allows us to monitor environmental aspects such as soil conservation and management, responsible use of plant protection products and water management. Agricultural Integration Project Principles Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Responsible supply chain 1 Stable alliances 2 Food safety and quality 3 Sustainability Safe: Food Safety and Quality at Source Managing food safety and quality throughout the entire supply chain is essential to improve efficiency and sustainability in the food system, ensuring greater safety and transparency to the end user. Importaco aims to offer products that rigorously comply with food health and quality regulations. One of our requirements is that all of our PSs are certified with an internationally recognised food safety and quality standard. The Food Safety and Quality at Source Programme was created with Within the Agricultural Integration the conviction that establishing a common work system throughout all Project we carry out exhaustive monitoring of the farming of our the phases of the value chain would allow us to obtain products that products, which guarantees their comply with our specifications and the expectations of clients and quality and safety and simultaneously reduces its environmental impact. consumers. This is a two-fold programme, in which the combination 30 31 of teamwork, transparency and training allows us to define the perfect product with our suppliers, as well as the methodology to assess it. In 2016 we created 37 technical sheets, allowing us to create more efficient purchasing processes and obtain products that meet our food quality and safety requirements. Also, with these specifications, we have continued working towards establishing a common, standardised analysis methodology aimed at streamlining assessment systems applied to the entire chain. This methodology allows us to monitor the quality and safety of products at source, before reaching our facilities. A network of local employees have worked on establishing this proMore efficient gramme that, through audits and specific projects, helps suppliers impurchasing prove their production and distribution processes. In 2016 we carried processes out 49 audits and 143 follow-up visits to move towards our goal of Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Responsible supply chain creating a common food safety and quality system that fulfils clients’ and consumers’ expectations in all the production processes. Audits and follow-up visits by geographical area in 2016 21 audits 17 audits 48 follow-up 34 visits follow-up 11 visits audits 61 follow-up visits We visit our suppliers every year to nurture alliances and long-term development. These are fundamental factors to be able to offer the final consumer greater safety and transparency. 32 33 Sustainability in the supply chain Sustainable; social and environmental responsibility is achieved by complying with Our commitment to responsible management in the supply chain can the UN Guiding Principles for be seen in the progress we have made in upholding and protecting human rights, as well as ensuring decent working conditions that deBusiness and Human Rights and fend the personal integrity of all individuals. It is our aim to deliver establishing environmental and products that have been prepared with respect to human rights and fulfilling strict work, safety, health and environment standards. 24 audits ethical business criteria The basis of our Social Compliance Programme is the Supplier Code of Conduct, which documents the non-negotiable standards with which they must comply in the areas of human rights, working standards, environmental stewardship and ethical business. This Code was signed by all our PSs in 2016, strengthening their commitment to form a more sustainable and responsible supply chain. Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Responsible supply chain Compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct is assessed and analysed through audits under the SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) 4 Pillar standard. These audits allow us to ascertain the level of suppliers’ compliance with the Code and to put in place plans of action targeted at improving their performance. 24 audits were carried out in 2016 representing a 30 per cent increase on the previous year. With regard to results, the number of suppliers working to our standards increased substantially in 2016, exemplifying their high level of dedication. Child labour Forced labour Freedom of association Discrimination and equality Regular employment Salaries and work timetable Health and safety Respecting the environment Key aspects of the Social Ethical business Compliance Programme 34 35 Customer satisfaction Our clients and consumers are a key factor in the company’s development and all our efforts are geared towards improving their consumer 5 experience. Consumers Food and drinks in over 50 countries At Importaco we work under the pillars of knowledge, food safety, specialisation and innovation, and our ultimate goal is the complete satisfaction of our clients and consumers. · Identify: know the consumer. Understanding the consumer and latest trends is essential to develop consumer experiences that build consumer loyalty and create unique moments. Through tools such as our Technology Watch System we are constantly learning about the latest consumer trends. With this tool the aim is to detect opAnnual Sustainability Report 2016 — Customer satisfaction portunities and challenges so that we can stay ahead, improve and innovate though cooperation. We currently have consumers in over 50 countries, all of whom have different profiles, needs and approaches towards food consumption. As a global company our objective is to provide solutions to all these needs. We offer our consumers products that are Kosherand Halal certified and products that are suitable for those with allergies or food intolerances. 37 Raw materials It is also our responsibility to offer products that have been produced We work with suppliers and farmers through in compliance with human rights, work, health and safety, environthe Safe and Responsible Supply Programmes to implement a common work mental and ethical standards. To ensure this, we carry out SMETA 1 methodology in line with our food safety, (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) 4Pillar audits in our production quality and sustainability standards. In addition, we offer our consumers products that hubs and in those of our stable providers as an AB member of the contain no genetically modified organisms. Sedex platform. For more information, please see the Responsible Supply Chain chapter Safety and quality: commitment to the consumer IFS The safety and quality of our products is our main commitment to BRC consumers. In our bid to always offer excellent products, we have deCertificates veloped an Integrated Quality System with the aim of incorporating our food quality and safety criteria into all the processes in the chain. We work in line with the IFS (International Food Standard) and the BRC Global Standard for Food Safety. We have also included Food Defence measures to protect our products from intentional contamination. Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Customer satisfaction 2 These management systems provides us with close monitoring of our Production compliance with food regulations and allows us to be more efficient in We work with the latest production and packaging technologies to constantly mon3 the use of resources. All our production hubs are certified under the itor the different production processes with Analysis IFS and BRC standards. the aim of ensuring an excellent final product that complies with all the established Having laboratories in each of our hubs parameters. allow us to corroborate that our products meet all the established physical, microbiological and chemical parameters. The applied analysis processes are verified through participation in inter-laboratory circuits. This ensures that our analysis processes adhere to the reliability criteria of the analytical results. 4 2016 has seen us carrying out a proPackaging ject with the AECOC (Manufacturers Effective packaging design is not only essenand Distributors Business Associtial to guarantee the proper conservation of ation) to introduce labels that are food but also acts as a communication more accessible to the consumer channel with consumers. All the information into the entire range of products in shown on the packaging informs consumthe Casa Pons brand. By scanning the ers on their decision to buy, which is why bar code, consumers will have access we include clear, accessible information that to information about the ingredients, adheres to applicable legislation. nutritional features, opinions and contact details. Key aspects in the value chain 39 · Specialisation: product and process know-how As specialists in each phase of the process, from the initial design to consumption, we are able to work meticulously to make continuous improvements. Thanks to this know-how we are able to improve our products and launch new products that are in line with the needs of clients and consumers. Our Technology Hub, which boasts over 20 professionals, is the place where know-how is applied to innovation, research and development processes. This hub is key to achieving excellence and generating new know-how to boost economic development and contributes towards creating new initiatives. Among its different lines of research are raw material expertise, the application of different processing technologies and specialisation in the sensory perceptions of consumers. Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Customer satisfaction We also have a Continuous Improvement System that increases productivity by rethinking processes and involving professionals from all areas. In 2016 1,283 ideas were proposed for the improvement of products, services and processes, and 743 of these have been carried out. Similarly, 39 workshops have been held to fulfill specific objectives related to productive development in each of the company’s premises. · Development: design and innovation in products Our Technology Hub is also where we carry out design and innovation work to be applied to developing new products. From the moment the product is being designed, we work on launching clean label products that are fit for consumption by people with food intolerances or allergies. 2016 has seen the expansion of our range with 35 innovations, among which feature the natural product ranges and the launch of Chocoiris. Our multidisciplinary innovation teams develop the product, overseeing the whole process right up to production. 40 41 New range of natural products All the information shown on our products is clear and accessible. Consumers can find information about the source of the product, allergens, nutritional values and instructions for use and disposal on each pack. New launches by the Itac brand Nutritional information 42 43 Low mineral content Safer packaging New range of soft drinks 44 45 Not only do we launch new products but we are continuously imEnergy proving and renewing our current product ranges. Our work in this area involves making improvements through redesign, implementEnergy is key to tackling the large-scale challenges and opportunities ing more efficient production processes and investigating new uses posed by the global market and plays a key role in combating climate of the product. In 2016 we have improved 8 of our products, inchange and ensuring sustainable development. This is why we need creasing customer satisfaction by offering them products that betto create energy that is accessible to all, improving its efficiency and ter suit their needs. increasing the use of energy from renewable sources. Shelf life studies play an essential role in both lines of work in terms At Foener we work alongside our clients to offer a flexible, customof consumer safety. We carry out shelf life studies for every product er-focused service that offers all guarantees. We currently have three we launch or redesign. 2016 saw the completion of 75 studies in specialist business areas: the production and generation of renewawhich we analysed the properties and composition of food prodble energy; sales and representation, and the efficient use of energy ucts after being conserved and stored in conditions similar to those through the application of energy efficiency models. of consumers. · Connect and build loyalty: customer experience Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Customer satisfaction We recognise the need to connect with consumers and build their loyalty, so we endeavour to continuously improve and set up new channels to listen to customers so that they have a unique experience every time they consume our products. We need to create energy that As part of our challenge to be increasingly connected to consumis accessible to all, improving its ers, our SoyVital website is going from strength to strength every year. This platform has been created to promote healthy lifestyle efficiency and increasing the use of habits and to encourage the consumption of dried fruit and nuts, energy from renewable sources and desiccated fruit. We connect with our customers through this platform by posting cookery recipes and expert tips on nutrition and sport. 75 shelf-life Additionally, our keen interest in learning more about the consumer studies experience has led us to introduce tasting sessions and group sessions in 2016 to analyse and discover the most desirable attributes of our products. These tasting sessions have enabled us to gain a deeper insight into the aspects consumers value the most and define the most characteristic elements. 46 47 · Flexibility: adapting to the client Knowing what the client needs combined with our experience in the market allows us to offer comprehensive advice based on their needs. Foener began life in 2009 as a renewable energy promotion and investment company, completing its first photovoltaic energy generation project in Spain in 2010. The company’s in-depth knowlContinuing in our endeavours edge of both the market and new consumption trends led us to work in energy management in 2013, resulting in a change of busito promote renewable energy ness model to a client-focused model. generation, 2016 saw the launch · Guaranteeing safety in service delivery of the Trading Agent service for Safety in the delivery of our service is another fundamental aspect renewable energy producers of our strategy, based on rigour and compliance with all of the applicable regulations in the energy sector. Foener is accredited as an energy trading company by the National Commission on Markets and Competition and the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism, Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Customer satisfaction which authorises us to trade on Spanish energy markets. In 2016 we were able to secure a place among the top 25 most important energy trading companies in Spain, purchasing a volume of 333,154 megawatts-hour of traded electrical power, 50 per cent more than the year before. Continuing our endeavours to promote renewable energy generation, 2016 saw the launch of the Trading Agent service for renewable energy producers. Thanks to these alliances with producers, we are able to obtain certified renewable energy to offer our clients. With this service, we purchased 3,680 megawatts-hour of renewable energy, which added to the 5,700 generated from our 7 photovoltaic plants totals 9,380 megawatts-hour. · Transparent: a close relationship Among the top Customers are entitled to be informed and we guarantee this 25 most important throughout the different phases of the sales cycle: from the beginenergy trading ning of the relationship when the client commissions the service companies in and during the delivery of the product, with the analysis of conSpain sumption and service delivery. We created the Foener Client Area in 2013. This platform allows us to speak to each client directly, and 48 49 Talent and leadership provides clients with all the information they may need on their products and services, including information on the source of the 6 energy they receive and thereby complying with applicable regulations. All our clients had access to this information and the analysis service in 2016, which is a key factor to encourage energy efficiency and conscious energy consumption. · Efficiency: beyond reduction We are convinced of the need to start transforming operations to work towards sustainable development, so since 2016 we have been offering an implementation service for the Energy Efficiency System. By implementing these energy efficiency services, our clients can automate all measures and any actions required, creating rigorous policies and procedures that allow them to analyse energy performance and make decisions to reduce their environmental footprint. Energy Efficiency System 50 93% 90% The people who work in Importaco are the cornerstone of the company’s growth, as it is through their efforts and determination that we 57% have been able to expand within a more sustainable model. At Import43% aco our numerous Human Resources policies enable us to encourage personal and professional development while guaranteeing quality employment. 11% 7% Importaco: a global company women men permanent temporary full time part time contract contract Our commitment to diversity and multiculturalism has led us to creating a global company that employs 1,170 people of 16 different nationStaff structure by sex Staff structure by contract type alities with an average age of 41. 98% 87% 63% 1,170 people 56% 44% 16 nationalities 37% 43% women 13% 57% men 2% permanent contract temporary contract men women men women men women full-time part-time full-time part-time contract contract contract contract Staff structure by type of contract and sex Staff structure by working day and sex 72% Spain — 1073 Khalid Eddini, Agua de Poland — 68 Bronchales employee. Turkey — 19 California — 2 China — 3 Argentina — 5 17% 11% <30 30-50 >50 Distribution of staff by region Distribution of staff by age 52 Commitment: development and leadership · Training It is essential for staff to learn new know-how and skills, both for · In-house talent their individual development and for the company to prosper. This At Importaco we invest in the talent of our in-house team by enbelief led to the opening of the Importaco Training School in 2010, couraging them to take training and employment opportunities and a space that has made it possible to offer in-company training, and offering them new professional challenges. In line with our internal for staff to participate in the Annual Training Programmes. Promotional Policy, all new job postings are firstly advertised internally to open up new opportunities for company staff to develop These Annual Training Programmes are held at all the Importaco professionally. During 2016, 13 people were appointed through inpremises, allowing employees to learn new technical skills and ternal promotion processes 40% of these under the age of 30. know-how according to the needs of their position. In addition to this specific training, we also offer obligatory multi-disciplinary training on food safety and sustainability to raise employees’ awareness of their role in fulfilling the company’s commitments. Our growing engagement in training has resulted in a 45 per cent increase in investment in 2016. In terms of hours, employees have Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Talent and leadership received 36,016 hours of training in 2016, which equates to 29 hours per employee. 36,016 hours Importaco Talent was created in of training 2016 with the aim of identifying and · Attracting talent In addition to internal promotion and training processes we also developing in-house talent. Under attract external talent. In 2016 we have developed our internal manthe slogan “We are looking for talent, agement platform to centralise all the groups’ vacant posts and employment offers. we are looking for it right here, we’re looking for you”, we have invited all To find the ideal candidates, we actively search on employment sites with the aim of adding professionals to our teams who share staff to participate in this identification the company’s values. In 2016 we have incorporated 50 people 31 and development plan men and 19 women, of which 26 per cent are under the age of 30. · Leadership model Leadership is essential to drive people and engage them to fulfil the Lo que Lo que Lo que buscamos company's objectives. Aware of its importance, at Importaco we enimportacotalent.com deavour to consolidate our leadership style, developed throughout buscamos buscamos importacotalent.com está importacotalent.com the company's history, and essential to carry out our mission. está está dentro dentro dentro Lo que buscamos es talento Lo que buscamos Lo que buscamos es talento es talento 54 55 Importaco’s Leadership Model was created in 2015 thanks to the performance and conduct study observed in the company’s leaders. This model has made it possible for us to formalise our style so that everyone within the company can share the same form of leadership. During 2016 we have rolled out intervention and training programmes to convey this to all those in intermediate management positions, making it possible to unify different styles. Inspiring Demanding and rigorous Respectful and fosters integration Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Talent and leadership Perseverant Motivational and encourages participation Characteristics of an Facilitator Importaco leader Employment quality: employee loyalty Employment quality comprises a number of features that range from the work environment to employment stability. The Work Environment From top to bottom: Assessments that we have been performing since 2003 aim to gauge Course taught at the the perception of employees in terms of factors such as work condiTraining School. Importaco Poland tions, leadership and motivation. The last assessment was carried out Operations Team. in 2016 and allowed us to define multidisciplinary projects to improve work conditions and boost employee participation; key aspects to increase the positive outlook and satisfaction of all those working at Importaco. We roll out a number of initiatives every year as part of our bid to create and conserve quality jobs that have a positive impact on the wellbeing of our employees. 56 57 · Remuneration policy · Diversity: equal opportunities At Importaco we have created a Job Description System through Another of the fundamental aspects of employee satisfaction at which we carry out an independent, objective assessment of each work is the perception of equality in comparison to their colleagues. job in the company. Together with our Remuneration Policy, this In our commitment to safeguard equal opportunities and fight dissystem allows us to ensure equal opportunities for all by associating crimination in any form, we have rolled out projects and created salary with the job position and not with gender-, raceor social-re90% permanent tools to make progress in the area of diversity. lated factors. Our Remuneration System also includes a variable contracts and flexible salary, both of these being applicable to 90 per cent of With regards to gender equality, at Importaco we have an Equality our employees. Committee whose mission is to analyse the company’s equality situation and draw up, implement and monitor equality plans. Through· Job stability out 2016 the measures introduced through former Equality Plans Every year we design new plans to create stable, quality jobs for have been reinforced and twelve Action Plans have been proposed all employees, as part of our aim to improve the quality of employto further our endeavours in effective equality between men and ment. Proof of this effort can be seen in the 5 per cent increase in women. the number of permanent contracts signed in 2016, taking the total to 90 per cent. It should be added that within our workforce 93 per Another of the plans we have carried out to foster diversity is the Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Talent and leadership cent of employees have a full-time contract. incorporation of people with functional diversity in ordinary jobs. At Importaco we continue working to ensure the full integration of this community, as well as the removal of obstacles that impede Structure of the steering committee and board of their professional development and ensuring non-discrimination. In directors 2016, this group represents 3 per cent of the company’s employees. 60% 40% women men Board of Directors 84% 16% men women Steering Committee The Communication, Human Resources and Values Corporate Management Team. 58 59 · Work relations Creating channels for dialogue and consensus with our Employees’ Legal Representatives is essential to create working conditions that foster quality employment and the well-being of our staff. At Importaco we have a common framework for the relationship between the company, legal representatives and employees, based on communication with and the involvement of all the parties. Under this relationship framework and with the aim of ensuring that employees’ work conditions are in line with the company’s social 2,945 hours of situation, we set up the Importaco Frutos Secos Collective Agreehealth and safety ment in 2012 and have applied it to all the food-related businesses. training With regard to business in the Drinks area, in 2016 we were able to reach agreements with the Aguas de Cortes, Agua de Bronchales and Font Teix concerning their company agreements. Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Talent and leadership · Wellbeing: health and safety We are committed to creating a safer workplace in which all parties are involved and this has led us to work together to promote safe and healthy working conditions. One of the pillars of this commitment is the cooperation between management, employees and their representatives. This is endorsed by our Joint Risk Prevention Service and applied by our Health and Safety Committees that operate in 5 of our premises, as well as our health and safety officers who work in Importaco centres with less From top to bottom: than 50 employees. Cari Barberá, member of the quality, innovation and environment team at the Technology Hub, Another of our annual endeavours to promote health and safety culBeniparrell (Valencia). Asunción García and Piedad Ruiz, ture is training. In 2016, employees received 2,945 hours of trainemployees of the Beniparrell ing. One of the most relevant courses was the Stress Management dried fruit and nut production hub (Valencia). course that not only protects employees’ physical safety but also their mental health and psychological wellbeing. 60 61 Environmental sustainability One of the goals of our Health and Safety System is to eradicate risks to prevent accidents in the workplace. 2016 saw the completion of a 7 wide range of research projects and action plans to improve conditions and ergonomics in the workplace, allowing us to reduce accidents by 7 per cent. In this area we have also collaborated with the Biomechanics Institute of Valencia to modify a work station in order to improve it ergonomically. In recognition of our endeavours and our daily efforts to guarantee health and safety, our Occupational Health and Safety Management System has been certified under the OSHAS 18001 scheme in 6 Importaco premises. Teresa Tarazona, head of health and safety and Jorge Ferri, head of quality and the environmentat Cortes (Castellón). We are committed to creating a safer workplace in which all parties are involved and this has led us to work together to promote safe and healthy working conditions 62 At Importaco we are aware of how Climate change is one of the greatest environmental risks that we face, together with the water crisis and scarcity of natural resources. important it is to conserve natural Being able to attain economic development while reducing environmental impact is key to ensuring sustainable development. resources and of the responsibility we have to reduce our environmental footprint. Materials Our Environmental policy was drawn up to guide us in environmental protection and The packaging of our products is essential to keep them in their optimum condition and to comply with our strict quality standards. Our to optimise our management of natural pledge to conserve natural resources has led us to seek more efficient resources. This Policy forms the basis of our packaging and to ensure that the materials we use come from sustainable sources. environmental management system, which is certified under the ISO 14001 standard Throughout 2016 we have worked alongside our suppliers to improve Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Environmental sustainability the efficiency of our packaging, resulting in a 50-tonne reduction in the use of cardboard and a 5-tonne reduction in the use of plastic. From top to bottom: Bronchales (Teruel), where the Agua de Bronchales factory is located. Photovoltaic panels to generate renewable energy. Materials used in 2016. (Raw materials and aux88,657 tonnes (t) 758,650 cubic metres 12,405 tonnes (t) iliary materials used in production processes. Renewable materials Non-renewable materials Renewable materials: food, water and cardboard. Non-renewable materials: plastic, glass and metal) 64 65 Increased efficiency · Clean energy The efficient use of resources, which we understand to be the creation Optimising our consumption is directly linked to seeking more reof more value while using less materials, is vital to boost sustainable, newable energy sources, such as the biomass energy used in Ingresmart economic growth. dients’ production hub and the photovoltaic panels installed in our production hubs. We roll out projects every year to establish saving, recycling, reduction and recovery practices as part of our endeavour to use natural The solar power generated through our photovoltaic panels proresources more efficiently. This allows us to reduce our environmental duces renewable electricity without emitting any form of pollution footprint while driving economic value. while in operation and thereby contributing to prevent the emisA reduction of sion of greenhouse gases. Thanks to these panels, 2016 has seen · Energy 1,554 tonnes of the generation of 6,706 megawatts-hour of clean energy, which is The energy we use in our processes for the conservation, processcarbon dioxide enough power to supply 14,649 homes. ing and packaging of food and drinks comes from renewable energy sources such as solar photovoltaic and biomass power and The almond processing hub boasts a biomass boiler that reuses alnon-renewable sources such as conventional electricity, natural mond shells to produce energy, meaning that its carbon dioxide Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Environmental sustainability gas, propane and diesel. In 2016, our total energy consumption emissions are neutral. This boiler supplies 95 per cent of the procame to 60,772 megawatts-hours. duction hub’s energy needs, generating 3,359 megawatts-hour of electricity in 2016. We have implemented energy efficiency plans that have allowed us to reduce the amount of energy needed to provide the same products and services, leading to energy savings, greater efficiency and reduced emissions. Under our Energy Efficiency Strategy, in 2016 we have installed LED lighting and have replaced equipment with more efficient models. Thanks to these efforts, we have reduced Amount of CO2 avoided thanks to renewable electricity consumption by 4,684 megawatts per hour, which repreenergy generation (tonnes) sents a reduction of 1,554 tonnes of carbon dioxide. As part of the same strategy, we have been able to reduce the consumption of conventional electricity by 10 per cent per kilo produced in the snack production hub. In terms of gas consumption this production hub has also proved to be more efficient, having reduced its consumption by 38 per cent per kilo produced. coal combined-cycle oil hydroelectric combustion natural gas 5,969 plants 6,607 3,255 40 66 67 · Recovery Recovering waste resulting from recycling and reuse, together with waste reduction plans, are vital factors to use natural resources sustainably. Non-hazardous waste Our commitment to reducing, recycling and reusing the waste Cardboard generated, and our efforts to separate said waste have enabled us 1,306 Pulp for new paper and cardboard to recycle and recover 95 per cent of the waste created, reducing Oil non-recovered waste by 15 per cent. 205 Biodiesel Scrap metal Under our Reduction, Recycling and Reuse Programme, our target 53 Melting for new materials was to reduce the amount of cardboard waste and we have manWood aged a 10 per cent reduction of waste per kilo-litre of packaged 291 New materials made from wood product. In line with this programme we have also invested in the Pallets use of returnable packaging, and in doing so have prevented the Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Environmental sustainability 266 Reuse creation of 86.8 tonnes of cardboard waste. 1,474 Organic Animal feed Another key project for 2016 was the implementation of new production processes to increase the shelf life of oil, while fulfilling our 412 Plastic New packaging strict quality controls. Thanks to this improvement we have been able to cut oil waste by up to 14 per cent. 183 Raffia New packaging · Water 95 per cent of 8,258 Process Water Biogas and biomethanation Managing water efficiently is an essential factor in combating the waste has been scarcity of water and maintaining water resources, which are of virecovered 663 Inert tal importance for farming and people’s health. Hazardous waste Aware of this global setting, at Importaco we are driven to making an efficient and conscientious use of water through water consumption reduction plans in our different production hubs. One of 39 the most outstanding results we have achieved in this area was the reduction of 38 per cent of water consumption per kilo of manufactured product in the snack production hub, saving 9,443 cubic metres. In total, our water consumption in 2016 was 758,650 cubic metres. In line with our efforts to make responsible use of water, in the minAmount of recovered waste in 2016 (tonnes) eral water and soft drinks production hubs we have rolled out initiatives to safeguard water resources. These direct us in implementing improvements that help us maximise water usage in production processes. In 2016 these initiatives were extended to new bottling plants acquired by the company. The water efficiency level at the 68 69 Social responsibility Cortes and Bronchales production plants reached 85 per cent overall. In parallel to these initiatives and thanks to the improvements made we have been able to reduce water consumption by 14,892 8 cubic metres. We have used 194 · Emissions lorries less with a Reducing emissions that derive from production processes and reduction of 58 tonnes transport is essential to combat climate change. For that reason, of carbon dioxide we have filtering and monitoring mechanisms in place at emission emissions focal points and we make logistical improvements to reduce transport-related emissions. We also invest in machinery that is more environmentally sound. In 2012 we rolled out the Transport Efficiency Project. This project involved increasing the height of pallets and seeking more efficient packaging systems, enabling us to reduce the amount of required transport. Since the start of the project, we have saved 710 lorry journeys that equates to a reduction of 260 tonnes of transport-related emissions. With regards 2016, we have used 194 lorries less with a reduction of 58 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. 2016 also saw the updating of cold rooms for more efficient models that guarantee a lower environmental impact. These rooms are fitted with new software that continuously controls the temperature, resulting in greater efficiency and a longer-lasting product life. 70 Importaco’s social responsibility is based on promoting development · ITE (Energy Technology Institute) and prosperity wherever its business activity is located. Social investImportaco is a member and collaborates with this international ment made in 2016 was used to support non-profit institutions and technological centre. associations in the areas of health, nutrition, sports and professional · ALMENDRAVE (Spanish Almond and Hazelnut Exporters Association) development. Importaco is a member as an export company and endorses the work carried out by this association. Participation: Professional commitment Collaboration: Social investment As a company committed to business development and progress, Importaco supports the following professional institutions and associations: One of the aims of Importaco’s social strategy is contributing to development wherever its business activity is located and centres on · EDEM (Business School) funding activities related to healthy living, nutrition and exercise. In Importaco sits on the Board of Directors and Francisco Pons, Im2016, we have collaborated with the following institutions: portaco’s president, is deputy vice-president. Company staff also collaborate with the school, lecturing in degree and Master’s pro· Spanish Cancer Association, Beniparrell Local Branch Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Social responsibility grammes at the school. This branch forms part of the Regional Associated Board of Valencia, · AVE (Valencia Business Association) which in turn pertains to the Spanish Cancer Association. ImportaFrancisco Pons, Importaco’s president, is a member of the associaco’s donation is aimed at funding cancer prevention and awareness tion’s Steering Committee and attends the National Assembly as an campaigns, and cancer research projects. associate. · INTEGRAT · CEV (Valencia Business Confederation) This association promotes the education, development and integraImportaco is a member of the Valencia Business Confederation. tion of people with disabilities. Importaco has shown its support to this · Family Business Institute initiative with a donation and its employees have been involved by actImportaco is a member and we attend the Institute’s National Coning as teachers in the training courses offered by the association. ference. · Sagunt Solidarity Food Bank · AECOC (Manufacturers and Distributors Business Association) This association distributes foods and staple products to families in Importaco is a member and backs the association’s initiatives need. Importaco has collaborated with this association by donating against food waste. our products to help 428 families who use the centre. · Fundación ÉTNOR (Business and Organisation Ethics) · Action Against Hunger Importaco sponsors and collaborates with the foundation to supImportaco took part in the charity race ‘Inter-company challenge port the work it carries out. Francisco Pons sits on the Foundation’s against hunger’ organised by Action against Hunger. There was an board. impressive turnout of Importaco employees who took part in the · FEDACOVA (Autonomous Region of Valencia Agri-food Business activity to raise funds to prevent child malnutrition. Importaco finFederation) ished in second place with a total of 429 kilometres, equating to a Importaco is a member and is represented on the Executive Board. donation that was able to fund 5,000 days of nutritional treatment · AINIA for children suffering from child malnutrition. Importaco is a member and collaborates with this technology hub · Sa Veu de Soller Cultural Association in the endeavour to bring together the latest discoveries in food Importaco collaborates with the Sa Veu de Soller Cultural Associwith the improvement and development of new products. ation that creates a weekly, regional publication that is distributed · ITENE (Packaging, Transport and Logistics Technology Institute) throughout the five municipalities of the Tramuntana area. Importaco is a member and collaborates with this Technology Hub in the undertaking of research projects. 72 73 One of the aims of Importaco’s · Catarroja Adult Education Centre Importaco collaborates with this centre by donating products for social strategy is contributing the charity market run by the Catarroja Adult Education Centre in to development wherever its benefit of the CODIFIVA (Coordinating Body for Persons with Disabilities for the Valencia Region). business activity is located and · Theodora Foundation centres on funding activities Importaco collaborates in the charity event ‘Pasarela Sonrisas’ (Smile Catwalk) organised in Barreira to raise funds for the Theodorelated to healthy living, nutrition ra Foundation. · Poción de Heroes and exercise Importaco sponsors the work of Poción de Héroes (Hero Potion), whose mission is to provide psychological support to children who suffer from cancer through a kit with six superheroes. This project has been carried out in the La Fe and the Clínico Hospitals in Valencia. · Bronchales Trail Through Agua de Bronchales, Importaco has sponsored the trail Annual Sustainability Report 2016 — Social responsibility race held in Bronchales by donating our products for the race day food provisions. · Cortes Town Council Through Aguas de Cortes, Importaco has signed an agreement with the town council to promote rural development and tourism in the town. Thanks to this agreement, the municipality of Cortes has been able to continue working on its archaeological dig at “Los Morrones” and undertake the second phase of renovation work on the Santa Bárbara Chapel. Additionally, they have been able to establish a recreational area near the Cortes River. Importaco employees participating in the Inter-Company Challenge Against Hunger. 74 75 PAGE or DESCRIPTION GENERAL OMISSIONS GLOBAL EXPLANATION STANDARD COMPACT DISCLOSURES GRI Index table Pages 74, 75 Memberships to associations and organisations G4-16 G4-17 N/A This annual report covers some of the basic contents of the GRI Annual Reporting Guidelines. Importaco adheres to the United Nations Global Compact and has MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES done since 2008, creating this Report to document its progress. The Page 28 Identified material aspects G4-19 areas of the document that are related to the Global Compact Principles can be found in the report’s GRI index. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Effect of any restatements of information G4-22 N/A Page 27 Stakeholders engaged by the organisation G4-24 PAGE or DESCRIPTION GENERAL OMISSIONS GLOBAL Significant changes in scope and boundaries G4-23 N/A EXPLANATION STANDARD COMPACT DISCLOSURES Page 27 List of stakeholders G4-24 Page 27 Basis for selection of stakeholders G4-25 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Page 27 Approach to stakeholder engagement G4-26 Page 10 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation G4-1 G4-27 N/A Page 10 Main impacts, risks and opportunities G4-2 REPORT PROFILE ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Page 85 Reporting period G4-28 Page 13 Name of the organisation G4-3 Page 85 Date of last report G4-29 Page 13 Primary brands, products and services G4-4 Page 85 Reporting cycle G4-30 Page 13 Location of the organisation’s headquarters G4-5 Page 85 Contact point for questions regarding the report contents G4-31 Page 13 Countries where the organisation operates G4-6 Public limited Page 85 GRI index “in accordance” option chosen by the organisation G4-32 company G4-7 Page 13 Markets served G4-8 GOVERNANCE Page 13 Scale of the organisation G4-9 G4-33 N/A Page 55 Employees by type of contract and sex G4-10 Pages 24, 25 Governance structure G4-34 92% Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-11 Pages 24, 25 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees G4-38 Pages Description of the supply chain G4-12 30, 40 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance CEO G4-39 Acquisition of the body is also an executive officer Fuente Arevalillo, Refrescos Minerales, Significant changes during the reporting period G4-13 N/A Pages Manantiales de The role of the highest governance body and senior management G4-42 León and Font 18, 19, 25 Teix companies. Precautionary principle G4-14 N/A Externally developed economic, environmental and social Page 80 G4-15 charters to which the organization subscribes 78 79 PAGE or DESCRIPTION GENERAL OMISSIONS GLOBAL PAGE or DESCRIPTION GENERAL OMISSIONS GLOBAL EXPLANATION STANDARD COMPACT EXPLANATION STANDARD COMPACT DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURES ETHICS AND INTEGRITY CATEGORY: SOCIAL PERFORMANCE The organisation's values, principles, standards and norms of 1. PRACTICES AND DIGNITY AT WORK Pages 22,23 G4-56 behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 1.1 Employment SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES In 2016, a total of 35 individuals left the company; Total number of new recruitments and average employee turnover G4-LA1 Principle 6 1. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC 20 men and 15 women. Turnover rate is 2.99% 1.1 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Page 17 Direct economic value generated and distributed Return to work figures are 100% for men and 2. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT 100% for women. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by sex G4-LA3 Employee retention is 100% for both 2.1 Materials Page 67 Disclosures on Management Approach G4DMA 1.2 Employee Relations Page 67 Materials by weight or volume G4-EN1 Principle 8 15 days Minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes G4-LA4 Principle 3 2.2 Energy 1.3 Occupational health and safety Pages 68, 69 Internal energy consumption G4-EN3 Principle 8 Percentage of workforce represented in formal Page 63 G4-LA5 Principle 3 health and safety committees. Pages 68, 69 Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN6 Principles 8 and 9 In 2016 there were 67 2.3 Water accidents with Type and rate of accidents G4LA6 sick leave and 156 without leave Pages 71, 72 Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN8 Principle 8 Pages 63, 64 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions G4-LA8 Pages 71, 72 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4-EN9 Principle 8 1.4 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2.4 Emissions Page 57 Disclosures on Management Approach G4-DMA Page 72 Disclosures on Management Approach G4DMA Page 57 Average hours of annual training per employee G4-LA9 Page 72 Direct greenhouse gases emissions G4-EN15 Principle 8 Page 57 Skills management programmes and lifelong learning G4-LA10 Page 72 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions G4EN19 Percentage of employees receiving regular 76% G4-LA11 performance and career development reviews 2.5 Effluents and waste 1.5 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Pages 70, 71 Disclosures on Management Approach G4DMA The company has no Composition of the governance bodies and workforce information Pages 70, 71 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method G4EN23 Principle 8 Pages 55, 60 by professional category, sex, age, minority group G4-LA12 regarding the percentage membership and other indicators of diversity of workers 2.6 Products and services by age Pages 66-72 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services G4-EN27 Principle 9 1.6 Equal remuneration for women and men Importaco Principles 1 adheres to Principles 8 Page 60 Ratio of basic salary of women to men G4-LA13 the Ecoembes Percentage of reclaimed products at the end of their shelf life G4-EN28 and 6 Integrated and 9 System 1.7 Labour practices grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about work practices filed, addressed 0 incidents G4-LA16 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 80 81 PAGE or DESCRIPTION GENERAL OMISSIONS GLOBAL EXPLANATION STANDARD COMPACT DISCLOSURES HUMAN RIGHTS The aim of the Importaco Annual Sustainability Report is to offer 1. NON-DISCRIMINATION accountability and transparency to our stakeholders on how our organisation is 0 cases of Number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken G4-HR3 Principle 6 run in terms of sustainable development. discrimination This document is published on a yearly 2. ASSESSMENT basis and the last report was published in 2015. Centres that have undergone screening or impact assessments on Page 37 II Principle 2 human rights, employment, health and safety and the environment PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Global coordination Director of Sustainability 1. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Design and layout by Dídac Ballester Significant products and services for which health and Page 48 G4-PR1 Principle 1 safety impacts have been assessed for improvement Printed by Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes La Imprenta CG 0 incidents G4-PR2 Principle 1 concerning the health and safety impact on products and services 2. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING Page 45 Product and service information required on labelling G4-PR3 Principle 8 Importaco S.A. Polígono Industrial Carrascal Oest Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulation or voluntary Calle Real de Madrid Nord, 0 incidents G4-PR4 Principle 8 codes concerning product and service information and labelling número 81-83 46469 Beniparrell (Valencia) 3, 6 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction G4-PR5 www.importaco.com 82 The Sustainability Report showcases the milestones achieved by the company, whether economic, social or environmental. It is a communication tool that allows the various stakeholder groups to review the company’s progress towards fulfilling its sustainable development targets.
