CSR 2017 CEO Message 2 Nissha’ s CSR 4 Approach to CSR ／ CSR Management ／ Materiality Nissha’ s Stakeholders ／ United Nations Global Compact Corporate Philosophy and Brand 13 Organizational Governance 15 Corporate Governance 16 Corporate Ethics and Compliance 28 Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders 30 Human Rights 31 Human Rights 32 Labor Practices 36 Human Resources Development 37 Respect for Diversity 40 Support for Diverse Work Styles 46 Safety and Health 52 The Environment 57 Environmental Policy and Management Structures 58 Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 61 Environmental Impact as a Result of Business Operations 64 Prevention of Further Global Warming 66 Waste Management 70 Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 72 Status of Waste Generation at Bases 76 Fair Operating Practices 79 Initiatives Related to Information Security 80 Trade Management 82 Initiatives Related to Intellectual Property 85 Partnership with Our Suppliers 86 Initiatives Related to Conﬂict Minerals 91 Initiatives Related to Anti-corruption 92 Consumer Issues 93 Consumer Issues 94 Along with Local Communities 98 Along with Local Communities 99 Company Outline 103 Company Outline 104 What’ s Nissha? 106 Editorial Policy 113 GRI Content Index 116 1 CSR Report 2017 CEO Message Nissha Business We at Nissha have realized growth through expansion of our business segments, by diversifying our product lines and target markets, and entering into global markets through an evolution of our printing technology. Having extended our reach to global growth markets such as printing materials, automotive interior parts, and medical devices on top of our mainstay of the consumer electronics (IT) field, today we have taken our first steps toward a new stage of growth. As can be seen in key Nissha products such as transfer foil and touch sensors, the evolution of our printing technology is marked by a fusion of printing with other elements like laminating, coating, molding, and cutting. Although we attained high levels of growth in recent years by concentrating our management resources on consumer electronics, this field is as prone as ever to sharp fluctuations in product demand and declining product and services prices, pressing us to cultivate comparable growth markets. In the Fifth Medium­term Business Plan in operation since April 2015, we endeavor to acquire new core technologies and thereby optimize our business portfolio. By continuing to expand business opportunities in the consumer electronics field while also scaling up efforts in other markets that promise stable growth on a global basis, we aim to establish a balanced business foundation and maximize our corporate value over the medium to long term. An effective means of acquiring new core technologies and expanding into new fields is mergers and acquisitions (M&A). We welcomed into the Nissha Group in 2015 a global leader in metallized paper headquartered in Belgium, and in 2016 a medical devices and consumables manufacturer based in the United States, and a German molding and decorative film manufacturer for automotive interiors, creating a business foundation that will form the basis of our future growth fields. Promoting CSR from a Global Perspective The Nissha corporate missions states, “We are committed to pursuing a mutually trustful Co­existence with society through our business activities utilizing a unique technology development, based on Printing as a core.” Perpetual corporate growth comes not only from financial growth of the company itself but also from the creation of value for society. We at Nissha believe that realizing Co­existence with our stakeholders is the very corporate social responsibility (CSR) we are required to fulfill. In April 2012, we joined the United Nations Global Compact and declared our commitment in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti­corruption. In April 2015, we established a CSR Committee dedicated to promoting CSR management, with the aim of enhancing our value as a global company over the medium to long term. Also by conforming to standards provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and identifying and addressing material issues, we hope to ensure steady reduction of CSR risks and build a solid foundation as a corporation with respect to environmental, social, and governance (ESG). One material issue we are working to address is the promotion of diversity. With Nissha employees present across the globe, our human resources are ever more diverse. And the work of our employees is essential to the growth of Nissha. To this end, we carry on with efforts to enhance our support systems and encourage active participation in business so that all employees, regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, or disability, may shine and live up to their full potential. Another issue central to perpetual corporate growth is environment­ conscious management. In this area, we promote various initiatives and participate actively in schemes such as the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) projects with an eye to improving our external assessment and maximizing our corporate value. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in September 2015 call for all sectors of the globe to contribute to the achievement of sustainable societies for future generations. As a corporate group that aims to earn your trust and be chosen by our stakeholders worldwide, we at Nissha CEO Message 2 CSR Report 2017 believe it is important to face up to the challenges of sustainable development. To do this, we will listen to our stakeholders even more closely than before, reflect your voice in our business activities, and by doing so, aspire to create further business opportunities toward realizing sustainable management and a sustainable future. Initiatives in Corporate Governance Recognizing corporate governance as a top management priority, we strive to ensure transparency and fairness in our business operations, thereby promoting prompt and resolute decision­making and enhancing our corporate value over the long term. In 2008, we adopted the corporate officer system to segregate our management oversight function from our business execution function. We also make active efforts to appoint independent directors—of our eight directors, four are independent with one being a woman—to ensure transparency and fairness in our business operations, and to draw on their insight to formulate strategies and practice management oversight. We have established a Corporate Governance Policy, followed by a Nomination and Remuneration Committee, and launched efforts to evaluate the effectiveness of our Board of Directors once a year. And in our M&A activity of recent years, through the processes of due diligence and post­merger integration (PMI), we work to reduce risks and maximize synergy with the new subsidiaries we welcome into the Nissha Group. From Nissha Printing to Nissha On October 6, 2017, we will change our trade name from Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. to Nissha Co., Ltd., reflecting the evolution and expansion of our business far beyond the traditional boundaries of printing. “Nissha” is a corporate brand that has grown familiar not only to our employees but also to our customers, our shareholders, our suppliers, and the communities in which we operate. Following years of use, today it is recognized widely across the globe. We hope to take this change in trade name as another opportunity to aim for even greater progress. In Closing We at Nissha have carried on with our pursuit of customer satisfaction while aspiring to be a truly global company. Moving forward, we hope to continue working with our stakeholders in facing up to the challenges of global society, and through our efforts in sustainable management, contribute to the creation of a sustainable future. We hope you will give CSR Report 2017 a read and offer us your candid views and advice. We look forward to your continued guidance and encouragement. June 2017 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board CEO Message 3 CSR Report 2017 Nissha’s CSR Approach to CSR Toward Realizing Our Corporate Mission The Nissha Group’s CSR is to realize our corporate mission of “pursuing a mutually trustful Co­existence with society through our business activities utilizing a unique technology development, based on Printing as a core.” As a specific means to realize this corporate mission, our brand statement “Empowering Your Vision” expresses the ideal relationship of co­existence between Nissha and our stakeholders—a relationship in which we mutually affect each other toward realizing our respective visions. Basic CSR and Strategic CSR We define the target areas of our CSR activities as basic CSR and strategic CSR. In basic CSR, we strive to reduce CSR risks by promoting compliance with the global code of conduct provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) as well as with customer demand. In strategic CSR, we work to enhance our corporate value over the medium to long term by determining material issues and promoting initiatives to resolve them. Management by CSR Committee In April 2015 we organized a CSR Committee, chaired by the president, with eight subcommittees dedicated to areas such as labor and human rights, the environment, safety and health, and corporate ethics and compliance. In addition to convening once a year, the CSR Committee conducts management reviews, and reports and offers suggestions to the Board of Directors. Each subcommittee operates a management system and works on its respective basic CSR topics and strategic CSR topics. The progress of activities is reported as needed to its secretariat. Initiatives related to strategic CSR topics, in particular, are included in Monthly Business Review (MBR) reports for steady execution as more pertinent management issues. Activities for Stakeholders We identify the stakeholders that support Nissha operations as our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and society. Toward realizing our corporate mission, we incorporate the voice of our stakeholders into business activities that contribute to a sustainable society. Both we and our stakeholders have a clear vision, and we mutually affect each other toward realizing it. Our aim is to work together and create value for the future. ＊Nissha’s corporate mission and brand statement can be viewed here. Corporate Philosophy and Nissha Brand http://www.nissha.com/english/company/philosophy.html Nissha’s CSR 4 CSR Report 2017 CSR Management The CSR Committee convenes once a year in the presence of the chair, served by the president, and reports and offers suggestions on important matters to the Board of Directors. In fiscal year 2017, having approved the initiatives of each subcommittee, the CSR Committee deliberated on matters such as desktop training in business continuity planning (BCP), our internal reporting system, and trends in work hours in MBR throughout the year, and managed the progress of activities. And the results of the year­end management review were reported to the Board of Directors. The individual subcommittees of the CSR Committee, as a rule, build and operate a management system. Quality, Environmental, Information Security, and other subcommittees that already have ISO certification are working to make continuous improvements and enhance performance. The Corporate Ethics and Compliance, and Labor and Human Rights subcommittees started operating a management system in fiscal year 2016. In the three years from fiscal year 2016 covered by the Fifth Medium­term Business plan, we plan to complete the building of management systems based on the EICC Code of Conduct throughout the Nissha Group and at major suppliers. CSR Committee Organization Chart CSR Committee Members Committee Chair: President and CEO Vice Chair: Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President, Senior Director of Human Resources, General Affairs and Legal Affairs Committee members: Heads of subcommittees, general managers of business units, and heads of subcommittee secretariats Secretary General: Senior Director of Corporate Communications Secretariat: Corporate Social Responsibility Subcommittee Secretariats Corporate Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee: Corporate Legal Affairs Business Continuity Management Subcommittee: Corporate General Affairs Labor and Human Rights Subcommittee: Corporate Human Resources and Employee Benefits Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee: Corporate General Affairs Information Security Subcommittee: Corporate Information Technology and Management Trade Administration and Control Subcommittee: Corporate Supply Chain Management Quality Subcommittee: Total Quality Management Office Customer Satisfaction Improvement Subcommittee: Total Quality Management Office Nissha’s CSR 5 CSR Report 2017 Materiality What challenges must we address in order to realize Co­existence with society? We at Nissha believe it is important to recognize the direct and indirect impact (effect) of our manufacturing activities on society, and face up to the challenges posed as a result. To this end, we analyzed our business operations, deliberated on the various challenges they pose to society, and in fiscal year 2016 identified a set of material topics. In fiscal year 2017, we expanded the boundary of stakeholders subject to impact and reviewed the material topics established in the previous year. We then analyzed the topics based on materiality to our stakeholders and materiality to Nissha, consulting the standards provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and incorporated internal and external views into determining topic­specific materiality. The process and results are given in the tables below. Each CSR subcommittee sets key performance indicators (KPI) for the material topics identified, and is working toward them as priority issues. Process for Identification of Material Issues Step 1 Topics with an impact on Nissha and our supply chain are extracted based on Identify topics the topics provided by the GRI Standards. Individual topics from Step 1 are measured for impact on our stakeholders and Step 2 impact on Nissha, and plotted on an analysis map. Topics are prioritized based Prioritize on the degree of impact. Topics are validated from the standpoint of our stakeholders based on Step 3 evaluation by outside experts as well as interviews with independent directors Validate and internal specialized divisions. Material topics identified in steps 1 to 3 are compared to key topics in the Step 4 medium­term business plan, reflected in specific action programs (KPI), and Determine materiality approved and determined by the CSR Committee. Assessment of Map Nissha’s CSR 6 CSR Report 2017 Boundaries of Material Topics Boundaries Categories Topics Inside of Nissha Suppliers Group Economic Anti­corruption ● ● Energy ● Emissions ● ● Environmental Effluents and Waste ● ● Supplier Environmental Assessment ● ● Employment ● ● Occupational Health and Safety ● ● Training and Education ● ● Diversity and Equal Opportunity ● ● Social Non­discrimination ● ● Forced or Compulsory Labor ● ● Supplier Social Assessment ● ● Customer Privacy ● ● Socioeconomic Compliance ● ● Transport ● ● Grievance Mechanisms (Human Lights, Others ● ● Labor Practices) Business Continuity Planning ● ● Material Issues and Subcommittee Responsible Material Issues Subcommittee Socioeconomic Compliance Corporate Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee Grievance Mechanisms (Human Lights, Labor Corporate Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee Practices) Labor and Human Rights Subcommittee Business Continuity Planning Business Contiuity Management Subcommittee Employment Training and Education Diversity and Equal Opportunity Labor and Human Rights Subcommittee Non­discrimination Forced or Compulsory Labor Energy Emissions Effluents and Waste Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee Transport Occupational Health and Safety Customer Privacy Information Security Subcommittee Nissha’s CSR 7 CSR Report 2017 Anti­corruption CSR Committee Secretariat (cross­sectoral Supplier Assessment approach) Nissha's Stakeholders We identify the stakeholders that support Nissha operations as our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and society. Toward realizing our corporate mission, we incorporate the voice of our stakeholders into business activities that contribute to a sustainable society. Both we and our stakeholders have a clear vision, and we mutually affect each other toward realizing it. Our aim is to work together and create value for the future. Nissha’s Circle of Trust Customers Nissha’s businesses—Industrial Materials, Devices, Life Innovation, and Information and Communication—serve customers, centering on companies, spanning a broad range of fields. We approach challenges seriously from the standpoint of our customers, resolve issues together, and offer optimal solutions. With a quality control system in place, we seek to produce quality products and services that win our customers’ satisfaction. ◆Communication channels Marketing activities in daily operations Activities to enhance customer satisfaction Information provided for CSR survey Information provided about conflict minerals Products and services provided by website Supplier responsibility (SR) audits by customers Shareholders We have a total of 46,822,153 outstanding shares and 6,798 shareholders. In a breakdown of shareholders by type, 37.1% are Japanese financial institutions and securities firms, 27.5% foreign institutions and individuals, 22.2% other Japanese corporations, 13.0% Japanese individuals and others, and 0.2% treasury stock (as of the end of March 2017). In addition to disclosing information, we create opportunities to meet directly and exchange dialogue with our shareholders and investors through IR events and one­on­one briefings. Feedback and comments are reported regularly from IR representatives to management as well as at Board of Directors meetings, and used as a valuable resource for enhancing our corporate value. ◆Communication channels Shareholders’ meetings Management briefings following shareholders’ meetings Financial results presentations and teleconferences for institutional investors One­on­one briefings for institutional investors Nissha’s CSR 8 CSR Report 2017 Response to individual inquiries Various materials (reports) published for shareholders and investors IR information provided via the Nissha website Information for socially responsible investment (SRI) screening companies Employees The Nissha Group has 5,133 employees. The number of employees including the temporary employees is 7,030, and in a breakdown by region, 56.8% work in Japan, 9.4% in Asia, 15.3% in North America, 8.8% in Europe, and 9.7% in Central and South America (as of the end of March 2017). We promote the creation of safe, comfortable workplaces and offer support for diverse work styles, respecting our employees’ human rights diversity from a global perspective. We at Nissha believe our employees are our most important management resources, and aim to achieve growth for both the company and our employees. ◆Communication channels Labor­management meetings Workplace improvement committee Education and training Personnel evaluation and interviews Hotline (for reporting to outside the company) Harassment help desk Awareness questionnaires and interviews Suppliers Nissha’s global operations revolve around procurement activities and engagement with a large number of suppliers. We strive to build partnerships of co­existence and co­prosperity with our suppliers, and create corporate value founded on integrity. We seek to evaluate our suppliers fairly, impartially, and comprehensively at all times, and promote CSR procurement. ◆Communication channels Procurement activities in daily operations CSR procurement briefings ESG check sheets CSR procurement and auditing In­house exhibitions and seminars themed around supplier products and technologies Society The Nissha Group has 16 bases in Japan and 42 overseas, each of which carries out business activities with respect for the culture and climate of the region in which it operates. We aim for widespread co­existence based on relationships of mutual trust with society. We promote communication with local communities not only to fulfill our basic responsibilities as a corporation but also to be a company that is needed by society. We strive to be aware of global social issues and play a role in resolving them. ◆Communication channels Exchange events with community councils and community people Cleanup activities in factory areas Next­generation support activities Support and promotion of arts and culture Social contribution activities in collaboration with NPOs Employees’ participation in volunteer activities Nissha’s CSR 9 CSR Report 2017 External Assessment Major examples of external assessment in fiscal year 2017 are given below (Nissha Group in Japan). Date Certification/award Company/base Details Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. received a Kyoto Prefectural Award for Distinguished Services in Invention for two patents: one for our proprietary touch panels, and another for metallic gloss sheets used in in­mold 60th Kyoto Prefectural Award for Distinguished Apr. 2016 Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. decoration (IMD). Awards are presented by Kyoto Services in Invention Prefecture annually since 1957 to “promote the significance of invention and ingenuity, encourage developments in science and technology, and increase motivation for invention and ingenuity.” Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. was recognized for contributing to the enhancement of science and technology, and the promotion of industry in Japan, for the same two patents for which we received a Kyoto Prefectural Award for Distinguished Services in Nov. 2016 FY2017 Kinki Regional Award for Invention Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Invention: one for our proprietary touch panels, and another for metallic gloss sheets used in IMD. Kinki Regional Awards for Invention are presented by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation annually since 1921 to “honor engineers and researchers responsible for excellent inventions, ideas, or designs.” A total of eight calendars and catalogs designed, 58th National Catalog Contest: 5 awards including produced, or printed by Nissha won awards in the 58th • Japan Paper Association Award (Silver Prize, National Catalog Contest and the 68th National Pictorial Records Category) Calendar Contest, co­hosted by the Japan Federation • Japan Federation of Printing Industries Chairman’s Nissha Printing of Printing Industries and Fuji Sankei Business­i. Jan. 2017 Award (Silver Prize, Catalog Category) 68th National Communications, Inc. One of the works was the official calendar of Nissha Calendar Contest: 3 awards including Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Printing Co., Ltd., titled “Kyoto—The Beauty of Four • Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Seasons,” which won the silver award in Category 1 in Technology Award (Gold Prize, Category 3; Silver recognition of the design as well as photoengraving Prize, Category 1) and printing technologies. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. was certified as a Health and Productivity Management Organization in the large enterprise category (White 500) at the 2017 announcement ceremony co­hosted by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and Health and Productivity Management Organization Feb. 2017 Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Certification is granted to (White 500) Certification outstanding large enterprises and SMEs working to address community health challenges and promoting in health­conscious activities led by Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Nissha was recognized for the initiatives we presented in the FY2017 METI survey. A list of ISO certificates obtained is given below (Nissha Group as of the end of March 2017). ISO Standards Subject Areas ISO/TS16949 ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 ISO27001 ISO50001 ISO13485 Others Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Global ○*1 ○*2 ○ Headquarters Nissha’s CSR 10 CSR Report 2017 Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Tokyo Division ○*1 ○ Headquarters Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Kameoka Site ○ ○ Nitec Industries, Inc. Koka Factory ○ ○ ○ Nitec Industries, Inc. Tsu Factory Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. ○ ○ ○ Himeji Factory Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. ○ ○ ○ Kaga Factory Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. ○ ○ ○ Kyoto Factory FIS Inc. ○ ○ Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. ○*1 ○ FSC COC Headquarters / Kyoto Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. ○*1 ○ FSC COC Tokyo Division Headquarters Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. ○*1 ○ FSC COC Osaka Division Headquarters Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Headquarters / ○ ○ FSC COC Kyoto Factory Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Yachiyo Factory ○ ○ ○ FSC COC Nissha F8, Inc. ○*3 ○ Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. ○ ○ ○ Eimo Technologies, Inc. ○ Si­Cal Technologies, Inc. ○ PMX Technologies, S.A. de C.V. ○ Graphic Controls Acquisition Corp. ○ ○ 93/42/EEC Schuster Kunststofftechnik GmbH ○ ○ ○ Back Stickers GmbH ○ AR Metallizing N.V. – Genk, Belgium ○ FSC COC AR Metallizing Srl. ­ Casalgrasso, Italy ○ ○ ○ FSC COC AR Metallizing Ltd. ­ Franklin, MA USA ○ FSC COC Málaga Produtos Metalizados Ltda.­ ○ ○ ○ FSC COC Osasco, Brazil Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., ○ ○ ○ Ltd. Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics ○ ○ Co., Ltd. Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. ○ ○ ○ *1. Management divisions are excluded from the scope of certification. *2. Only management divisions and engineering and development divisions have obtained certification. *3. Only the Kyoto site has obtained certification. Nissha’s CSR 11 CSR Report 2017 United Nations Global Compact On April 3, 2012, Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. joined the United Nations Global Compact. The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative based on 10 principles in the area of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti­corruption. Its purpose is to have various companies show responsible and creative leadership, and thereby act as good members of society and participate in creating a global framework for sustainable growth. Signatory companies are required to express within and outside the company the commitment of top management, establish a CSR framework, make continuous improvements aiming for higher levels of management and CSR, and submit annual reports on the status and results of activities in the format of a Communication on Progress (COP). At Nissha, we have in place various targets based on the 10 principles of the Global Compact and work daily toward achieving them with an eye to meeting the needs of global society. We disclose information about our activities in CSR reports, published on the Nissha website. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti­Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Website: United Nations Global Compact http://www.unglobalcompact.org Nissha’s CSR 12 CSR Report 2017 Corporate Philosophy and Brand Corporate Philosophy Nissha has integrated our standards of thought, rules of conduct, and corporate mission—positioned at the apex—into a Corporate Philosophy for disseminating across the Nissha Group. Corporate Mission We are committed to pursuing a mutually trustful Co­existence with society through our business activities utilizing a unique technology development, based on Printing as a core. Nissha Brand Corporate Logo NISSHA is our corporate logo and core visual symbol. Our corporate color is a vivid blue, and expresses strength, leadership, and innovation. Nissha Group All Nissha Group companies share the same Nissha Values. http://www.nissha.com/english/company/office/index.html Corporate Philosophy and Brand 13 CSR Report 2017 Brand Statement “Empowering Your Vision” expresses the relationship of Co­existence between Nissha and our stakeholders. Both we and our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and society have visions, and we mutually affect each other toward realizing it. We maximize our capabilities driven by our technology, passion, and leadership, and with the energy infused in us by our stakeholders, together create value for the future. Brand Chart The “Empowering Your Vision” brand symbol is inspired by the ubiquitous presence of the Fibonacci sequence in nature, such as the spiral patterns of flowers and shells. The design represents the expansion of Nissha capabilities, of the visions we realize, of the new values we create. This chart expresses our ideals of Co­ existence between Nissha and our stakeholders—a relationship in which each draws the other nearer while together we unlock a world of possibilities. Shared Values Growth Based on Customer Satisfaction We create new value for our customers and transform it into a driver of growth. Commitment to Results We set challenging goals for ourselves and deliver results. Magnify Leadership We exhibit leadership and resolve difficulties regardless of division or position. Diverse Capabilities We respect diversity that enhances our organizational capabilities and drives growth. Sustainability Through Integrity We value individual dignity and conduct fair business as a global corporate citizen. Corporate Philosophy and Brand 14 CSR Report 2017 Corporate Governance We recognize corporate governance as a key management priority, and work to maintain and improve our structure toward achieving sustainable growth and enhancing our corporate value over the medium to long term. Corporate Governance 15 CSR Report 2017 Corporate Governance Basic Approach to Corporate Governance Nissha, since its foundation, has been executing strategies that promptly address external challenges, under committed leadership. The Company believes that strengthening corporate governance along with such leadership will promote agile and decisive decision making, as well as ensuring management transparency and fairness. Based on this recognition, the Company places corporate governance as one of the key management issues, strives to maintain and improve it, and seek out sustainable corporate growth and an increase in corporate value over the medium­ to long­term. In an effort to clarify the Nissha Group’s basic approach to and policy for implementing corporate governance, in October 2015 we established a Corporate Governance Policy. Corporate Governance Policy (April 17, 2017)[172.3KB] Overview of Corporate Governance We have established a corporate governance structure as shown in the figure below. *as of April 1, 2017 Corporate Governance 16 CSR Report 2017 Corporate Governance Structure We make major business judgments and oversees the execution of the duties of the Directors, Members of the Board at meetings of the Board of Directors, and as a company with an Audit and Supervisory Board, will strive to maintain and improve the oversight and checking functions by Audit and Supervisory Board Members and an Audit and Supervisory Board which are independent from the Board of Directors. We adopt a corporate officer system in an effort to clarify the powers and authority in the speedy decision making and the implementation of decisions, under which the Board of Directors will be in charge of the formulation of strategies and business oversight, and the Corporate Officers will be in charge of the execution of business. In addition, we also establish a Nomination and Remuneration Committee as an advisory panel for the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors formulates our Policy for Internal Control, and prepares and oversees the operation of systems designed to ensure appropriate business execution in the Nissha Group. The President and CEO, Chairman of the Board chairs the following meetings toward appropriate and efficient business execution. ● Management Meeting: Comprises inside directors as core members. Deliberates on matters relating to the direction of important managerial issues within the scope of the President’s authority. ● Monthly Business Review (MBR): Reviews the progress of business strategies based on key performance indicators (KPI) and determines actions to take over the short term. The purpose of the MBR is to monitor business execution by Corporate Officers and quickly respond to changes in the business environment. ● Investment Committee: Reviews particularly important investment matters prior to submission to the Board of Directors for approval. We also have in place the following organizations in order to enhance the management monitoring function, ensure that business execution complies with laws and regulations as well as our Articles of Incorporation, and to manage risks. ● CSR Committee: Chaired by the President and CEO, Chairman of the Board. Comprises eight corporate­wide subcommittees, namely Corporate Ethics and Compliance; BCM (Business Continuity Management); Labor and Human Rights; Environment Health and Safety; Information Security; Trade Administration and Control; Quality; and Customer Satisfaction. Demonstrates leadership in dealing with risks to legal and appropriate business execution. ● Disclosure Control Committee: Chaired by the President and CEO, Chairman of the Board. Discusses the necessity of timely disclosure of corporate information and the contents of disclosure, and discloses important information on the Nissha Group in a timely, proper manner. ● Internal Audit: Under the direct control of the President and CEO, Chairman of the Board, audits the internal control systems of the Nissha Group, analyzes and evaluates their status of establishment and operation, and offers suggestions for improvement. Corporate Governance 17 CSR Report 2017 >Internal Control System, Risk Management and Initiatives of Internal Audit http://www.nissha.com/english/csr/governance/enhancement.html >Corporate Ethics and Compliance http://www.nissha.com/english/csr/governance/compliance.html Directors, Members of the Board and the Board of Directors Policy and Procedure for Electing Directors, Members of the Board Our Board of Directors comprises an appropriate number of 12 or fewer members, taking into account diversity and balance between the knowledge, experience, and skills of the individual to ensure that the board fulfills its role of making important management decisions and overseeing the execution of duties by Directors, Members of the Board, and Corporate Officers. Inside Directors, Members of the Board are elected for their acquaintance with our operations and suitability for creating a growth strategy and overseeing business execution. Several Independent Directors, Members of the Board are elected who satisfy the requirements of not only the Companies Act but also the “Standards for Independence of Independent Officers”, established by our Board of Directors. To ensure clarity in management responsibilities for each fiscal year, the term of office of Directors, Members of the Board is set at one year. Candidates for Directors, Members of the Board are determined in line with the above policies and in consultation with the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. Standards for Independence of Independent Officers[86.2KB] Diversity of the Board of Directors *as of June 16, 2017 At present, our Board of Directors consists of eight members, of which four are Independent Directors, Members of the Board with one being a woman. Corporate Governance 18 CSR Report 2017 The Board includes individuals with experience abroad or at another company, or holding a master’s degree in business administration. Each of our four Independent Directors, Members of the Board have experience and insight into general corporate management, specialized knowledge in corporate governance, management and business strategies, and information technology, and broad insight into monetary economics. Role of the Board of Directors Our Board of Directors convenes for regular meetings once a month and for extraordinary meetings as needed. The meetings are chaired by the President. The Board makes decisions on matters that require resolution by the Board as stipulated by legislation and our Articles of Incorporation, as well as on important managerial matters as stipulated by the Regulations of the Board of Directors and other internal regulations, and overseas business execution by Directors, Member of the Board and Corporate Officers. Initiatives to Enhance the Content of Discussions Our Board of Directors meetings involve brisk, substantive discussions. Independent Directors, Members of the Board draw on deep insight into their respective fields of specialty to provide accurate advice and opinions, contributing to the enhancement of both management transparency and the Board’s oversight functions. Toward improving the quality of discussions, we distribute a meeting agenda and related materials in advance, and explain particularly important matters to independent directors and auditors beforehand. Toward thoroughness, important issues such as the medium­term business plan and major M&A deals are discussed once or twice as matters to be reported prior to being listed as matters to be resolved. By allotting times for briefing and discussion in accordance with the degree of importance of the matter, we aim for sharp, focused meeting operation. In an effort to enhance the Board’s monitoring function, the status of matters such as major M&A deals and establishment of subsidiaries and joint ventures are reported in meetings after a certain amount of time has passed since the resolution at the Board. To secure attendance by as many Directors, Members of the Board and Audit and Supervisory Board Members as possible, the secretariat of the Board of Directors creates an annual schedule of board meetings and notifies members in advance. Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Once a year since April 2016, our Board of Directors analyzes and evaluates board membership and operation in the previous fiscal year toward continuous improvement in the effectiveness of corporate governance. In May 2017, we distributed a questionnaire covering all board meetings held in FY2017, and disclosed an outline of the results in a Corporate Governance Report submitted to the Tokyo Stock Exchange in June. Nomination and Remuneration Committee Purpose We have in place a Nomination and Remuneration Committee as an advisory panel for the Board of Directors to ensure objectivity and fairness in the election of directors and auditors, and in determining remuneration of the Corporate Governance 19 CSR Report 2017 Directors, Members of the Board. The chair and at least half of the members are selected from Independent Directors, Members of the Board. Role With consultation from the Board of Directors, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee deliberates on and provides a response regarding the following matters. (1) Criteria for electing Directors, Members of the Board and Audit and Supervisory Board Members (2) Proposals of candidates for Director, Member of the Board and Audit and Supervisory Board Member (3) Policy on remuneration of Directors, Members of the Board (4) Remuneration of Directors, Members of the Board Membership *as of June 16, 2017 (1) Four independent members: Tamio Kubota (Independent Director, Member of the Board and Committee Chair), Kenji Kojima (Independent Director, Member of the Board), Sawako Nohara (Independent Director, Member of the Board), Kazuhito Osugi (Independent Director, Member of the Board) (2) Two inside members: Junya Suzuki (President and CEO, Chairman of the Board), Hayato Nishihara (Director, Member of the Board and Senior Executive Vice President) Audit and Supervisory Board Members and the Audit and Supervisory Board Policy and Procedure for Electing Auditors Our Audit and Supervisory Board comprises an appropriate number of four or fewer members. Inside Audit and Supervisory Board Members are elected for the wealth of experience required in auditing. Independent Audit and Supervisory Board Members are elected from attorneys and certified public accountants with a focus on specialized knowledge in legal affairs, financial matters, and accounting, who satisfy the requirements of not only the Companies Act but also the “Standards for Independence of Independent Officers”, established by our Board of Directors. Candidates for Audit and Supervisory Board Members are determined in line with the above policies, in consultation with the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, with consent from the Audit and Supervisory Board. At present, our Board consists of four members, of which two are Full­time Audit and Supervisory Board Members and two are Independent Audit and Supervisory Board Members. Standards for Independence of Independent Officers[86.2KB] Role of the Audit and Supervisory Board Our Audit and Supervisory Board Members and Audit and Supervisory Board audit the execution of duties by Directors, Members of the Board and Corporate Officers as stipulated by legislation, our Articles of Incorporation, and internal regulations, and make appropriate decisions from an independent, objective standpoint on electing and dismissing accounting auditors and exercising their authority relating to audit fees, etc. Independent Audit and Supervisory Board Members draw on their highly specialized knowledge as attorneys and certified public accountants to contribute to the maintenance and improvement of our corporate governance structure. Our Audit and Supervisory Board determines the duties of Audit and Supervisory Board Members, the audit structure, and the audit standards that describe the evaluation basis for audits and the action guidelines. In accordance with these, the Board develops auditing policies and Nissha Group's Corporate Governance auditing plans. Complying with these, each Audit and Supervisory Board Member attends the meetings of the Board of Directors and other important meetings, reviews approval documents and other important documents, performs visiting audits at major offices and affiliated companies, and conducts audits by exchanging opinions regularly with the President and CEO, Directors, and General Managers. The Audit and Supervisory Board holds regular meetings with the Accounting Auditor, Internal Audit, and corporate division including the Corporate Finance and Corporate Legal Affairs to closely cooperate with each other and increase the audits’ efficiency. In addition, the Board regularly holds the Group Meeting of Audit and Supervisory Board Members, consisting of full­time Audit and Supervisory Board Members of the Company and Audit and Supervisory Board Members of its affiliated companies, in order to strengthen and enhance audits throughout the whole Nissha Group. Corporate Governance 20 CSR Report 2017 Policy on Determining Remuneration of Directors, Members of the Board and Audit and Supervisory Board Members As a rule, officer remuneration (for Directors, Members of the Board and Corporate Officers responsible for business execution) follows a system corresponding to degree of contribution to the enhancement of our corporate performance and corporate value. A breakdown of officer remuneration and the procedure by which it is determined are as follows. Remuneration of Directors, Members of the Board ● Inside Directors, Members of the Board Remuneration of Directors, Members of the Board consists of basic compensation, bonuses, and stock compensation. Basic compensation is set according to the individual’s position and the significance of his or her role, and reflects evaluation of the individual’s degree of contribution and performance. Bonuses are based on consolidated business results (net sales, operating margin, performance of the business for which the individual is responsible, etc.) in the relevant fiscal year, and reflect evaluation of the level of target achievement. The stock compensation program we have in place is called the Board Benefit Trust (BBT). This is a system linked to business results in which Nissha’s shares are acquired through a trust using funds contributed by Nissha, and these shares are paid to Directors, Members of the Board through the trust in accordance with a Policy on Directors’ Stock Compensation, established by our Board of Directors. By further clarifying the link between Directors’ compensation and the value of the company’s shares, and having our Directors, Members of the Board experience together with our shareholders not only the benefits of a rise but also the risks of a decline in share prices, the system aims to increase awareness in Directors, Members of the Board of the importance of improving business results and enhancing the Nissha corporate value over the medium to long term. The program awards points based on the individual’s position, points calculated according to consolidated net sales and operating income each fiscal year, and in the closing year of a medium­term business plan, points calculated according to the level of achievement of target management indices such as return on investment (ROE) and return on invested capital (ROIC). On a fixed day in the closing year of the medium­term business plan, the points are converted into Nissha shares, and Directors, Members of the Board are paid a cash equivalent of these shares at market value. ● Independent Directors Remuneration of Independent Directors, Members of the Board consists of basic compensation only, based on factors such as the individual’s career. Remuneration linked to business results is not provided, as the role of Independent Directors, Members of the Board is separated from business execution. Procedure Remuneration is determined by the Board of Directors, in consultation with the Nomination and Remuneration Committee to ensure objectivity and fairness, within the scope of total remuneration approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Corporate Governance 21 CSR Report 2017 Remuneration of Audit and Supervisory Board Members Remuneration of Audit and Supervisory Board Members is determined through discussion with the individual within the scope of total remuneration approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Remuneration by Category Total (Million yen) Number of Title Remuneration Board (Million yen) Basic Members Bonuses Stock Remuneration Directors (Excluding 248 150 57 40 4 Independent Directors) Audit and Supervisory Board Members(Excluding 28 28 ­ ­ 2 Independent Audit and Supervisory Members) Independent Directors and Independent Audit 41 41 ­ ­ 6 and Supervisory Board Members Corporate Officers In order to adapt flexibly to changes in the business environment, we appoint Corporate Officers also taking into account diversity and balance between the knowledge, experience, and skills of the individual. The term of office of Corporate Officers is set at one year. Corporate Governance 22 CSR Report 2017 At present, we have 17 Corporate Officers, of which two are foreign nationals. These include individuals with experience abroad or at another company, or holding a master’s degree in business administration. Internal Control System Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. builds and operates an internal control system in accordance with a Policy for Internal Control formulated by the Board of Directors. The system is designed to ensure that the duties of each internal organization are carried out legally, appropriately, and efficiently toward enhancing our corporate value. To ensure reliability of financial reporting, we submit the assessment results of our internal control system in the form of internal control reports to the Prime Minister of Japan and disclose the contents to our shareholders and investors. Policy for Internal Control Pursuant to the Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Company shall establish systems to ensure the properness of operations (hereinafter referred to as “Internal Control”) of the group consisting of the Company and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the “Nissha Group”) as follows: 1. Systems necessary to ensure that the execution of duties by Directors, Members of the Board and employees of the Nissha Group complies with laws and regulations and the Company’s articles of incorporation (i) The Company shall establish a “Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance” and “Code of Conduct” based on its corporate mission and Shared Values so as to comply with laws and social ethics from a global point of view. (ii) The Company shall establish a Corporate Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee under the internal regulations to carry out monitoring and educational activities to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, the Company’s articles of incorporation and social norms. In addition, the Company shall appoint a Manager and Leader in charge of promotion in each business unit of the Nissha Group to establish a structure for promoting Corporate Ethics and Compliance. An “in­house reporting system” shall be established and operated, through which employees may provide information directly to the Company, while due measures are taken for the protection of whistleblowers. (iii) The Company shall elect multiple Independent Directors, Members of the Board to maintain and enhance the function of supervising the execution of duties by Directors, Members of the Board. In addition, the Company shall establish a Nomination and Remuneration Committee as an advisory panel for the Board of Directors of the Company in order to ensure the objectiveness and fairness of the nomination of Directors, Members of the Board and Audit and Supervisory Board Members as well as the remuneration of the Directors, Members of the Board. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall be chaired by an Independent Director, Member of the Board and the majority of its members shall be Independent Directors, Members of the Board. (iv) The Internal Audit Division, which is under the direct control of the President and Representative Director, shall analyze and evaluate the state of the establishment and operations of an Internal Control system, propose an improvement plan, and enrich the system. Corporate Governance 23 CSR Report 2017 (v) The Company shall set a basic policy to counter antisocial forces, shall not have any relationship with antisocial forces, and shall not respond to any unreasonable demands with a resolute attitude in compliance with the Regulations regarding antisocial forces, and the Nissha Group shall strive for thorough implementation of such measures. 2. Systems regarding the retention and management of information relating to the execution of duties by Directors, Members of the Board (i) The Company shall retain and manage information regarding execution of duties by Directors Members of the Board, including the minutes of the General Meetings of Shareholders, the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and the requests for managerial decision, properly and with certainty pursuant to the laws and regulations and in­house regulations on information management, and the information shall be maintained in a condition which can be inspected. (ii) The Company shall disclose important information on the Nissha Group timely and properly by establishing a Disclosure Control Committee which shall discuss the necessity of timely disclosure of corporate information and the contents of disclosure. 3. Rules and other systems for risk management of the Nissha Group (i) The Company shall formulate the Basic Policy for Risk Management to specify the Nissha Group’s initiatives in risk management. (ii) The Company shall respond to the risk of managerial losses by organizing company­wide and cross­ organizational subcommittees to manage the issues of Corporate Ethics Compliance, BCM, Labor and Human Rights, Environment Health and Safety, Information Security, Trade Administration and Control, Quality, and Customer Satisfaction under the CSR Committee led by the President and CEO, Chairman of the Board as the acting Committee Chairman. (iii) Each subcommittee and the superintending division shall establish a management policy, rules, etc.; determine risk analysis, risk assessment, and related measures; conduct daily monitoring activities; and report the results of reviews to the CSR Committee. (iv) The CSR Committee shall summarize major risks faced by the Company on a regular basis for review by management while reporting them to the Board of Directors. 4. Systems necessary to ensure the efficient execution of the duties by Directors, Members of the Board of the Nissha Group (i) Through the introduction of the corporate officer system, the Company shall establish functional segregation between strategy development and management monitoring functions to be undertaken by the Board of Directors and business execution functions to be undertaken by the Corporate Officers. (ii) The Board of Directors of the Company shall approve medium­term business plans, and the Directors, Members of the Board and employees shall execute operations based on such strategic and performance plans. (iii) The President and CEO, Chairman of the Board shall request the Corporate Officers to report the status of their execution of business and confirm whether or not the business is executed according to the plans at a monthly meeting (MBR: Monthly Business Review). (iv) The Company shall share the status of execution of business by the Corporate Officers and the strategy implementation items to be undertaken by its organizations through the use of IT to improve business efficiency. 5. Systems necessary to ensure the proper business operation of the Nissha Group (i) The Company shall formulate the Affiliated Company Management Regulations to set basic administration policy for the management of each company of the Nissha Group. In addition, the Company shall manage the performance of important operations of each company of the Nissha Group by designating matters requiring approval of and reporting to the Company with regard to the execution of those operations in the Regulations on Requests for Managerial Decisions. (ii) The Company shall appoint its officers or employees to become Directors, Members of the Board and Audit and Supervisory Board Members of each company of the Nissha Group in order to ensure the proper execution of operations. (iii) The corporate division shall manage the proper execution of operations at each company of the Nissha Group and lead and counsel it, as necessary. (iv) The Company shall periodically convene the Group Audit and Supervisory Board meeting for the exchange of information among the Audit and Supervisory Board Members of the Nissha Group and strive to improve and strengthen the audits for each company of the Nissha Group. 6. Matters regarding employees assisting the duties of Audit and Supervisory Board Members, when Audit and Supervisory Board Members ask for appointment of such employees, and matters regarding the independence of such employees from Directors, Members of the Board Corporate Governance 24 CSR Report 2017 (i) The Company shall establish an Auditor and Supervisory Board Member’s Office to assist the duties of Audit and Supervisory Board Members, and shall arrange for employees to be exclusively assigned to the Office. (ii) The Auditor and Supervisory Board Member’s Office shall belong to the Audit and Supervisory Board and be independent from Directors, Members of the Board. With regard to matters regarding the personnel affairs of the employees of the Auditor and Supervisory Board Member’s Office, approval of the Audit and Supervisory Board shall be obtained through consultation. 7. Systems for reporting to Audit and Supervisory Board Members by Directors, Members of the Board and employees of the Nissha Group and other systems regarding reporting to Audit and Supervisory Board Members Directors, Members of the Board and employees of the Nissha Group shall quickly report to the Audit and Supervisory Board items that will potentially have a serious influence on the Nissha Group, the status of risk management, the results of internal audits, the status of internal reports and the details of such reports, etc. The Audit and Supervisory Board Members of the Company shall request the Directors, Members of the Board and employees of the Nissha Group to report such matters as necessary. In addition, whistleblowers shall not be treated disadvantageously in any way whatsoever as a consequence of such reporting. 8. Other systems necessary to ensure the effective audit by Audit and Supervisory Board Members (i) The regular meetings for exchanges of opinions between the President and CEO, Chairman of the Board, Directors, Members of the Board and the Audit and Supervisory Board shall be held. The Audit and Supervisory Board Members shall also set up regular meetings with the Accounting Auditor, Internal Audit Divisions and corporate division to cooperate with them closely. (ii) The Audit and Supervisory Board Members shall attend not only the meetings of the Board of Directors, but also other important meetings, and express their opinions as necessary. In addition, they shall also examine the requests for managerial decision and other important documents. (iii) The Company shall ensure objectivity and effectiveness of audits through Independent Audit and Supervisory Board Members, including those who have considerable knowledge concerning finance and accounting or legal affairs, such as a certified public accountant or an attorney, etc. (iv) The Company shall bear expenses necessary for the execution of duties by the Audit and Supervisory Board Members. If an Audit and Supervisory Board Member requests the Company to make an advance payment of such expenses pursuant to laws and regulations, the Company shall promptly comply with the request upon confirmation. Risk Management With a risk management policy in place to clarify our approach, we promote risk management to counter risks that may have a significant impact on our business activities, and to be fully prepared in the event an emergency does occur. Having organized a CSR Committee chaired by the President and CEO and defined risks that require addressing as “any thing or situation that hinders Nissha’s implementation of the corporate mission,” since fiscal year 2016 we are working to reduce all conceivable risks associated with business processes, including those related to disasters, accidents, and compliance, as well as to appropriately cope with risks that have surfaced. The CSR Committee consists of eight subcommittees—Labor and Human Rights, Corporate Ethics and Compliance, Business Continuity Management (BCM), Environmental, Safety and Health, Information Security, Trade Administration and Control, Quality, and Customer Satisfaction Improvement—each of which operates a management system from the viewpoints of basic CSR and strategic CSR. In the area of crisis management, we have in place a set of Emergency Response Regulations stipulating that we set up a group­wide response task force headed by the President and CEO in the event of a serious interruption of business due to emergency over a certain level, such as a large earthquake or new global influenza epidemic. Furthermore, we promoted activities to enhance employee awareness about the general rules for action and response in an earthquake, such as stockpiling supplies at major bases in Japan, distributing “survival cards” listing information about what to expect and do should an earthquake strike to all officers and employees of the Nissha Group in Japan, and conducting emergency drills. In the area of BCM, we have in place a Basic Plan for Business Continuity Management, which is used as a base for training primarily the management. This training serves to verify the effectiveness of the plan toward ensuring business continuity and maximum service to our customers, securing the safety of our employees and their families, and contributing to the restoration of communities and of society at large. Corporate Governance 25 CSR Report 2017 Risk Management Policy The Nissha Group strives to accurately identify the risks we face, avoid unexpected loss, and appropriately control risks, thereby ensuring business continuity and enhancing our corporate value toward realizing a mutually trustful Co­existence with our stakeholders. 1. We build and maintain a structure for responding to the various risks present in our business environment. 2. We promote risk management at the managerial level toward conducting organization­wide activities and preserving management resources. 3. In the event of an emergency, such as a situation with critical managerial consequences or a natural disaster, we work to minimize damage, resume business activities as quickly as possible, and prevent recurrence while prioritizing the safety of human lives. 4. We conduct in­house training to enhance awareness of and the ability to respond to risks, and ensure that each employ takes responsible, swift, and appropriate action. 5. We periodically review our risk management structure, including this policy, and make improvements on a continuous basis to ensure effective risk management at all times. July 1, 2015 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Column “BCP Training for Earthquake Emergency” On December 22, 2016, we conducted BCP training at Nissha’s Global Headquarters targeting primarily the management. The exercise simulated a situation in which bases of the Devices business in Japan were struck by an earthquake. The management received reporting from relevant divisions, provided instructions in response, and verified the effectiveness of their decision­making flow. The President served as leader of the headquarters task force. Following his instructions, management, corporate divisions, and bases worked as one and succeeded in taking appropriate action. We quickly resolved the challenges that surfaced through this session, and will continue to organize further training toward even more effective BCP. Our goal is to build a structure capable of achieving swift restoration and business continuity in the event of a real­life emergency. Corporate Governance 26 CSR Report 2017 Initiatives of Internal Audit Internal Audit, to maintain impartiality and objectivity in its functions, serves as an organization independent of business execution divisions in drawing up annual auditing plans, investigating whether business activities are carried out appropriately and efficiently, and offering advice and recommendations to internal organizations. Furthermore, it conducts follow­up audits to confirm how each finding that has surfaced through the audits is improving. The office makes reports and offers suggestions based on the results of its audits to the President and CEO at monthly meetings, and presents particularly important matters at Board of Directors’ meetings. Moreover, it holds meetings with full­time Audit and Supervisory Board Members every three months to establish mutual cooperation with the Audit and Supervisory Board. Audits in fiscal year 2017 focused on communication covering strategies and the execution thereof at consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and work processes at consolidated subsidiaries abroad. Internal Audit, as a third party, also performed an independent assessment of financial reporting­related internal controls, including at subsidiaries that joined the Nissha Group through M&A, in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Corporate Governance 27 CSR Report 2017 Corporate Ethics and Compliance Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance In addition to establishing a basic guideline based on the Nissha Group’s Corporate Mission, Shared Values, and Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance, we set forth 13 important points for the purpose of appropriately executing the guideline. All executives and employees work to promote and thoroughly implement corporate ethics and compliance. Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance 1. We comply with laws, social rules and internal regulations along with high ethics, and act with common senses and responsibilities. 2. We pursue the Co­existence with the Stakeholders such as Customer, Shareholder, Supplier, Society, and Employee. 3. We will immediately report and consult with supervisors or Hotline in case we find the violation or the doubtful act against Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct . 13 important points Relationship with Customer and Supplier 1. Free and Fair Competition 2. Prohibition of Corrupt Practices 3. Quality and Safety of Products 4. Protection of Intellectual Property 5. Appropriate Handling of Information and Resources 6. Compliance with Import/Export Regulations Relationship with Shareholder 7. Handling of Corporate Information 8. Compliance with Regulations against the Insider Trading Relationship with Society 9. Environmental Protection 10. Regional/Social Contribution 11. No Relations with Antisocial Forces Relationship with Employee 12. Respect of Human Rights 13. Safe, Healthy and Comfortable Workplace Promotion Structure and Initiatives All Nissha bases in Japan and abroad appoint managers and group leaders in charge of promoting corporate ethics and compliance. These managers and group leaders not only conduct training in their respective divisions but also implement corporate ethics and compliance on a day­to­day basis through organizational management, serve as a liaison for referring specific cases to Corporate Legal Affairs, and take on the role of consultant in their workplace. In order to increase awareness of the managers and group leaders, since fiscal year 2017 we distribute quarterly issues of Corporate Ethics and Compliance News. Corporate Ethics and Compliance 28 CSR Report 2017 On top of designating every October as corporate ethics and compliance month, we organize annual group­ wide training. In fiscal year 2017, we conducted practical training and testing tailored to each base’s duties, laws, and customs. Overseas bases, in particular, held discussions on themes essential to a global corporate group such as free and fair competition and prohibition of corrupt practices, and on a theme unique to us as a manufacturer, namely quality and safety of products. Through a questionnaire, participants reported any conduct that might constitute a breach of corporate ethics and compliance. The information was analyzed, and the results were reported to the Corporate Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee. Since areas outside Japan are generally at higher risk of involvement in corrupt practices, we ascertained the situation through a questionnaire, and based on the results, formulated a group­wide set of Nissha Anti­ Corruption Guidelines. For the prevention of insider trading, we cover regulations against insider trading in our regular training programs in addition to educating employees through quarterly publications on the Nissha intranet. For production bases in Japan, in addition to group­wide training we organize independent sessions around the theme of respect for human rights, focusing more on workplace relationships including the issues of power harassment and sexual harassment. Corporate Ethics and Compliance Structure Corporate Ethics and Compliance 29 CSR Report 2017 Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders Our distribution of added value to stakeholders on fiscal year 2017 is given in the table below. Distribution to employees increased over fiscal year 2016 due to the addition of consolidated subsidiaries. Distribution to society was nearly level with the previous year and includes active sponsorship of events such as museum and art exhibitions, in accordance with our Basic Social Contribution Policy. Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders Amount Stakeholders Description Remarks (million yen) Figures published in financial Shareholders 1,293 Dividends results Calculated by Corporate Social Responsibility, using Sum of expenses for salaries, results of the year ended Employees 7,201 wages, bonuses, and retirement March 31, 2017 (excluding benefits personnel expenses included in manufacturing costs) Creditors Figures published in financial 470 Interests (financial institutions) results Sum of taxes paid including Government agencies Figures published in financial 1,160 corporation tax, inhabitant tax, (national, local) results and enterprise tax Money and in­kind donations, provision of facilities, and employees’ volunteering Calculated by Corporate Society 62 services converted into Social Responsibility monetary value (using methods established by Nippon Keidanren) Company Figures published in financial (8,704) Amount of increase in surpluses (internal reserves) results Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders 30 CSR Report 2017 Human Rights We operate a management system based on our Basic Policy on Labor and Human Rights, and strive to observe legislation, international norms, and code of conduct such as that provided by the EICC. Human Rights 31 CSR Report 2017 Human Rights Basic Policy on Labor and Human Rights We define Nissha’s principles on labor and human rights in a basic policy toward realizing our corporate mission of pursuing a “mutually trustful Co­existence with society.” The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the code of conduct provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) were used as reference in formulating the policy. The policy is translated from Japanese into the English, Chinese, Korean, and Malay languages for group­wide distribution. Basic Policy on Labor and Human Rights In order to realize a widespread mutually trustful co­existence with society, Nissha will observe the international norms, laws and ordinances related to human rights and labor standards and will make efforts to continually improve human rights and labor standards. 1. Child labor: We will prohibit child labor and also implement relief measures. 2. Forced labor: We will eliminate all forms of forced labor. 3. Health and safety: We will secure the health and safety of our employees and provide a hygienic workplace environment. 4. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining: We will guarantee the right to organize and the right to collective bargaining. 5. Discrimination: We will not discriminate based on a person’s age, disability, ethnic group, gender, marital status, nationality, political support, race, religion, sexual orientation, pregnancy or membership in a union. We will also not be party to this. 6. Punishment: We will not perform physical punishment or mental or physical coercion and we will not engage in verbal abuse. 7. Working hours: We will observe the laws, ordinances and labor agreements related to working hours, rest breaks and holidays. 8. Remuneration: We will observe the laws and ordinances related to the payment of appropriate wages. June 16, 2014 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. In April 2012, we joined the United Nations Global Compact, thereby declaring that we support and will make continuous efforts to practice the initiative’s 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti­corruption. We include the 10 principles in our Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct Manual, citing “respect for human rights” as a key item. The manual is produced in the Japanese, English, and Chinese languages and distributed through regular study sessions targeting all employees. After each training session, we collect signatures from our employees confirming that they understand and will base their conduct on the contents of the manual. Human Rights 32 CSR Report 2017 Building and Operation of a Management System We adhere to international norms and laws on human rights and labor standards, and strive for continuous improvements in the content of our activities. Our Fifth Medium­term Business Plan (FY2016–FY2018) promotes the building of a structure for compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct at all Nissha Group bases, including those outside Japan, and at major suppliers. In fiscal year 2016, we built and started to operate a labor and human rights management system and, based on it, conducted internal audits of major Nissha Group companies. In fiscal year 2016, we built and started to operate a labor and human rights management system, and based on it, in fiscal year 2017, conducted internal audits of major Nissha Group companies. Instances of noncompliance found through the audits, such as poor record keeping of the contents of consultation from employees, have been address through corrective measures at each company. The Labor and Human Rights Subcommittee identifies anti­discrimination, anti­forced labor, diversity and equal opportunities, training and education, and employment as material issues. In fiscal year 2018, it set targets in the areas of work time management, expansion of women’s participation in business, and employment of people with disabilities. In response to these targets, we are working to reduce CSR risks through the operation of our management systemAs can be seen, the CSR Committee leads operation of our management system toward reducing CSR risks. Hotline In order to quickly grasp the facts, minimize risks, promote ethical conduct and compliance, and ultimately enhance our corporate value, we have in place a system for internal reporting for all Nissha Group companies in Japan as well as some abroad in the event of fraud, illegal activity, or unethical conduct by either an organization or an individual employee. In the interest of neutrality and fairness, the hotline reaches a third party served by an attorney’s office. Our Internal Reporting Code protects informers from any unfavorable treatment by either the company or other employees on account of their reporting, and obligates the acceptance of anonymous reporting. In fiscal year 2017, the hotline was used four times. The reports concerned labor management and the workplace environment. We are working to create an environment in which employees can feel comfortable about reporting even seemingly trivial matters, and to enhance employee awareness of this hotline through the Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct Manual, the Nissha intranet, and training toward further reinforcing corporate ethics and compliance. Hotline Organizational Chart Human Rights 33 CSR Report 2017 Harassment Help Desk With the aim of preventing and resolving rifts in workplace relationships, including sexual and power harassment, on April 1, 2015, we established a help desk specializing in harassment, providing our employees with a clearer destination for discussing their concerns. In fiscal year 2017, the harassment help desk was used five times. Fair Evaluation and Treatment We at the Nissha Group view evaluation systems as a mechanism for ensuring consistency between the company’s strategy and individuals’ goals, and for determining treatment accordingly. To this end, we conduct a personnel evaluation of all full­time Nissha Group employees twice a year. The evaluations cover the level of achievement of employees’ goals (accountability) and responsibility, and the results of which are reflected in bonuses, pay raises, and promotions. By organizing interviews at the time the goals are set and the results are evaluated, we strive for evaluation and treatment that are fair and convincing. With the revision of our managerial personnel system in October 2014 and of our general personnel system in April 2015, we aim to realize a highly convincing evaluation system in which employees are rewarded for producing results. Wage Management The Nissha Group appropriately determines wages paid in exchange for labor in accordance with the wage regulations of each company, based on the laws of the relevant country. Our regulations do not allow for different wage levels by age or gender. Once a year, Human Resources leads internal audits of Nissha Group companies in Japan in the areas of labor and human rights to check that prefectural requirements concerning minimum wages and work times are correctly reflected. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Our Basic Policy on Labor and Human Rights contains the provision, “4. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining: We will guarantee the right to organize and the right to collective bargaining.” In fiscal year 2016, the Information and Communication business was spun off as Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. During this process, we held briefings for employees and discussions with the labor union regarding labor conditions and the coverage of the labor union following the spin­off. With the biennial revision of the labor contract in fiscal year 2017, we engaged in dialogue with the labor union toward expanding women’s participation in business and otherwise creating workplace environments where employees can live up to their full potential. As a result, we formulated a set of Private Day Care Expense Coverage Regulations to prevent delays in the reinstatement of women employees after childbirth because they could not enroll their child in a non­authorized nursery (in Japan, these are significantly costlier than those certified by local authorities, which have years­long waiting lists). In January 2017, one employee was reinstated using the system. Human Rights 34 CSR Report 2017 Relationship with Labor Union The Nissha Group has three labor unions: the Nissha Labor Union (organized in March 1946)*1, the Nitec Industries Labor Union (March 2012)2, and the Nissha Printing Communications Labor Union (October 2015)*3. In January 2016, these three unions formed the Nissha Group Labor Union. While one union per company is our basic approach to promoting well­disciplined organization and building sound relationships between labor and management, we recognize that regular exchange of information and coordinated action between labor unions is necessary to resolve common challenges within the Nissha Group. Based on this understanding, we at the Nissha Group have solid relationships and hold regular negotiations and discussions with our labor unions. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. holds regular Management Council meetings with the Nissha Labor Union, joined by employees excluding managerial staff, to negotiate and discuss employees’ labor conditions and share information about the Nissha Group’s business operations. Although no minimum period is set for notifying the union of significant changes in labor conditions, the company exchanges dialogue with the union on a daily basis with the aim of reaching an agreement satisfactory to both. Furthermore, we organize monthly Work System Committee meetings primarily to share information about work times and prevent large amounts of overtime work. The labor contract confirms, “the Company and the Union shall respect one another’s position and maintain a peaceful relationship between labor and management as well as strive for the maintenance and improvement of labor conditions and the growth of the Company,” and stipulates, “the Company shall respect the Union’s right to organize, right to collective bargaining, and right to act as a group,” thereby guaranteeing basic labor rights for union members. Affiliated companies Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) and Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. also hold negotiations and discussions about employees’ labor conditions with their respective labor unions. The Workplace Improvement Committee, established by both labor and management at Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT), works to promote improvements in the workplace environment and in welfare benefits. In fiscal year 2017, the Nissha Group had no report either of a strike or lockout or of a situation that infringed on our employees’ freedom of association. We will continue to respect the mutual positions of both company and union, and build a sound relationship between labor and management. *1. As of the end of March 2017, the Nissha Labor Union has a membership of 748. *2. As of the end of March 2017, the Nitec Industries Labor Union has a membership of 450. *3. As of the end of March 2017, the Nissha Printing Communications Labor Union has a membership of 188. Voice of the Labor Unions At the Nissha Group Labor Union, one union per company is our basic approach to promoting well­disciplined organization and building sound relationships between labor and management. That is, each union offers suggestions, negotiates between labor and management, and performs checks true to the characteristics of the company. While member unions build on their individual strengths, the association provides opportunities for regular sharing of information, particularly about the unique challenges of the member Takashi Yoshioka unions, and strives to nurture the Nissha Group as a whole. Executive Labor Leader Nissha Group Labor Union Each member union holds regular Management Council meetings for exchanging views, questions, reporting, and suggestions. A member union may request an extraordinary meeting for discussing and negotiating labor conditions. Labor and management also cooperate in promoting work­life balance, safety and health, disaster preparedness, and transportation, and work toward improvement. The companies and their respective labor unions work hand in hand to strengthen their win­win relationship and aim for work style reforms so that each company can continue to provide employees with a sense of fulfillment at work. Human Rights 35 CSR Report 2017 Labor Practices Our employees are our most important management resource. We support diverse work styles, create workplace environments where diverse employees can live up to their full potential, and promote human resources development. Labor Practices 36 CSR Report 2017 Human Resources Development We at Nissha believe our employees are our most important management resources. We work to develop human resources based on our Human Resources Development Policy. Human Resources Development Policy We implement a planned development of human resources needed for the company to grow and actively support our employees in the voluntary development of their skills with the aim of achieving growth for both the company and our employees. Approach to Human Resources Development We at Nissha approach human resources development from the three areas of planned human resource development, skill development, and career development. For each area, we aim to promote comprehensive education incorporating the perspectives of training system, on­the­job training (OJT), medium­ to long­term career path development, and human resource systems to support these programs. Human Resources Development Model Planned human resource development Implement planned development to foster and secure the human resources needed to achieve the management vision. (e.g., growth strategy, business continuity, creation of corporate culture) Skill development Individual employees voluntarily develop their skills and increase their market value. →The company supports this and thereby enhances the quality of its human resources. Career development Support medium­ to long­term career development and promote growth toward employees’ ideals. (Provide opportunities to recognize the importance of and pursue career development.) Human Resources Development 37 CSR Report 2017 Training System (Major Programs by Area) Area Training Nissha Academy (selective training for next­generation management Planned human candidates), rank­specific training, manager training, overseas appointee resource development training, etc. Theme­specific training (leadership, logical thinking, presentation, etc.), foreign Skill development language training, accounting education, in­house TOEIC testing, correspondence course, etc. Education for young employees (first, second, and third years of joining Nissha), Career development career development training, etc. Training System Model Selective Human Resource Development In 2013, we established Nissha Academy, an in­house institute for fostering human resources with more advanced, specialized knowledge. While we continue to expand on our rank­specific, theme­specific, and career design training programs, Nissha Academy employs a selective system to provide training. Nissha Academy comprises a Business School, which provides knowledge and skills in the proposal and execution of management strategies including accounting, finance, marketing, and human resources to foster leaders capable of company and business oversight; a Management of Technology (MOT) School, which develops leaders capable of linking technology with management to create new business; and a Monozukuri School, which produces leaders capable of taking a strategic, scientific approach to “monozukuri,” or manufacturing, and translating management strategies into reality. The three schools open in rotation each year, with fiscal year 2017 being the turn of the Business School. Graduates of each school are given opportunities to practice what they have learned through involvement in projects and the drafting of medium­term business plans, for a consistent human resources development program that integrates all three areas of planned human resource development, skill development, and career development. As a gateway to Nissha Academy, in fiscal year 2016, we launched business literacy training, a short­term intensive selective program covering the basics of themes such as management, accounting, and marketing. This program also goes beyond inputting knowledge to featuring practical contents, where participants apply what they have learned to analyze the current situation of their company and discuss its challenges through group work and the creation of individual reports. Human Resources Development 38 CSR Report 2017 Programs to Promote Diversity We are working to realize the Diverse Capabilities cited in the set of Shared Values that forms our Corporate Philosophy. In fiscal year 2017, we organized training for all managerial staff themed around the expansion of women’s participation in business. This provided the opportunity for managers to understand the social background and necessity of as well as Nissha’s activities in promoting diversity and women’s advancement in the workplace, and to think about the role and empowerment of women in their respective divisions. In fiscal year 2018, we plan to expand the program to general women employees. Programs to Support Employees’ Will to Learn and Grow In addition to compulsory rank­specific education programs for general employees to managerial staff, we have introduced a voluntary “challenge program” for employees aiming for promotion to the highest ranks of the general employment level. Developed in line with our personnel system’s objective of enabling employees to select their own career path, the program provides opportunities to learn about leadership for employees with the will to step up in their career. We also offer many open­call training courses, which employees may sign up for in line with their choice of personal development theme. Examples are courses designed to foster universal business skills such as logical thinking and presentation, and to develop linguistic skills required of employees of a global company. Our correspondence courses and self­learning programs via Skype support voluntary learning by covering half the price of subsequent courses for graduates. Training Programs in Fiscal Year 2017 The total number of hours dedicated to major training programs in the Nissha Group in Japan and training hours per employee (by gender) in fiscal year 2017 are given in the table below. Male Female Total Annual training hours 17,605 7,609 25,214 Training hours per employee* 9.25 17.86 10.82 *Hours are calculated based on the number of full­time employees of the Nissha Group in Japan. Human Resources Development 39 CSR Report 2017 Respect for Diversity The Nissha Group has a set of Shared Values that serve as a code of behavior for Nissha People seeking to realize our corporate mission. One of those values, Diverse Capabilities, declares, “We respect diversity that enhances our organizational capabilities and drives growth.” To grow as a global company, we respect diverse work styles by diverse human resources, and aim to create workplaces in which all employees can perform to their full potential. Composition of Nissha People The diversity of the Nissha Group shows in our employee composition in terms of gender, age, and employment status. More than one­third of our employees work at Nissha Group companies outside Japan. Locally hired employees are appointed to upper management positions at overseas bases. This includes the CEOs of four subsidiaries served by local hires. Composition by region (Nissha Group, as of the end of March, 2017) * Employees exclude temporary employees. Respect for Diversity 40 CSR Report 2017 Composition by employment status (Nissha Group, as of the end of March, 2017) * Figures exclude directors by a delegation agreement Composition of Nissha People Corporate Managerial Employees Average years Fiscal Year Gender Directors Nissha fellows Average age officers staff (total) of employment Male 7 14 1 177 666 39.8 14.8 End of FY2013 Female 0 0 0 6 195 32.9 8.7 Male 7 13 1 182 662 40.9 15.3 End of FY2014 Female 0 0 0 6 175 33.9 9.4 Male 6 13 1 204 760 41.4 15.2 End of FY2015 Female 1 0 0 7 195 34.7 9.3 Male 6 15 1 153 610 41.1 13.7 End of FY2016 Female 1 0 0 7 180 35.0 9.8 Male 7 18 1 154 619 41.5 13.9 End of FY2017 Female 1 0 0 7 183 35.4 10.2 Note 1: Directors include independent directors. Note 2: Employees exclude temporary employees. Respect for Diversity 41 CSR Report 2017 Composition by age (Nissha Printing Co., Ltd., as of the end of March, 2017) Number of employees (Nissha Group, as of the end of March, 2017) * Figures exclude temporary employees Percentage of People with Disabilities Employed at Major Group Companies Private enterprises in Japan with 50 or more employees, as a rule, are required to employ a given percentage of people with disabilities. Nissha Group companies that fall under this category each work to meet the statutory rate. At Nissha Printing Co., Ltd., Human Resources organizes regular interviews with employees with disabilities and strives to maintain an environment where they can perform to their potential. The company also has a system for appointing permanent employees taking into consideration their disability, and assigning job coaches to support the development of potential, toward long­term employment in tune with the capabilities and circumstances of individual employees. People with disabilities accounted for 2.24% of the Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. workforce as of the end of fiscal year 2017, for a slight decrease compared to the previous year. Those employed at Nissha Printing Communications, Inc., numbered zero as of the end of fiscal year 2016, but increased to two in fiscal year 2017 for a rate of 0.69%. Each applicable group company plans to continue making efforts to meet and maintain the target statutory rate. Respect for Diversity 42 CSR Report 2017 Women employees’ participation in business Activities toward Expanding Women’s Participation in Business True to the Diverse Capabilities cited in our Shared Values, Nissha aims to be a corporate group where employees can live up to their potential regardless of nationality, gender, or age. Amid growing demand in Japanese society, we recognize women employees’ participation in business as a particularly important priority, and to this end launched a project team led by Human Resources in July 2014. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd., Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII), and Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT)—three companies are subject to the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Women’s Participation Act), which came into effect in April 2016. But our activities extend beyond these three companies across the Nissha Group as a whole. Training for Management and for Women Employees In fiscal year 2016, we kicked off our initiatives to expand women’s participation in business with training for the management and for women employees primarily in the Kyoto and Osaka areas. In fiscal year 2017, we organized sessions featuring more practical content for managers at all Nissha Group bases in Japan. Since many managerial positions in the Nissha Group are filled by male employees, training for the management included exercises covering the differences in approach to communication between men and women, and group discussions on fostering women employees. Feedback from the participants centered on, “The session helped me understand women’s thought process, and this will be useful in my communication efforts in future.” Afterward, the participants actually started drawing on the know­ how they acquired through training to communicate with women employees at their workplace. We also organized training for women employees in not only managerial but also general positions. The sessions were designed to encourage women employees to look back on their career thus far, understand their strengths at present, and create an action plan for the future with the aim of building Respect for Diversity 43 CSR Report 2017 awareness of their career path ahead. In a follow­up program, interviews were arranged between the participants and their respective superiors for the purpose of raising women employees’ sense of job fulfillment. In fiscal year 2018, we will continue organizing sessions for women employees at all Nissha Group bases in Japan. By first developing understanding of women employees in managers, and then encouraging women employees to think about their career path, both the management and the women employees in each division can engage in dialogue and practice what they have learned through training. Not merely approaching individuals but promoting communication between them thereafter—we believe this makes the training more effective. In fiscal year 2018, we plan to conduct new training for women manager candidates. Enhancement of Systems and Communication Tools In November 2016, we established a system for sharing with employees the expense of using non­ registered childcare facilities. Employees in Japan who wish to be reinstated at work after taking child­ rearing leave often have difficulty enrolling their child in day care service registered with the municipality, as mass enrollment closes in April, and the next opportunity seldom arrives before April of the following year. The system covers part of the expense of temporarily enrolling a child in a non­ registered childcare facility until an opening becomes available at a registered facility, with the aim of supporting employees’ quick reinstatement at work at the timing of their choice. Employees using the system have been reinstated at work since January 2016. In August 2016, we opened a website dedicated to introducing employees participating in business called “We are Nissha People!” It presents interviews with employees in various positions, such as men as well as women employees who achieve work­life balance, women managers, and employees working at Nissha Group bases abroad. We are Nissha People! : http://www.nissha.com/people/ *Only available in Japanese. Major Initiatives to Date Launch project team FY2015 Interview women employees Distribute Work­Life Balance Support Guidebook Open NISSHINE portal site Administer employee questionnaire FY2016 Organize forum on women’s participation in business Conduct training for management (department directors and above) Establish system for sharing the expense of using non­registered childcare facilities Open “We are Nissha People!” website for introducing employees FY2017 participating in business Conduct training for management (all managers including group leaders) Conduct career development training for women employees FY2018 (scheduled) Conduct career development training for women employees Conduct training for women manager candidates Respect for Diversity 44 CSR Report 2017 Deliberate on system for reinstating employees who have retired due to their spouse’s job transfer Declaration on Action by a Group of Male Leaders who will Create a Society in which Women Shine In May 2017, Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. President and CEO Junya Suzuki joined the “Declaration on Action by a Group of Male Leaders who will Create a Society in which Women Shine,” supported by the Cabinet Office. On March 28, 2014, a kick­off meeting was held at the official residence of Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to support “Women who shine,” creating a nationwide movement headed by industry leaders to support women who will and do shine in various fields. Amid this movement, male leaders who had already been promoting the empowerment of women compiled the “Declaration on Action by a Group of Male Leaders who will Create a Society in which Women Shine.” Respect for Diversity 45 CSR Report 2017 Support for Diverse Work Styles The Nissha Group has many initiatives to support diverse work styles and achieve work­life balance for employees. Introduction of Flexible Work Hours We have in place flexible work hours as a mechanism in which employees can voluntarily determine their own start and finish times of the working day. The aims of the system include responding flexibly to the time difference between Japan and overseas, to deadlines, and to the busy and slow hours of the working day, and enabling employees to maintain harmony between work and life. Initially introduced in sales departments, the system was expanded gradually to other divisions and today benefits employees also in development and administration. Promotion of the Use of Paid Leave To promote the use of paid leave, we encourage employees to take two days each under our summer and winter vacation planning system. The period covered by the system was limited to summer (July–September) and winter (December–February) until fiscal year 2017. This was expanded to the full six months of the first and second halves of the year since fiscal year 2018 for further ease of use. Also, we offer a further two days in which employees may request to take paid leave on their birthday, that of a family member, or their wedding anniversary. As a result of ongoing efforts, the average paid leave taken exceeds 10 days per year. We plan to continue aiming for improvements in the percentage of paid leave used. Average days and percentage of annual paid leave used (Nissha Group in Japan) Reduction of Overtime Work We are promoting a reduction of overtime work with the aim of encouraging employees to improve their work process and the way they manage their time, and thereby achieve work­life balance. Each month, departments that had a large amount of overtime work are questioned as to the causes, future outlook, and physical condition of employees. Should any issue come to light, measures for improvement are sought between labor and management, and the findings are reflected in personnel assignment decisions. Honoring our labor­management agreement drawn up in compliance with Article 36 of the Labor Standards Act, twice a month we notify all divisions of overtime hours recorded up to that day, and further alert managers of divisions in which overtime hours are likely to exceed the limit stipulated in the agreement. As a result of efforts Support for Diverse Work Styles 46 CSR Report 2017 to raise awareness about overtime work, in fiscal year 2017 the amount of overtime work decreased by 6.1% compared to the previous year, for a continuous year­on­year reduction. The Japanese government’s guidelines for promoting work­life balance set a nationwide target of reducing the percentage of employees who work more than 60 hours per week to 5.0% by 2020. With this in mind, all Nissha Group companies in Japan are working to manage work hours on a weekly basis. In fiscal year 2018, we plan to designate two days a month for clocking out at the scheduled time in efforts to further reduce overtime hours. Child­rearing and Family Care Support We are working to expand our support systems and enable employees to have flexible work styles in the various stages of life. By drafting an action plan and executing a range of measures based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next­generation Children, many of our efforts in child­rearing support exceed statutory guidelines. Major child­rearing support systems Support system Nissha Group in Japan Statutory coverage During pregnancy (up to Shorter hours during pregnancy maternity leave before childbirth) － Up to 3 hours per day As a rule, up to 1 year old (1 year Child­rearing leave Up to 2 years old 6 months old when certain conditions are met) 5 days at the time of spouse’s Days off for spouse’s childbirth childbirth － (Special paid leave) Up to completion of elementary Up to 3 years old Shorter hours for child­rearing* school By effort: Start of elementary Up to 3 hours per day school 1 child: 5 days 2 or more children: 10 days Paid 1 child: 5 days Days off for child nursing Up to start of elementary school: 2 or more children: 10 days paid Either paid or unpaid From the first to sixth grade: unpaid Amount: 150,000 yen (for each occasion below) Period Child­rearing support fund • Birth • Start of elementary school － • Start of junior high school • Start of senior high school • Start of technical college Major family care support systems Support system Nissha Group in Japan Statutory coverage Family care leave Total 240 working days Total 93 days Support for Diverse Work Styles 47 CSR Report 2017 Support system Nissha Group in Japan Statutory coverage Three years from starting date Shorter hours for family care* Three years from starting date 3 hours per day 1 family member: 5 days 1 family member: 5 days 2 or more family members: 10 2 or more family members: 10 Days off for family care days days Paid Either paid or unpaid *We allow employees to shorten their work time by three hours. For example, employees who normally work eight­hour days may shorten their work time by three hours to five­hour days. We also have in place a system in which employees may save up to 30 days of expired leave to be used in the event of illness, either of the employee or of a family member, and for child­rearing, family care, school events, and days on which a child’s kindergarten or school is closed. Distribution of Work­Life Balance Support Guidebook To support our employees in achieving work­life balance, we created a Work­Life Balance Support Guidebook containing information on both in­house and outside systems for child­rearing and family care. The first edition was distributed to all employees in October 2014, and a revised edition in May 2017. The contents are published on the Nissha intranet since April 2015, and useful information on welfare services were added in April 2016. Kurumin Certification In 2017, Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. received “Kurumin” certification for the third consecutive term, following 2009 and 2013. Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. (NBS) received certification in 2015, followed by Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) in 2016. * Use of the Kurumin Mark is permitted for companies certified as being next­generation supportive by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare. Certification is granted to companies that draw up and implement a medium­term action plan, and submit it to their prefectural labor bureau. Kurumin Logo Status of Major Long­term Leave and Time Taken Off from Work (Nissha Group in Japan) The number of employees who used child­rearing leave, worked shorter hours for child­rearing, and took days off for child nursing are given in the graphs below. To promote participation of men employees in parenting, in fiscal year 2017, we started introducing systems related to childbirth and child­rearing for male employees who have submitted a birth certificate as well as their superiors. Various initiatives are seeing success, and the number of employees who use our child­rearing support systems is increasing year by year. Support for Diverse Work Styles 48 CSR Report 2017 Number of employees who used child­rearing leave Number of employees who worked shorter hours for child­rearing Number of employees who took days off for child nursing Reinstatement rate after child­rearing leave: Male 100%, Female 100% Reinstatement rate = Number of employees reinstated after child­rearing leave in the current fiscal year ÷ Number of employees expected to be reinstated after child­rearing leave in the current fiscal year x 100 Retention rate after child­rearing leave (1 year): Male 92%, Female 100% Support for Diverse Work Styles 49 CSR Report 2017 Retention rate = Number of employees remaining on March 31 the current fiscal year after being reinstated after child­ rearing leave in the previous fiscal year ÷ Number of employees reinstated after child­rearing leave in the previous fiscal year Number of employees who used family care leave The number of employees who used family care leave, worked shorter hours for family care, and took days off for family care are given in the table below. We are making efforts to raise employee awareness of our efforts to support diverse work styles in an aging society by distributing the Work­Life Balance Support Guidebook containing information on both in­house and outside systems for family care, and publishing the contents on the Nissha intranet. Support Gender FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 system Male 0 0 0 0 0 Family care leave Female 0 0 0 0 0 Shorter Male 0 0 0 1 1 hours for family care Female 1 0 0 0 0 Male 0 4 1 4 7 Days off for family care Female 2 2 2 4 5 Support for Reinstatement after Long­term Leave For employees reinstated at work after long­term leave due to illness or injury, we set forth the consideration to be taken by workplaces according to the condition of the employee’s health in an aim to prevent recurrence of the illness or injury and achieve a smooth return to work. We also arrange periodic consultations with an industrial physician to confirm the considerations necessary in the workplace, and have a system in which reinstated employees may shorten their work time by up to two hours per day for a period of six months. Work at Home System In fiscal year 2015, we introduced a work­at­home system with the aims of promoting harmony between employees’ work and life, and improving their work efficiency. The system enables employees living with a child before completion of elementary school and employees providing family care to work at home either on two full days a week or for a number of hours a day. In fiscal year 2017 a total of seven employees used the system (one during pregnancy, five for child­rearing, and one for family care). Outpatient Sick Leave System In fiscal year 2016, we introduced an outpatient sick leave system with the aim of supporting employees who require long­term outpatient treatment to continue working. The system enables employees with specified disorders to take 10 days off per year for treatment. One employee used the system in fiscal year 2016; the figure has increased to two since April 2016. Internal Job Posting System The Nissha Group introduced an internal job posting system in fiscal year 2012 with the aim of providing employees with the opportunity to choose their own career path as well as appoint employees to positions that reflect their aptitude and thereby enhance our organizational strength. The company posts specific job openings internally, employees who meet the criteria apply for the job of their own will, and those who pass the screening are transferred to the relevant post. Employees who have transferred through the system are playing an active role in their new division. Support for Diverse Work Styles 50 CSR Report 2017 Status of utilization Fiscal Year FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of 7 33 27 8 0 job posting Successful Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female applicants (transferees) 6 4 3 2 3 3 1 0 ­ ­ * Job openings posted twice a year up to FY2015, and once a year since FY2016 Awarding system The Nissha Group has in place various awarding systems that aim to reward praiseworthy endeavors and create a setting in which the employees responsible for the endeavors influence and motivate the company and organizations as a whole. In fiscal year 2013, we reviewed the contents of our awarding systems. From fiscal year 2013 to fiscal year 2017, as many as 416 employees received the most prestigious President’s Award, 238 employees the Top­Line Award recognizing contributors to sales expansion, and 627 employees the Nissha People Award celebrating workplace stars who epitomize our Shared Values and Code of Conduct. The awards are presented globally across the Nissha Group, with recipients including employees at overseas bases. Every two years, we also organize Technology Presentation Meetings with an eye to discovering and recognizing excellent technologies with great potential, and ultimately inspiring our engineers. Support for Diverse Work Styles 51 CSR Report 2017 Safety and Health Occupational Safety and Health Policy / Safety and Health Objectives The Nissha Group has in place a Occupational Safety and Health Policy declaring that we position the safety and health of all involved in our business activities as a top management priority. We promote thorough awareness of this policy through postings on the Nissha intranet and at each base, and draw on it as a guide for various activities. The results of our efforts are reviewed, reflected in safety and health objectives set each year, and used as a base for further initiatives. Occupational Safety and Health Policy Nissha recognizes that ensuring the safety and health of all people engaged in our business activities is a top management priority for the continuity and development of our operations, and to this end, commits to the following practices. 1. We promote the participation of all in creating comfortable workplace environments and developing sound physical and mental health. 2. We pursue Co­existence with society in compliance with relevant laws and regulations, and with the requirements agreed upon by Nissha of local communities, public institutions, and our customers. 3. We strive for continuous improvement in occupational safety and health standards through the operation of management system. This policy will be distributed widely to all people in the Nissha Group as well as released to the general public. November 6, 2014 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Safety and Health Management System / Safety and Health Subcommittee The Safety and Health Subcommittee of the CSR Committee, responsible for the safety and health activities of the Nissha Group, reports on the targets and progress of activities carried out in line with our Safety and Health Management Manual, on safety and health performance such as occurrence of work­related accidents, and on internal audits and corrective measures based on the audits. It reviews whether our management system is functioning effectively, oversees the Safety and Health Committees operated by each base, and works to standardize and upgrade initiatives throughout the Nissha Group. The Safety and Health Committees of each base consist of base representatives including a safety manager and health manager, and employee representatives selected from the labor union and from each workplace. The members meet to report on work­related accidents and corrective measures on them, and to exchange views and propose measures for improvement toward realizing a safe and comfortable workplace. Safety and Health 52 CSR Report 2017 Safety and Health Management Structure Reduction of Workplace Risks – Risk Assessment We continue in our efforts to conduct point­based evaluations of the dangers and harms that production equipment and chemical substances used in the workplace may have on workers, and to take measures starting with the highest risks. Based on the results of risk assessment, we work to identify the remaining risks and reflect them in our management efforts. In selecting materials used in our products, we have also incorporated a mechanism for evaluating the health hazards of chemical substances into the design review process toward assessing the risks to workers during mass production. Safety Patrols Members of the Safety and Health Committees of each base take the lead in conducting safety patrols of workplaces. In addition to regular monthly patrols, the heads of each base carry out special safety patrols during Japan’s national safety week in July toward enhancing workplace awareness about safety. Safety and Health 53 CSR Report 2017 Occurrence of Work­related Accidents Accidents involving workers being caught or trapped in machines increased in fiscal year 2017. The overall number of accidents decreased by 34.6% from the previous year, however, thanks to efforts toward improvement including creative use of protective equipment. A rise in accidents resulting in days of leave led to an increase in the frequency of work­related accidents. Occurrence of Work­related Accidents (Nissha Group in Japan) Item FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of work­ 21 16 17 26 17 related accidents Frequency of work­ 1.15 1.21 0.92 1.16 1.99 related accidents*1 Severity of work­ 0.06 0.00 0.04 0.02 0.02 related accidents*2 Number of working 434 16 284 139 146 days lost *1. Frequency of work­related accidents: Refers to the number of injuries and casualties resulting from work­related accidents (four or more days of leave) per one million working hours *2. Severity of work­related accidents: Refers to the severity of work­related accidents in terms of the number of working days lost per one thousand working hours Definitions from work­related accident statistics, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare * Figures for frequency of work­related accidents in FY2014, FY2015, and FY2016 have been reviewed and revised since last year’s report. Number of Work­related Accidents (Nissha Group in Japan and major overseas production bases, by gender) The number of work­related accidents at the Nissha Group in Japan and major overseas production bases in fiscal year 2017 is given in the table below. Overseas figures represent accidents that resulted in days of leave. Male Female Total Japan 14 3 17 North America 6 5 11 South America 6 0 6 Europe 6 0 6 Asia 6 1 7 Safety and Health Education and Training We provide education and training required in workplaces based on our Safety and Health Education and Management Regulations. In addition to regular programs comprising training for workplace promoters of safety and health, training in procedures for handling and assessing the risks of chemical substances, and lessons in CPR methods such as AED and chest compression in preparation for emergencies, in fiscal year 2017 we planned and organized a practice and training session inviting an exercise coach and dietician to serve as outside instructor and address the rise in Japan of accidents involving falling objects or people. Safety and Health 54 CSR Report 2017 Training for workplace promoters of safety and health Training by outside instructor Certification as Health and Productivity Management Organization (White 500) Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. was certified as a Health and Productivity Management Organization in the large enterprise category (White 500) at an announcement ceremony on February 21, 2017, co­hosted by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Certification was granted in recognition of our initiatives for promoting health­conscious activities, specifically including those posted below. We will continue to encourage the participation of all in creating safe, comfortable workplace environments and promoting sound physical and mental health. Prevention of Lifestyle Diseases We are carrying on with our efforts in exercise, diet, and smoking cessation as countermeasures for metabolic syndrome with the aim of preventing lifestyle diseases. In fiscal year 2017, we organized health courses by an industrial physician and an original event for gauging blood­vessel age toward promoting smoking cessation. In the health courses by an industrial physician, titled “Impact of cigarettes on the smoker and others,” participants learned about the health hazards of smoking, the effects of passive smoking, and Health event methods for quitting smoking. In the event for gauging blood­vessel age, employees received an explanation of their measurement results along with advice on improving dietary and lifestyle habits using a specially prepared leaflet. This proved to be a good opportunity to reflect on lifestyle habits and gain knowledge about preventing vascular diseases such as arteriosclerosis. For promoting smoking cessation, we continue to organize Smokerlyzer events to measure the level of carbon monoxide in smokers’ breath. As a high­risk approach, we further undertook measures to maintain health by recommending visits to a medical institution to employees who required either detailed examination or re­examination as a result of their health checkup, and provided specific health guidance with support from a designated medical institution to employees who required it as a result of their health checkup. Mental Health Support As part of our mental health support offering, we organize mental health classes, covering self­care and line care, by a clinical psychologist each year since fiscal year 2010, and introduced stress check surveys in fiscal year 2013 ahead of a mandatory system coming into effect in December 2015. In fiscal year 2017, we distributed a mental health self­care guide to all employees so that they can recognize and cope with stress based on their survey results. “Employee­friendly Workplace” page in Nissha internal newsletter We also continue to promote the creation of employee­friendly workplaces. In fiscal year 2015, we provided line care education about supporting the process of improving workplace environments. And in fiscal year 2016, we sought pilot workplaces for administering general checkups with the aim of creating pleasant workplaces from the bottom Safety and Health 55 CSR Report 2017 up. The checkup teams first identified the good points of each workplace, the points that require improvement, and the reasons for improvement, and then formulated a plan based on the members’ input, and set to work topic by topic. Ideas for creating employee­friendly workplaces are published in our internal newsletter to familiarize employees with the concept. In future, we plan to spread the initiative across Nissha Group companies. As for support on a personal level, we have an outside web counseling service through which a specialized counselor offers mental health advice online. Being accessible even to employees who have difficulty juggling their work schedule with an appointment, and offering the benefit of privacy protection, the service is used several times each year. For employees who work long hours, our healthcare staff and industrial physicians offer consultation to understand their health condition and work with their supervisor and the human resources division to provide required follow­up guidance. Also, for employees who require special attention in terms of mental health, we follow our Long­term Leave Regulations and offer time to recover from their condition as well as consideration in the workplace upon reinstatement, in an aim to prevent recurrence and achieve a smooth return to work. We will carry on promoting collaboration between each division, the human resources division, and our healthcare staff in efforts to create comfortable workplaces. Mental health support structure Safety and Health 56 CSR Report 2017 The Environment We strive to reduce environmental risks, prevent pollution, and create opportunities in line with our Environmental Policy that aims for “business development and the realization of a sustainable society.” The Environment 57 CSR Report 2017 Environmental Policy and Management Structures The Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee of the CSR Committee aims to practice an even higher level of management suitable to business operations of the Nissha Group. It builds and operates an environmental, safety and health management system incorporating an environmental management system based on ISO14001, a safety and health management system based on OHSAS18001, and customer requirements, and works toward continuous improvement at bases of the Nissha Group in Japan. The subcommittee comprises an environmental and safety management representative, and subcommittee members selected from each headquarters division and site. The Environmental and Safety Management Group in Corporate General Affairs functions as secretariat and operates the subcommittee under the general supervision of the management. In basic CSR, where we aim to strengthen our foundation as a corporation, the subcommittee builds and maintains a structure for conforming to global standards such as that provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). And in strategic CSR, it identifies material issues and works to resolve them. Through these activities, the subcommittee promotes risk management in the areas of environmental, safety and health, and plays a role in corporate governance across the Nissha Group. Our Environmental Policy and Occupational Safety and Health Policy aim for business development and the realization of a sustainable society. We work to familiarize these policies widely throughout the group via the Nissha intranet, and further promote the policies to all employees by posting the policies at each base of the Nissha Group. Toward achieving the Nissha environmental objectives and the Nissha safety and health objectives, which serve as group­wide medium­term goals, each factory and organization sets its own targets, and creates and implements an action plan. Environmental targets are linked to quality targets and higher­level key performance indicators (KPI) so that they relate directly to everyday tasks. Nissha Group sites in Japan obtain collective ISO14001 certification. Overseas sites obtain certification individually, and undertake initiatives to build and maintain a structure in conformance with global standards such as the EICC Code of Conduct as part of basic CSR activities. We plan to continue promoting activities for improving our efforts in environmental, safety and health into the future. Environmental Policy Nissha and its subsidiaries, as members of the global society, aim for business development and the realization of a sustainable society through environmentally conscious corporate activities. 1. Prevention of Pollution We comply with legal requirements and agreements with society, and strive to prevent environmental pollution in all aspects of our corporate activities such as product development, design, materials, production, sales, and facilities. 2. Product Safety We fulfill promises with our customers and deliver safe and environmentally conscious products. 3. Prevention of Global Warming We make a contribution to prevention of the global warming by efficient using of resources and energy. 4. Continuous Improvement We strive for continuous improvement by establishing an environmental management system and reviewing it in response to changes in the business environment. 5. Co­existence with Society We promote open dialogue with our customers, shareholders, suppliers, employees, and society Environmental Policy and Management Structures 58 CSR Report 2017 through our efforts to preserve the global environment. April 1, 2012 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co. Ltd. Continuous Improvements in the Environmental Management System (EMS) We have extended the scope of application of our EMS to not only major production bases but also small production bases and sales bases with little impact on the environment. By dividing these EMS sites into ISO14001 certification sites and non­certified sites, and checking and correcting key management items at each location, we operate an effective EMS that sets meaningful priorities in tune with the actual circumstances of each site. ISO14001 certification sites, which are also our major production bases, implement a unique risk assessment process based on environmental hazards, taking into account impact on the local community and the risks of a suspension in factory operations. The center of activities is assessment of positive risks, which we view as both environmental performance to be improved in sync with business targets and quality targets, and negative risks to be maintained, managed, and improved through environmental risk assessment. In fiscal year 2017, FIS Inc. was transferred into the scope of application of the Nissha Group EMS while maintaining its ISO14001 certification. We build and operate a leaner internal audit structure since fiscal year 2016, when we combined environmental internal audits with safety and health internal audits. Our internal audits are conducted based on the EICC Code of Conduct as well as our customers’ unique codes of conduct, which are based on that of the EICC, with the aim of building a structure for conformance with EICC throughout the Nissha Group. In fiscal year 2018, we plan to continue environmental, safety and health internal audits toward improving our performance in these areas. Nissha Environmental Management Structure Environmental Policy and Management Structures 59 CSR Report 2017 Energy Management and Environmental Communication Structures Environmental Policy and Management Structures 60 CSR Report 2017 Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement The Nissha Group environmental objectives set in April 2015 serve as medium­term objectives covering the three­year period from fiscal year 2016 to fiscal year 2018 for the Nissha Group in Japan. In fiscal year 2017, the second year of this period, each factory and relevant division aimed to achieve its individual environmental targets toward achieving the objectives of the Nissha Group in Japan as a whole. Nissha Environmental Objectives 1. Prevention of pollution Target: Zero environmental accidents (accidents that affect areas outside the factory) Reduce the possibility of environmental risks (by one risk level) by the end of fiscal year 2018 Certification sites implement measures to reduce environmental risks*1 classified as H2 or more on the hazard assessment list (make efforts to attain one risk level lower) ・The degree of severity may not change after measures are implemented in some cases ・H2 or more refers to hazards on the hazard assessment list that affect areas outside the factory ・H2 is equivalent to “maintain” in the conventional classification, and should be addressed in accordance with the designated procedure *1. The risk of environmental hazards by degree of severity and possibility, assessed in nine levels in a matrix (Risk levels from highest to lowest: VH, H1, H2, H3, H4, L1, L2, L3, VL) 2. Prevention of global warming Target: Reduce CO2 emissions rate (basic unit) by 3% or more by fiscal year 2018 Base: Average of fiscal year 2015 results Companies classified as “specified business operator” in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy implement measures listed in their medium­ to long­term plan Certification sites reduce annual CO2 emissions rate by 1% or more compared to the previous year by basic unit, derived from factors such as production volume, through improvements in work processes (efficiency) and quality ・Each organization may set KPI or quality targets as environmental targets ・Companies classified as “specific business operator” in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy use the basic unit reported under the act ・A default emission factor (0.555 kg­CO2 / kwh) is used to monitor fluctuations resulting from initiatives 3. Reduction of waste Target: Reduce waste generation rate (basic unit) by 3% or more by fiscal year 2018 Base: Average of fiscal year 2015 results (1) Control waste generation Certification sites reduce annual waste generation rate by 1% or more compared to the previous year by basic unit, derived from factors such as production volume, through improvements in work processes (efficiency) and quality ・Each organization may set KPI or quality targets (nonconforming product rate, go­through rate, etc.) as environmental targets ・Indexes need not be the same as the CO2 emissions rate basic unit (production volume may be substituted with number of items produced) (2) Promote zero emissions Bases that have achieved zero emissions work to maintain it; those that have not achieved zero emissions work to achieve it (3) Reduce cost of waste treatment Practice cost reduction by promoting multi­sourcing and resource reuse Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 61 CSR Report 2017 4. Reduction of hazardous chemical substances Target: Certification sites reduce usage rate of hazardous chemical substances Work to reduce {(usage or purchase volume) / (production volume, treatment volume, or number of units)} (Certification sites set individual targets) 5. Environment­conscious design Target: Introduce the viewpoint of energy and resource savings, durability, and recycling into the product design stage Design environment­conscious processes and reduce the environmental impact of production Results and Assessment in Fiscal Year 2017 1. Prevention of pollution Assessment Satisfactory ISO14001 certification sites are working on environmental risk management and measures to reduce environmental risks. All sites attained one risk level lower in fiscal year 2016, and have maintained this status since. Measures in fiscal year 2017 focused on the training in Results response to substance leakage and training for emergencies, on top of continuous efforts in rainwater management. As a result, following the previous year we maintained zero environmental accidents and achieved our environmental objective. 2. Prevention of global warming Assessment Poor In measures to manage CO2 emissions by basic unit, major sites of the Nissha Group in Japan combined recorded 2.00 in fiscal year 2017 (compared to fiscal year 2016 results as 1.00), not achieving our target of 0.99 or less. The result owes primarily to a change in items produced at Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory. Other sites combined, excluding the Kaga Factory, recorded 0.83, achieving our target. In a breakdown by site, NPT Himeji Factory saw dramatic improvement thanks to an increase in production volume coupled with small­group activities to boost efficiency. Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Koka Factory also improved on its target by basic unit, even with Results production volumes remaining level, owing to small­group activities to improve efficiency. Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (NPC) failed to meet its target by basic unit despite efforts to improve efficiency in line with a decrease in production volume due to the outsourcing of web offset rotary printing. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. did not meet its target due to a decrease in total floor area with upgrading work in the headquarters premises. The Environmental, Safety and Health Committee of the CSR Committee has identified management by basic unit as an initiative to carry on into fiscal year 2018 as a material issue, and will continue activities toward improvement with the goal of setting a new basic unit linked more closely to quality activities. 3. Reduction of waste Assessment Poor Results In measures to reduce waste, major sites of the Nissha Group in Japan combined recorded a waste generation rate of 1.26 in fiscal year 2017 (compared to fiscal year 2016 results as 1.00), not achieving our reduction target of 1% or more. The result owes primarily to a decline in efficiency from the change in items produced at NPT Kaga Factory. Other sites Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 62 CSR Report 2017 combined, excluding the Kaga Factory, recorded 0.91, achieving our target. By site, all with the exception of NPC achieved their target. NPC did not meet its target even though improvements in work efficiency led to a reduction in the amount of waste generated. In the promotion of zero emissions (recycling and resource reuse rate of 99.5% or more), NPT Kaga Factory is continuing and enhancing efforts to reduce the amount of wastewater sludge generated, which must be sent to landfill. Our recycling and resource reuse rate is improving steadily from 88.1% in fiscal year 2015, to 91.8% in fiscal year 2016, to 97.5% in fiscal year 2017, and we aim to achieve zero emissions in fiscal year 2018. 4. Reduction of hazardous chemical substances Assessment Unsatisfactory In measures to reduce hazardous chemical substances, NPT Himeji Factory achieved its target by basic unit by working to prolong the life cycle of developer and stripping solutions. Results NPT Kaga Factory failed to meet its target. NII Koka Factory did not meet its target despite efforts to reduce the usage rate of organic solvents such as toluene and xylene. 5. Environment­conscious design Assessment Satisfactory In a new initiative starting in fiscal year 2016, we added to our environmental objectives the concept of environment­conscious design, which introduces the viewpoint of environmental consciousness and the reduction of environmental impact into products and production Results processes. In fiscal year 2017, FIS Inc. (FIS) tentatively began using an environmental assessment sheet, and is gauging the benefits. NPT Himeji Factory embarked on the initiative of designing thinner base materials. Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 63 CSR Report 2017 Environmental Impact as a Result of Business Operations In order to grasp the impact of our business operations on the environment, we conduct surveys of resource and energy usage (input) and gas, water, and waste emissions (output). The results for the Nissha Group in fiscal year 2017 are given in the table below. Input and Output at Nissha Group Production Bases Input and environmental impact were affected in fiscal year 2017 by changes in business operations and in items produced as well as an expansion in the scope of coverage of our surveys. In a breakdown by business, Industrial Materials saw an increase in the usage of ink by about 11% and solvents by 2% at Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Koka Factory, a major production base of transfer foil. The result comes from progresses in high mix, small lot production and an increase in products involving multiple processes, such as two­step printing, although production volumes remained level. Owing to an improved yield rate, however, usage of PET and acryl film decreased by roughly 7%. Devices saw a decline of about 21% in materials used in product manufacturing processes owing to a change in items produced at Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory. Information and Communication saw a decline of some 31% in the usage of paper due to the outsourcing of web offset rotary printing at Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (NPC) Yachiyo Factory. In the Nissha Group overall, input increased about 2.7­fold in fiscal year 2017 with the addition of subsidiaries such as the AR Metallizing Group (ARM), the Graphic Controls Group, and Si­Cal Technologies, Inc. to the scope of coverage of our surveys. Paper and cardboard accounted for roughly 76% of all materials used with the addition to the Industrial Materials business of ARM, which produces mainly metallized paper. Resin materials accounted for 11% of the total, and chemical substances 5%. As for output, CO2 emissions increased by about 24% compared to the previous year for the Nissha Group overall. Environmental Impact as a Result of Business Operations 64 CSR Report 2017 INPUT OUTPUT Production bases in Japan Production bases in Japan Industrial Materials PET/acryl film 1,766t Recyclable resources Waste containing (items sold for noble metals Solvents 1,515t recycling) Metal waste Gravure Ink 1,568t Resin waste Others 198t Paper waste 4,441t Devices Materials used in product manufacturing 4,966t Recyclable resources Waste plastic processes (industrial waste) Iron scrap, waste Others 310t cans Information and Paper 14,357t Waste solvents, waste Communication ink, waste cloth Ink 171t Waste acid, alkali Others 103t Sludge, others 6,618t FIS Metallic materials 2t Waste for simple General business Resin materials 2t incineration/landfill waste Half­finished goods 31t Others (industrial waste) 280t Total for production 24,989t bases in Japan Total for production 11,339t bases in Japan Overseas production bases Overseas production bases Resin 11,041t Total waste 5,036t Molds and molding Total for overseas 66t 5,036t materials production bases Touch sensors 1t Paper 58,364t Cardboards 1,409t Aluminum 44t Chemical substances 1,180t Others 414t Total for overseas 72,519t production bases Total for Nissha 97,508t Group Including production bases in Japan and overseas Including production bases in Japan and overseas Energy Electricity 196,690MWh Emissions CO2 128,430t Gas 9,061,000m3 VOC (including volume of after Water Tap water 2,491,538m3 combustion and treatment) 1,579t Underground water 30,095m3 Wastewater 2,214,874m3 Industrial water 1,687,118m3 Environmental Impact as a Result of Business Operations 65 CSR Report 2017 Prevention of Further Global Warming Status of CO2 Emissions at Nissha In fiscal year 2017, CO2 emissions from the Nissha Group in Japan totaled 93,407t­CO2, remaining nearly level with 93,445t­CO2 in the previous year. The result comes from an increase in emissions from Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT), which scaled back mass production, and a significant decrease in emissions with the closure of Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Tsu Factory. Emissions from NPT, responsible for production in the Devices business, amounted to 63,437t­CO2 in fiscal year 2017, for a roughly 2% increase compared to 61,979t­CO2 in the previous year. Emissions from NPT Himeji Factory were 39,401t­CO2, for a year­on­year increase of 13% over 34,935t­CO2, due to an increase in production volume. This was amplified by additional emissions of 3,087t­CO2 with the launch of NPT Tsu Factory. By contrast, emissions from NPT Kaga Factory were 17,808t­CO2, for a 26% decrease from 24,099t­ CO2, owing to a change in items produced. Emissions from NPT Kyoto Factory were 3,141t­CO2 against 2,945t­CO2. Emissions from NII Koka Factory, responsible for production of existing product lines in the Industrial Materials business, amounted to 22,460t­CO2 in fiscal year 2017, for a roughly 2% decrease compared to 22,953t­CO2 in the previous year, thanks to energy­saving efforts and small­group activities to improve efficiency despite production volumes remaining level. Emissions from major overseas production bases increased significantly in fiscal year 2017, to a total of 35,023t­CO2, owing to the addition of subsidiaries such as the AR Metallizing Group, acquired in 2015, to the scope of coverage of our surveys. For the same reason, the share of emissions from production bases outside Japan surged from 10% in fiscal year 2016 to 27% in fiscal year 2017 in the Nissha Group overall. The Nissha Group emits virtually no energy­related greenhouse gases other than CO2, and their effects are minimal. Trends in CO2 Emissions Volumes and Basic Unit Prevention of Further Global Warming 66 CSR Report 2017 Trends in Energy Consumption and Basic Unit * Figures for FY2015 and FY2016 have been revised from the previous report due to a review in LPG unit conversion. Trends in Electricity Consumption Trends in Gas Consumption Prevention of Further Global Warming 67 CSR Report 2017 Trends in Gasoline, Diesel, and Heavy Oil Consumption Basic Unit Management by Production Volume and Its Issues The enactment of the revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy demands the comprehension and management of energy use per company. In order to improve our energy efficiency as well as comply with legal requirements in line with this shift, since fiscal year 2014 we manage emissions under a basic unit based on factors such as production volume per company. With 1.00 indicating the benchmark fiscal year 2016 results of each major affiliated company that constitutes a production base of the Nissha Group, we set fiscal year 2017 targets at 0.99 or less. The results are given in the table below. NPT Himeji Factory saw dramatic improvement thanks to an increase in production volume plus small­group activities to boost efficiency. NII Koka Factory also improved on its target by basic unit owing to small­group activities to save energy amid a slight increase in production volume. NPT Kaga Factory discontinued management by basic unit owing to a change in items produced, and in the second half of fiscal year 2017 worked to reduce CO2 emissions. NPT Kyoto Factory fell short of its target. Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (NPC) failed to meet its target by basic unit despite efforts to improve efficiency in line with a decrease in production volume due to outsourcing of web offset rotary printing. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. did not meet its target due to a decrease in total floor area with upgrading work in the headquarters premises. The Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee of the CSR Committee identifies the management of CO2 emissions as a material issue again in fiscal year 2018, and will continue to strive for improvement by basic unit in cooperation with each production base. Basic Unit (based on production volume etc.) FY2017 Company Evaluation FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Results Target Results Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. (Global 1.00 0.99 or less 1.05 × Headquarters, Tokyo and others) Nitec Industries, Inc. (Koka) 1.00 0.99 or less 0.97 ○ Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. 1.00 0.99 or less 0.70 ○ (Himeji) Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. 1.00 0.99 or less 2.38 × (Kaga) Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. 1.00 0.99 or less 1.08 × (Kyoto) Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (Yachiyo, Kyoto) 1.00 0.99 or less 1.33 × Note: Figures for NPT Kaga Factory represent the first half of FY2017 Prevention of Further Global Warming 68 CSR Report 2017 Initiative in Scope 3 Management Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. has undertaken to survey Scope 3 emissions from the Nissha Group in Japan, in line with the move in recent years to report indirect emissions from companies through their supply chain. This is defined by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as Scope 3 sources and includes manufacturing, transportation, business travel, and employee commuting. The ultimate objective is to promote reduction of these emissions and improve the company’s ESG rating*. At Nissha, the Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee is leading efforts to set numerical targets toward enhancing our corporate value over the medium to long term. In fiscal year 2017, we surveyed carbon emissions from our major materials and logistics suppliers in Japan. The results confirmed emissions amounting to 16,682t­CO2 from our materials suppliers, 5,967t­CO2 from our logistics suppliers, 2,615t­CO2 from employee commuting, and 1,496t­CO2 from business travel. We plan to continue our efforts in Scope 3 management in cooperation with our suppliers. Scopes 1, 2, 3: Scopes of GHG emissions Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions through consumption of electricity, steam, or heat Scope 3: Indirect emissions other than those in Scope 2 * ESG rating: A method of evaluating companies based on environmental, social, and governance criteria Prevention of Further Global Warming 69 CSR Report 2017 Waste Management Initiatives of the Nissha Group in Japan In fiscal year 2017, the Nissha Group in Japan generated a total 11,339 tons of waste, for a reduction of about 20% compared to fiscal year 2016. The primary reason is the change in items produced at Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory, and a decline in production volume with preparations for the launch of mass production at NPT Tsu Factory. The volume of simple incineration and landfill waste amounted to 280 tons, for a reduction of roughly 76% compared to the previous year, thanks to the start of efforts at NPT Kaga Factory to recycle sludge through an improved wastewater treatment method. Our recycling and resource reuse rate was 97.5%, for an improvement of 5.7% over the previous year. We continue to fall short of achieving our zero emissions target (a recycling and resource reuse rate of 99.5% or more). With continued efforts at NPT Kaga Factory to recycle sludge through the improved wastewater treatment method, and further imprfovement in our recycling and resource reuse rate, we expect to achieve zero emissions again by the end of fiscal year 2018. Trends in Recycling and Resource Reuse (Nissha Group in Japan) Initiatives at Overseas Production Bases The Nissha Group has three production bases in Asia: Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd., Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd., and Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. Waste generated at Southern Nissha accounts for 70% of the volume of all Asian bases combined. The three bases generated a total 222 tons of waste in fiscal year 2017, for a 1.4% reduction compared to fiscal year 2016. Southern Nissha recorded a 2% decrease, Nissha Kunshan a 21.8% decrease, and Guangzhou Nissha a 3% increase. Recycling and resource reuse rates remained level on a year­on­year basis, with all Asian production bases achieving their respective targets again this year. Southern Nissha achieved a rate of 99% against a target of 90% or more, Nissha Kunshan a rate of 89% against 89% or more, and Guangzhou Nissha a rate of 74% against 72% or more. Waste Management 70 CSR Report 2017 All waste generated in Asian production bases (Guangzhou Nissha, Nissha Kunshan, Southern Nissha) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 All waste generated （tons） 256 226 207 Recycling and resource reuse rates in Asian production bases (FY2017) Targets Results Evaluation Guangzhou Nissha 72% or more 74% ○ Nissha Kunshan 88.9% or more 89% ○ Southern Nissha 90% or more 99% ○ Risk Management Related to Waste and Waste Converted in Valuable Resources We recognize largely three types of waste­related risk: Accidents and disasters caused by waste and waste converted into valuable resources (including at treatment contractors) Environmental pollution and violation of laws caused by inappropriate waste treatment Leakage of confidential information from waste and waste converted into valuable resources Based on laws and customer demand, we have created a set of Nissha Waste Management Regulations that enables all bases of the Nissha Group to manage waste safely under the same set of standards. In line with these regulations, each base has drawn up its own Waste Management Manual and makes efforts toward thorough waste separation and management. Whether a small amount of substance or a spray can, the properties of waste are checked meticulously and monitored so as to prevent spillage during transportation and accidents at treatment facilities. The regulations also stipulate the criteria for selecting waste treatment contractors and for regularly inspecting treatment facilities using a checklist original to Nissha. In addition, we have in place standards for managing waste and waste converted into valuable resources that contain confidential information, and promote management in association with our information security management system (ISMS). Waste Management 71 CSR Report 2017 Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution Measures to Help Prevent Pollution We undertake monitoring and measuring activities to prevent pollution. Based on our strict voluntary standards, we conduct periodic testing the level of atmospheric pollutants, wastewater quality, noise, and foul odor. Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Himeji Factory Measurements of Wastewater Quality Agreement value (Law FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Concerning Regulatory Special value Measures Items (Water Voluntary for Unit measured Pollution standard Conservation Control Analysis Analysis Analysis of the Evaluation Evaluation Evaluation Act) value value value Environment of the Seto Inland Sea) Discharged water 5,200 5,000 5,000 m3 5,017 △ 4,613 ○ 4,969 ○ pH 5.8 ～8.6 5.8 ～8.6 6.5 ～8.0 6.9 ～7.5 ○ 7.0 ～7.5 ○ 6.9 ～7.6 ○ BOD 120.0 10.0 9.0 mg/L 4.4 ○ 3.1 ○ 3.5 ○ COD 120.0 10.0 9.0 mg/L 8.9 ○ 4.9 ○ 4.8 ○ SS 150.0 5.0 4.5 mg/L 1.9 ○ 1.3 ○ 0.9 ○ Mineral oil n­hexane 5 derived 1.0 0.9 mg/L 0.9 ○ 0.5 ○ 0.8 ○ Vegetable substances oil 30 Phenol 5.0 0.1 0.1 mg/L < 0.005 ○ < 0.005 ○ < 0.005 ○ Copper 3.00 0.50 0.40 mg/L 0.05 ○ 0.01 ○ 0.05 ○ Zinc 2.00 1.50 1.20 mg/L 0.01 ○ 0.01 ○ 0.02 ○ Soluble 10.00 0.15 0.08 mg/L 0.02 ○ 0.02 ○ 0.02 ○ iron Soluble manganese 10.000 0.050 0.045 mg/L 0.040 ○ 0.040 ○ 0.050 △ Chromium 2.00 0.02 0.02 mg/L < 0.02 ○ < 0.02 ○ < 0.02 ○ Nitrogen 60.0 10.0 9.0 mg/L 8.0 ○ 3.6 △ 4.2 ○ Phosphorus 8.00 1.00 0.45 mg/L 0.25 ○ 0.02 ○ 0.02 ○ Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 72 CSR Report 2017 Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory Measurements of Wastewater Quality FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Regulatory Voluntary Items measured value Unit Final Final standard (Prefecture) Fab3 Fab5 Fab3 Fab5 effluent effluent (Average) (Maximum) pH 5.8 ～8.6 6.2 ～8.2 7.6 ○ 8.0 ○ 7.5 ○ ­ ­ 7.4 ○ 7.7 ○ BOD 160 or less 40 or less mg/L 22.8 ○ 29.6 ○ 32.0 ○ ­ ­ 7.5 ○ 27.0 ○ COD 160 or less 80 or less mg/L 24.6 ○ 33.8 ○ 39.0 ○ ­ ­ 9.1 ○ 26.0 ○ SS 200 or less 20 or less mg/L 4.3 ○ 10.0 ○ 4.4 ○ ­ ­ 2.6 ○ 4.2 ○ n­hexane derived 30.0 15 or less mg/L 1.0 ○ 1.4 ○ 0.5 ○ ­ ­ 0.5 ○ 0.5 ○ substances *Final effluent from Fab 3 and Fab 5 was integrated since FY 2016. Management of Chemical Substances In fiscal year 2017, we reported the use of nine PRTR­designated chemical substances. Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Koka Factory Unit: kg FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Volume Volume Volume Name of PRTR Discharge transferred to Reporting Discharge transferred to Reporting Discharge transferred Reporting chemical No. volume into industrial required / volume into industrial required / volume into to industrial required / substance the waste not the waste not the waste not atmosphere processing required atmosphere processing required atmosphere processing required companies companies companies 53 Ethylbenzene 1,700 580 ○ 3,100 820 ○ 4,300 1,000 ○ 80 Xylene 17,000 5,500 ○ 25,000 6,500 ○ 25,000 6,400 ○ Hexavalent 88 chromium 0.1 0.0 ○ 0.1 0.0 ○ 0.1 0.0 ○ compounds 1,2,4­ 296 ­ ­ ○ 750 470 ○ 1,300 530 ○ Trimethylbenzend 300 Toluene 140,000 7,800 ○ 200,000 120,000 ○ 83,000 48,000 ○ 392 N­hexane 4,500 2,600 ○ 8,500 5,400 ○ 5,300 3,000 ○ Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 73 CSR Report 2017 Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Tsu Factory Unit: kg FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Volume Name of Volume Volume PRTR Discharge Reporting Discharge Reporting Discharge transferred to Reporting chemical transferred to transferred to No. volume into required / volume into required / volume into industrial required / substance industrial waste industrial waste the not the not the waste not processing processing atmosphere required atmosphere required atmosphere processing required companies companies companies 53 Ethylbenzene 250 2,500 ○ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 80 Xylene 210 2,100 ○ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ Hexavalent 88 chromium 0.1 0.1 ○ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ compounds 300 Toluene 980 9,900 ○ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ *NII Tsu Factory closed on June 30, 2016. Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Himeji Factory Unit: kg FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Volume Volume Name of Volume PRTR Discharge Reporting Discharge transferred to Reporting Discharge transferred Reporting chemical transferred to No. volume into required / volume into industrial required / volume into to industrial required / substance industrial waste the not the waste not the waste not processing atmosphere required atmosphere processing required atmosphere processing required companies companies companies Ferric 71 0.0 0 ○ 0.0 0 ○ 0.0 0 ○ chloride Water­ soluble 272 copper salts 0.0 2,000.0 ○ 0.0 1,700.0 ○ 0.0 330 ○ (excluding complex salt) Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 74 CSR Report 2017 Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory Unit: kg FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Volume Volume Name of Volume PRTR Discharge Reporting Discharge transferred to Reporting Discharge transferred Reporting chemical transferred to No. volume into required / volume into industrial required / volume into to industrial required / substance industrial waste the not the waste not the waste not processing atmosphere required atmosphere processing required atmosphere processing required companies companies companies Silver and its compounds 82 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ (water soluble) Ferric 71 0.0 0.0 ○ 0.0 0.0 ○ 0.0 0.0 ○ chloride Water­soluble copper salts 272 0.0 0.0 ○ 0.0 0.0 ○ 0.0 0.0 ○ (excluding complex salt) Molybdenum 453 and its ­ ­ ­ 0.0 0.0 ○ ­ ­ ­ compounds Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 75 CSR Report 2017 Status of Waste Generation at Bases Status of Waste Generation at Major Production Bases (March 2017 Results) Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Koka Factory Location: Koka City, Shiga Prefecture Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification: June 2007 Production items: Transfer foils (the Industrial Materials business) Recycling and resource reuse rate: 100％ Status of Waste Generation at Bases 76 CSR Report 2017 Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Himeji Factory Location: Himeji City, Hyogo Prefecture Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification: March 2014 Production items: Touch sensors (the Devices business) Recycling and resource reuse rate: 99.9% Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory Location: Kaga City, Ishikawa Prefecture Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification: March 2014 Production items: Touch sensors (the Devices business) Recycling and resource reuse rate: 75.6% Status of Waste Generation at Bases 77 CSR Report 2017 Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (NPC) Yachiyo Factory Location: Yachiyo City, Chiba Prefecture Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification: December 2004 Production items: Printing and binding of books, catalogs, leaflets, etc., using sheet offset press (the Information and Communication business) Recycling and resource reuse rate: 97.5% Status of Waste Generation at Bases 78 CSR Report 2017 Fair Operating Practices We address various challenges not only in-house but also in cooperation with our suppliers, with the aim of enhancing our corporate value and being a Nissha that our customers will feel safe in choosing. Fair Operating Practices 79 CSR Report 2017 Initiatives Related to Information Security The spread of the Internet and the broad use of devices such as smartphones have ushered in a convenient era in which anyone can connect with the online community easily at all times. On the other hand, with cyberattacks, email spoofing, and other crimes against information security growing rampant and ever more advanced, the risks are increasing of everyone becoming either a victim or perpetrator of information leakage. We at the Nissha Group recognize the paramount importance of not leaking outside the company or beyond related parties information about our employees, personal information, and information entrusted to us by our customers and suppliers, particularly highly confidential information assets such as information on new products and state­of­the­art technologies. All our employees adhere to our Information Security Policy, which we drew up in and implement since 2005 with the aim of building a highly reliable and safe information security management system (ISMS). Information Security Policy Nissha and its subsidiaries committed to establish, maintain, and improve highly reliable and secure an information security management system to protect our own business information and the information assets, which we acquire from customers, suppliers and employees, etc., through our business activities performed, from any kinds of threat. And we take internal and external information security requirements into consideration and reduce all risks below the acceptable levels. 1. We continually improve an Information security management system by establishing, implementing, and reviewing the information security objectives, so that the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information can be maintained and improved. 2. We comply with legal and regulatory requirements for information security and with contractual security obligation. 3. We establish and improve the criteria for reasonably evaluating risks concerning information security as well as the risk assessment methods, to mitigate risks and to maintain the information security levels which contributes to the corporate developments. 4. We make Information Security Policy known to all employees working in the premises of Nissha and its subsidiaries to raise their awareness of the issues related to information security. July 1, 2013 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Information Security Management Structure We have in place an Information Security Subcommittee of the CSR Committee to serve as a center for the promotion of information security. The subcommittee is run by an ISMS management representative (the Chief Information Officer, or CIO) and comprises information security managers and promoters selected from each department. An ISMS secretariat set up within the IT Department functions as the subcommittee secretariat. The subcommittee plays an important role in the promotion of our ISMS by addressing issues that have become evident as well as reporting and sharing the results and challenges of initiatives related to information security. Initiatives Related to Information Security 80 CSR Report 2017 Management Structure Initiatives in Information Security Management Rapid advances in information technology and the diversification and spread of IT devices pose not only conventional security risks such as information leakage and tampering caused by virus infection and cyberattacks, but also the risks of casual posts, tweets, rumors, reviews on social media harming a company’s image and its brand value. Companies today are required to address such risks to their trust from society. Moreover, with the swift global popularization of bring­your­own­device (BYOD), companies are required to manage a broader range of information appliances, beyond company­issued computers to personally owned devices used at work. Dealing with these risks appropriately and promptly is considered a corporate social responsibility. (Nissha supports BYOD since December 16, 2013.) At the Nissha Group, we work to maintain and improve our ISMS by naming the Chief Information Officer (CIO) as ISMS management representative of an ISMS secretariat established within the IT Department, and selecting information security managers and promoters from each department to promote thorough operation of our ISMS. We also organize regular reviews by top management, ISMS internal audits, and ISO 27001 screenings by an outside examination institute, recognizing these as good opportunities for improving our ISMS. Information Security Education Preventing the occurrence of information security incidents and accidents requires the formulation of policies and regulations, and more importantly, that all employees take disciplined action with sufficient awareness of information security. At the Nissha Group, we provide education based on an Information Security Self­Defense Guide (SDG) that reflects the contents of our Information Security Policy toward ensuring thorough understanding of information security in all Nissha People. ISO27001 Certification The Nissha Group has obtained ISO27001 certification, a global standard for ISMS, and worked to expand the scope of application across bases and divisions. At present, our focus is on global expansion of compliance with ISO27001 requirements. Initiatives Related to Information Security 81 CSR Report 2017 Trade Management Trade Management Structure We at Nissha earned 73.9% of our sales outside Japan in fiscal year 2017. For a company like us, efforts in trade management are essential for business continuity. Furthermore, 85% of our customers demand security trade control, according to a survey conducted in August 2016. Customer demand for trade management Full­scale trade management at the Nissha Group in Japan started with the launch of the Trade Administration and Control Committee in 2011. Initiatives were passed on in 2016 to the Trade Administration and Control Subcommittee, under the framework of the CSR Committee. The Trade Administration and Control Subcommittee, headed by the corporate officer responsible for Corporate Supply Chain Management, oversees the entire Nissha Group. In Japan, thorough management in daily operations is assigned to subcommittee members and division managers at each business division, corporate division, and affiliated company. Outside Japan, where legal systems and business practices vary by country and region, oversight is assigned to trade management representatives at each base. Trade Management 82 CSR Report 2017 Trade Administration and Control Subcommittee Trade Management Policy Nissha and its subsidiaries comply with legal requirements and agreements in trade and strive for continuous improvements in the trade management system in order to pursue a mutually trustful Co­ existence with society. 1. We comply with applicable trade control laws and regulations in each country and region, and with international regimes. 2. We designate a person responsible for trade management, and develop, maintain and improve the trade management system. 3. We pursue good trusting relationships with official agencies in each country and region and international logistics companies etc. 4. We provide necessary education on trade to employees and other parties concerned. October 1, 2016 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co. Ltd. AEO Approval Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. obtained approval as an AEO Exporter in June 2014, and as an AEO Importer in June 2015. In May 2016, we received our first post­audit and maintained our status as AEO Exporter. As of May 2016, 57 companies in Japan are approved as both AEO Importer and AEO Exporter. Being one of these companies with dual approval, we have in place a system for safe and smooth international logistics. Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd., based in Malaysia, obtained approval as both an AEO Exporter and an AEO Importer in October 2014. Trade Management 83 CSR Report 2017 Fiscal Year 2017 Initiatives and Future Challenges In order to keep pace with our enthusiastic M&A activity outside Japan in recent years, fiscal year 2017, we accelerated efforts to fortify the trade management structure of overseas affiliated companies. Having surveyed the latest status of trade management, we used our structure and rules in Japan as a model and formulated a basic policy and basic regulations on trade management covering the Nissha Group as a whole, including companies abroad. Moving forward, we will work toward thorough implementation of the policy and rules at group companies outside Japan, excluding Southern Nissha, which has approval as both an AEO Exporter and an AEO Importer, and aim to improve our level of trade management. In Japan, we revised the internal compliance program and bylaws we are required by customs to formulate, and continue in our efforts to ensure appropriate trade management and enhance employee awareness of security through group­wide rank­specific education programs. By conducting internal audits and providing guidance to shipping divisions, we are working to ensure higher levels of safety and operational quality, as well as to promote a strengthening of compliance, toward offering safe, secure, and speedy international logistics services that meet our customers’ needs. Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Program Reinforced security measures are a major requirement in international logistics in recent years. Amid the increase in international logistics, ensuring both trade security and smooth logistics is a great challenge. The AEO program seeks to address this challenge by fostering partnerships between customs and private businesses. AEO operators, approved for their security management and compliance structures, are given benefits such as simplified customs procedures in accordance with international standards. Trade Management 84 CSR Report 2017 Initiatives Related to Intellectual Property Approach to Intellectual Property Nissha Printing raises the protection of intellectual property in our Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance as one of the key items, and we make active efforts to respect the intellectual property of third parties and to obtain rights for and use that of our own. Intellectual Property Management acts as the central body for protecting intellectual property. With the aim of expanding the performance of business units and ensuring a competitive advantage for new businesses, it works to establish intellectual property strategies for the entire Nissha Group and meet internal needs to secure intellectual property rights. Basic policy for protection of intellectual property (from the Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance) 1. We will acknowledge the importance of our technologies and brands as intellectual property and will undertake their appropriate management. 2. We will report any invention arising through our business operations in accordance with our Company regulations. 3. We will strive to avoid the breach of third­party intellectual property rights. Contents of Initiatives Promotion of Patent Application We aim to file for patent application and obtain rights for new technologies developed in our development divisions. To respond to the increasing globalization of our business activities, this requires us to file for application not only in Japan but also abroad. The promotion of technology development and the obtaining of patent rights help to differentiate Nissha products, made with our own distinctive technologies, from other companies’ products. This in turn puts a check on the inappropriate use of other companies’ technologies, helping also to reduce intellectual property­related risks in connection with Nissha products for our customers. Monitoring of Other Companies’ Patents We periodically research and continuously monitor other companies’ patents so that Nissha products do not infringe others’ patent rights. For monitoring, we input subjects as research criteria in a patent database and obtain results on a regular basis using a selective dissemination of information (SDI) system. Intellectual Property Training Programs We organize internal training programs so that employees may deepen their understanding of and properly protect intellectual property. In fiscal year 2016, we invited an outside specialist to conduct sessions divided into four levels—introductory, basic, advanced, and practical research—in which participants learned in detail about intellectual property law, how to research other companies’ patents, and promoting technology development and filing for patent application. We also hold sessions in which a member of Intellectual Property Management serves as instructor. Intellectual property training program Instructor: Mr. Tatsushi Gocho, Patent Attorney, Associate Professor of Osaka Institute of Technology Commissioned organizer: CKS Corporation Initiatives Related to Intellectual Property 85 CSR Report 2017 Partnership with Our Suppliers We at Nissha procure the raw materials, components, equipment, and services necessary for making our products from the global market. We work with our suppliers that constitute this supply chain to promote CSR procurement based on our Basic Purchasing Policy toward realizing co­existence, sharing awareness of our social responsibility, and enhancing mutual corporate value. Basic Purchasing Policy For the achievement of the Corporate Mission, We are committed to pursuing a mutually trustful Co­ existence with society through our business activities utilizing a unique technology development, based on PRINTING as a core. , we at Nissha are always committed to creating enterprise value by establishing the partnership for co­existence and co­prosperity with suppliers and carrying out mutually fair procurement. We at Nissha evaluate suppliers impartially, fairly and comprehensively, based on the following points. 1. Stable business foundation and reliable business attitude 2. Excellent technology development and supply abilities 3. Flexibility to adapt to changes in the business environment 4. Safety of products and services, stable quality and lead time and competitive prices 5. Supply chain management aimed for business continuation We at Nissha promote CSR procurement by working with suppliers on the following points. 1. Labor 2. Health and Safety 3. Environment 4. Ethics 5. Information Security Establishment April 2, 2009 Amendment June 30, 2015 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Partnership with Our Suppliers 86 CSR Report 2017 Basic Approach to CSR Procurement Promotion Expansion of Our Supply Chain We collaborate with various suppliers in conducting our business activities. In fiscal year 2016, we concluded a capital and business alliance contract and a production consignment contract in our Information and Communications business with Kyodo Printing Co., Ltd. Supply Chain of the Industrial Materials and Divices Businesses Supply Chain of the Information and Communication Business Partnership with Our Suppliers 87 CSR Report 2017 CSR Supplier Audits We conduct CSR audits on our suppliers. The audits cover five areas— labor, health and safety, environmental, ethics, and management system—drawing on the global code of conduct provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and on our customers’ own code of conduct based on this EICC template. Prior to auditing, we organize a CSR procurement briefing to explain our CSR Procurement Guidelines, and distribute an environmental, social, and governance (ESG) check sheet for the supplier to complete. The audit process consists of an inspection of the supplier’s employment regulations and time cards, tours of the site premises including the clean room, and interviews with employees. In the event the audit uncovers any instances of noncompliance, the supplier is required to establish corrective action (CA) and preventive action (PA) on the findings. From fiscal year 2015 onward, we carry out audits focusing on particularly important suppliers and new suppliers. In fiscal year 2017, we conducted audits at five materials suppliers of the Devices business and the Industrial Materials business. This combined with the nine companies audited to date brings the total to 14, representing about 80% of the total value of goods procured from our top 30 suppliers. The audits detected a total of 167 instances of noncompliance (68 related to labor and human rights, 53 to safety and health, 29 to the environment, 12 to ethics, and 5 to management system). In several cases, Nissha employees visited the site to explain the proper response to revisions in legislation and provide support to remedy the situation. Roughly three months later, auditors checked that CA and PA have been taken and the noncompliance has been remedied, bringing the CSR audit to completion. We plan to continue with CSR audits at particularly important suppliers in the future. In fiscal year 2018, we plan to conduct audits at companies to which we dispatch Nissha employees. Items of CSR Procurement Guideline 1. Labor and human rights 1) Freely chosen employment 2) Young workers 3) Working hours 4) Wages and benefits 5) Humane treatment 6) Non­discrimination 7) Freedom of association 2. Health and safety 1) Occupational safety 2) Emergency preparedness 3) Occupational injury and illness 4) Industrial hygiene 5) Physically demanding work 6) Machine safeguarding 7) Sanitation, food, and housing 8) Health and safety communication 3. The environment 1) Environmental permits and reporting 2) Pollution prevention and resource reduction 3) Hazardous substances 4) Wastewater and solid waste 5) Air emissions 6) Materials restrictions 7) Storm water management 8) Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 4. Ethics 1) Business integrity 2) No improper advantage 3) Disclosure of information 4) Intellectual property Partnership with Our Suppliers 88 CSR Report 2017 5) Fair business, advertising and competition 6) Protection of identity and non­retaliation 7) Responsible sourcing of minerals 5. Information Security 1) Building of information management system 2) Prevention of leakage of confidential information about our customers and third parties 3) Defense against a computer and network threat, and management of electronic device and recording medium 4) Prevention of leakage of personal information. Fields of ESG check sheet 1. Certification 2. Labor and human rights 3. Health and safety 4. Environmental management 5. Information security management 6. Corporate ethics and compliance 7. Management system Development of Procurement Personnel We make continuous efforts to educate procurement personnel and promote transactions with our suppliers based on fairness, impartiality, and integrity in line with our Basic Purchasing Policy. Fiscal Year 2017 Initiatives 1. Basic course in the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds We invited an outside instructor and organized sessions at five bases. The course attracted many participants even from outside procurement divisions, suggesting a higher level of interest from our employees than last year. Following training, we gave the participants a test and provided feedback of the scores along with a Basic course (Headquarters) recap, ensuring that knowledge gained through the training took root in the employees’ minds. This year we provided notification of the course and organized private lessons particularly for engineering and development divisions, with an eye to enhancing awareness. 2. Tips on the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds We sent five monthly emails to strengthen recognition of the act in all members of procurement divisions as well as interested members of other divisions. The emails consisted of selected excerpts relevant to Nissha, plus case studies. 3. Training for new procurement personnel We conducted training for employees new to procurement divisions, covering our Basic Purchasing Policy, the importance of compliance, and the knowledge and mindset essential to procurement personnel. 4. Procurement program Last year we developed a program with the aim of fostering next­generation leaders of procurement divisions. In fiscal year 2017, we invited an outside instructor to conduct six monthly sessions around the theme of improving quality, cost, delivery (QCD) together with our suppliers. The semester concluded in January with a presentation of achievements. Partnership with Our Suppliers 89 CSR Report 2017 Program Participation Lecture/Training Participants in FY2017 Basic course 355 (total of 5 bases) Training for new procurement personnel 7 (100% attendance) Procurement program 72 (total) Partnership with Our Suppliers 90 CSR Report 2017 Initiatives Related to Conflict Minerals The major conflict minerals used in Nissha Group products include tin used in some decoration films and in ITO film*1 for touch panels, and gold used in FPC*2 plating. We investigate all of the materials that make up our products using a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) and identify those that contain conflict minerals. Further, we ask our materials suppliers not to source minerals produced by smelters not identified as conflict free. In fiscal year 2017, we expanded the scope of our investigation to the products of companies new to the Nissha Group. In future, we will continue our efforts to engage in minerals procurement with integrity in line with our Underlying Philosophy Concerning Corporate Responsibility for Minerals Procurement. Underlying Philosophy Concerning Corporate Responsibility for Minerals Procurement The Nissha group is deeply concerned that a portion of the conflict minerals extracted by the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighboring countries are being used as a source of funding for militia that through acts of looting, violence and forced labor are infringing on fundamental human rights. In April 2012, Nissha became a signatory to the “Global Compact” as advocated by the United Nations. We at Nissha have fully embraced the Ten Principles stated in the Global Compact as a cornerstone of our Corporate Mission. Based upon our recognition of the importance of these principles and aiming for co­existence with our stakeholders, we are committed to non­use of these conflict minerals, as raw materials in our products as they result in an infringement of basic human rights. Accordingly where our company becomes aware of the use of any conflict minerals, we will immediately implement all measures required regarding that use. 1. Nissha is presently implementing ongoing control systems for conflict minerals which we maintain continuously. 2. Nissha will promptly provide to its customers conflict minerals information including its smelters, etc. 3. Nissha in respect of this issue will publish the relevant information in its CSR reports. We will continue to make sincere efforts for the responsible procurement of related minerals in order to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. March 12, 2014 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. *1. ITO film: Film with a transparent conducting coating of indium tin oxide (ITO). *2. FPC: Flexible printed circuits (FPC) that maintain their electrical properties when flexed. Initiatives Related to Conflict Minerals 91 CSR Report 2017 Initiatives Related to Anti­corruption The United Nations Global Compact to which Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. is a signatory lists anti­corruption as its 10th principle. And in recent years, global society has seen a tightening of controls pursuant to anti­corruption legislation including the United States’ Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act. We at Nissha have also seen a rise in demand to follow anti­corruption provisions set forth in the codes of conduct provided both by our customers and by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). The Nissha Group cites prohibition of corrupt practices as an important point of our Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance. In fiscal year 2017, we organized corporate ethics and compliance training, including the prohibition of corrupt practices, for managers at bases outside Japan (78% attendance). We also confirmed the status of corrupt practices in the Nissha Group through a questionnaire distributed to employees at overseas bases. These efforts are reflected in the Nissha Anti­Corruption Guidelines, formulated on April 1, 2017. We plan to continue keeping an eye on movements in the global community as well as the situation in the Nissha Group, and will review the contents of our initiatives as the need arises. Nissha Anti­Corruption Guidelines The Nissha Group works to realize “mutually trustful Co­existence with society” by making clear that all officers and employees are prohibited from presenting customers, suppliers, and government officials, either directly or indirectly, with gifts or entertainment that may constitute corrupt practice, and by observing Japan’s Unfair Competition Prevention Act, the United States’ Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act, and the regulations of other countries and regions regarding anti­ corruption. 1. We neither present to nor accept from customers, suppliers, and government officials offers of unfair advantage. 2. We neither present to nor accept from customers, suppliers, and government officials offers with gifts or entertainment that exceed the limit permitted by internal standards, laws, and regulations. 3. We strive to understand the circumstances of the Nissha Group overall, and periodically review our initiatives. 4. We respond with sincerity to requests from our customers for cooperation in investigations, by providing necessary information. April 1, 2017 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co. Ltd. Initiatives Related to Anti-corruption 92 CSR Report 2017 Consumer Issues With the aim of providing products and services that satisfy and meet the needs of our customers, we make active eﬀorts to improve quality following our Quality Policy. Consumer Issues 93 CSR Report 2017 Consumer Issues Responsibility to Our Customers / Quality­related Initiatives We at Nissha strive daily to improve quality, based on our Quality Policy, so that we may provide products and services that satisfy and meet the needs of our customers. Quality Policy Nissha and its subsidiaries are committed to contributing widely to society through customer’s trust and satisfaction of quality, cost, delivery, services and speed. 1. We aim for quality that stands up to the customer’s expectations. 2. We pursue Zero Defects in our products. 3. We provide products which satisfy customer requirements and conform to relevant legislation and regulations. 4. We establish and maintain a quality management system, and continually improve its effectiveness. April 1, 2011 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Quality Management System (QMS) We operate a quality management system that meets the requirements of international standard ISO 9001:2008, and promote improvements in quality under our comprehensive quality assurance initiative Nissha Total Quality Management (NTQM). We are also working to obtain ISO/TS 16949 certification, covering the quality management system in the automotive industry. The first Nissha Group companies to obtain certification for touch sensor modules were Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. (in January 2016), Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd. (February 2017), and Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. Kyoto Factory (March). With Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. obtaining a Class 2 medical devices marketing license, and FIS Inc. becoming a registered medical device manufacturer of Hyogo Prefecture, both in April 2017, we are making steady efforts to build a quality assurance structure that fits our new business segments. Consumer Issues 94 CSR Report 2017 Quality Assurance Structure Nissha Total Quality Management (NTQM) NTQM clarifies the procedures followed at each business unit, such as design reviews (DR), reliability tests, and supplier management. We believe that improving the accuracy of these procedures will enable us to provide products and services with even higher levels of quality and safety. Five Musts for the Systematization of Work In fiscal year 2012, we set forth Five Musts for the Systemization of Work, a concept we are working to communicate company­wide through training and our internal newsletter. Five Musts for the Systematization of Work 1. Standardize work. Standardization clarifies the required input, as well as the work you have to perform. 2. First of all, check the input. Begin your work by checking for any fault in input. 3. Incorporate the customer viewpoint into the output. Not only customers for the Company, but your immediate customers, internal and external. In your work, you must aim at an output that meets QCDS from all your customers. 4. Reinforce the system using human factors. Human factors should be used to cover those areas of work which cannot be covered by the system alone. Your communication and teamwork will reinforce the system. 5. Make continuous efforts to improve the system. The system must be established and implemented continuously. Continuous implementation results in further improvement of the system, as well as that of the quality of our work and the Company. *QCDS: Initial of Quality, Cost, Delivery, Service, the index for product evaluation. Consumer Issues 95 CSR Report 2017 Quality Slogan Taking action with a strong awareness of the customer is essential to quality improvement. All Nissha employees are required to perform their daily duties with a sense of responsibility, and create quality in the eyes of the customer. To this end, in April 2017 we established the quality slogan given above. The Japanese have a maxim that reads, “the next process is the customer.” The “me” in the slogan says each employee should take on a leading role in delivering quality to the customer. And this “customer” may be external customers of the Nissha Group or internal workers in the production process following one’s own. The slogan will be communicated thoroughly across Nissha Group companies both in and outside Japan. Company­wide Optimization We at Nissha promote the recognition of ties between one’s own department and others’, and even ties between work processes across the whole company, in terms of “input” and “output.” Hence we stress the importance of links between internal processes and the orderly division of roles. By having all employees stand in the customers’ shoes, we aim to break free of department­based optimization and strive for company­wide optimization. We believe that basic concepts like this and the sorting out of functions will build Nissha’s foundation as a manufacturing company. Continuous Improvement The accumulation of bits of insight and ingenuity from all employees is the source of great improvements in work processes. This approach forms the foundation of Nissha’s small­group activities and improvement proposal system. We recognize these as important mechanisms to work on and develop across the Nissha Group. We also plan and execute various education programs on a continuous basis. Underpinning our enthusiasm about human resources development are the ideas that the quality of people plus the quality of work equals the quality of the company, and employees are our most important management resources. Our activities aim to establish three practices and ultimately realize customer satisfaction: one, always incorporate creativity into work processes; two, base judgment on data (facts); and three, use the plan­do­ check­act (PDCA) cycle to make continuous improvement. Training 1) General quality training (for first­, second­, and third­year employees, new managerial staff, managers, and overseas transferees) 2) Management system training (ISO 9001:2008, ISO/TS 16949:2009, and core tools) 3) Quality control training (QC Exam levels 3 and 4) 4) Quality methodology training (statistical methods, experimental design, Consumer Issues 96 CSR Report 2017 Taguchi methods, etc.) 5) Improvement tool training (industrial engineering, production­sales­inventory (PSI), human error prevention, “5 Whys” cause­and­effect analysis, etc.) 6) Other training (equipment maintenance, etc.) 1) Support for small­group activities Practical education 2) Nissha Academy (Monozukuri School etc.) Information sharing / Company­wide Presentation Meeting of Small­group Activities reciprocal learning Quality and Safety of Products We at Nissha provide our customers with explicit information on product usage and safety in documents such as delivery specifications. In the event a serious accident occurs as a result of flaws in our products and services, which may violate laws or regulations, we establish a CPL committee and strive for a quick resolution. We are also prepared to report the incident to government agencies in accordance with laws and to notify our customers as soon as possible. We communicate to our employees the importance of ensuring the quality and safety of products through corporate ethics and compliance training. Up to fiscal year 2017, the number of instances in which we organized a CPL committee or violated laws was zero, resulting in a fine of 0 yen. We will strive to maintain our zero violation record in the future. * CPL: Combination of contractual liability (CL) with product liability (PL) Management of Chemical Substances in Products We at Nissha have in place two sets of criteria for managing chemical substances: the Nissha Control Criteria for Chemical Substances, covering Nissha products and packaging materials, and the Nissha Control Criteria for Chemical Substances in Purchased Products, covering procured items such as primary and secondary raw materials. Both reflect the laws and regulations of relevant countries and regions, including the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation, as well as the substance­related criteria of our customers. Whenever our customers’ criteria change, we identify the differences from our criteria and work to conform to our customers’ request. Apart from this, we review our criteria once a year, making revisions as necessary, and organize briefing sessions for related divisions and our suppliers. When selecting new materials in the design and development stages, we conduct design reviews related to materials and assess compliance with our criteria. Our factories are building a mechanism for accepting materials that meet our criteria, ensuring traceability, identifying and separating noncompliant substances, and responding to issues swiftly such as through reporting in efforts to prevent misuse and contamination. Corporate Environmental and Safety Management of Corporate General Affairs functions as a secretariat and works with the product development, quality assurance, and procurement divisions of each business unit to promote management of chemical substances in products. It also carries out internal environmental audits on a regular basis to inspect the management status. This internal structure implements strict control of chemical substances from the design stage to the final product, and responds to changes in the needs of society and the demands of our customers. Consumer Issues 97 CSR Report 2017 Along with Local Communities With the aim of being a company that is needed by society, we promote active communication with local communities and conduct activities in line with our Basic Social Contribution Policy. Along with Local Communities 98 CSR Report 2017 Along with Local Communities Promoting Communication with Local Communities As a member of the global society, Nissha aims not only to fulfill its responsibilities as a corporation but also to win the trust of local communities and be a company that is needed by society. We promote communication in various ways such as by disclosing information about Nissha Group companies and business activities widely on our website, and by enhancing mutual understanding between production bases and local communities through briefing sessions on factory activities, factory tours, and social events. Our efforts also extend to cleanup activities near production sites, environmental workshops by Nissha employees at local elementary schools and nursery schools, and next generation support in collaboration with NPOs, all with the aim of realizing the “Co­existence” cited in our corporate mission. Basic Social Contribution Policy We at Nissha set forth our approach to social contribution in the Basic Social Contribution Policy. We devote our management resources to four fields we recognize as important: environmental protection, next generation support, promotion and support of arts and culture, and human support activities. Basic Social Contribution Policy Nissha and Nissha People contribute to society under the spirit of global citizenship by using their management resources effectively toward the achievement of the Corporate Mission. Main fields of contribution: environmental protection , next generation support , promotion and support of arts and culture , and human support activities . Initiatives for Next Generation Support Presentation of Nissha Printing Award at 11th Supreme Moving Toy Contest in Kyoto In the field of next generation support given in our Basic Social Contribution Policy, Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. is a sponsor of the Children’s Monodzukuri Project run by the Kyoto City Board of Education. We host a corporate booth at the Monodzukuri Hall of Fame in the Kyoto City Inquiry Learning Center for Career Education, and provide teaching materials and programs for elementary school pupils with the hope of nurturing children’s curiosity in “monozukuri,” or manufacturing. As part of these activities, we supported the 11th Supreme Moving Toy Contest in Kyoto (sponsored by the Children’s Monodzukuri Project Promotion Council, the Kyoto City Board of Education, and others), held on January 22, 2017, at Kyoto Kogakuin Senior High School. Our role was to provide educational teaching materials and run a corporate booth. The event featured a race of creative racing cars made by the children, a design and performance competition of decoration cars, and more, kindling excitement in the 1,600 visitors including some 700 elementary school pupils who filled the venue. Along with Local Communities 99 CSR Report 2017 We provided a racing car assembly kit and original stickers for the beginners’ category targeting third and fourth graders, and presented certificates of merit, trophies, and medals to top­ranking contestants as the Nissha Printing Award. Presenting of Nissha Printing Award Nissha Printing booth Environmental Workshops at Local Elementary Schools Our employees at Nissha mainly at production sites in Japan visit local elementary schools and nursery schools and conduct environmental workshops. In fiscal year 2017, workshops were held at two elementary schools in Kyoto, home to our Global Headquarters, and at two in Kaga City, Ishikawa Prefecture, home to one of our production bases. The children learn about preventing global warming, how to separate garbage, and other environmental activities closely associated with their daily lives. As a uniquely Nissha program, we introduce the secrets of printing and of touch panels with the aim of sparking interest in “monozukuri,” or manufacturing, and fostering a sense of professional values. Participants in this initiative, which started in fiscal year 2008, numbered about 4,300 children at 87 schools as of the end of March 2017. In Kyoto City, we further participate in an environmental learning program for elementary school pupils jointly organized by the Kyoto Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Kyoto City Board of Education. In March 2017, we received a letter of appreciation from the Kyoto City Board of Education in recognition of our longtime contribution to the program—10 years since 2007—during which we endeavored to raise awareness of environmental issues and stimulate interest in the environmental technologies of Kyoto­based companies. Initiative in Environmental Preservation and Community Development Participation as Judge in Kyoto Tourist Souvenirs Eco Packaging Contest In fiscal year 2017, we participated as a judge in the Kyoto Tourist Souvenirs Eco Packaging Contest (planned and operated by the Kyoto Tourist Souvenirs Eco Packaging Project), organized by the Kyoto City Waste Reduction Promotion Council. The initiative was selected as a model program for reducing waste, based on a proposal by the Kyoto citizenry. Each year Kyoto attracts as many as 56 million tourists, who take home souvenirs along with their containers and wrappers, which wind up as garbage somewhere in the world. Packaging materials should be simple and resource saving, with minimal impact on the environment; tourist to Kyoto should not be leaving with garbage—this approach won sympathy and led to the organization of the contest. Many entries came from Kyoto­based makers of traditional Japanese as well as Western confectionery. We at Nissha judged these entries from the viewpoint of a printing company, examining the recyclability of the materials and the environmental impact of the printing technologies, while also taking into account the elements of visual appeal and joy that lead to sales. Along with Local Communities 100 CSR Report 2017 We joined the initiative with the hope of conveying our passion for eco­friendly packaging to tourists from around the world who visit the city of Kyoto, home to Nissha Global Headquarters. Sponsorship of Museum Exhibitions and Art Events As part of our efforts in “promotion and support of arts and culture” cited in our Basic Social Contribution Policy, we cosponsor museum exhibitions and art events held throughout Japan. In fiscal year 2017, we cosponsored the exhibitions and events given below. Exhibition / event Schedule Venue VENICE : Five Centuries of the World's Most Alluring City from April 9, 2016 ­ June 12, 2016 Hiroshima Museum of Art the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston The Art of ZEN From Mind to Kyoto National Museum Heisei April 12, 2016 ­ May 22, 2016 Form Chishinkan Wing The 4th KYOTOGRAPHIE TORAYA Kyoto Gallery, Kyoto International Photography April 23, 2016 ­ May 22, 2016 Municipal Museum of Art Festival Annex,etc. DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS April 27, 2016 ­ June 26, 2016 Toyota Municipal Museum of Art EXHIBITION 2016 NHK Historical Drama April 29, 2016 ­ June 19, 2016 Edo­Tokyo Museum Special Exhibition “Sanadamaru” The 2nd Watercolor interchange exhibition of Fukushima and June 14, 2016 ­ June 19, 2016 The Museum of Kyoto Kansai A Journey to the Land of Tokyo National Museum, June 21, 2016 ­ September 19, Immortals: Treasures of Ancient Heiseikan Special Exhibition 2016 Greece Galleries Venetian Renaissance Paintings from the Gallerie dell’Accademia, July 13, 2016 ­ October 10, 2016 The National Art Center, Tokyo Venice The Hidden Buddha of Rakuyaji September 13, 2016 ­ December Tokyo National Museum Honkan Temple, Shiga 11, 2016 Van Gogh and Gauguin: Reality October 8, 2016 ­ December 18, Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum and Imagination 2016 The Exhibition of the Sengoku Period － A Century of Dreams November 23, 2016 ­ January 29, Edo­Tokyo Museum － 2016 THE COSMOS IN A TEA BOWL December 17, 2017 ­ February The Mational Museum of Modern : Transmitting a Secret Art Across 12, 2017 Art, Kyoto Generations of The Raku Family Alfons Mucha March 8, 2017 ­ June 5, 2017 The National Art Center, Tokyo The University Art Museum, Sesson ­A Singular Painter­ March 28, 2017 ­ May 21, 2017 Tokyo University of the Arts, Main Gallery Along with Local Communities 101 CSR Report 2017 Membership in Community Organizations We participate in various community activities with the aim of being a company that is needed by society. Organization / host Position / membership status Company registered Kyoto Chamber of Commerce Permanent member Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. and Industry Kyoto Employers’ Association Executive director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Kyoto Association of Corporate Chair Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Executives Kyoto Industrial Association Director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Printers Association of Japan Executive director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. The Japan Kanji Aptitude Testing Director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Foundation Joint management council Kyoto Institute of Technology Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. member Ritsumeikan University Business Advisory board member Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. School Nissha Foundation for Printing Representative director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Culture and Technology Japanese Society of Printing Councilor Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Science and Technology Nitec Precision and Kaga Chamber of Commerce Permanent member Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga and Industry Factory Along with Local Communities 102 CSR Report 2017 Company Outline For the company outline and further information on Nissha, please follow the links below. Company Outline View our company outline and a list of major group companies. http://www.nissha.com/english/company/outline.html What's Nissha? View our business fields and an outline of our global operations. http://www.nissha.com/english/company/business/index.html Nissha Group View the bases of our global Nissha Group network. http://www.nissha.com/english/company/office/index.html Company Outline 103 CSR Report 2017 Company Outline Name Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Global Headquarters 3 Mibu Hanai­cho, Nakagyo­ku, Kyoto 604­8551, Japan President and CEO, Junya Suzuki Chairman of the Board Founded October 6, 1929 Established December 28, 1946 Capital ¥7,664,790 thousand *as of the end of June, 2017 798 (Consolidated number of employees : 5,187) Employees *as of the end of June, 2017 Nissha is mainly developing the 4 business areas of Industrial Materials, Devices, Life Innovation and Information and Communication. At the same time, Nissha is accelerating the creation of Development for Business outline advance. >For more detail of our business, please check this link http://www.nissha.com/english/products/index.html Consolidated 57 Subsidiaries Equity Method Affiliates 4* Japan: 16 (including affiliated companies) Bases Overseas: 42 (including locally incorporated companies and equity method affiliates) Major Group 【Japan】 Companies Nitec Industries, Inc. Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. FIS Inc. SiMICS Co., Ltd. Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Nissha F8, Inc. M crossing Co., Ltd. Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. Rakuhoku Landscape, Inc. 【Overseas】 Nissha USA, Inc. Eimo Technologies, Inc. Si­Cal Technologies, Inc. PMX Technologies, S.A. de C.V. Nissha Medical International, Inc. Graphic Controls Holdings, Inc. Graphic Controls Acquisition Corp. Biomedical Innovations, Inc. Lead­Lok, Inc. Vermed, Inc. CEA Medical Manufacturing, Inc. Graphic Controls Canada Company Graphic Controls Ltd. Company Outline 104 CSR Report 2017 Crown Graphic N.V. DIA­Nielsen GmbH & Co. K.G. S.A.Societe Guyot Graphco Tyrolmed GmbH CEA Global Dominicana, S.R.L. Nissha Europe GmbH Schuster Kunststofftechnik GmbH Back Stickers GmbH Back Stickers International B.V. AR Metallizing N.V. AR Metallizing S.r.l. AR Metallizing Ltd. ARM Embalagens Ltda. Málaga Produtos Metalizados Ltda. Nissha Korea Inc. Nissha Industrial and Trading (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd. Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd. Hong Kong Nissha Co., Ltd. Taiwan Nissha Co., Ltd. Nissha Industrial and Trading Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. Nissha Flooring Industries Sdn. Bhd. Nissha Vietnam Co., Ltd. *NS Tech Co., Ltd. *TPK Film Solutions Limited *Nissha and Lens Technologies (Changsha) Company Limited Company Outline 105 CSR Report 2017 What's Nissha? Nissha's Business Fields The company’s name, Nissha Printing, may conjure up an image of a company that prints publications such as books. However its business is not only confined to that. Nissha’s Touch Sensors lead the way in touch input technology today, our surface decoration technology can change the looks from plastic to wood, we manufacture medical devices and consumable products, our hydrogen detectors has adopted in fuel cell vehicle and we develop DDS (Drug Delivery System). Nissha progress technologies since our founder started business in 1929. Global Headquarters (Kyoto, Japan) We maximize our capabilities driven by our technology, passion, and leadership to create value for the future. Developing the 4 business area Nissha is developing the 4 business segments of Industrial Materials , Devices , Life Innovation and Information and Communication . We handle decorative films and printing related materials field comprising IMD and Metallized Paper as the main products in our Industrial Materials business, and the touch input device FineTouch series and Gas Sensors in our Devices business. In our Life innovation business, we handle medical devices and consumable productsin the North and Central America and Europe and the Information and Communication business, we provide printing media and a wide range of services that support general communication strategies, on a one­stop basis. * IMD is a registered trademark or a trademark of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. * Nissha's Touch Sensor FineTouch is a registered trademark or a trademark of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. * Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. operates the Information and Communication business of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Sales breakdown by business field We have changed a method of translating performance of overseas subsidiaries and others from FY2017.The This result of Devices and Life Innovation are applied retroactively to the organization change in October 2016. What's Nissha? 106 CSR Report 2017 Globally Trusted Technology Nissha's technology is highly regarded not only by customers in Japan, but throughout the world. Nissha products are customized for each and every product provided to our customers. Our business would not be viable without the trust of our customers. Nissha's way of carrying out business is to work near to our customers throughout the world in a way that answers our customers' needs. Overseas sales have vastly surpassed domestic sales. Sales breakdown by Overseas vs. Domestic We have changed a method of translating performance of overseas subsidiaries and others from FY2017. Industrial Materials IMD, the technology to transfer both function and design on surfaces The major product of our Industrial Materials Business is IMD, which applies a range of functions and designs on products as they are formed, by enveloping them in a special transfer film during plastic injection molding. The richness of design expression that IMD brings, its functional strengths such as its ability to withstand scratches or fingerprints, and its simple production process are why IMD is held in such high regard around the world, where it is used on a wide range of everyday plastic products that IMD include automobile interior parts, consumer electronics, and smartphones. http://www.nissha.com/english/products/industrial_m/imd/index.html IMD uses not just transfer foil printing technology but mold technology, injection molding technology, and a range of others, making the Industrial Materials Business unique in possessing so many of these technologies. Our products will evolve to meet future market trends and the needs of customers around the world as we develop new printing techniques. In addition, acquiring a wide range of technologies, not just limiting to printing ones, will allow us to provide a diverse range of products and services to our customers. *IMD is a registered trademark or a trademark of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. What's Nissha? 107 CSR Report 2017 Used in the following ways Automotive interior, Smartphone, Consumer electronics, Cosmetics, Stationery and Housing equipment, etc. IMD's unique mechanisms IMD is a printing technology that allows images to be attached to three­dimensional plastic. How are we able to attach images to something that isn't flat? Nissha’s Metallized paper is used in products by approximately 300 companies in 80 countries Metallized paper is a special paper with a metallic layer vacuum deposited on the surface for decorative effect. With the appearance of metal but the properties of paper, such as biodegradability, metallized paper is garnering interest as an excellent material for environment­ friendly packaging. Nissha’s metallized paper is used widely in the labels and packaging of beverage, food, and consumer products by approximately 300 companies in 80 countries. >for more detail, please check this link. http://www.nissha.com/english/products/industrial_m/metallize.html What's Nissha? 108 CSR Report 2017 Devices Revolutionizing Sensing Technology Nissha's FineTouch leads the way in touch input technology. This technology is used in today's mobile phones, as well as in gaming and digital devices all over the world, and continues to open doors to exciting new possibilities in a long list of industries and technologies. With an eye toward future trends in the market, we are pushing the boundaries of touch­input functionality to create advanced sensing devices of superior quality. Our developments in this area include a force sensor that can detect the slightest touch with a high degree of accuracy, and a flexible transmission antenna. We are committed to supplying our customers with Flexible and Smart Devices that change the way the world works and plays. We also handle innovative Gas Sensors technology and systems combining Sensors with Wireless Technology. * FineTouch is a Nissha's Touch Sensor with outstanding accuracy and functionality. * FineTouch is a registered trademark or a trademark of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Used in the following ways Nissha makes small­to­medium­sized transparent Touch Sensors. These are largely supplied for use in smartphones, tablets and portable games gears. Touch Sensors have gained attention for their usability and fun operation . Applications are gradually spreading to a variety of other devices. We are aiming to expanding into a wide range of businesses by providing devices, services, and systems with sensing functions in addition to Touch Sensors . These will be targeted at a range of markets, including Medical Devices and Health Care, Agriculture, Education, Housing Equipment, Industrial Equipment, and Automobiles. Mobile Gaming Gear Mobile Robotic Phone Industrial Equipment Nintendo SwitchTM Nintendo Co., Ltd. RoBoHoN Sharp Corporation TC8000/TC51/TC56 Touch Computer Series *Nintendo Switch is a trademark of *RoBoHoN is a trademark of Sharp Corporation Zebra Technologies, Inc. Nintendo Co., Ltd. What's Nissha? 109 CSR Report 2017 The force sensor The force sensor is a touch sensor that detects the force of pressure (patent acquired). By identifying changes in pressure and the area covered as well as the position touched, it enables subtle input control and can reproduce even calligraphy­style brushstrokes. Applications are as diverse as ideas. The next­generation touch sensor promises broad use in a wide range of industries. >for more detail, please check this link. http://www.nissha.com/english/products/dev/force.html Gas Sensors Our gas sensor business, led by Nissha Group company FIS Inc., offers semiconductor gas sensors and applied equipment such as modules and finished products. Along with expanding into home fuel cell systems and hydrogen stations and similar infrastructure, rather than being limited to fuel cell vehicles, we are further accelerating specific initiatives to create new business fields such as for medicine or POCT. >for more detail, please check this link. http://www.nissha.com/english/products/dev/gas.html Used in the following ways Sensors for gas alarms, Sensors for air purifiers and air conditioners, Breath alcohol checkers for the prevention of drunk driving (finished product), Halitosis analyzers (finished product), Hydrogen Detectors,etc. What's Nissha? 110 CSR Report 2017 Life Innovation Contributing to Healthy and Enriched Life Life Innovation aims to contribute to safe, secure, and healthy life through business activities in the fields of medical devices business. We manufactures and sell own brand products to medical institutions, while also providing contract manufacturing services for major medical device manufacturersin the North and Central America and Europe. *These products are currently not sold in Japan. Medical Devices Brand ーVermedー Vermed manufactures and provides dependable, high quality and easy to use consumable medical products such as electrodes, medical chart paper and medical surgical devices to service hospitals in the North and Central America and Europe. Medical Devices Contract Manufacturing Brand ーBiomedical Innovationsー Biomedical Innovations is the leading contract manufacturer for innovative concept or established medical product. We design, rapid prototype and manufacture. The products are wearables, surgical instrument, etc. Information and Communication Innovating Business Through Communication Design Nissha identifies and clarifies the customers issues in communication strategies and designs communication policies to solve those issues. Nissha has a wide range of products and solution development expertise, including for Commercial Printing, Publication Printing, Sales Promotions, Web Solutions, Creative Design and Cultural Asset Art Solutions. We make full use of these, together with market research, the verification of effects, contents development and management, in order to realize overall communication policies which are adapted to the times. * Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. operates the Information and Communication business of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. What's Nissha? 111 CSR Report 2017 Service example AR application Cazasmart Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. has developed and released an AR (augmented reality) application Cazasmart which can display rich contents such as moving images and detailed information superimposedly by holding (cazasu, in Japanese) the built­in camera of a smart phone or tablet device over an image printed on a booklet, leaflet, poster, etc. We also contribute to the preservation of important cultural assets for future generations Nissha has had a close relationship to works of art and cultural assets through its printing activities. We are also involved in passing down cultural assets to future generations by utilizing our experience in the restoration and digital archiving through ultra­precision digital photography. What's Nissha? 112 CSR Report 2017 Editorial Policy The Nissha CSR Report is published annually to serve as a communication tool for building a “mutually trustful Co­existence with society,” as set forth in our corporate mission. CSR Report 2017 is compiled with the objective of disclosing widely to our stakeholders information regarding Nissha’s initiatives and performance in fiscal year 2017 (April 2016–March 2017), following the editorial policy given below. Guidelines Used as Reference ・The core option of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards ・ ・Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012, issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment Period Covered The information contained in this report, in principle, covers the period from April 2016 to March 2017. Some reporting is also done regarding activities carried out after April 2017. Publication Dates Current issue: June 2017 Next issue: March 2018 (planned) Last issue: June 2016 Scope of Reporting The information and data contained in this report focus mainly on activities conducted by the Nissha Group. Where information for the entire group is not available, the scope of reporting is indicated separately. “Nissha Printing Co., Ltd.” refers to the parent company alone. “Nissha” and “Nissha Group” refer to Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. and its group companies. “Global Headquarters” refers to the global headquarters and associated companies located within the global headquarters premises. The major affiliated companies of each Nissha business are given below. Significant activities conducted by companies in our supply chain are also included in this report. Major Affiliated Companies and Businesses Companies Major Businesses Nitec Industries, Inc. Industrial Materials Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. Devices SiMICS Co., Ltd. Devices FIS Inc. Devices Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. Information and Communication Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Information and Communication Nissha F8, Inc. Information and Communication M crossing Co., Ltd. Others Editorial Policy 113 CSR Report 2017 Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. Others Nissha USA, Inc. Industrial Materials, Devices Eimo Technologies, Inc. Industrial Materials Si­Cal Technologies, Inc. Industrial Materials PMX Technologies, S.A. de C.V. Industrial Materials Graphic Controls Acquisition Corp. Life Innovation Nissha Europe GmbH Industrial Materials, Devices Schuster Kunststofftechnik GmbH Industrial Materials Back Stickers GmbH Industrial Materials Nissha Luxembourg Holdings S.a r.l Industrial Materials AR Metallizing N.V. Industrial Materials AR Metallizing S.r.l. Industrial Materials AR Metallizing Ltd. Industrial Materials ARM Embalagens Ltda. Industrial Materials Málaga Produtos Metalizados Ltda. Industrial Materials Nissha Korea Inc. Industrial Materials, Devices Nissha Industrial and Trading (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials, Devices Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials Hong Kong Nissha Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials Taiwan Nissha Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials, Devices Nissha Industrial and Trading Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Industrial Materials Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. Industrial Materials Nissha Vietnam Co., Ltd. Devices Variations in Scope of Reporting Changes in Nissha Group companies in fiscal year 2017 and their impact on the scope of reporting are given in the table below. Date Contents Impact on scope of reporting Nissha Group company Nitec Industries, CSR Report 2017 contains information Inc. closed its Tsu Factory. (The site June 2016 on the Tsu Factory ranging primarily from became a production base of the April to June 2016. Devices business in FY2018.) Editorial Policy 114 CSR Report 2017 Date Contents Impact on scope of reporting Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. consolidated subsidiary Nissha Medical International, CSR Report 2017 contains some Inc. acquired the shares of Graphic information on Graphic Controls Controls Holdings, Inc., making the Aug. 2016 Acquisition Corp. and group companies holding company’s business company ranging from December 2016 to March Graphic Controls Acquisition Corp., 2017. along with its group companies, subsidiaries of the Nissha Group. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. consolidated subsidiary Nissha Europe GmbH CSR Report 2017 contains some acquired the shares of Schuster information on Schuster Oct. 2016 Kunststofftechnik GmbH and Back Kunststofftechnik GmbH, Back Stickers Stickers GmbH, making the companies, GmbH, and group companies ranging along with their group companies, from December 2016 to March 2017. subsidiaries of the Nissha Group. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. consolidated subsidiary Nissha Industrial and Trading Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. and Malaysian The event has no impact on the contents Jan. 2017 building materials maker Scanwolf of CSR Report 2017. Plastic Industries Sdn. Bhd. established the joint venture Nissha Flooring Industries Sdn. Bhd. Nissha Group company Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. established The event has no impact on the contents Mar. 2017 Nissha Vietnam Co., Ltd. as a base of of CSR Report 2017. the Devices business. Publishing Division and Contact for Inquiries Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. CSR, Corporate Communications Tel: +81­(0)75­811­8111 Fax: +81­(0)75­823­5344 Inquiries: Nissha website “Contact us” page http://nissha.com/english/inquiry.html Editorial Policy 115 CSR Report 2017 GRI Content Index Nissha CSR Report 2017 conforms to the core option of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. The comparison table of GRI Standards and Nissha reporting are given below. Location in CSR Pages on GRI Content Index Disclosure Report PDF General Disclosures 1. Organizational profile GRI 102 ：General 102-1 Name of the organization a. Name of the organization. Company Outline 103-105 Disclosures 2016 a. A description of the organization’s activities. Activities, brands, b. Primary brands, products, and services, including an 102-2 What's Nissha? 106-112 products, and services explanation of any products or services that are banned in certain markets. 102-3 Location of headquarters a. Location of the organization’s headquarters. Company Outline 103-105 a. Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has 102-4 Location of operations Nissha Group 103-105 significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. 102-5 Ownership and legal form a. Nature of ownership and legal form. Company Outline 103-105 a. Markets served, including: i. geographic locations where products and services 102-6 Markets served are offered; What's Nissha? 106-112 ii. sectors served; iii. types of customers and beneficiaries. a. Scale of the organization, including: i. total number of employees; ii. total number of operations; iii. net sales (for private sector organizations) or net Company Outline 103-105 102-7 Scale of the organization revenues (for public sector organizations); What's Nissha? 106-112 iv. total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v. quantity of products or services provided. 102-8 Information on employees a. Total number of employees by employment contract Respect for Diversity and other workers (permanent and temporary), by gender. ＞Composition of 40­43 b. Total number of employees by employment contract Nissha People (permanent and temporary), by region. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full­time and part­time), by gender. d. Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102­8­a, 102­8­b, and 102­8­c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or GRI Content Index 116 CSR Report 2017 agricultural industries). f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. Partnership with Our a. A description of the organization’s supply chain, Suppliers ＞Expansion including its main elements as they relate to the of Our Supply Chain 102-9 Supply chain 87 organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and * We are considering disclosure of our supply services. chain for Life Innovation business. a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and Environmental Impact Significant changes to the expansions; as a Result of 64­65 102-10 organization and its ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other Business Operations supply chain capital formation, maintenance, and alteration Editorial Policy 113-115 operations (for private sector organizations); iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. Corporate Governance ＞Risk Management 25­26 Environmental Policy and Management 102-11 Precautionary Principle or a. Whether and how the organization applies the Structures ＞ approach Precautionary Principle or approach. Continuous 59­60 Improvements in the Environmental Management System (EMS) a. A list of externally­developed economic, CEO Message 2­3 102-12 External initiatives environmental and social charters, principles, or other Nissha’s CSR United＞ initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or Nations Global 12 which it endorses. Compact Along with Local Membership of a. A list of the main memberships of industry or other Communities ＞ 102-13 associations, and national or international advocacy Membership in 102 associations organizations. Community Organizations 2. Strategy a. A statement from the most senior decision­maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent Statement from senior 102-14 senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to CEO Message 2-3 decision-maker the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. CEO Message 2­3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities a. A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 Materiality 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of a. A description of the organization’s values, principles, Nissha’s CSR ＞ 4 standards, and norms of behavior. Approach to CSR behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice a. A description of internal and external mechanisms Human Rights ＞ 33 and concerns about ethics for: Hotline i. seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational integrity; GRI Content Index 117 CSR Report 2017 ii. reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity. 4. Governance Corporate Governance a. Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. ＞Overview of 16­23 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance b. Committees responsible for decision­making on economic, environmental, and social topics. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 Management a. Process for delegating authority for economic, 102-19 Delegating authority environmental, and social topics from the highest Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 governance body to senior executives and other Management employees. a. Whether the organization has appointed an Executive-level 102-20 responsibility for executive­level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 economic, environmental, Management b. Whether post holders report directly to the highest and social topics governance body. Corporate Governance ＞Overview of 16­23 Corporate Governance Consulting stakeholders a. Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 Management 102-21 on economic, environmental, and social environmental, and social topics. b. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom it is Human Rights ＞ Freedom of topics delegated and how the resulting feedback is provided Association and to the highest governance body. 34-35 Collective Bargaining, Relationship with Labor Union a. Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: i. executive or non­executive; ii. independence; Corporate Governance Composition of the iii. tenure on the governance body; iv. number of each individual’s other significant ＞Overview of 16­23 Corporate Governance 102-22 highest governance body positions and commitments, and the nature of the Respect for Diversity and its committees commitments; v. gender; ＞Composition of 40­43 Nissha People vi. membership of under­represented social groups; vii. competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; viii. stakeholder representation. a. Whether the chair of the highest governance body is Corporate Governance Chair of the highest also an executive officer in the organization. ＞Overview of 102-23 b. If the chair is also an executive officer, describe his Corporate Governance 19 governance body or her function within the organization’s management ＞Role of the Board of and the reasons for this arrangement. Directors a. Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees. b. Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including whether and Nominating and selecting Corporate Governance 102-24 the highest governance how: i. stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved; ＞Overview of 16­23 body Corporate Governance ii. diversity is considered; iii. independence is considered; iv. expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered. 102-25 Conflicts of interest a. Processes for the highest governance body to Corporate Governance 19 GRI Content Index 118 CSR Report 2017 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. ＞Overview of b. Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to Corporate Governance stakeholders, including, as a minimum: ＞Role of the Board of i. Cross­board membership; Directors ii. Cross­shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders; iii. Existence of controlling shareholder; iv. Related party disclosures. Nissha’s CSR ＞ a. Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ Approach to CSR 4 Role of highest governance body in roles in the development, approval, and updating of ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 102-26 the organization’s purpose, value or mission Management 5 setting purpose, values, statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to Corporate Governance and strategy economic, environmental, and social topics. ＞Internal Control 23­25 System a. Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest Collective knowledge of 102-27 governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, highest governance body environmental, and social topics. a. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics. b. Whether such evaluation is independent or not, and Evaluating the highest its frequency. 102-28 governance body’s c. Whether such evaluation is a self­assessment. performance d. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a. Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social topics Nissha’s CSR ＞ 4 and their impacts, risks, and opportunities – including Approach to CSR Identifying and managing its role in the implementation of due diligence ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 102-29 economic, environmental, processes. Management and social impacts b. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support Corporate Governance the highest governance body’s identification and ＞Internal Control 23­25 management of economic, environmental, and social System topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. Nissha’s CSR ＞ Approach to CSR 4 Effectiveness of risk a. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 102-30 Management 5 management processes processes for economic, environmental, and social Corporate Governance topics. ＞Internal Control 23­25 System Nissha’s CSR ＞ 4 Approach to CSR Review of economic, a. Frequency of the highest governance body’s review ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 102-31 environmental, and social of economic, environmental, and social topics and their Management topics impacts, risks, and opportunities. Corporate Governance ＞Internal Control 23­25 System 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in a. The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 Materiality sustainability reporting report and ensures that all material topics are covered. 102-33 Communicating critical a. Process for communicating critical concerns to the Nissha’s CSR ＞ 4 concerns highest governance body. Approach to CSR ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 Management Corporate Governance 23­25 GRI Content Index 119 CSR Report 2017 ＞Internal Control System a. Total number and nature of critical concerns that 102-34 Nature and total number were communicated to the highest governance body. ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR of critical concerns b. Mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical Management 5 concerns. a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the following types of remuneration: Corporate Governance i. Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance­ based pay, equity­based pay, bonuses, and deferred ＞Overview of Corporate Governance or vested shares; ii. Sign­on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments; ＞Nomination and Remuneration iii. Termination payments; Committee, Policy on 102-35 Remuneration policies iv. Clawbacks; 19­21 Determining v. Retirement benefits, including the difference Remuneration of between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the Directors, Members of highest governance body, senior executives, and all the Board and Audit other employees. and Supervisory Board b. How performance criteria in the remuneration Members policies relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics. Corporate Governance ＞Overview of Corporate Governance a. Process for determining remuneration. ＞Nomination and b. Whether remuneration consultants are involved in Remuneration Process for determining determining remuneration and whether they are Committee, Policy on 102-36 19­21 remuneration independent of management. Determining c. Any other relationships that the remuneration Remuneration of consultants have with the organization. Directors, Members of the Board and Audit and Supervisory Board Members a. How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into Stakeholders’ involvement account regarding remuneration. 102-37 in remuneration b. If applicable, the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals. a. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest­paid individual in each country Annual total compensation 102-38 of significant operations to the median annual total ratio compensation for all employees (excluding the highest­paid individual) in the same country. a. Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest­paid Percentage increase in individual in each country of significant operations to 102-39 annual total compensation the median percentage increase in annual total ratio compensation for all employees (excluding the highest­paid individual) in the same country. 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Nissha’s CSR ＞ 8-11 organization. Nissha's Stakeholders Collective bargaining a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective Human Rights ＞ 102-41 Relationship with 35 agreements bargaining agreements. Labor Union 102-42 Identifying and selecting a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders Nissha’s CSR ＞ 8-11 GRI Content Index 120 CSR Report 2017 stakeholders with whom to engage. Nissha's Stakeholders a. The organization’s approach to stakeholder 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of Nissha’s CSR ＞ 8-11 engagement Nissha's Stakeholders whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Nissha’s CSR ＞ Nissha's Stakeholders 8-11 Partnership with Our a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: Suppliers ＞CSR 88­89 Supplier Audits 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised i. how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting; Human Rights ＞ Building and Operation ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key of a Management topics and concerns. 33­34 System, Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 6. Reporting practice a. A list of all entities included in the organization’s Entities included in the consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Editorial Policy ＞ 102-45 consolidated financial Scope of Reporting 113 b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s statements Nissha Group 103-105 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. An explanation of the process for defining the report 102-46 Defining report content content and the topic Boundaries. b. An explanation of how the organization has Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 and topic Boundaries Materiality implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. 102-47 List of material topics a. A list of the material topics identified in the process Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 for defining report content. Materiality Safety and Health ＞ Occurrence of Work54 a. The effect of any restatements of information given related Accidents Restatements of 102-48 in previous reports, and the reasons for such Prevention of Further information restatements. Global Warming ＞ 66­68 Status of CO2 Emissions at Nissha a. Significant changes from previous reporting periods Editorial Policy ＞ 102-49 Changes in reporting Variations in Scope of 114-115 in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries. Reporting 102-50 Reporting period a. Reporting period for the information provided. Editorial Policy ＞ 113 Period Covered 102-51 Date of most recent report a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous Editorial Policy ＞ 113 report. Period Covered 102-52 Reporting cycle a. Reporting cycle. Editorial Policy ＞ 113 Period Covered Contact point for Editorial Policy＞ a. The contact point for questions regarding the report Publishing Division 102-53 questions regarding the 115 or its contents. and Contact for report Inquiries 102-54 Claims of reporting in a. The claim made by the organization, if it has GRI Content Index 116-155 accordance with the GRI prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Editorial Policy 113-115 Standards Standards, either: i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Content Index 121 CSR Report 2017 the GRI Standards: Core option’; ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered 102-55 GRI content index by the GRI Standards); GRI Content Index 116-155 ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. a. A description of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what has not Assurance has not 102-56 External assurance been assured and on what basis, including the been sought for the assurance standards used, the level of assurance sustainability report. obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Material topics Economic Economic Performance GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of the a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates management approach the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of GRI Content Index 122 CSR Report 2017 the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 201 ：Economic a. Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance 2016 (EVG&D) on an accruals basis, including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data are presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision in addition to reporting the following basic components: i. Direct economic value generated: revenues; Direct economic value ii. Economic value distributed: operating costs, Distribution of Added 201-1 30 generated and distributed employee wages and benefits, payments to providers Value to Stakeholders of capital, payments to government by country, and community investments; iii. Economic value retained: ‘direct economic value generated’ less ‘economic value distributed’. b. Where significant, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, and the criteria used for defining significance. a. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure, including: i. a description of the risk or opportunity and its Financial implications and classification as either physical, regulatory, or other; other risks and 201-2 ii. a description of the impact associated with the risk opportunities due to or opportunity; climate change iii. the financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken; iv. the methods used to manage the risk or opportunity; v. the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity. a. If the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, the estimated value of those liabilities. b. If a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities: i. the extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them; ii. the basis on which that estimate has been arrived at; Defined benefit plan iii. when that estimate was made. 201-3 obligations and other c. If a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is retirement plans not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. e. Level of participation in retirement plans, such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional, or country­based schemes, or those with financial impact. 201-4 Financial assistance a. Total monetary value of financial assistance received from government received by the organization from any government during the reporting period, including: i. tax relief and tax credits; ii. subsidies; iii. investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grant; iv. awards; GRI Content Index 123 CSR Report 2017 v. royalty holidays; vi. financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs); vii. financial incentives; viii. other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation. b. The information in 201­4­a by country. c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is present in the shareholding structure. Market Presence GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. ： GRI 202 Market a. When a significant proportion of employees are Presence 2016 compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. b. When a significant proportion of other workers (excluding employees) performing the organization’s Ratios of standard entry activities are compensated based on wages subject to level wage by gender minimum wage rules, describe the actions taken to 202-1 compared to local determine whether these workers are paid above the minimum wage minimum wage. c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. 202-2 Proportion of senior a. Percentage of senior management at significant Respect for Diversity management hired from locations of operation that are hired from the local ＞Composition of 40­43 GRI Content Index 124 CSR Report 2017 the local community community. Nissha People b. The definition used for ‘senior management’. c. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. ： GRI 203 Indirect a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure Economic Impacts investments and services supported. 2016 b. Current or expected impacts on communities and Infrastructure investments 203-1 local economies, including positive and negative and services supported impacts where relevant. c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in­kind, or pro bono engagements. a. Examples of significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, including positive and negative impacts. Significant indirect 203-2 b. Significance of the indirect economic impacts in the economic impacts context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. Procurement Practices GRI 103 ： 103-1 Explanation of the a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management material topic and its b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 Boundary a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the GRI Content Index 125 CSR Report 2017 impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 204 ： a. Percentage of the procurement budget used for Procurement Practices significant locations of operation that is spent on 2016 suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage of Proportion of spending on 204-1 products and services purchased locally). local suppliers b. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. c. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Anti­corruption * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 Management the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management Nissha’s CSR ＞ Materiality 6­8 approach. c. A description of the following, if the management Human Rights ＞ 33 Hotline approach includes that component: The management Corporate Ethics and 103-2 approach and its i. Policies ii. Commitments Compliance ＞ components Guideline of the iii. Goals and targets Corporate Ethics and 28­29 iv. Responsibilities Compliance, v. Resources Promotion Structure vi. Grievance mechanisms and Initiatives vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Initiatives Related to programs and initiatives 92 Anti-corruption 103-3 Evaluation of the a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach the management approach, including: Management i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; GRI Content Index 126 CSR Report 2017 ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 205 ：Antia. Total number and percentage of operations corruption 2016 Operations assessed for assessed for risks related to corruption. 205-1 risks related to corruption b. Significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anti­corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. b. Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti­corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. Initiatives Related to c. Total number and percentage of business partners 92 Communication and Anti-corruption that the organization’s anti­corruption policies and training about anti­ Corporate Ethics and 205-2 corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Describe if the Compliance ＞ 28­29 procedures Promotion Structure organization’s anti­corruption policies and procedures and Initiatives have been communicated to any other persons or organizations. d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti­ corruption, broken down by region. e. Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti­corruption, broken down by employee category and region. a. Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. b. Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for Confirmed incidents of corruption. 205-3 corruption and actions c. Total number of confirmed incidents when contracts taken with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. d. Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. Anti­competitive Behavior GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 103-2 The management a. An explanation of how the organization manages Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 approach and its the topic. Management components b. A statement of the purpose of the management Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 approach. Materiality c. A description of the following, if the management Human Rights ＞ 33 approach includes that component: Hotline i. Policies Corporate Ethics and ii. Commitments Compliance ＞ iii. Goals and targets Guideline of the 28­29 iv. Responsibilities Corporate Ethics and v. Resources Compliance, GRI Content Index 127 CSR Report 2017 vi. Grievance mechanisms Promotion Structure vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, and Initiatives programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR CSR＞ management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management 5 approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. ： GRI 206 Antia. Number of legal actions pending or completed competitive Behavior during the reporting period regarding anti­competitive Legal actions for anti­ 2016 behavior and violations of anti­trust and monopoly competitive behavior, anti­ 206-1 legislation in which the organization has been trust, and monopoly identified as a participant. practices b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. Environmental Materials GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. ： GRI 301 Materials a. Total weight or volume of materials that are used to 2016 produce and package the organization’s primary Environmental Impact Materials used by weight 301-1 products and services during the reporting period, by: as a Result of 64­65 or volume i. non­renewable materials used; Business Operations ii. renewable materials used. a. Percentage of recycled input materials used to Recycled input materials 301-2 manufacture the organization’s primary products and used services. GRI Content Index 128 CSR Report 2017 a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their Reclaimed products and packaging materials for each product category. 301-3 their packaging materials b. How the data for this disclosure have been collected. Energy * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 b. A statement of the purpose of the management Management approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 c. A description of the following, if the management Materiality The management approach includes that component: Human Rights ＞ 33 i. Policies Hotline 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments Environmental Policy components iii. Goals and targets and Management 58­60 iv. Responsibilities Structures v. Resources Environmental vi. Grievance mechanisms Objectives and Status 61­63 vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, of Achievement programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. ： GRI 302 Energy a. Total fuel consumption within the organization from 2016 non­renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used. b. Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used. c. In joules, watt­hours or multiples, the total: i. electricity consumption ii. heating consumption Environmental Impact iii. cooling consumption as a Result of 64­65 Energy consumption 302-1 iv. steam consumption Business Operations within the organization d. In joules, watt­hours or multiples, the total: Prevention of Further 66­69 i. electricity sold Global Warming ii. heating sold iii. cooling sold iv. steam sold e. Total energy consumption within the organization, in joules or multiples. f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. g. Source of the conversion factors used. 302-2 Energy consumption a. Energy consumption outside of the organization, in outside of the organization joules or multiples. b. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or GRI Content Index 129 CSR Report 2017 calculation tools used. c. Source of the conversion factors used. a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization. b. Organization­specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. Prevention of Further 302-3 Energy intensity c. Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; 66­69 Global Warming whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the organization, outside of it, or both. a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether Reduction of energy fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. 302-4 consumption c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a. Reductions in energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples. Reductions in energy b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy 302-5 requirements of products consumption, such as base year or baseline, including and services the rationale for choosing it. c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. Water GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 Management c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 The management Materiality 103-2 approach and its i. Policies ii. Commitments Human Rights ＞ 33 components Hotline iii. Goals and targets Environmental Policy iv. Responsibilities and Management 58­60 v. Resources Structures vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 303 ：Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by a. Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown Environmental Impact 64­65 GRI Content Index 130 CSR Report 2017 source by the following sources: as a Result of i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, Business Operations lakes, and oceans; ii. Ground water; iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization; iv. Waste water from another organization; v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities. b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a. Total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by type: i. Size of the water source; ii. Whether the source is designated as a nationally or Water sources internationally protected area; 303-2 significantly affected by iii. Biodiversity value (such as species diversity and withdrawal of water endemism, and total number of protected species); iv. Value or importance of the water source to local communities and indigenous peoples. b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization. Water recycled and b. Total volume of water recycled and reused as a 303-3 reused percentage of the total water withdrawal as specified in Disclosure 303­1. c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Biodiversity GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. ： GRI 304 Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, a. For each operational site owned, leased, managed 2016 leased, managed in, or in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high GRI Content Index 131 CSR Report 2017 adjacent to, protected biodiversity value outside protected areas, the areas and areas of high following information: biodiversity value outside i. Geographic location; protected areas ii. Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the organization; iii. Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing portions of the protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside protected areas; iv. Type of operation (office, manufacturing or production, or extractive); v. Size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if appropriate); vi. Biodiversity value characterized by the attribute of the protected area or area of high biodiversity value outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem); vii. Biodiversity value characterized by listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation). a. Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: i. Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure; ii. Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and non­point sources); iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests, and Significant impacts of pathogens; 304-2 activities, products, and iv. Reduction of species; services on biodiversity v. Habitat conversion; vi. Changes in ecological processes outside the natural range of variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level). b. Significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: i. Species affected; ii. Extent of areas impacted; iii. Duration of impacts; iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts. a. Size and location of all habitat areas protected or restored, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties to Habitats protected or 304-3 protect or restore habitat areas distinct from where the restored organization has overseen and implemented restoration or protection measures. c. Status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. d. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a. Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected IUCN Red List species by the operations of the organization, by level of and national conservation extinction risk: 304-4 list species with habitats in i. Critically endangered areas affected by ii. Endangered operations iii. Vulnerable iv. Near threatened v. Least concern GRI Content Index 132 CSR Report 2017 Emissions * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 a. An explanation of how the organization manages Management the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6­8 b. A statement of the purpose of the management Materiality approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞ c. A description of the following, if the management Nissha's Stakeholders The management approach includes that component: ＞External 10-11 i. Policies Assessment 103-2 approach and its components ii. Commitments Human Rights ＞ iii. Goals and targets Hotline 33 iv. Responsibilities Environmental Policy v. Resources and Management 58­60 vi. Grievance mechanisms Structures vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Environmental programs and initiatives Objectives and Status 61­63 of Achievement a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 305 ：Emissions a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric Environmental Impact 2016 tons of CO2 equivalent. as a Result of 64­65 b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, Business Operations CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. Prevention of Further 66­69 c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 Global Warming equivalent. d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: i. the rationale for choosing it; Direct (Scope 1) GHG ii. emissions in the base year; 305-1 emissions iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) a. Gross location­based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If applicable, gross market­based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: i. the rationale for choosing it; ii. emissions in the base year; GRI Content Index 133 CSR Report 2017 iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. The reporting organization shall report the following information: a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. Prevention of Further 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) d. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories Global Warming ＞ 69 and activities included in the calculation. GHG emissions Initiative in Scope 3 e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: Management i. the rationale for choosing it; ii. emissions in the base year; iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. f. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. b. Organization­specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. c. Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity Prevention of Further 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 66-69 ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope Global Warming 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3). d. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. a. GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. Prevention of Further 305-5 Reduction of GHG c. Base year or baseline, including the rationale for Global Warming ＞ 66-69 choosing it. emissions Status of CO2 d. Scopes in which reductions took place; whether Emissions at Nissha direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3). e. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a. Production, imports, and exports of ODS in metric tons of CFC­11 (trichlorofluoromethane) equivalent. Emissions of ozone­ b. Substances included in the calculation. 305-6 depleting substances c. Source of the emission factors used. (ODS) d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, sulfur oxides (SOX), and for each of the following: other significant air i. NOX emissions ii. SOX iii. Persistent organic pollutants (POP) iv. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) GRI Content Index 134 CSR Report 2017 v. Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) vi. Particulate matter (PM) vii. Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations b. Source of the emission factors used. c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. Effluents and Waste * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 a. An explanation of how the organization manages Management the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 b. A statement of the purpose of the management Materiality approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞ c. A description of the following, if the management Nissha's Stakeholders The management approach includes that component: ＞External 10-11 i. Policies Assessment 103-2 approach and its components ii. Commitments Human Rights ＞ 33 iii. Goals and targets Hotline iv. Responsibilities Environmental Policy v. Resources and Management 58-60 vi. Grievance mechanisms Structures vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Environmental programs and initiatives Objectives and Status 61-63 of Achievement a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 306 ：Effluents a. Total volume of planned and unplanned water and Waste 2016 discharges by: i. destination; Environmental Impact Water discharge by quality 306-1 ii. quality of the water, including treatment method; as a Result of 64-65 and destination iii. whether the water was reused by another Business Operations organization. b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. 306-2 Waste by type and a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown Environmental Impact disposal method by the following disposal methods where applicable: as a Result of 64-65 i. Reuse Business Operations ii. Recycling Status of Waste 76-78 iii. Composting Generation at Bases iv. Recovery, including energy recovery v. Incineration (mass burn) vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill viii. On­site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) b. Total weight of non­hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where GRI Content Index 135 CSR Report 2017 applicable: i. Reuse ii. Recycling iii. Composting iv. Recovery, including energy recovery v. Incineration (mass burn) vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill viii. On­site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor a. Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. b. The following additional information for each spill that was reported in the organization’s financial statements: i. Location of spill; 306-3 Significant spills ii. Volume of spill; iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces), and other (to be specified by the organization). c. Impacts of significant spills. a. Total weight for each of the following: i. Hazardous waste transported ii. Hazardous waste imported Transport of hazardous iii. Hazardous waste exported 306-4 waste iv. Hazardous waste treated b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a. Water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges and/or runoff, including information on: Water bodies affected by i. the size of the water body and related habitat; 306-5 water discharges and/or ii. whether the water body and related habitat is runoff designated as a nationally or internationally protected area; iii. the biodiversity value, such as total number of protected species. Environmental Compliance GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 103-2 The management a. An explanation of how the organization manages Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 approach and its the topic. Management components b. A statement of the purpose of the management Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 GRI Content Index 136 CSR Report 2017 approach. Materiality c. A description of the following, if the management Corporate Ethics and approach includes that component: Compliance ＞ i. Policies Guideline of the ii. Commitments Corporate Ethics and 28-29 iii. Goals and targets Compliance, iv. Responsibilities Promotion Structure v. Resources and Initiatives vi. Grievance mechanisms Human Rights ＞ 33 vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Hotline programs and initiatives Environmental Policy and Management 58-60 Structures a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 307 ： a. Significant fines and non­monetary sanctions for Environmental non­compliance with environmental laws and/or Compliance 2016 regulations in terms of: i. total monetary value of significant fines; Non­compliance with Environmental ii. total number of non­monetary sanctions; 307-1 environmental laws and Objectives and Status 61-63 iii. cases brought through dispute resolution regulations of Achievement mechanisms. b. If the organization has not identified any non­ compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Supplier Environmental Assessment * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 Management b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 Materiality c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: Human Rights ＞ 33 The management Hotline i. Policies 103-2 approach and its Environmental Policy ii. Commitments components and Management 58-60 iii. Goals and targets Structures iv. Responsibilities Partnership with Our v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 Purchasing Policy, vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, CSR Supplier Audits programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of the a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach the management approach, including: Management i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; GRI Content Index 137 CSR Report 2017 iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 308 ：Supplier Partnership with Our Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 Assessment 2016 using environmental criteria. Purchasing Policy, environmental criteria CSR Supplier Audits a. Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. c. Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified in the supply chain. Partnership with Our 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 significant actual and potential negative environmental Purchasing Policy, chain and actions taken impacts with which improvements were agreed upon CSR Supplier Audits as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Social Employment * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 b. A statement of the purpose of the management Management approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 c. A description of the following, if the management Materiality The management approach includes that component: Human Rights ＞ i. Policies Hotline, Building and 103-2 approach and its 33 ii. Commitments Operation of a components iii. Goals and targets Management System iv. Responsibilities Respect for Diversity v. Resources ＞Enhancement of 44 vi. Grievance mechanisms Systems and vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Communication Tools programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 401 ： a. Total number and rate of new employee hires during Employment 2016 New employee hires and the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. 401-1 employee turnover b. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. 401-2 Benefits provided to full­ a. Benefits which are standard for full­time employees time employees that are of the organization but are not provided to temporary GRI Content Index 138 CSR Report 2017 not provided to temporary or part­time employees, by significant locations of or part­time employees operation. These include, as a minimum: i. life insurance; ii. health care; iii. disability and invalidity coverage; iv. parental leave; v. retirement provision; vi. stock ownership; vii. others. b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. a. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, Support for Diverse by gender. c. Total number of employees that returned to work in Work Styles ＞Status of Major Long­term the reporting period after parental leave ended, by 401-3 Parental leave Leave and Time Taken 48-50 gender. Off from Work d. Total number of employees that returned to work *We are considering future after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 disclosure of overseas situation and efforts. months after their return to work, by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender. Labor/Management Relations GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 402 ： 402-1 Minimum notice periods a. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided Human Rights ＞ Labor/Management regarding operational to employees and their representatives prior to the Relationship with 35 Relations 2016 changes implementation of significant operational changes that Labor Union could substantially affect them. b. For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and GRI Content Index 139 CSR Report 2017 provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR Management 5 Nissha’s CSR ＞ Materiality 6-8 Nissha’s CSR ＞ a. An explanation of how the organization manages Nissha's Stakeholders the topic. ＞External 10-11 b. A statement of the purpose of the management Assessment approach. Human Rights ＞ 33 c. A description of the following, if the management Hotline approach includes that component: Human Resources The management i. Policies Development ＞Safety 103-2 approach and its components ii. Commitments and Health ＞ iii. Goals and targets Occupational Safety iv. Responsibilities and Health Policy / v. Resources Safety and Health 52-53 vi. Grievance mechanisms Objectives, Safety and vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Health Management programs and initiatives System / Safety and Health Subcommittee The Environment ＞ Environmental Policy 58­60 and Management Structures a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 403 ： a. The level at which each formal joint management­ Safety and Health ＞ Occupational Health Safety and Health worker health and safety committee typically operates and Safety 2016 Workers representation in Management System / 52-53 within the organization. formal joint management– Safety and Health 403-1 b. Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is worker health and safety Subcommittee committees controlled by the organization, that are represented by formal joint management­worker health and safety Human Rights ＞ Relationship with 35 committees. Labor Union 403-2 Types of injury and rates a. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational disease Safety and Health ＞ of injury, occupational rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR), Occurrence of Workdiseases, lost days, and and work­related fatalities, for all employees, with a related Accidents, 54 absenteeism, and number breakdown by: Occurrence of Workof work­related fatalities i. region; related Accidents ii. gender. b. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), and work­related fatalities, for all workers (excluding employees) whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, GRI Content Index 140 CSR Report 2017 with a breakdown by: i. region; ii. gender. c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. Workers with high a. Whether there are workers whose work, or incidence or high risk of workplace, is controlled by the organization, involved 403-3 diseases related to their in occupational activities who have a high incidence or occupation high risk of specific diseases. a. Whether formal agreements (either local or global) Health and safety topics with trade unions cover health and safety. covered in formal 403-4 b. If so, the extent, as a percentage, to which various agreements with trade health and safety topics are covered by these unions agreements. Training and Education * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality 6-8 Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 Management the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management Nissha’s CSR ＞ Materiality 6-8 approach. c. A description of the following, if the management Human Rights ＞ Hotline, Building and approach includes that component: 33 The management Operation of a i. Policies 103-2 approach and its Management System ii. Commitments components Human Resources iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities Development ＞Human Resources v. Resources Development Policy, 37­39 vi. Grievance mechanisms Approach to Human vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Resources programs and initiatives Development a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 404 ：Training a. Average hours of training that the organization’s Human Resources and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by: Development ＞ 39 per year per employee Training Programs in i. gender; Fiscal Year 2017 ii. employee category. a. Type and scope of programs implemented and Programs for upgrading assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. employee skills and b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate 404-2 transition assistance continued employability and the management of career programs endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. 404-3 Percentage of employees a. Percentage of total employees by gender and by Human Rights ＞Fair 34 GRI Content Index 141 CSR Report 2017 receiving regular employee category who received a regular Evaluation and performance and career performance and career development review during Treatment development reviews the reporting period. Diversity and Equal Opportunity * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 Management b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞ Materiality 6-8 c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: Human Rights ＞ The management Hotline, Building and i. Policies 33 103-2 approach and its Operation of a ii. Commitments components Management System iii. Goals and targets Human Resources iv. Responsibilities v. Resources Development ＞ 39 Programs to Promote vi. Grievance mechanisms Diversity vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Respect for Diversity 40-45 programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management 5 approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. ： GRI 405 Diversity a. Percentage of individuals within the organization’s and Equal Opportunity governance bodies in each of the following diversity 2016 categories: i. Gender; ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30­50 years old, over 50 years old; iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as Respect for Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees minority or vulnerable groups). ＞Composition of 40-43 b. Percentage of employees per employee category in Nissha People each of the following diversity categories: i. Gender; ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30­50 years old, over 50 years old; iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). a. Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation. Human Rights ＞Wage Management 34 men b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Non­discrimination * GRI 103 ： 103-1 Explanation of the a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 Management material topic and its b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Materiality Approach 2016 Boundary a description of: Editorial Policy 113-115 i. where the impacts occur; GRI Content Index 142 CSR Report 2017 ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 approach. Management c. A description of the following, if the management Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 approach includes that component: Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its i. Policies Human Rights ＞ ii. Commitments Hotline, Basic Policy components iii. Goals and targets on Labor and Human 32-33 iv. Responsibilities Rights, Building and v. Resources Operation of a vi. Grievance mechanisms Management System vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management 5 approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 406 ：Nona. Total number of incidents of discrimination during discrimination 2016 the reporting period. b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following: Incidents of discrimination i. Incident reviewed by the organization; 406-1 and corrective actions Not applicable ii. Remediation plans being implemented; taken iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine internal management review processes; iv. Incident no longer subject to action. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives GRI Content Index 143 CSR Report 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates management approach the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 407 ：Freedom of a. Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to Association and Collective Bargaining exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either Human Rights ＞ Freedom of 2016 Operations and suppliers in terms of: 34 Association and in which the right to i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and Collective Bargaining 407-1 freedom of association supplier; Partnership with Our and collective bargaining may be at risk ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 Purchasing Policy, b. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting CSR Supplier Audits period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. Child Labor GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality 6-8 Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR b. A statement of the purpose of the management Management 5 approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 c. A description of the following, if the management Materiality The management approach includes that component: Human Rights ＞ 33 i. Policies Hotline 103-2 approach and its components ii. Commitments Human Rights ＞Basic iii. Goals and targets Policy on Labor and iv. Responsibilities Human Rights, 32-33 v. Resources Building and Operation vi. Grievance mechanisms of a Management vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, System programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 408 ：Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers a. Operations and suppliers considered to have Human Rights ＞Basic 2016 at significant risk for significant risk for incidents of: Policy on Labor and 32 incidents of child labor i. child labor; Human Rights ii. young workers exposed to hazardous work. Partnership with Our b. Operations and suppliers considered to have Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 significant risk for incidents of child labor either in Purchasing Policy, terms of: CSR Supplier Audits i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and GRI Content Index 144 CSR Report 2017 suppliers considered at risk. c. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality 6-8 Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR approach. Management 5 c. A description of the following, if the management Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 approach includes that component: Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its i. Policies Human Rights ＞ ii. Commitments Hotline, Basic Policy components iii. Goals and targets on Labor and Human 32­33 iv. Responsibilities Rights, Building and v. Resources Operation of a vi. Grievance mechanisms Management System vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 409 ：Forced or a. Operations and suppliers considered to have Compulsory Labor 2016 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor either in terms of: Human Rights ＞Basic Policy on Labor and 32 Operations and suppliers i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and Human Rights at significant risk for supplier; 409-1 Partnership with Our incidents of forced or compulsory labor ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 Purchasing Policy, b. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting CSR Supplier Audits period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 103-2 The management a. An explanation of how the organization manages approach and its the topic. components b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. GRI Content Index 145 CSR Report 2017 c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 410 ：Security a. Percentage of security personnel who have received Practices 2016 formal training in the organization’s human rights Security personnel trained policies or specific procedures and their application to 410-1 in human rights policies or security. procedures b. Whether training requirements also apply to third­ party organizations providing security personnel. Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 411 ：Rights of 411-1 Incidents of violations a. Total number of identified incidents of violations Indigenous Peoples involving rights of involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the 2016 indigenous peoples reporting period. b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with GRI Content Index 146 CSR Report 2017 reference to the following: i. Incident reviewed by the organization; ii. Remediation plans being implemented; iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine internal management review processes; iv. Incident no longer subject to action. Human Rights Assessment GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 c. A description of the following, if the management Management The management approach includes that component: Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 i. Policies Materiality 103-2 approach and its components ii. Commitments Human Rights ＞ iii. Goals and targets Hotline, Building and iv. Responsibilities Operation of a 33 v. Resources Management System vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 412 ：Human Operations that have been a. Total number and percentage of operations that Human Rights ＞ Rights Assessment subject to human rights Building and Operation 412-1 have been subject to human rights reviews or human 33 2016 reviews or impact of a Management rights impact assessments, by country. assessments System a. Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Employee training on are relevant to operations. 412-2 human rights policies or b. Percentage of employees trained during the procedures reporting period in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. a. Total number and percentage of significant Significant investment investment agreements and contracts that include agreements and contracts human rights clauses or that underwent human rights 412-3 that include human rights screening. clauses or that underwent b. The definition used for ‘significant investment human rights screening agreements’. Local Communities GRI 103 ： 103-1 Explanation of the a. An explanation of why the topic is material. GRI Content Index 147 CSR Report 2017 Management material topic and its b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 Boundary a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 413 ：Local a. Percentage of operations with implemented local Communities 2016 community engagement, impact assessments, and/or development programs, including the use of: i. social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes; ii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring; iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and Operations with local social impact assessments; community engagement, iv. local community development programs based on 413-1 impact assessments, and local communities’ needs; development programs v. stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping; vi. broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups; vii. works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts; viii. formal local community grievance processes. a. Operations with significant actual and potential Operations with significant negative impacts on local communities, including: actual and potential 413-2 i. the location of the operations; negative impacts on local ii. the significant actual and potential negative impacts communities of operations. Supplier Social Assessment * GRI 103 ： 103-1 Explanation of the a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 Management material topic and its b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Materiality Approach 2016 Boundary a description of: Editorial Policy 113-115 i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For GRI Content Index 148 CSR Report 2017 example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 approach. Management c. A description of the following, if the management Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 approach includes that component: Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its i. Policies Human Rights ＞ 33 ii. Commitments Hotline components iii. Goals and targets Partnership with Our iv. Responsibilities Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 v. Resources Purchasing Policy, vi. Grievance mechanisms CSR Supplier Audits vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; ＞ Nissha’s CSR CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 414 ：Supplier Partnership with Our Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 2016 using social criteria. Purchasing Policy, criteria CSR Supplier Audits a. Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts. c. Significant actual and potential negative social impacts identified in the supply chain. Partnership with Our 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts Suppliers ＞Basic 86-89 Purchasing Policy, actions taken with which improvements were agreed upon as a CSR Supplier Audits result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Public Policy GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 103-2 The management a. An explanation of how the organization manages approach and its the topic. components b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: i. Policies GRI Content Index 149 CSR Report 2017 ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 415 ：Public a. Total monetary value of financial and in­kind political Policy 2016 contributions made directly and indirectly by the 415-1 Political contributions organization by country and recipient/beneficiary. b. If applicable, how the monetary value of in­kind contributions was estimated. Customer Health and Safety GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its Materiality example, whether the Boundary Editorial Policy 113-115 organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 Management Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 a. An explanation of how the organization manages Materiality the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞ b. A statement of the purpose of the management Nissha's Stakeholders approach. ＞External 10-11 c. A description of the following, if the management Assessment The management approach includes that component: Human Rights ＞ 33 i. Policies Hotline 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments Corporate Ethics and components iii. Goals and targets Compliance ＞ iv. Responsibilities Guideline of the v. Resources Corporate Ethics and 28-29 vi. Grievance mechanisms Compliance, vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Promotion Structure programs and initiatives and Initiatives Consumer Issues ＞ Quality Slogan, Quality 96­97 and Safety of Products a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI Content Index 150 CSR Report 2017 GRI 416 ：Customer 416-1 Assessment of the health a. Percentage of significant product and service Health and Safety and safety impacts of categories for which health and safety impacts are 2016 product and service assessed for improvement. categories a. Total number of incidents of non­compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: Incidents of non­ compliance concerning i. incidents of non­compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; Consumer Issues ＞ 416-2 the health and safety Quality and Safety of 97 ii. incidents of non­compliance with regulations impacts of products and Products resulting in a warning; services iii. incidents of non­compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identified any non­ compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Marketing and Labeling GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: The management i. Policies 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments components iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Evaluation of the the management approach; 103-3 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 417 ：Marketing 417-1 Requirements for product a. Whether each of the following types of information is and Labeling 2016 and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and labeling and service information and labeling: i. The sourcing of components of the product or service; ii. Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact; iii. Safe use of the product or service; iv. Disposal of the product and environmental or social impacts; v. Other (explain). b. Percentage of significant product or service GRI Content Index 151 CSR Report 2017 categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. a. Total number of incidents of non­compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: i. incidents of non­compliance with regulations Incidents of non­ resulting in a fine or penalty; compliance concerning 417-2 ii. incidents of non­compliance with regulations product and service resulting in a warning; information and labeling iii. incidents of non­compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identified any non­ compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. a. Total number of incidents of non­compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: Incidents of non­ i. incidents of non­compliance with regulations compliance concerning resulting in a fine or penalty; 417-3 marketing ii. incidents of non­compliance with regulations communications resulting in a warning; iii. incidents of non­compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identified any non­ compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Customer Privacy * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 Management a. An explanation of how the organization manages Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 the topic. Materiality b. A statement of the purpose of the management Human Rights ＞ 33 approach. Hotline c. A description of the following, if the management Initiatives Related to 80-81 approach includes that component: Information Security 103-2 The management approach and its i. Policies Nissha’s CSR ＞ ii. Commitments Nissha's Stakeholders components iii. Goals and targets ＞External 10-11 iv. Responsibilities Assessment v. Resources The Environment ＞ vi. Grievance mechanisms Waste Management ＞ vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Risk Management 71 programs and initiatives Related to Waste and Waste Converted in Valuable Resources a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI Content Index 152 CSR Report 2017 GRI 418 ：Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints a. Total number of substantiated complaints received No complaint has Privacy 2016 concerning breaches of concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized been reported. customer privacy and by: losses of customer data i. complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organization; ii. complaints from regulatory bodies. b. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. c. If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Socioeconomic Compliance * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 Management b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 Materiality c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: Human Rights ＞ 33 The management Hotline i. Policies 103-2 approach and its Corporate Ethics and components ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets Compliance ＞ Guideline of the iv. Responsibilities Corporate Ethics and 28-29 v. Resources Compliance, vi. Grievance mechanisms Promotion Structure vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, and Initiatives programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. GRI 419 ： a. Significant fines and non­monetary sanctions for Socioeconomic non­compliance with laws and/or regulations in the Compliance 2016 social and economic area in terms of: i. total monetary value of significant fines; Non­compliance with laws ii. total number of non­monetary sanctions; iii. cases brought through dispute resolution Consumer Issues ＞ 419-1 and regulations in the Quality and Safety of 97 mechanisms. social and economic area Products b. If the organization has not identified any non­ compliance with laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. The context against which significant fines and non­ monetary sanctions were incurred. Material topics specific in Nissha Grievance Mechanisms * GRI 103 ： 103-1 Explanation of the a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Nissha’s CSR ＞ Management material topic and its b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Materiality 6-8 Approach 2016 Boundary a description of: Editorial Policy 113-115 GRI Content Index 153 CSR Report 2017 i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR Management 5 c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 The management Materiality 103-2 approach and its i. Policies ii. Commitments Human Rights ＞ components Hotline, Relationship 33-35 iii. Goals and targets with Labor Union iv. Responsibilities Corporate Ethics and v. Resources 28­29 Compliance vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. Index Human Rights ＞ 33 Hotline Transport * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Approach 2016 a description of: Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Materiality Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Editorial Policy 113-115 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 approach includes that component: Management 103-2 The management approach and its i. Policies Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 ii. Commitments Materiality components iii. Goals and targets Human Rights ＞ 33 iv. Responsibilities Hotline v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of the a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach the management approach, including: Management i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; GRI Content Index 154 CSR Report 2017 iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. Index Business Continuity Plan * GRI 103 ： a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Management b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes Prevention of Further Approach 2016 a description of: Global Warming ＞ 69 Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; Initiative in Scope 3 103-1 material topic and its ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For Management Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the Materiality impacts through its business relationships. Editorial Policy 113-115 c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 approach includes that component: Management 103-2 The management approach and its i. Policies Nissha’s CSR ＞ 6-8 ii. Commitments Materiality components iii. Goals and targets Human Rights ＞ 33 iv. Responsibilities Hotline v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of 103-3 Evaluation of the the management approach; Nissha’s CSR ＞CSR 5 management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. Corporate Governance Index ＞Risk Management 25-26 GRI Content Index 155 CSR Report 2017
