Content / 1 Content About This Report 3 A Message from the CEO / 5 A Message from the Executive Representative for Sustainability / 7 Smart City, the Bridge to the World About Us / 10 Features: Jointly Building the Environment, our Obligation to Protect / 25 / 41 “Information Silk Road” to help connect the world / 17 Corporate Governance / 11 Information Security, Worldwide Sustainable Supply Chain, the CSR to Concern to Tackle / 30 Undertake / 46 Innovation, the Impetus for Employees, the Enabler of the Benefits for Global Citizens, Our Vision Sustainability Management / 14 Development / 22 future / 34 and Promise to Deliver / 47 Independent Audit Statement / 54 Glossary / 56 ESG Reporting Guideline Index / 58 GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guideline Content Index / 62 Questionnaire / 62 =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW $ERXW7KLV5HSRUW $0HVVDJHIURPWKH&(2 In the past year, prosperity of the ICT industry, and emergence of 5G, virtuality, cloudification, large video, IoT, big data, and artificial intelligence had created a huge imagination space for the social and economic growth. It can be predicted that, in the coming future, such tendencies will re-define the current living and production style, and new ICTs will make the society more vigorous. Fast changes in the industry challenge ZTE but also present great development opportunities. 2016 is strategically important to ZTE as we put forward the M-ICT 2.0 strategy based on our business advantages and experience, our insight into development trends, the national “Internet+” strategy and the M-ICT 1.0 strategy we have raised in 2014. The M-ICT 2.0 strategy covers five pillars, including virtuality, openness, intelligence, cloudification, and Internet of Everything, to brave all industrial development hot points in the future and strive to be an industrial enabler. Compiling standards Source and scope of data Based on our advantages in Pre5G commercial This report is compiled in accordance to Environmental, All data in this report comes from official documents application and 5G technologies, ZTE accelerates Social and Governance Reporting Guidelines issued by and statistical reports issued by ZTE. Unless otherwise the 5G development layout all over the world. Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. It also specified, the data scope disclosed in this report Take Network2020 as a base for our whole-netfollows the requirements in the Global Reporting includes data from ZTE and all its major holding work solution, we help customers to reconstruct Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guideline (G4), subsidiaries. their solutions through virtuality and cloudification -together with industrial partners to make ICTs the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, and ISO26000: in preparation for the era of 5G. In the field of IoT, better serve economic and social development, and Guidance on Social Responsibility. we cooperate with industrial partners openly turn more information and communication concepts Content compiling centering on and vehicle networking. We use into reality. Besides, ZTE will cooperate with Reporting period AnyLink, an IoT platform, to help industrial partners to respond to social sustainability, enable This report follows the content selection principle partners to excavate data value in the IoT era, and a more intelligent society and realize company’s described in Environmental, Social and Governance Information and events in this report occurred from provide intelligence capabili ties for IoT terminals. sustainable development, to welcome a reforming Reporting Guidelines on the importance of reporting, as Friday, January 01, 2016 to Saturday, December 31, We launched the Smart City 3.0 solution, to use era. well as the materiality, integrity and stakeholder 2016. new generation information technolo gies to participation principles described in the Global improve the urban governance and public service Reporting Initiative (GRI) to make sure that the contents Reporting cycle capabilities, and realize all-round intelligence of disclosed in the sustainability development report are governmental affairs, traffic, medical treatment, not only the key points of the company’s strategic The sustainability report is issued annually by ZTE and other municipal infrastructures. Smart city has development, but can also fully reflect concerns of the become a master work of ZTE in governmental Corporation. This report is the 9th one. company's main stakeholders, including shareholders, affairs, and has been applied in more and more customers, employees, suppliers, and partners. countries. It helps local governments build Reference remarks industrial advantages, improve regional cooperation, and enhance their core competitiveness, “ZTE Corporation is referred to as ZTE , the Compaforming a benign ecosystem. ny , or we in this report. In this report, the measuring Access to this report Led by the M-ICT 2.0 strategy, ZTE will stick to unit yuan always refers to “RMB” or “Renminbi” unless Download this report at www.zte.com.cn. the “Cool, Green, Open(CGO)” principle, work otherwise specified. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW A Message from the Executive Representative for Sustainability ZTE always sticks to the principle of doing business in a compliant, moral, and sustainable way. We always take concerns of stakeholders as a key practice direction for our sustainable development. In 2016, we will further enhance our sustainability and create share values for stakeholders and the society in the following seven fields based on industrial development tendencies and national strategies. Innovation, Employees, the enabler of the future Information security, the impetus for development worldwide concern to tackle ZTE well knows employees’ contributions to the company development. ZTE always devoted to Innovation is always the cornerstone of ZTE’s It is our bounden duty to protect information and improving the employee training and the salaries breakthroughs in business operation and product security. Based on a comprehensive and and benefits system, inspiring employees’ management. ZTE always takes independent efficient information and product security managecreativity and vitality, and creating an equal and innovation as its core strategy, optimizes its ment system, ZTE performs strict security control inclusive work environment for employees to get capabilities to continuously create values for according to general quality standards in the the best out of their abilities and talents. We customers, and promotes continuous progress international telecommunication industry, formulates encourage employees to start from zero and fulfill and development of the industry and the whole strict security guarantee mechanisms, develops their missions in a professional and CGO society. In 2016, ZTE increased its innovation security technologies, products, and services, so as manner, and to involve themselves in the M-ICT and R&D investment, and made great breakto build a comprehensive security protection system. revolution to create a better future with ZTE. In throughs in Pre5G and other advanced technolIn 2016, ZTE run and improved our information and 2016, we continued our efforts to create a sound ogies. According to the report officially released product security management systems according to training system to help improving employees’ by World Intellectual Property Organization, professional skills during practice. By the end of ISO/IEC27001 and TL9000. No information leakage Benefits for global citizens, ZTE listed the first in PCT patent applications by or other security accidents occurred in 2016. our vision and promise to deliver 2016, there have been 31 ZTE employees who 4,123 applications. We have received accumuwon the company’s highest individual honor – latively 7 gold awards and 31 excellence ZTE gold and silver awards. They are the “most ZTE does business all over the world. We always awards related to patents in China, ranking the valuable players” in the company’s growth. Sustainable supply chain, regard ourselves as part of the local communities and first in the ICT industry. the CSR to undertake contribute to the prosperity and development of local communities. ZTE values support and understanding Environment, our obligation to protect from stakeholders. We make best use of our telecomSmart city, the bridge to the world ZTE works closely with global suppliers and munication merits and technologies to create values for ZTE attaches great importance to effect of our distributors in sharing purchase information and communities. Though poverty relief, education, disadCities in the future will be smart cities based on operating activities on the environment. We actively management experience to help them improve vantaged group care, and other public welfare activities, information technologies of new generation, with fulfill our environmental protection responsibilities, supply chain efficiency and manage supply chain ZTE helps citizens of countries and region where we do better city governance and public service and take into full account the environment impact of risks. ZTE required its partners to adhere to business have a better life. In 2016, ZTE donated more capabilities. ZTE commits to promoting deployeach operating link and the environmental requirebusiness ethics, comply with the laws and regulathan 6.55 million yuan through ZTE Public Welfare ment of smart city worldwide by using new ments through the product lifecycle. We implement tions of the country where they are doing business, Foundation. While continuing care for veterans and generation technologies such as IoT and 5G, the green and environmental protection strategy in all and work together with ZTE to build a responsible, other public welfare activities, ZTE increased our efforts promote maturity and application of information our business fields, and promote the industrial chain transparent and sustainable supply chain. In 2016, in targeted poverty relief, and implemented diversified technologies through smart city development, so and the society to fulfill the environmental protection ZTE signed the corporate social responsibility public welfare activities in different countries worldwide, as to form a benign ecosystem. By the end of responsibilities together through new products and (CSR) agreement with more than 90% of our further promoting the ZTE public welfare brands to the 2016, the ZTE smart city solution had been services with higher commercial values and environsuppliers, and provided CSR training for 111 world. widely applied in over 40 countries and regions, mental protection efficiency. In 2016, ZTE estabsuppliers, which enhanced the CSR concept on Next year, ZTE will promote the national Internet+ and ZTE products and services had been lished the energy management system and passed the supply chain. strategy and ZTE M-ICT 2.0 strategy, and brave available all over 160 countries and regions. through the ISO50001 certification, continuously difficulties to achieve the company’s goal for 2020. ZTE explored innovative energy saving and emission will provide assistance in the economic transformation reducing solutions, and increased our environmental and upgrading in China, and undertake its historical protection efforts. mission and responsibilities. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  $ERXW8V  About Us 7RWDOQXPEHURIHPSOR\HHVLQ Company Name: ZTE Corporation Address: No. 55, Hi-tech Road South, Shenzhen, P.R.China 81,468 HPSOR\HHVH[FOXGLQJVXEVLGLDULHV 0DMRUKROGLQJVXEVLGLDULHV Business: The Group is committed to the design, 56 development, production, distribution and installation of various advanced ICT systems, equipment and terminals, for operator networks, government and enterprise businesses, and end-consumers. ,QFOXGLQJWKHVXEVLGLDULHVZLWKWKH UHJLVWHUHGFDSLWDOQROHVVWKDQ PLOOLRQ<8$1DQGKHOGRUZKROO\ RZQHGE\=7(&RUSRUDWLRQ /LVWHGVWRFNH[FKDQJHV6KHQ]KHQ6WRFN([FKDQJH DQG+RQJ.RQJ([FKDQJHVDQG&OHDULQJ/LPLWHG =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  $ERXW8V  2UJDQL]DWLRQDOVWUXFWXUH      Board of Directors          Nomination Remuneration and Audit  Committee Appraisal Committee Committee           President/Economic Committee       Strategy Operating Management Compliance Annual turnovers Net profits Committee Committee Committee ҁ8QLWPLOOLRQ\XDQ҂ ҁ8QLWPLOOLRQ\XDQ҂ *URXS)XQFWLRQDO*URXSV HR and Adminidtrative Finance and Capital Management Operation Strategy Commercial Risk Contol (XURSH &KLQD 57.84% and MKT and Architecture Procedures DQG 22.09% Legal 2FHDQLD PR GR Compliance Quality ,7 Intenal Control Moral and Audit Compliance $VLD ҁH[FOXGLQJ 14.39% $IULFD 5.68%  &KLQD҂ *OREDO 6\VWHP 7HUPLQDO 6XSSO\ 1HZ 0DUNHWLQJ 3URGXFWV 6HUYLFH &KDLQ (QHQJLHV Turnover ratios by regions in 2016 =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH  Governance Mechanisms About Shareholders and business, practices independent business accounting, and independently bears risks and obligations. Shareholders' Meeting The controlling shareholder does not directly or indirectly interfere with the Company’s decisions or &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH The Company has established a corporate governance structure that ensures fair treatment toward all shareholders, especially minority shareholders. All business activities conducted in accordance with laws. shareholders are able to enjoy equal rights and to bear the corresponding duties based on the shares About Directors and they hold. The board of directors can earnestly study and arrange the agenda for a shareholders’ meeting. the Board of Directors During a shareholders’ meeting, each item on the The company hires directors in strict accordance agenda is given a reasonable amount of time for with the conditions and procedures formulated in the discussion. In accordance with the newly revised Articles of Association, to ensure that directors are Rules for Shareholders’ Meetings for Listed Compaelected with openness, fairness, impartiality and nies, the Company utilizes site voting means and independence, to fully reflect the opinions of the online voting means to facilitate participation of minority shareholders. The Company appoints shareholders in the shareholders’ meetings. To fully directors through cumulative voting. The Company reflect opinions of minority shareholders, the vote In compliance with the basic has formulated rules of procedure for its board of result made by them is disclosed separately in the directors in its articles of association to ensure the principles of the Company Law, resolution announcements of the meetings. Shareboard of directors' efficient function and rational holders can contact the Company through the Securities Law, Code of Corporate decisions. The board of directors of the Company shareholder hotline during working hours, or send has established an audit committee, a nomination Governance for Listed Companies in emails to the designated mailbox, or send messages committee, and a remuneration and appraisal on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange forum for invesChina, and other relevant laws and committee in accordance with the Code of Corporate tors. The Company also adds a special column Governance for Listed Companies in China. regulations of the CSRC, ZTE continues called “Investor Protection” on the official website, to Independent directors constitute the majority of the solicit, publish, and repost information about investor to improve its corporate governance committees and act as conveners to provide protection. professional opinions and recommendations on the mechanism, regulate corporate operadecisions of the board. tion, and optimize its internal control system About Controlling Shareholders and the Listed Company About Supervisors and the Board of Supervisors The Company’s controlling shareholder is Shenzhen Zhongxing Xin Telecommunications Equipment Supervisors of the Company have professional Company Limited. The controlling shareholder knowledge and experience in management and strictly complied with the laws and regulations while accounting, and are selected and recruited through exercising the rights as investors, and is prevented the cumulative voting means. Supervisors of the from damaging the Company’s or other shareholdCompany shall inspect and monitor the Company’s ers’ legal rights and interests. The controlling financial status, the compliance of directors, CEO, shareholder nominates the candidates for directors and other senior managers fulfilling their duties, and and supervisors in strict compliance with the terms protect legal rights and interests of the Company and procedures provided for by laws, regulations, and shareholders. The Company has formulated the and the Company’s articles of association. The Rules for the Supervisor Meetings. The supervisor Company is separated from the controlling sharemeetings shall be convened and held according to holder in such aspects as personnel, assets and the Company’s articles of association and the Rules financial affairs, is independent in institutions and for Supervisor Meetings.  &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH  About Performance Evaluation and Incentive/Constraint Mechanisms ance investigation management rules based on Improved Internal Reporting their violation severity and consequences. Besides, the compliance investigation team sends Mechanism In 2016, the Company’s Remuneration and Appraisa stock options incentive scheme that has been rectification notifications to relevant business units al Committee of the Board of Directors links the approved by the shareholders’ meeting. Stock to urge them to make rectifications within the In 2016, the compliance investigation team remuneration of senior managers to individual option grants and grant registrations have been specified period. expanded the reporting channels, enhanced performance according to the Senior Manager conducted in October and November 2013 respectively. The first phase of the Company’s information protection and system construction, Performance Management Regulations. The stock option incentive plan is from November 2, Anti-corruption Compliance highlighted the reporting content, and periodically recruitment of the Company’s senior managers is 2015 to October 31, 2016, and a total of reviewed the internal reporting mechanism, so as done in strict accordance with relevant laws and 34,556,670 stock options are exercised, and Construction to improve the internal reporting mechanism. regulations as well as the articles of Articles of Association. To establish an incentive and reward 327,690 stock options that are not exercised are system associated with the Company’s perforrevoked. Currently, the vesting conditions for the In 2016, based on existing compliance management mance and long-term strategy, improve the overall second phase of the stock option incentive plan organizations and systems, ZTE further strengthThe company employees and outsiders can report remuneration system of the Company, and reserve are maturated. The qualified objects of the stock ened the anti-corruption compliance construction, any violations through the 24-hour hotline human resources for sustainable development of option incentive plan can exercise their stock and adhered to high moral codes and integrity +86-400-830-8330 or +86-755-26771199 (both the Company, the remuneration and appraisal options in the second exercise period from principles in our business activities all over the world. English and Chinese are acceptable) or the email committee of the board of directors has formulated November 1, 2016 to October 31, 2017. The company launched the anti-corruption and complianceaudit@zte.com.cn. anti-bribery compliance CEO initiative. Mr. Zhao Xianming, CEO of ZTE, reemphasized our zero About Internal Control to lerance for corruption and bribing behaviors in any Besides, company employees can submit clues form, and put legality and compliance as prerequisite through the LCM system. The investigation team In compliance with the provisions of the Company business unit, and the risk control manager. and bottom line for company operating. has improved the confidentiality management Law, Securities Law, Code of Corporate Governance According to the result of internal control over the systems and measures, strengthened confidentialifor Listed Companies in China, Standard for EnterCompany's financial statement, if there is no The Company formulated comprehensive anti-corty inspection, and standardized reporting informaprise Internal Control, and other relevant laws and critical internal control defect by the benchmark ruption and anti-bribery plans, established an tion viewing and verification procedures, so as to regulations, the Company has established a sound date for the internal control evaluation report, the independent anti-corruption and anti-bribery complireduce the reporters’ worry. The Company has and effective internal control mechanism to strengthboard of directors concludes that the Company has ance department, employed legal and compliance further strengthened verifying the authenticity and en internal control, improve the Company's operation complied with the enterprise internal control experts to take charge of the global anti-corruption effectiveness of reporting content. Investigation on management and risk prevention abilities, and mechanism and relevant regulations, and mainand anti-bribery compliance management of the reported behaviors will be finished within certain guarantee the safety, compliance, and effective tained effective internal control over the financial company, and integrated anti-corruption and working days when the reporting content is real operation of the Company's assets. A comprehenstatement. As specified above, by the benchmark anti-bribery compliance management rules into and has sufficient evidences. The Company has sive multi-level internal control improvement system date for the internal control evaluation report, no business procedures. The Company formulated the improved the work efficiency through strengthening is also created, mainly led by the board of directors, critical internal control defect has been found. business conduct standards and anti-corruption and system construction, team building and retrospecthe audit committee, the risk control leadership anti-bribery polices and compliance guidelines which tive summary, improve the team members’ group, the risk control team of the Internal Control For more details about corporate governance, refer to are applicable for the headquarters, all overseas professional skills, enhance the compliance and Audit Dept. the risk control director of each subsidiaries and affiliates. In 2016, a total of 1,262 the 2016 Annual Report of ZTE Corporation. investigation level, so as to improve management training courses related to anti-corruption and over the compliance investigation team. anti-bribery compliance were held, with nearly 113,295 attendees, covering all employees of the Compliant Business Operation Company. The Company’s business conduct standards, anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies, and compliZTE always takes maintaining the highest standards ance guidelines aim at explicitly prohibiting any create a corporate compliance culture, and devote of business ethics and complying with the laws and person from directly or indirectly participating in ourselves to setting a right and leading example in regulations of the countries that it operates in as the blackmailing, cheating, money laundering, and other the industry, to achieve sustainability with all global basic principles of its global compliance business illegal activities in any way. customers, suppliers and other business partners. operation. The Company upholds the philosophy of creating value through the adherence and adoption of In a survey report by Transparency International on In 2016, the company compliance investigation these principles and calling for law and regulation more than 100 large transnational enterprises in July team has investigated suspected violating behavcompliance by everyone, advocates doing business 2016* , ZTE was ranked the 13th among the top 15 iors in terms of anti-commercial bribery, product in compliance with ethics, laws and regulations, and enterprises with the highest transparency in emergR&D, logistics, tax compliance, labor, and sales, has zero tolerance toward any violation of business ing markets, which make ZTE the only Chinese and filed 13 investigation and inquiry cases. ethics, laws and regulations. We proactively, efficiententerprise listed in the report. Employees whose violating behaviors are ly, and scientifically carry out compliance programs, confirmed were punished according to the compli*The survey by Transparency International mainly focuses on enterprises’ anticorruption mechanism and performances =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH  More Efforts to Establishment of Moral Promote Compliance Training Compliance Committee ZTE highly values the compliance training and In recent years, there were many reports about education. In 2016, the Company expanded compliprofessional ethics, social morality, and work style ance knowledge education channels based on among leaders and employees, having great bad existing education modes. For example, the Compainfluence, but the Company had no regulatory ny held anti-corruption and anti-bribery compliance mechanism. Therefore, the Company has formed a training and examination oriented to all employees, moral compliance committee and established a and export regulation compliance training for mechanism integrating internal supervision with managers and personnel at important posts, and external supervision, and integrating self-discipline invited legal consultations to provide onsite training and external discipline, so as to guide and superfor frontier business units. vise company leaders and employees to follow relevant laws and regulations, undertake social In 2016, the Company held three compliance training responsibilities, and adhere to professional ethics. courses for layer-4 managers and 22 compliance The moral compliance committee is the supreme training courses for layer-3 managers in such fields moral compliance judgment organization consisting as R&D, terminals, marketing, and governmental and of three levels. The company CEO serves as the enterprise affairs. A total of 435 education activities chairman of the moral compliance committee, all were held, increased by 41.7% on a year-on-year members of the economic management committee base, among which 399 were about case progress serve as committee members of the moral complireport, pre-warning, and guidelines, 12 were about ance committee. The moral compliance office compliance knowledge education, 6 were about legal belongs to the moral compliance committee, and is compliance topics, 25 about legal compliance a level-3 organization under direct charge of the capability integrated construction projects, 6 were headquarters. about legal compliance live broadcasting pushes, and 18 about management education. The moral compliance office supervises and manages dispatched leaders and senior managers of subsidiaries in terms of selection, service term, and compliance; punishes employees with moral problems and bringing negative influence on company image; makes efforts to build a team of leaders and employees boasting strong will, quality performance, precise management, and strict discipline. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW 6XVWDLQDELOLW\0DQDJHPHQW  Sustainability Organizational Chart The Company has established the Sustainability Sustainable development specialist teams are Management Committee to further boost the CSR set up under the Sustainable Development and sustainability activities and improve the Management Committee to cover the Compasustainability management mechanism. The ny’s sustainable development activities Sustainability Management Committee is including innovation management, digital gap 6XVWDLQDELOLW\0DQDJHPHQW comprised of all senior executives of the Company. elimination, staff development, environmental Serving as the supreme decision-making body for protection, communications security, supply sustainability management, the committee sets up chain management and the public welfare. The a professional management mode and an efficient, teams are also responsible for optimizing the normative management system to fulfill CSR, management regulations and processes in the guarantee the effective implementation of sustainsustainable development fields to ensure the ability regulations throughout the Company, and implementation of the Company’s sustainable ensure that the Company can develop healthily and development strategy in respective fields. sustainably to benefit the world socially. ,QQRYDWLRQWKH,PSHWXVIRU 'HYHORSPHQW 3URIHVVLRQDO7HDPVIRU ౴ኼ 6XVWDLQDELOLW\0DQDJHPHQW 6PDUW&LW\WKH%ULGJH ঩ާտ Run all of our business in an ethical and WRWKH:RUOG sustainable manner, and guarantee and promote human rights, health, safety, (PSOR\HHVWKH(QDEOHU benefits, and individual progress of all RIWKH)XWXUH those who directly or indirectly work for ZTE. Operate the Company in an environmentally responsible way, and spare no 6XWDLQDELOLW\ (QYLURQPHQW2XU 3UHVLGHQW effort to respond to the current and future 0DQDJHPHQW 2EOLJDWLRQWR3URWHFW challenges. Help customers to change the world in various opportunities and exert an active influence all over the world. ,QIRPDWLRQ6HFXULW\ :RUOGZLGH&RQFHUQWR7DFNOH 6XVWDLQ6XSSO\&KDLQWKH &56WR8QGHUWDNH %HQHƉWVIRU*OREDO&LWL]HQVRXU 9LVLRQDQG3URPLVHWR'HOLYHU  6XVWDLQDELOLW\0DQDJHPHQW  Stakeholders Engagement and Topics Sustainable Material Issues Stakeholders Communication Channel Topic In 2016, in accordance with international CSR on company strategy operation and on stake1. Sophisticated internal CSR management system standards and based on the review of impact on its holders, and sorted them in order of importance, 2. Energy-saving and low-carbon green solutions Regular meetings, including technical seminars own operation, the Company reassessed its to disclose operation management information as and workshops 3. Reliable products and technologies to stakeholders' concerns in two dimensions impact precisely and comprehensively as possible. Routine conversations and visits bring valueto our customers Customer 4. Supply chain CSR strategy and management Customer certification and reception Questionnaires and customer satisfaction survey 5. Respect for business ethics Customer services hotline 6. Respect for intellectual property 0DWHULDO,VVXHV 7. Product security and security operation Research on relationship between consumers 1. Product security and business Consumer 2. Product energy-saving Digital Divide Low-carbon Operation Consumer satisfaction survey 3. Impact on environment Regular talks and visits Posts on internal publication such as newspapers and periodicals, Share website Green Products and Solutions Diversity and Inclusiveness (http://share.zte.com.cn ), and mailbox 3rd-party employee dedication survey, 1. Remunerations rationalization proposal 2. Training and career development Employee Labor Union and employee representatives 3. Healthy and safe working environment Acceleration of the Internet Era Tax Compliance Employee appeal channels: president mailbox, 4. Human rights and labor director mailbox, and internal forum Online interview with the company management Staff associations, for example, voluntary association, photographic association, and Occupational Health Management ICT Talent Development sports association Announcements including regular reports and interim announcements published through designated media 1. Returns for shareholders Technological Innovation Public Science & Technology Shareholder/ Corporate website 2. Overall performance of the Company’s CSR Investor Shenzhen Stock Exchange forum for investors (http://irm.cninfo.com.cn ) Hotlines, mailboxes, and investor reception Promotion of the Scientific & Globalization 1. Observe the law and business ethics Technological Industry 2. Pay taxes following the tax law 3. Actively create employment opportunities and Regular visits and talks develop local talents Government/ 4. Independent innovation and intellectual property Volunteering Workshops Community strategy Product Quality and Security Discussions on government policies Government censorship and self inspection 5. Environment protection 6. Products and technologies that benefit the local economy and livelihood IPR Management 7. Social welfare Response to Climate Change ZTE supply chain management website Annual ZTE Corporation Supplier Day, and CSR training and conferences for suppliers 1. Business ethics Supplier 2. Reasonable price Regular high-level exchanges and visits Low-carbon Operation Supplier assessment and review 3. Supply chain CSR policy and requirements CSR agreements and codes of conduct for suppliers 4. Supplier capability improvement Industry group / Industry forums 1. Healthy and sustainable development of the industry 6WDNHKROGHUV(QJDJHPHQW Industry meetings and conference calls 2. Best CSR case Research institution Face-to-face interviews 1. Impact on environment Regular visits and talks NGO 2. Compliance operation To better carry out sustainable development, we with the stakeholders, listening to all stakeholdCooperative programs 3. Staff care Annual CSR report recognize those important stakeholders, and ers, understanding their expectations of ZTE, 4. Protect consumers' rights and interests establish a variety of channels of communicating and making active responses. 1. The Company’s overall CSR strategy Interviews 2. The Company’s CSR activities Mediaindustry Communication by phone 3. The Company’s overall CSR performance =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW -RLQWO\%XLOGLQJWKHŉ,QIRUPDWLRQ6LON5RDGŊWRKHOSFRQQHFWWKHZRUOG  service, which is part of their Going-out strategy. gies to provide more detailed services such as This will enhance the interconnectivity of the communication link hiring and building, IDC data Featuresғ backbone links of the relevant countries. Meanwhile, ZTE will continue to promote China's center and more for relevant countries and multinational enterprises, thus realizing service communication standards and technology, at the interworking. The ultimate goal of digital transforsame time cooperate with local operators to level mation is to achieve efficient communication on Jointly Building the “Inforup their wired and wireless communication networks. With the steady progress in layout in relevant areas, ZTE will rely on current technolohuman to human, human to thing, thing to thing bases, thus changing people’s life for better. mation Silk Road” to help Bangladesh data center construction connect the world With local people’s growing need of communication services, Bangladesh telecommunication companies are asking for more data centers. The traditional mode of using overseas data centers, which means a high cost yet low efficiency, is no more suited for today’s situation. Therefore, the Bangladesh government put forward the Digital Bangladesh national strategy, which is an effort in building a world-class national data base center for the use of government departments and enterprises, promoting economic and social development. As the major participant of the project, ZTE took the overall responsibility for civil engineering of Since the One Belt and One Road Initiative was On this consideration, ZTE proposed the concept of the data center park and buildings, data center infrastructure, IT hardware and software, proposed three years ago, many countries along the the Information Silk Road Interconnectivity. We carry operation service and more. Adhering to its consistent sense of mission and its responsiveness route have responded to the Initiative and have out deep collaboration with relevant countries and to customers, ZTE carried out the construction based on the world's highest level Uptime Tier IV expressed their supports. As the core barrier of the regions to bridge the digital gap so as to become standard. Once completed, the data center will be the first Tier IV one in Asia. Initiative, Chinese enterprises have invested over 50 leader of the One Belt and One Road Initiative, and The construction project of the Bangladesh national data center will bring considerable econombillion dollars in these countries, effectively driving the starting point for breakthroughs. Meanwhile, we ic and social benefits for the country. The high-tech park where the national data center is their economic development. However, the infrastrucdevote many efforts in training international talent in located in will develop high-end industry agglomeration effect; the government will be able to ture interconnectivity among the relevant countries the relevant countries so as to realize the sustainable carry out big data collection and analysis based on the data of national data center, thus has been lagged behind, which leads to the difficulty development of their communication industry, developing and providing electronic government affairs, electronic education, e-commerce, in information exchange, creating an obstacle both promoting international interconnectivity. electronic agriculture services and more to promote the social development; moreover, the for some collaboration projects and the potential of national data center will make IT personnel training possible, thus enhancing national human local economic and social development. value and realizing talent output. As a model in South-Asian communication technology area, Bangladesh national data center will in return improve the country’s national image. Bridge the Digital Gap “ZTE has always been dedicated to provide comprehensive, high-quality data center solutions for our customers. We focus on independent research and development just to improve customers’ return on investment and enhance customer experience.” As a communication technology enterprise with an layout. With the implementation of its international ——Chen Pei, ZTE’s chief architect for global cloud IDC international vision, ZTE is professional and strategy for more than a decade, ZTE has established experienced in building national telecommunicaa strong sales and service platform. By the end of tion infrastructure and offering informational June 2016, ZTE has established 53 permanent services for relevant capital construction enterprisoffices, provided wireless network service in 40 es and technical enterprises. Putting up the countries, and cable network service in 52 countries concept of the Information Silk Road Interconnecamong 65 One Belt and One Road Initiative relevant tivity, we dedicate ourselves to help the One Belt countries. and One Road Initiative relevant countries and Chinese Going-out enterprises to build the Cross-border network interconnectivity, national information highway so as to lay a solid foundation network speed-up and service interconnection are the for future cooperation in broader fields. concrete ways of implementation the Information Silk Road Interconnectivity. ZTE will cooperate with the The Information Silk Road Interconnectivity three main telecommunication operators in China to propose is based on ZTE’s global vision and provide cross-border network interconnectivity =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  -RLQWO\%XLOGLQJWKHŉ,QIRUPDWLRQ6LON5RDGŊWRKHOSFRQQHFWWKHZRUOG  ZTE is awarded the Best Internet Service Provider in Indonesia The Ethiopian National Grid Infrastructure Development Project The Ethiopian National Grid infrastructure training with the long-term development of development project (NGIDP-I) is the first the Ethiopian communication technology On the telecommunication summit held by successful network transformation in Celebes and electrification power optical cable project of the and the country’s economy. Secular Magazine, an official magazine the deep cooperation programs with local operacountry, with an overall length of the cable of affiliated to Indonesian communication ministry, tors. This award means that ZTE’s advantages in 1,234.63km. However, the yearly rainy season The completion of the grid infrastructure on May 26th, 2016, ZTE was once again wireless technology solutions and its special for more than three months will make the project is an important achievement of awarded Best Network Technology. This was contributions to the development of local operator electrification construction almost impossible. China’s One Belt and One Road economic owing to ZTE’s technical advantages, the communication networks are fully recognized. cooperation strategy and The Information As the contractor of the project, ZTE has Silk Road Interconnectivity. ZTE will expand overcome many difficulties, delivering the its cooperation with Ethiopian Electric Power “We are proud to receive recognition from the industry. ZTE will continue its innovations and progress project on schedule with no casualties on 22th Corporation to promote the development of to become the most solid partner of Indonesian operators.” June 2016. With a guarantee of the construction Ethiopian electric power communication. quality, ZTE levered local engineering talent ——Gong Ming, ZTE’s CTO in Indonesia International Talent Training It’s an urgent demand to train international talent for The overseas operation and development of an deepening the One Belt and One Road Initiative and enterprise lie upon the construction and management driving the economic and social development in the of its international talent team. ZTE actively promotes relevant countries and regions. On July 15th, 2016, the competence of its international talent through China's Ministry of Education issued Jointly Promotcooperation with governments and colleges at home ing the One Belt and One Road Educational Action, and abroad, so as to innovate its international talent which clearly states that education is the foundation training system, thus promoting the development of and pioneer in The Belt and Road Initiative and ICT industry and talent training in the One Belt and advocates relevant countries to establish an educaOne Road Initiative relevant countries and regions. tion community so as to jointly carry forward the ZTE -Transformer of how Indonesian watch television constructions of the One Belt and One Road Initiative. The application of Internet Protocol TelecommuTo meet Telkom Indonesia’s demands of expandnication Technology (IPTV) has enabled people ing the number of broadband users, ZTE proposed of video recording and watching on-demand the idea of achieving a breakthrough in IPTV. This videos, with which they will not be restricted to idea was embarked in 2012 with customers’ the broadcasting time of traditional cable TV recognition. programs. It means people can arrange their time more freely, enjoying this huge conveUp to now, Telkom Indonesia IPTV boasts a total nience in life. In order to benefit more people, number of users of more than 1.5 million and 4 ZTE delivers this technology to thousands of million broadband users, with an annual growth of Indonesian households, putting its concept of almost one million users. ZTE is setting an The Information Silk Road Interconnectivity into example for Chinese Going-out enterprises with its practice. intelligence and capability. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  -RLQWO\%XLOGLQJWKHŉ,QIRUPDWLRQ6LON5RDGŊWRKHOSFRQQHFWWKHZRUOG  In 2016, ZTE further pushes forward its innovative cooperation with colleges from across the country, founding “Sino-French International Class” program along with Xi’an International University, Xi 'an Transportation & Engineering College, Nanjing Pujiang The One Belt and One Road International Human college and more. Up to now, the total number of students is more than 300. And the Resource Development Association Proposal program successfully promotes partner universities to innovative their mode of overseas talent training and user forward the One Belt and One Road educational move. In 2016, ZTE co-launched the One Belt and One Road International Human Resource Development Association Proposal with the School Planning and Construction Development Center of China’s Ministry of Education and other organizations. The proposal aims to establish a trans-national, cross-industry and trans-disciplinary international talent training mechanism, build an international human resources service platform and contribute to the construction of the think-tank of both Chinese enterprises and the One Belt and One Road Initiative relevant countries. In 2016, the One Belt and One Road International Human Resource Development Association proposed the construction scheme of Silk Road International College, where resources like ICT equipment, local and expatriate teachers, ICT Colleges and business courses, infrastructure, capital and more will be invested to open 64 international excellent courses. These courses will help solve all the 11 types of problems, including compreThe Equatorial Guinean Training School Project hensive competence, marketing, commercial contracts, operations management, logistics management and others, brought by the international operation of enterprises. Beyond that, the proposal will rely on the basic principles of co-construction, sharing The population size of Equatorial Guinea is less than one million, and the country and all-win to promote the international development of education and enterprises. boasts only one national university of liberal arts. Therefore, ICT Education and telecom infrastructures development are lagged behind. Since 2013, ZTE takes its business advantages and cooperates with the Equatorial Guinean government to help build ICT training schools and cultivate professional communication talent with strong Core Institutions of The Silk Road International College practical capabilities, thus promoting local telecom infrastructures and level up ICT informatization. the international base the overseas training exhibition center educational exchange overseas customer support ZTE provides a set of knowledge service-oriented solutions which includes capital for college talent center of enterprises of enterprises centers center of enterprises construction, engineering, equipment and more. In order to cultivate local ICT talent, ZTE put forward a customized promotion training program which includes local short-term and mid-term training, so that the students can finish their four-year undergraduate study in China’s first-class communication colleges and a one-year internship in ZTE. In 2016, the first group of excellent overseas students from Equatorial Guinea has completed their four-year undergraduate study. As seed lecturers, they went back to their homeland to assist in teaching duties in local training schools. ZTE (France) International Talent Training Program The Training School Project co-founded by ZTE and the Equatorial Guinean government is strategically important in improving the country’s influence to its neighboring In July 2013, ZTE co-initiated Sino-French Talent Training Program with the University of countries through enhancing the capacity of communication technology and developing Poitiers in France. The program is dedicated to developing practical talent with an communication talent. Meanwhile, it is an active exploration an effective experience in international vision, all round qualities and various professional skills for ZTE as well as expanding China’s international influence in African educational moves. the ICT industry. By 2016, the program has come to its 4th round of training, with more than 800 college student applicants from across the country and over 200 accepted into the official training period. The program integrates theoretical study and overseas internship to cultivate talent n communication engineering and business management. It provides students with specialized courses teaching, French training and professional training for customized courses. The training period in France will be one year. Graduates will receive a vocational bachelor degree of the University of Poitiers and a professional certification from ZTE. Excellent graduates will have access to ZTE’s Green Channel For Talent. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW ,QQRYDWLRQWKH,PSHWXVIRU'HYHORSPHQW  Strategy, Advancing with the Time Innovation, the Impetus for In July 2014, ZTE announced the strategy M-ICT and openness have become the flow. We think that Development 1.0 to give power to industrial revolution. With the important revolutions are shown in these five customer and cooperators from all over the world, directions – Virtuality, Openness, Intelligence, comes the IoT Generation. We develop ICT Cloudification, and Internet of Everything, which is as industry through innovation. New technology, new known as “VOICE”. career, and new pattern in ICT have come into bud. ICT industry remains big spaces to be VOICE is the core of the digitalization of future imagined with innovation. In August 2016, based society. Different aspects help and stimulate each on M-ICT1.0, we combined the latest development other. They will form a new business system which and announced M-ICT 2.0. We hope we can regards need as the core, the technology as the welcome and face this changing era with custombackup and the business mode as the energy. ers and cooperators from all over the world. Facing the new generation with innovation and imagination, our company will spread our business With the flow of the great business, everything gets category and connotation with VOICE to generate connected and virtual world is combined with the new goal for our company and win the future with the reality. Business things are cloudified. Sharing data customers and partners. V Virtuality Big video, VR/AR, virtual resource... 2 Openness Open-source, sharing, ecosysterm... 92,&( I Intelligence Big data, AI, ubiquitious intelligence... & Cloudification Cloud, pipe acceleration, fusion... E Internet of Everyting All connected, sensed, coordinated...  ,QQRYDWLRQWKH,PSHWXVIRU'HYHORSPHQW  Management of Innovation and Development of Innovative Technology Intellectual Property With the explosive growth of mobile broadband business and IoT (Internet of Things), the 4G As a pioneer of 5G, we started to research on 5G since 2009. Now we have almost received a thousand network gradually become the development patents related to the key 5G technology. With the ZTE makes the technologic innovation and IPR into in the strategy M-ICT, we plant the idea of bottleneck. In 2016, we presented the idea of leading innovation and stable investment, ZTE have its core strategies in the telecommunication industry. innovation into every ZTEr’s heart which makes Pre5G and series of solution. They upgrade 4G’s signed 5G cooperation agreements with many The technology is concentrated and telecommunicaour company have good achievements in network performance and help 4G develop into domestic and foreign operators. tion is one of the most intensive and active industries innovating new technology and offer energy to 5G. related to innovation. At the same time, we faced ICT industry and company. strong competitors from everywhere which makes the storage of innovation and IPR as our guard while ZTE has two management rules about IPR, getting into the global market. Through the advance namely Strategy of IPRs’ Planning and PracticPublish the Whitepaper on Pre5G ing and Rule of Integrated Management of IPR. On June 28th, 2016, ZTE published the whitepaper on Pre5G. ZTE presented the idea of Pre5G And we build a complete group system in and a basket of solutions. They upgrade 4G’s network performance and help 4G develop into 5G. technologic innovation and IPR. The managing 70,000 ZTE has applied for patent almost 70,000 department forms the ZTE IPR Strategy Community which charge for the decisions. At the same time, our company established a department for IPR’s storage, operation, and As the bridge from 4G to 5G, Pre5G pays more attention to enhance three hot areas of mobile broadband, IoT, and Cloud-computing. Compared to 4G, Pre5G’s system complicity will be expanded 6 times. The customers’ average bandwidth will rise to 5 times more and the number of connections per unit area will rise to 100 times. Pre5G effectively serves the customers’ ultimate needs of law. We put 10% of our revenue into R&D. It ultra-bandwidth. It serves full-scale solutions to verticals’ high-speed growth and creates IoT’s pieces, has been over 50 billion yuan in the past six ecosystem and innovative application. years. Only in 2015, we put more than 10 billion yuan into R&D. In 2016, the R&D investment Based on 5G’s technology innovation, we presented the application of VR (virtual reality). It is the 90% accounts for 12.6% of the company’s income, first technology based on 5G demonstrates wireless VR business. It helps VR have good preparawhich keeps enhancing the power of innovation tion to be involved into our career and life. to sustain ZTE’s growth. During MWC2016 in Barcelona at the beginning of 2016, Pre5G Massive MIMO base station’s Over 90% are patents for invertion creativity and innovation gained the biggest award “Best Mobile Technology Breakthrough” and In 2009, ZTE started to found the biggest “Outstanding overall Mobile Technology-The CTO’s Choice 2016”. On October 19th, 2016, ZTE industry-university-research platform, ZTE were rewarded “Best Wireless Broadband Innovation” with Pre5G Massive MIMO. 4,123 industry-university-research forum. The members include NTHU, PKU, ZJU, and other famous colleges and institutes. We will invest thousands of million yuan in the forum. In 2016, ZTE listed the first in PCT patent In the future, the 5G network will be an At the leading edge of technology, we applications by 4,123 applications explored the cooperation patterns with open ecosystem. ZTE is working “Decentralized Cooperation”, “Keeping closely with different parties in the Rolling Cooperation” and “United Innovation industry, making efforts to create a 1 gold and Center”. Our company has invested almost 200 million yuan for supporting hundreds of colorful experience with 5G in the researches. We have created 3 co-innovation future. ZTE have already signed 2 excellence centers, organized 30 forum members and strategic cooperation agreements with cooperated on more than 600 projects. Telenet, Hutchison Telecom, Spanish Telefónica, SoftBank, Korea Telecom, In the 18th Award for Chinese Outstanding China Mobile, China Telecom, China Patented Innovation, we received 1 and 2 excellence awards. By far we gold have accumulatively received 7 gold and 31 30 3 600 Unicom and other operators. Technological and industrial cooperation in all excellence awards related to patents in dimensions will be made in the 5G forum co-innovation cooperated China, ranking the first in the ICT industry. members centers projects industry. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  ,QQRYDWLRQWKH,PSHWXVIRU'HYHORSPHQW  Intelligence Factory International Cooperation on 5G “Wireless base station intelligence factory of products”, propounded by ZTE, is one of first state-approved new system of intelligence manufacturing in the communication industry. Cooperating with SoftBank, ZTE launched products with Pre5G Massive MIMO technology into the Japanese markets. On September 1st, 2016, the heavy rain covered the feather park in the Bodo, “Wireless base station intelligence factory of products” project creatively delineates flexibility, agility, Fukuoka, which must have unfavorably impact on the transmission of wireless signals. However, using high quality, optimization with low cost and construction of the factory. ZTE, with its sharp mind and the Massive MIMO technology, users could still watch VR videos on VR terminals while downloading sophisticated technology in the industry, serves as a good example of smart manufacturing system to several files in a high speed at the same time. This is a perfect example of the advanced technology of satisfy customer’s various demands, reduces the producing time, raises the quality and lowers the Pre5G. cost. Relying on automatic equipment, industrial internet, industrial Apps, industrial big databases and so on, the project is geared towards different procedures of test, assembly, packing and SoftBank started its commercial services based on Massive MIMO in 43 cities since the September logistics. It sets up a digital factory integrating the smart equipment, production, management, 16th, 2016. Besides Japan, Massive MIMO gained its popularity in Austria, Belgium, Italy, South research and development. It is predicated that the efficiency of production will be raised by 30%, Korea, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Spain, Saudi Arabia and so on. Many test systems have been cost lowered by 25%, defective fraction reduced by 25% and energy consumption lowered by 13%. launched in these countries. Smart manufacturing is the digital transformation mean to realize the M-ICT 2.0 strategy in the manufacturing industry. It employs the world’s mature and advanced technologies to achieve the interconnection of all things and maximize the value in the manufacturing industry. In the future, 5G will need the overall layout including the system network and the terminals. In FebruBased on IoT, our FLYLISTEN ultrasonic detector ary 2017, ZTE 5G overall solution has achieved the can examine gas leakage. It is a terminal which breakthrough, and realized the deployment ahead looks like a black box. Its original demand is to be Set up in 1955 in Germany, of the way towards the 5G development path. a closed box in the open air, which seems easy the Red Dot Award initiates but actually hard to make. Finally, the idea came: let the function determines its shape. The shape one of the world’s biggest turned out to be the most simplistic geometry. and most influential designing competitions. It is considThe main part of the product is designed as a ered as Oscar Award in the industrial During the 2017 MWC Expo, ZTE Based on the gigabit high-speed network, and cube that has an universal interface on its five design along with IF Design Award. officially launched the first Gigabit ZTE 5G technology accumulation in terms of the facades. In this way, the pickup cover can face Our FLYLISTEN ultrasonic detector Phone in the world, which has system and the terminal, smart terminal the ideal direction wherever the product is become the world's first cell phone experience will achieve a qualitative leap, installed. The available accessories are won the Red Dot Design Concept in whose download rate can be up to 1G compared with the existing 4G network. And it trumpet-shaped wide angle pickup cover, 2016. Targeted at upcoming products, bit per second. will become an important cornerstone for cylindrical precise pickup cover, serpentine Red Dot Design Concept fixes its With the latest mobile chip platform, the downmoving towards the 5G mobile Internet experipickup cover which can probe into the tube of the eyes on the future, becoming the load rate of ZTE Gigabit Phone can reach 10 ence. ZTE Gigabit Phone will be equipped with equipment, and solar panels. barometer of the future design times faster than LTE terminal of the first more abundant application scenarios and orientation and trend. There were generation, by combining carrier aggregation imagination space in AR, entertainment, cloud The perfect combination of shape and function technology, 4 x 4 MIMO antenna technology and storage, instant APP, and other aspects. was the key to win the award. 4698 designs from 60 countries 256-QAM high-order modulation technology Combined with tourism, entertainment, medical competing for the award this year, together. and other fields, the 360-degree real-time while only 286 won the award with a transmission of virtual reality content and its mere rate of 6.1%. Benefiting from the technology accumulation of panoramic immersive experience will achieve the ZTE system platform in the field of 5G, and the extensive value in practical use; by changbased on the Pre5G Giga + MBB wireless ing the access mode of original mobile Apps, network solution, gigabit phone can effectively instant App will provide the pleasant online use improve the throughput capacity more than without downloading or installation; breaking the tripling with the existing spectrum, so that the storage space limitation, and achieving the users can enjoy quasi-5G experience before the cloud unlimited storage, this cloud storage will arrival of the 5G era. be comparable to the local flash memory. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW 6PDUW&LW\WKH%ULGJHWRWKH:RUOG  Connecting Executive Functions, 6PDUW&LW\WKH%ULGJH Providing Convenient Service WRWKH:RUOG Scenario 1 Time: around 10 a.m. Place: an ordinary community in Yinchuan The development of communication technologies is bringing about The cleaner, Liu Qingxia, receives a text which reads the No.3000 garbage bin is full. The sender  is no other than the garbage bin itself. profound changes to people’s lifestyle and the developing mode of cities. In 2005, ZTE put forward the idea of huge data-sharing cloud based on cities, PPP innovative business model and city cooperative management Scenario 2 plus complete entry into an age 2.0 as smart cities. ZTE has explored and launched the construction of new smart cities in 40 countries and 145 cities such as Yinchuan, Time: 3 p.m. Place: administrative examination and approve service hall Shenyang, Wuxi, Qingdao and Qinhuangdao, becoming the important participant and promoter Wang Haiping, the legal person of Ningxia Haoyicheng Labor Service Co. Ltd., with officially in building smart cities in the world. stamped business license, organization code certificate, state tax registration certificate, local tax registration certificate and an enterprise stamp in his hand, praised, the stamping procedure lasted With the smart city version 2.0 achieving the goal of making a city as a unit, collection and more than two days in the past, but now half a day is enough, saving much time for us. overall plan of huge data, ZTE creatively proposes the idea of smart city version 3.0 which An intelligently transformed city can realize the management by a mobile phone covering services utilizes the big data to promote new city construction. By maximizing the value of data, ZTE from community environment management to the administrative procedures for certification. These achieves the data application in optimizing decision-making and the smart management of scenarios which can only be imagined in the past now become the reality in the Smart Yinchuan cities, which has promoted the social cooperation. project. With the built-in solar panels and sensors, the intelligently transformed garbage bin connect to the IoT when the garbage is piled up to a certain height, and send a message to cleaner’s phone. Thus, the city’s garbage production and the overall plan can be clearly seen on a phone. By sharing the data among departments, Yinchuan administrative examination and approval center replaces the 26 approval seals of various administrative departments with a single seal. The new service has benefited more than 7,400 companies and 20,700 individuals with an almost tripled efficiency rate since it implemented three years ago. At present, 227 administrative procedures for examination and approval can be followed through the official App on the phone, making people’s life more convenient. administrative examination and approval Smart Yinchuan” is the first smart city system. Also, it forms a replicable and widely project which takes a city as a unit for applicable “Yinchuan model”. Big data not top-level design. Cooperating with Yinchuan only supports the development of the municipal government, ZTE has made industry, but also innovates and improves the overall plans for 10 large systems and 13 mode and level of city management. It submodules through the construction of big transforms the present passive, follow-up data since February 2014, including smart management into an active, forward-looking policy, transportation, community and and preventive management. environmental protection. It initiates five functions: mitigating city diseases, bettering Global TMF Smart City Summit settled in service for citizens, promoting the derivation Yinchuan in September 2016, which and development of industry, innovating the represents that Smart Yinchuan had become city management, and pushing the reform of  6PDUW&LW\WKH%ULGJHWRWKH:RUOG  the new benchmark in the domain of smart industry. Li Keqiang, CPC Central Committee The system is easy to install and the Political Bureau Standing Committee Member product is easy to take apart, which and State Council Premier, once commented on the smart government affairs co-built by ZTE and makes the maintenance well-directed Smart Yinchuan built by ZTE solves the Yinchuan municipal government, This is the and lower its cost. ZTE’s smart parking non-intelligence of the city. It realizes the data streamline administration and institute decentralsystem has already launched in Wuzhen, integration, providing citizens with convenient ization as well as information support. He personally inspected the Yinchuan’s city hall and and efficient service. Romania and other areas. praised the one window, one official stamp ——C114 Network screen shot of ZTE’s micro parking App and real map reform for the administrative examination and approval system. Recently, during the third inspection by the State Council, Yinchuan has gained the circulated notice of commendation for its innovative city management and promotion of smart city construction. It has become a good example to be promoted around the country. pieces of data from 27 Commission Offices, covering the whole population in the city. ZTE Based on its experience, ZTE will continue its efforts helps Shenyang achieve three goals of benefiting to achieve the goal of smart city version 3.0 in the people, developing affairs and better the policy . future. At present, ZTE has cooperated with Meanwhile, it helps the country implement the Shenyang municipal government and preliminarily strategy of revitalizing the Northeast China. In the built the leading city-level fundamental database. huge data industrial summit, Smart Shenyang ZTE invented 4 initial Apps including “My Shenunified platform won the Outstanding AchieveZTE smart parking landing project in Romania yang”, open data, social credit, and policy support. ments of Big Data Technology and Solutions ZTE has finished the data collection of 430 million Award”. Smart Street Lights—Enlighten the “Aladdin Lamp in the City Creating Smart Streets,Sharing Smart life Through intellectualized transformation of the seemingly unnoticeable street lights, the interconnection between Internet and lighting, communications, security, sensors, information dissemination Streets are the veins of the city. Under the frameexpands the application of the IoT, ameliorates the and charging pile docking will be built, which can serve as a key interface for the Internet of work of smart city, ZTE targets at existing problems convenience of the city in order to make the veins Everything. Keenly seizing this opportunity, ZTE has proposed an innovative program called in the blocks with its specific combination of open and cures various city diseases. BluePillar Smart Street Lights. ZTE uses modular design to save the cost and time for assembly technology and product application. It creatively and maintenance. Also, via adopting energy-saving design, it can achieve the highest energy efficiency of more than 70%, without blocking the normal use. City of Light , a smart city project launched by ZTE Paris, is a typical application of smart street Smart Parking—No Longer Worry About Finding A Parking Spot lights. Through the sensors on smart street lights, we can not only realize the centralized management over street lights, energy saving, operation and maintenance optimization, but also bring a Based on the IoT, ZTE invents a smart parking system as to solve the problem of parking in brand-new experience for the digital city. The program plans to cover more than 350,000 lighting cities. It can not only get the real-time information of the parking lot by the sensor installed, but points, over 1,800 crossroads, and is expected to save more than 30% energy than usual. In the also record the parking data through the management system on the cloud. The driver can check near future, WIFI, smart parking and other intellectual functions will also be integrated into this the occupancy of the parking lot, search for a vacant parking spot, use navigation or even pay the system. The city of romance will shine more brightly by merging the classic and traditional parking fee through the mobile app. The system effectively soothes the headache of parking for elements from Paris together with the modern and technological smart city from ZTE. drivers. So far, ZTE has deployed more than 20,000 smart street lights in over 20 countries Smart parking plan not only offers convenience for drivers, but also offers an important reference around the world, covering a mileage beyond 400 kilometers. of city management. Made into sheets, the parking data can help management department detailed analyze the occupancy of all the parking lot and provide data support for municipal planning. In addition, sensors can be installed on the no parking areas in order to find the illegal parking in time, send message to the manager automatically and reduce the illegal parking. 20 countries 20,000 smart street lights 400kilometers =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  6PDUW&LW\WKH%ULGJHWRWKH:RUOG  experience the convenience and efficiency of police perspectives — the management issues , industry service in this information era. Additionally, the regulation refinement and improvement of the Smart Covers Eradicate the “City Killer” system vigorously motivates the transformation of overall law enforcement efficiency . With the traffic The manhole cover is one of the chief culprits for traffic accidents. Especially in China, since the public security office from the control-based enforcement APP, law enforcement officers can many local roads are in disrepair, it is easy to leave serious hazards that give rise to the mode to the service-oriented form, enhancing the combine evidence collection, live realism, informaaccidents. In the south and other cities, when heavy rain causes the submersion of roads due law enforcement and service levels. tion query, case registration, service deployment, to the untimely drainage, the covers will be opened or shifted, without effective detection, supervision and other functions as a whole, so that leading the occurrence of traffic accidents. In order to solve this problem, in 2016 World Mobile Besides, in the field of government office, ZTE and to realize a phone in hand, no worry in law enforceConference Shanghai station, ZTE and China Mobile jointly presented a municipal IoT (Internet Telecom have jointly launched a security encryption ment. of Things) application the smart cover. Through the NB-IoT technology, the program can version — ZTE AXON 7 . Thereinto, in the adminiseffectively improve the coverage area of the smart covers monitoring system, eliminate the trative law enforcement vertical industry, ZTE and The introduction of the country’s first mobile law coverage holes, and ensure the timely warning for reducing the occurrence of traffic accidents Shanghai Traffic Law Enforcement Corps have jointly enforcement APP has already achieved the deep when the covers are opened and displaced. Meanwhile, the construction and maintenance developed the first traffic mobile law enforcement integration between Internet and the government, costs can be naturally cut down. APP in China. And via AXON 7 with this law enforcewhich provides a new idea for the development of ment APP, the 24-hour investigation and disposition industry Internet +”. It also promotes the developof traffic violations will be realized, without any ment of legal government, innovative government, interruption or space limitation. The mobile law incorrupt government and service-oriented govern6PDUW3ROLFH6\VWHP enforcement system is designed from three oriented ment. With emerging ICTs of the new generation, the video surveillance system, reaching an unprecesmart policy system can not only substantially dented level in the perception of the pervasiveness enhance the efficiency of police work, but also and depth of the collected content. Thus, benefiting International cooperationand recognition bring a significant revolution in the public security from the massive data collected by the clairvoymanagement concepts, working patterns, ant , plus the police big data and cloud platform, n the field of smart city, ZTE attaches great importance to the business procedures and other aspects. Facing data can be shared among different departments, cooperation and exchanges between the relevant institutions with the gradually complicated public security and other intelligent work, such as behavior both at home and abroad, and also with the same enterprises. and societal environment, ZTE has launched analysis, license plate identification, face recogniOn November 16th, 2016, during the Sixth World Smart Expo smart police solutions in the field of informational tion, video retrieval, and so on will also come into (SMART CITY EXPO WORLD CONGRESS) held in Barcelopolice, holding the aim of strong integration, use. What is most valuable is that the system also na, ZTE and the research leaders of smart city — the United extensive sharing and advanced application , supports the meta-analysis and comprehensive States SCC (Smart Cities Council), signed the official Cooperwhich means through the one-stop big data judgment on the obtained relevant information. ation Agreement, sharing the knowledge, experience and resources of developing the smart city, and jointly promoting 0U3KLOLS%DQH*HQHUDO0DQDJHURI analysis and application services, the smart and Accordingly, it can be used to intelligently predict the global sustainable development in this field, as to better $PHULFDQ6PDUW&LW\&RXQFLODQG0U;X refine police work can be realized to fully meet the development trend of events, and the secondserve the city and the public. 0LQJ$VVLVWDQWWRWKH3UHVLGHQWRI=7( the future needs in this field. So far, ZTE's public ary and derivative disasters, with setting early security solution has been applied in more than warning and generating the corresponding 40 countries and regions, achieving the popularidisposal options. ty among customers. Also, the whole series has Awards: been appraised by the authoritative consulting Command and dispatch play an important role in 1 In 2016, ZTE won the most professional and authoritative company IHS as the most comprehensive the public security law enforcement and emergenaward in the government-enterprise market in China — Best solution . cy management processes. Through the construcSmart City Top Design Provider in the CEIA China tion of an oblate command system, plus providing Enterprise IT Awards. The tide of smart city is sweeping the whole In terms of monitoring, the smart police system multimedia fused schedule, police PDA (Personal world. In the era of the Internet of Everything has fully upgraded the existing high-definition Digital Assistant), and integrated command and and smart city, ZTE considers each received 2 In the 2016 Asia-Pacific Smart City Development Summit dispatch program, ZTE's smart police system helps and 2016 China International Hi-Tech Fair co-sponsored by award as the affirmation for our long-term the managers have more comprehensive percepthe National Information Center and the International Data cultivation in the field of smart city, and tion of the events, and control the development Group (IDG), the two cities — Yinchuan and Shenyang, of which ZTE had participated in the construction, won the title moreover, as the cornerstone for the future trend so as to improve the efficiency of information construction and development. Looking of 2016 Asian-Pacific Leading Smart City . Yinchuan, flow. Also, during disposal of emergencies or law Shenyang, Wuhan and Zhuhai was named 2016 China forward into the future, ZTE will be directed enforcement, this project can assist relevant Leading Smart Cities , and Jining won the 2016 China by M-ICT 2.0 strategy as always, keep departments in rapidly arranging the personnel Smart City Innovation Award innovating the construction concept for scheduling with intelligent analysis, maximizing the smart city, create leading smart city effectiveness. 3 In addition, ZTE also won the 2016 Asia-Pacific Manufactursolutions, build smart city ecosystem and ers for Leading Smart City , 2016 China Manufacturers for industrial chain, and guide the industrial Leading Smart City , 2016 China Top Design for Leading Besides emergency management and law enforcedevelopment trend of smart city worldwide. Smart City and 2016 China Top Design Solutions Business ment, news release, online alarm system, housefor Leading Smart City , etc. A traffic law enforcement official is using a ZTE AXON 7 hold Q&A, etc., the system all lets the public fully =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW ,QIRUPDWLRQ6HFXULW\:RUOGZLGH&RQFHUQWR7DFNOH  Information Security Management Structure For modern enterprises, information security sound systems in 14 fields, including organization, management serves as the base for upgrading the business activities and IT systems, and embedded Information Security, effectiveness of enterprise management, requiring enterprises not only to protect their own core information assets, but also the same for their the information security structure in the development, sales and other main business processes. Worldwide Concern to Tackle customers and business partners. Thus, as early as in 2003, ZTE has begun the establishment of information security management structure, and ZTE has established a three-layer operation structure of the information security organization system. The information security management committee led by became the first listed company in China certificated CEO serves as the supreme governing body of the by the ISO/IEC27001 information security managecompany's information security management; the ment system. So far, 8 units, including ZTE Corporainformation security management department, the tion, ZTE Corporation Technical Services Limited security management groups and other departments Liability Company, ZTE USA, Inc., ZTE Telecom are responsible for the daily work concerning India Private Ltd. have passed the ISO/IEC27001 information security within the company and their certification. In strict accordance with the requirerespective business units and departments. ments of certification standards, ZTE has established Implementation of infomation security measures Three-Level Structure of the Information Security Organization Management Information Securlty Management Commlttee Securty Management Dept. Level 1 Supreme governing body of information security )XQFWLRQDO Promotes the infomation security management of ZTE,with the President the director GHSDUWPHQW management system of the Company and the EVPs and SVPs as members of the committee Makes strategies,major decision making,administration and rewiew on information security of the Company Information Securlty Management Team Level 2 One for each business unit,with the director of the business unit as leader of the team,and designated infomation security supervisor and head Promotes information secuity of relevant unit Departments/Projects Level 3 The management cadres of departments/project managers are first responsible persons of information security Management cadres/project managers assign backbone employees as the contact persons of information security to push forward the infomation security-related activities of the departments/projects in question  Ծߝਞ‫ق‬ᛗӤ  ZTE has established a three-layer audit system In order to keep pace with the continuous developconsisted of the external audit, the company level ment of international business, ZTE keeps audit, and the business unit self-audit, in which way strengthening the security management level of to find deficiencies in the daily information security overseas branches. Due to the differences in the work from every perspective, and to list the rectificalegal systems and cultural habits in different tions, implementing to the corresponding responsicountries, ZTE will make efforts to establish the ble individual until the end. Ultimately, it will benefit information security management structure in line the constant perfection of the company's information with the local laws, regulations, culture and security structure. industry practices. Protection for Personal All new recruits shall sign the Data and Privacy Information Security CommitZTE attaches great importance to privacy ment. The company organizes protection. The privacy data of customers and the annual information security training and the employees are all included as the particular concerns in our business code of conduct, data examination of all staff. In addition, we are protection compliance policy and information enhancing the staff's awareness of informasecurity requirements, and as the confidential tion security through daily propagation of information, which are under full protection. information security cases and strategies. Considering the security of these privacy data We also organize reading training classes during in the process of access, transmission for all management employees to strengthen and storage, ZTE has been engaged in all-round management to meet international the knowledge of information security. security requirements in terms of confidentiality, integrity and availability. The ZTE compliance management committee shall direct and supervise the privacy protection in Product Security Control each business unit. In the aspect of personal data protection, ZTE adopts the Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) processes in main businesses, such as R&D, sales, and operation and ZTE is always following the principle of safety first from the R&D, supply chain, manufacturing, maintenance, and organizes risk analysis and takes risk control measures. For example, at the in terms of products and service. In order to ensure verification audit, and delivery to the security development stage, ZTE will create a data dictionary for the collected individual data from each type the safety and reliability of all products, the compamanagement. We hold the Product Safety General of products, and then ensure the safety by applying a number of protection measures in the authoriny has a set of strict management mechanisms, Requirements and TL9000 International Telecomty, logs, encryption, anonymity and other aspects. Before disposing and transferring the data, ZTE and implements strict internal and external safety munications Industry General Quality System first confirms the relevant national laws and the requirements in applicable international rules, and standards. R&D design process of the products Standards as programmatic documents for our fulfills the relevant obligations in accordance with the provisions. For instance, the collection of need to be identified through the identification as product security, and believe the security policy customer information cannot be conducted without clearly informing the customers of the type of the well as the design stage, with strict checks. After which always focuses on customers, comprehenrequired information, and achieving their agreements. the delivery of production, the products should also sive protection, timely response, safe and credible be checked for the consistency, completing the product, and undertake the responsibility for ZTE constantly organizes the data protection compliance training for business staff, in order to avoid product safety certification to ensure that the protecting network security, user data and privacy. possible risks such as hacking, misuse and illegal access during data collection, storage, transfer product market compliance. We also strengthen the design review and verificaand destruction. Particularly, compliance officers have been dispatched to key countries and regions tion process, and organize a series of product to guide staff to ensure that the compliance requirements are implemented. ZTE has set up a product security committee and quality and safety topics training every year. continues to perfect the product security manageZTE has consistently adhered to the basic principles of lawfulness, fairness and transparency , ment structure, integrating IEC-related product Our complete system of product reliability laboratopurpose restriction , minimum scope , accuracy , integrity and confidentiality , reasonable quality and security standards in Europe and the ry, electromagnetic compatibility laboratory, product storage and attributable . In terms of data protection, ZTE keeps the continuous refinement of United States to form the R&D and production safety laboratory and radio frequency and SAR management practices to strengthen staff training and the implementation of each management standards for ZTE itself. ZTE has released its laboratory in each research and development initiative. ZTE is committed to creating an end-to-end privacy protection mechanism. Meanwhile, ZTE enterprise product standard, Product Safety center has been built, operating in strict accordance calls for more efforts from government, enterprises and organizations to focus on privacy data General Requirements, which defines the compawith the ISO17025 International Standard. These protection and creates a global atmosphere that fully protects privacy data and shares the responsiny's product security objectives, organization laboratories have been recognized by China bility and obligations for the protection of privacy data. structure, security framework, and sets the security National Accreditation Service for Conformity requirements cover the lifelong period of products Assessment and have become accredited laborato=7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  ,QIRUPDWLRQ6HFXULW\:RUOGZLGH&RQFHUQWR7DFNOH Ծߝਞ‫ق‬ᛗӤ   ries in the United States UL, Canada CSA and Germany TUV and other internationally recogstability of power grids around the world, we manage to identify the most fluctuating voltage range, and then R&D Process nized product safety certification bodies, masterdevelop the internal testing standards so that the ing the ability and qualification to directly carry out products must pass strict voltage fluctuation test to quality and safety certification testing. They not ensure that the power supply instability will not cause Over the past two years, we have increased the support for the research and development efforts of product only provide a means of detection and manageany security risks. Besides, taking different application safety, and has constantly introduced higher safety performance to the new product. ment for the company's product quality and scenarios into consideration, we have set a variety of security, but also enhance the credibility of quality types of dangerous occurrence in our products, and and security of the products from ZTE. brought the occurrence mechanisms of these risks into the product development processes through the tests ZTE continues to research, innovate and seek the so as to minimize the possibility of occurrence of these problems. 6HFXUH3KRQH most reliable security solutions in terms of product security. For example, for the differences in the The secure phone — ZTE AXON, launched for the government, has become a strong force in the present The product security management runs through the life cycle of the products. secure phone market for its advantage :HSURPRWHWKHVRXUFH We implement long-term strategies for product security baselines and in systematic integration of intelligent FRGHDXGLWYXOQHUDELOLW\ assessments based on the standards and market requirements. encryption. VFDQQLQJDQGV\VWHP VHFXULW\DVVHVVPHQW The security baseline is the basic security requirements for a class of ZRUNIRUQHDUO\ products according to the product characteristics, requirements, industry SURGXFWYHUVLRQV safety standards and the best practice results. It is one of the security features that the products must be equipped with, and also an important Integrate four major security capabilities Launched 200 element for operators to assess the level of maturity of the supplied product in terms of design and development. We have now developed guidelines for the preparation of security baselines for our products. And through the training of mobile secure office solution In the phone market for government, security is an important premise for mobile office. the main products and projects, we will help the product develop its own ability to develop safety baseline Different from the simplex hardware or software encryption on the market, ZTE secure phone documents. So far, the company has owned nearly 100 product security baseline documents that ensure groups the four security capabilities — hardware + system + platform + communication , and enhance the security of the foundation of R&D products. together in a single intelligent encryption mode, which breaks the limitations of local encryption on the market, building a more comprehensive and solid secure information space. Safety evaluation serves as a necessary means to verify the security of products, based on automated testing, combined with product characteristics, environmental features and testing needs of specific In terms of the hardware, the chip of ZTE secure phone is certified by the National Password projects to configure and deploy. We now have CISSP, CISA, CCIE, CISAW and other international Authority, using Chinese national encryption algorithm. It truly realizes the encryption for the certification experts in the security field, with mature code audit, vulnerability scanning, penetration testing underlying hardware, and its security capabilities have achieved the authoritative certification and other multi-dimensional security evaluation capabilities. Relying on this base, we promote the source from the China Financial Certification Center, reaching the security standard of financial level. code audit, vulnerability scanning and system security assessment work for nearly 200 product versions, In terms of the term system, by using the safe-isolation dual system, ZTE secure phone can and find the potential serious security flaws, which turns out to be a effective result. completely isolate the office system and the daily life system. Meanwhile, ZTE also collaborates with communication operators to encrypt call transmission channels so as to make encrypted calls possible. Additionally, relying on the mobile secure access platform and the Security response is a channel for manufacturers activities as well. ZTE owns the membership in security control platform, ZTE secure phone further strengthens the information security from and customers to communicate product security ITU-T SG5, IEC TC108 and CCSA and other the platform side. With the secure smart terminal plus security platform, it will provide users issues in a timely manner. We open the product quality and safety standardization organizations to with integrated solutions. security column and vulnerability bulletin board on make our contribution for the field. ZTE is also a our official website, bring the vulnerability disposing member of the Network User Group of China Via the above four major security capabilities, ZTE secure phone has built a one-stop mobile process and reported the channel to the public. National Vulnerability Database, signing the China secure office solution called end tube cloud . Also, according to the users’ needs, it Meanwhile, we also open a WeChat public account Internet Society Convention on Self-discipline for provides a variety of security platform deployment model to meet different customized — ZTE Product Security . Through all the above, Vulnerability and Disclosure, and joining the FIRST requirements. now customers and the industry can interact with (Emergency Response and Security Group) of the us about product safety issues through different International Security Emergency Response United with operators and partners, ZTE phone will focus on the government-enterprise channels. Organization. industry, and put strong efforts on police, finance, communication, education and other industries to promote the level of mobile informational office, becoming the leader in the field Maintaining the protection of our product security, of mobile secure office. we actively participate in domestic and international safety industry organizations and exchange =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  ,QIRUPDWLRQ6HFXULW\:RUOGZLGH&RQFHUQWR7DFNOH  As regard to product recall procedures, we formulated the Product Replacement Procedure based on the requirements of TL9000 Quality Control Manual. The procedure states clearly the replacement procedures when products of a company cannot or are not suited to work under the following circumstances: Research on Malicious Samples Palm Steward At present, ZTE has mastered the In order to improve the safety performance of detailed analysis capability of a various The product endangers the safety of The product cannot meet the relevant ZTE mobile phone, we have designed and file types, different languages, and the human or another person property national, industry or enterprise standards developed the security software— Palm malicious samples in the system. Steward , with security protection, system Thanks to the increasing richness and optimization, software rights management, maturity of debugging and analysis mobile phone security and other functions, means, we can accurately analyze the The product cannot meet the needs of Serious effects may be caused by the making ZTE mobile phone products successbehavior of malicious samples, plus customers further use of the product fully pass the five security certifications from their means of confrontation and the the Ministry of Industry. At present, Palm real intention, and set timely detection Steward has been adapted and pee-installed and alarm system. Next, we feed back In 2016, no replacement or recall occurred to ZTE products due to product safety problems. in all domestic delivery ZTE mobile phone, the typical sample characteristics to with the total number of users reaching over the anti-APT products, helping to ten million so far, and the monthly activity improve the detection accuracy of the staying over 40%. products. Response to Client Requirements The Best Innovation Network Security Solution Provider On January 10th, 2017, ZTE won The Best In order to make sure that we respond to customer Innovation Network Security Solution complaints timely and effectively, ZTE worked out Provider on the annual China Enterprise IT customer Complaint handling procedures based on Award. ISO10002:2004 Quality Management-Customer Satisfac=7(UHFHLYHGFRPSODLQWVDERXWV\VWHP tion Guidelines for Complaints Handling in OrganizaDQGSURGXFWVIURPDWKRPHDQG In 2016, we pursued a new generation of tions. The procedures state clearly the customer Adaptive Network Security, establishing an complaint hot-line and the technical support website to DEURDG intelligence-adaptive, interconnected our customers. They can file complaints through phone network security frame centering prediction, calls, the internet and other channels. We have also built 154 defense, monitoring, backtrack techniques. a quick response mechanism so that product feedback We offered information security solutions problems will be responded to in 30 minutes. For based from three key aspects: network complaints of different types, we ought to solve within safety, application safety and management limited time so as to make up our customer loses. safety. And we built our comprehensive ZTE strictly adheres to the principle of “Objective, security system from various aspects like Justice, Free of Charge and Confidential” to handle UHVSRQGHGWRDQGKDQGOHGRQWLPH terminal, network, platform, application, data customer complaints. We will make faithful record of all and more. By 2016, ZTE network security solutions have been applied in more than 40 countries and areas. In the construction of Smart Yinchuan, our network security solutions were successfully applied in the the dealing procedures. No one will have access to these procedures without authorization. In 2016, ZTE received 154 complaints about our system and products from at home and abroad, 96.5% of which were responded to 96.5% top-level design, implementation and service of Yinchuan Smart City. During the informationalization and handled on time. of Hunan, Hubei, Yunnan, Hebei and Liaoning, we strengthened the security system of government departments, contributing to the informational safety system construction of these cities. Apart from these, we also actively cooperated with our allies in industry to joint-construct an urban network security ecosystem. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW (PSOR\HHVWKH(QDEOHURIWKHIXWXUH  Vocational Ability Training For the purposes of continuing to elevate employIn 2016, ZTE offered 110,000 offline courses, with ees’ professional ability and comprehensive quality 303,000 periods and 5.19 million training hours in and meeting their personal development needs, in total. 1.9795 million person-times of employees combination with ZTE’s technological advantages, have participated in these training, with the training we have been committed to constructing ZTE’s coverage of 97%, the on-boarding training coverage community-based and ecological learning environof 100%, and the employee training satisfaction Employees, ment themed on “facilitating learning, advocating learning and enjoying learning” on a long-term basis, providing interactive and diversified forms of score of 90 above. ZTE has been continuing to develop the e-learning the Enabler of the future learning and course contents, getting through online and learning paths, and constantly optimizing and improving the employee training system. Moreover, system platform, and independently researched and developed the “ZTE e-Learning” online learning system to train employees’ habit of using fragmentwe pay close attention to university-enterprise ed time in learning and to improve their work ability. cooperation, and assist in training outstanding In 2016, ZTE’s e-Learning system online training talents for the communications industry through covered 25,256 courses, with 21,900 periods and providing college students a learning platform that 760,000 training hours in total. combines theory with practice. =7(H8QLYHUVLW\6PDUW&ODVVURRP To effectively satisfy global customers and recording service. partners’ requirement for more flexible and efficient training, in 2016, the Company To assist the smart classroom in achieving officially launched the ZTE e-university a high-quality live webcast classroom, ZTE At present, ZTE is faced with fierce smart online classroom in combination with developed PC, mobile and PAD interactive the “Internet+” development trend, and classrooms to facilitate customers’ particimarket competition at home and abroad, and the offered offline real classrooms, as well as a pation in learning and sharing anytime in core lies in talent competition. In order to better remote interactive teaching and online any place. So far, ZTE has established adapt to ZTE’s transformation development and learning platform, thereby, expanding three major smart classrooms in Shenzhen, learning channels. The platform provides and one branch classroom in Nanjing, Xi’an strategic adjustment, we focus on absorbing and knowledge content services of online and Beijing respectively, which can realize training practical and innovative talents, provide courses on demand and live open courses, the interactive teaching with live webcast all-around development support for employees O2O training services of class management, among major classrooms and between study plans, etc., customized services of live major and branch classrooms. As of and give full play to their creativity by creating rich course customization, learning cards and December 2016, the platform has realized and diversified learning environments, offering the like, statistic services of self-study the enrolment of 21,337 persons, the live unobstructed career development paths and condition, credit points and so on, as well as webcast of 42 courses including 22 open assessment services of test base managelessons, and the registration of 12,000 creating a cultural atmosphere filled with equality, ment, test paper release and courseware person-times. respect and care. We will join hands with all employees to create a new era ŉ7KDQN=7(8QLYHUVLW\IRU ŉ,WŇVDJRRGSODWIRUP7KHUH for ZTE’s development. RƈHULQJVXFKDQDPD]LQJ DUHPDQ\IULHQGVVKDULQJ SODWIRUPDOORZLQJPHWROHDUQ NQRZOHGJHZLWKPHŊ NQRZOHGJHDQ\WLPHLQDQ\SODFH  DQGEURDGHQLQJP\KRUL]RQVŊ ń6WXGHQWFRPPHQW  ń6WXGHQWFRPPHQW  (PSOR\HHVWKH(QDEOHURIWKHIXWXUH  We have actively developed university-enterprise actual technologies, to have an understanding of cooperation to jointly cultivate outstanding talents for the application of electronics and communication ZTE e-Learning APP the communications industry. For a long time, we technology in engineering enterprises, to gradually have carried out the “Outstanding Engineer” entermaster the ways of thinking and solving problems Stimulating employees’ learning enthusiasm and continuing to enhance their core business prise course cooperation with many universities, and and to enhance their innovative practice ability. ability is an important factor for ZTE to elevate market competitiveness. The Company has provided the learning and practice platform and developed the ZTE e-learning APP mobile learning platform, and devoted itself to making a specialized guidance concerning cutting-edge In the recent four years, we have cooperated with mobile learning product that “adds more fun to learning” to enable employees to learn technologies in the fields of optical communication, over 20 universities on training, offered more than anytime in any place and to apply what they have learned. The ZTE e-learning APP platform microelectronics, optoelectronics, computers, 50 corporate courses, provided 1-6 months of has terse and forceful course contents close to business practice, and is arranged with such software, automation, etc. for students majoring in engineering practice & internship, etc., and functions as curricula, information, exams, live webcast, survey, classes, breakthroughs, Electronics Science and Technology so as to help completed the training of more than 2,000 interaction and sharing. students to combine professional knowledge with person-times. Through creative curriculum design and presentation, it stimulates learners’ passion for interactive participation. So far, the platform covers nearly 50% Diversity and Inclusiveness of Chinese employees, with the activity degree of 20%. Creating an inclusive working environment and an equal communication and interaction platform, developing diversified talent structures is a significant improve employees’ career development paths, source for an enterprise to maintain sustained promote the integrative development, exchanges creativity. Employees’ wisdom and inspiration propel and collisions between domestic and overseas the continuous elevation of our business and service employees, and create a more inclusive and ŉ7R6SHDNŊ3URMHFW ability, and meet more diversified and personalized market demands. We strive to construct and perfect energetic working environment. For the purpose of elevating employees’ comprehensive vocational quality in an all-around way, ZTE provides soft strength training regarding communication skills, time management, Equal Employment etc. for employees. In 2016, we carried out the “To Speak” project, devoted ourselves to forging a vocational quality learning eco-circle, and provided a specialized platform for management skill and workplace experience sharing. We have selected and trained part-time We always insist on equal employment, and strictly nationality, registered permanent residence, health lecturers of management quality oriented towards internal employees, and offered eight observe the Law of the People’s Republic of China condition and so on, and train recruitment managcourses concerning efficient communication skills, time management, career planning, on Promotion of Employment, the Law of the ers in the aspect of response to the labor employexecutive ability, business etiquette, business People's Republic of China on Employment ment risk to ensure labors’ enjoyment of the right model innovation, structural thinking and consumer Contracts, the International Labor Conventions, as of equal employment. In the process of employee psychology to gradually improve ZTE’s training well as other domestic and overseas labor laws, dismissal, we relieve and terminate the working management system. regulations and policies. 100% employees of the procedures of the labor contract pursuant to the Group (excluding subsidiaries) have signed labor requirements of such laws and regulations as the Since the official launch of the project in July 2016, contracts with legal compliance, and all are labor Law of the People's Republic of China on Employwe have recruited 96 members in our curriculum contract employees. We prohibit any discrimination ment Contracts and ZTE’s Measures for Adminisdevelopment team, organized all these members to on any ground such as race, color, nationality, tration of Employee Turnover, and maintain the participate in PPT training, one-on-one tutoring, language, fortune, social origin, social status, age, dismissed employees’ legal rights and interests. In content sharing, cultivation and other activities, and gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, disability, the aspect of employee’s salary, welfare and constantly elevated lecturers’ personal vocational pregnancy, belief, political faction, membership of a man-hours, we fully comply with the laws and quality and professional skills so as to impart them particular social group or marital status in the links regulations of China, as well as the countries and to employees in a better way. So far, “To Speak” of employee recruitment, promotion, development, regions where ZTE operates. curricula have covered 2,288 employees, and 35 punishment, benefits, termination of labor learning classes have been held. Meanwhile, we contracts, etc. In accordance with the Regulation on Special provided new employees the sharing of 7 vocationProtection for Underage Workers of the People’s al quality courses through diversified learning For the purpose of effectively evading the labor Republic of China and corresponding laws and modes such as face-to-face teaching, remote employment risk, ZTE attaches importance to regulations in overseas countries, we have teaching, salon, workshop and live webcast, normalizing written materials like recruitment developed the corporate level system Regulation enhancing employees’ quality and ability. announcements in the process of employee on Special Protection for Underage Workers, recruitment so as to avoid any employment examining and verifying applicants’ valid identificadiscrimination regarding gender, marital status, tion in the links of employee recruitment, employ=7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  (PSOR\HHVWKH(QDEOHURIWKHIXWXUH  ment approval, report for duty and so forth. If it is and health. In 2016, no child labor employment or found that any child labor is recruited by mistake or forced labor occurred in ZTE. In 2016҅Employee percentIn 2016，Employee percentage In 2016҅Employee percentfor any other reason, we will immediately provide age classified by age (excludclassified by education age classified by specialty necessary assistance, and deal with this matter ZTE does not tolerate any form of harassment in work ing subsidiaries) according to the most beneficial method to the child sites, and respect employees’ right to participate in labor. In case it is found that any new recruit is collective negotiation. Besides, we are concerned underage, ZTE will immediately report this matter to about women's career development, provide diversi     the local labor administration department above the fied training contents for female employees, stimulate county level, go through registration procedures, and female employees’ potential and provide developprovide health examination, safety education and ment opportunities and platforms for them to give play to wisdom and ability.  training pursuant to related laws and regulations. Moreover, we will enhance the protection and management for underage workers through the In 2016, the total number of employees in the Group   quarterly statistical monitoring sheet for underage was 81,468 (57,040 excluding employees in subsidworkers so as to guarantee employment with legal iaries), with the female percentage of 24% and     minority percentage of 10.4%. More than 90% of  compliance. ZTE’s employees are distributed in Asia, and the ZTE’s labor contract explicitly stipulates that employremaining employees are distributed in Europe, Percentage of employees Doctor Master R&D Production ees are entitled to refuse to execute any forced labor, Africa, Oceania, North America, South America and < 30 and have the right to criticize, inform against and sue other regions. Bachelor Other Marketing Finance ZTE’s managers for any act imperiling laborers’ life Percentage of employees between 30-50 Customer service Percentage of employees Administrative management > 50 Diversified Career Development   employees are minority We provide diversified career development channels for employees by specifying post responsibilities, post distributed in Asia employees standards and post value and establishing hierarchical & classified post sequence, and attract and retain outstanding talents through special development plans and incentive mechanisms. 81,468 “Blue Sword Plan” the total number of In the fierce talent market competition, to introduce and retain cutting-edge technology employees in the Group research talent, ZTE began launching the “Blue Sword Plan” oriented towards highly cutting-edge talents in 2014, providing larger development space, faster development opportunities and higher salaries for them. The employees engaged in the “Blue Sword Plan” will obtain guidance from ZTE’s senior executives and top experts. After successfully making  breakthroughs (one breakthrough every year) in three years, the employees will directly enter female the level-4 technical post, and enjoy such treatment as base salary, Blue Sword allowances, employees deferred bonuses and comfortable housing. ZTE has implemented the “Blue Sword Plan” for nearly three years. The members engaged in the plan play a significant role in propelling the solving of ZTE’s R&D problems. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  (PSOR\HHVWKH(QDEOHURIWKHIXWXUH  Employee Localization Local Talent Training of ZTE Indonesia Subsidiary With the development of ZTE’s international culture and social development situations of business, the selection and training of local talents countries, and promote the overseas local employ“The local employees of Indonesia Subsidiary cannot all hold the posts of ordinary staff. becomes important support for us to boost the ees’ recognition of the enterprise. While creating They ought to account for a larger proportion in important posts. In this aspect, we still have development of overseas business. We actively employment positions for the local regions, we a long way to go.” Mei Zhonghua, General Manager of ZTE Indonesia Subsidiary, promote cross-cultural fusion, enhance domestic and jointly boost the development of the local communiexpressed his view on improving local employee management in an interview. overseas employees’ understanding of the local cations industry. Two years ago, due to the high demand for “mesh optimization” (special type of work) talents, Indonesia Subsidiary was faced with the problem of failing to retain local talents. After undergoing one year of “throes”, Mei Zhonghua was anguished. He once wanted to give up looking for local employees. Through communication and industry survey with related experts at home and abroad, Mei Zhonghua realized the important significance of Cross-cultural Communication and Integration propelling the “local” talent strategy to ZTE’s business development. Finally, he “poached” Deady, an Indonesian local employee. Through dispatching Chinese experts to provide The development and management of local employees is of great importance for the enterprise training and supporting him to study in ZTE University, ZTE provided him all-around support, to enhance overseas business capacity. ZTE actively promotes the cross-cultural communication and encouraged him to train more local talents. among representative offices worldwide, and enhance local employees’ recognition of the corporate culture. After two or three months of efforts, Deady’s team got about 20 members, and had a sharp In 2016, ZTE carried out the “Cross-cultural Ambassador” project in 45 key representative offices rise in income, number of users and business Local Employees to promote the cross-cultural integration between local and Chinese employees and to enhance volume, with high customer satisfaction. Mei in ZTE Indonesia Subsidiary the exchanges and understanding between overseas employees and managerial staff by Zhonghua tasted the sweetness. He continues establishing the “Open ZTE” online communications circles and registered ZTElite official to expand the scale of local employees, and micro-blog account, arranging ZTE Culture Walls and carrying out various staff activitiesz. cooperates with Indonesian universities to jointly training local communications talents. So far, there are 1,000 employees in ZTE 600 Indonesia Subsidiary, including 600 local employees. To commend and encourage local employee development, ZTE may give non-financial rewards to the local outstanding employees in three lengths of service (three years, five years and ten years) in ZTE every year, show timely recognition to local employees’ effort and contributions, enhance the communication and interactive learning among employees, and further elevate their work ability and business level. &URVVFXOWXUDOFRPPXQLFDWLRQRI%HODUXV &URVVFXOWXUDOFRPPXQLFDWLRQRI,QGLD Feature: Pioneers of 2016 ZTE has established a normalized mechanism for course and achievements, but also manifest the Boosting MKT Localization Development employee honor incentive, determining the winners of influential pioneer employees making positive ZTE’s “gold and silver prizes” by means of the contributions to the Company. In addition, we show In recent years, ZTE has been attaching great importance to local construction, and actively monthly, quarterly and annual selection of “Fighting & employees’ good mental outlook and set excellent promoting the marketing localization development. In 2016, ZTE organized 37 foreign MKT Innovation Pioneer Rankings” and recommendations examples for all employees by displaying pioneer backbone employees to receive training in China for the first time, with the aim of elevating level upon level. ZTE not only gives incentives to the employees’ office portraits. their comprehensive quality and laying a good foundation for MKT localization development. employees with excellent work performance at Through carrying out a series of training contents concerning MKT seminars, product line ordinary times, but also praises the outstanding In 2016, ZTE’s “Fighting & Innovation Pioneer visits, experts’ interactive exchanges and trainees’ speeches & oral defenses, and discussgrassroots employees who have made outstanding Rankings” selected 31 pioneer employees, including ing with ZTE’s leaders on such key issues as career development, company documents, IT contributions to ZTE’s performance in the current year. 23 domestic employees, 5 expatriate employees and support and comprehensive solution packaging which attract foreign employees’ attention, 3 overseas local employees. For employees’ top ZTE has elevated foreign backbone employees’ high-end communication & speech ability Through constructing ZTE Museum open to employprizes, “gold and silver prizes”, we have issued gold and product knowledge ability, and further enhanced their sense of belonging and sense of ees, employees’ families and ZTE’s partners in all medals to 10 employees and silver medals to 21 identity. circles, we not only show ZTE’s historical development employees. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  (PSOR\HHVWKH(QDEOHURIWKHIXWXUH  Employee Care Paying attention to employees’ health and safety is our important responsibility. We attach great importance to employees’ mental health and balance between work and life, and provide more humanistic services for female employees. In addition, we enhance safety management, elevate employees’ safety awareness and actively safeguard employees’ legal rights and interests. Domestic employee : 2016 gold prize winner Employees’ Health and Safety He entered ZTE in 2006. He is a “talent” who achieved extraordinary performance on an ordinary post, and gives the best interpretation of “fighting and innovation” with practical actions. ZTE has been committed to providing safe evaluation of laws and regulations, health & safety working environments, and supporting all employinspection in production process and emergency In his many years of work experiences, he has been always filled with innovation inspiration: he owns ees’ health & safety and their balance between drill, regular internal & external auditing on health & over 40 pending patents, nearly 20 authorized patents and more than 80 international proposals for work and life. In 2005, ZTE established the health safety, management review, etc., ZTE’s health & boosting ZTE’s innovation schemes, and has published articles regarding telecommunications and and safety management system based on safety management level is constantly elevated and security technology in some periodicals like Information Security Research sponsored by the State OHSAS18001 standard. It is one of the earliest improved. Information Center. Moreover, he is also a programming master who is skilled in JAVA coding and enterprises implementing health and safety design mode. He is not stingy about using his mastered skills. From learning to practice, from book standardization management in the industry. So In 2016, ZTE established 15 element document reading to technology sharing, he leads his team members to grow and make progress together. far, ZTE has established a health and safety systems for work safety, and developed 19 safety management system covering whole business knowledge picture publicity activities, covering fire process and main branch countries worldwide. control, hazardous chemicals, electricity safety, Overseas local employee : 2016 gold prize winner equipment safety, first aid and escape. Each In 2017, to further enhance ZTE’s health and quarter, before and after extreme weather and Over the 9 years of working in ZTE, I have been persistently looking for various opportunisafety management, ZTE established the Health during holidays, ZTE may check potential safety ties to make my best contributions to ZTE. I believe an excellent sales team is not as simple and Safety Committee, covering the health & hazards in an all-around way, and trace the as selling products or services, but lies in establishing a trust relationship with customers. safety management of such business processes rectification and implementation. In July 2016, ZTE as project delivery, production R&D and supply carried the safety month activity. In the whole year, chains. The Health and Safety Committee is the 1,034 have received level-3 safety education and The year of 2016 is a year filled with challenges. Our team started from bumpiness. top decision-making organ for ZTE’s health and training. Through unremitting struggle and sterling efforts, we led our team to reach our initial goal safety management. It is responsible for planning within half a year. We pursue not only the delivery of excellent network quality, but also the and developing ZTE’s health and safety strategies, Combining the “119 Fire Prevention Publicity Day”, delivery of unparalleled optimal network quality. guaranteeing resources, determining the strategic ZTE simultaneously carried out comprehensive fire direction and objectives for the health and safety drills and publicity activities in six production bases management of ZTE and its supply chain, and of Shenzhen, further enhanced employees’ fire establishing ZTE’s health and safety culture. safety consciousness, and enabled them to master Overseas local employee : 2016 gold prize winner fire prevention/suppression knowledge and escape Based on staff health & safety awareness and & self-rescue ability, thereby, laying an important In 2015, ZTE’s specialty, sincerity and development prospect impressed me, so I chose ability training, daily health & safety publicity and foundation for creating a favorable safety environto join ZTE. I wish to make contributions to ZTE and develop with ZTE. internal/external communication, compliance ment. Time flies. I’ve worked in ZTE for nearly two years. ZTE’s team is a team that respects competitors and is filled with professional dedication and high-end professional skills. Though we come from different countries and product lines, we have successfully formed a multicultural high-tech team, enabling customers to feel comfortable, trust us and finally choose ZTE as their sole supplier. Under the guidance of ZTE’s M-ICT 2.0 strategy, we utilize our professional skills, professional dedication and sincere attitude to be customers’ reliable consultant, and realize win-win results with customers. I believe ZTE’s future will be better and better! &RPSUHKHQVLYH)LUH'ULOODQG3XEOLFLW\$FWLYLW\ =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  (PSOR\HHVWKH(QDEOHURIWKHIXWXUH  In 2016, ZTE passed the National Class-3 Certification for Work Safety. No duty-related fatal accident occurred. Protection of Employees’ Rights and Interests There were two industrial accidents in the production field. We continue to improve employees’ living and service quality. Through constructing employees’ shower rooms, fitness facilities and the like, we create favorable work and amusement environments for employees. We To effectively listen to employees’ requests and complainants’ willingness. In 2016, we have continue to optimize the dining environment of the mess hall, provide different levels of diet consumption, and protect their legal rights & interests, ZTE has received 4 employees’ complaints via the sunshine offer employees with logistics services of better quality. Besides, through normalizing and neatening employees’ established a labor union information platform, platform, and such complaints are in the reexaminashuttle bus routes, updating shuttle buses and elevating comfort degree, we gradually optimize employees’ daily continued to perfect the publicity system, and tion stage. commuter services, and improve service experience and employees’ sense of happiness. For needy employees, attached importance to employees’ opinions and we set up an assistance fund to help them pull through. suggestions. In 2016, ZTE convened the memberWe strengthen employee welfare system guarantee, ship representative conference for five times, and elevate employees’ centripetal force to the deliberated over and passed a number of decisions Company. ZTE provides such legal social security as We insist on people orientation and actively care for female ZTE has newly added concerning the Regulation on Investigating and pension, medical treatment, unemployment, employees. In 2016, ZTE took the lead in carrying out the and reconstructed 10 Treating Crisis Behaviors, the Measures for Adminiswork-related injury, maternity and housing provident environment improvement project for mother-and-baby rooms mother-and-baby rooms tration of Responsibility Investigation, the Measures fund for domestic employees, and handle commerso as to create a more comfortable breastfeeding environment in five research institutes for Administration of Employee Performance and the cial insurance for employees’ families to enhance  for female employees. So far, ZTE has newly added and like related to employees’ vital interests. employees’ risk resistance ability. In accordance with reconstructed 10 mother-and-baby rooms in five research relevant local laws and regulations, we provide institutes, covering 100,000 female employees. In addition to We have set up a “sunshine platform”, perfecting the overseas local employees with such welfare as the maternity leave according to relevant national laws, employee complaint mechanism. Employees may insurance/healthcare programs, paid leave and pregnant employees can enjoy antenatal leave specified by the anonymously raise complaints to the platform. Then, travel subsidies. ZTE’s vacation management Company. We have set up special dining areas for pregnant. covering 100,000 female ZTE will further conduct reexaminations with relevant system specifies holiday types and time, providing a Moreover, we enrich female employees’ spare-time life by employees  investigation departments according to the complainsystem reference for subsidiaries to safeguard offering lectures and activities on special topics involving ants and complaint contents, and will publicize the employees’ legal holiday welfare. women's health, marriage & family and parenting each year. complaint settlement results according to the workhousing Employee Assistance Program (EAP) pension medical unemployrelated maternity treatment ment provident injury fund ZTE pays close attention to employees’ physical and psychological health. Since 2009, we have continuously carried out the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to provide employees psychological health services, including psychological health knowledge dissemination, psychology training, psychological consulting and psychological crisis intervention. In the meantime, we also provide employees psychological micro-courses on family relations by VRFLDOVHFXULW\ releasing electronic psychology journal and inviting psychologists to make series video Standing amongst Three Generations, for the purposes of promoting employEAP lecturer provides emotional management ees’ happy life and efficient work. training for overseas managerial staff In 2016, there were 1,125 person-times in the Company using the telephone or face-to-face psychological consultation services offered by EAP, wherein, 88% of the service users held that ZTE’s psychological consultation services were helpful or very helpful for their current life puzzles. We have received 8 requests for help from employees who suffered from psychological crises due to significant misfortunes in life. Through coordinating such resources as communities, hospitals and ZTE’s departments of law, we have assisted business units in supporting employees and their families, and provided ZTE’s care and support for EAP lecturer explains mental health knowledge employees suffering from significant misfortunes in life. to the leaders of production lines =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW (QYLURQPHQWRXU2EOLJDWLRQWR3URWHFW  Environment, Green Operation our Obligation to Protect As an ICT enterprise, we shoulder the responsibility and arduous task of improving energy efficiency and leading the energy saving and loss reducing in the industry. In 2005, ZTE established the environmental management system pursuant to ISO14001 international standard, and passed the third-party certification. ZTE strictly follows applicable national and local environmental laws and regulations, to conduct environmental monitoring on the discharged waste gas, wastewater and noise every year on a regular basis to ensure that the discharge meets the national standards. Energy Resource Management China is a high energy consumption country in the world, with outstanding problems related to In 2016, ZTE passed the ISO50001 international standard certifica“high energy consumption, high pollution, low tion, becoming one in the first batch of units establishing the energy output and low benefits”. In earlier 2016, management system in Shenzhen. Through the energy auditing and energy conservation planning review on 198 key energy consumpShenzhen published the Notification on the tion enterprises conducted by the Economy, Trade and Information “13th Five-Year” Energy Audit and Energy Commission of Shenzhen Municipality, ZTE becomes one of the nine Conservation Planning for Key Industrial & outstanding enterprises in Shenzhen. Commercial Energy Consumption Units in ZTE has established the environmental manageShenzhen, requiring all key energy consumpTo enhance energy management, we established the Energy ment system and energy management system tion units in Shenzhen to carry out energy Conservation & Emission Reduction Committee to build ZTE’s in accordance with the international standards energy management system in an all-around way. Relying on the auditing and to intensify the effects of technical energy management system and energy auditing, we have completISO14001 and ISO50001, and has identified its energy saving and management-based energy ed energy consumption identification, energy auditing, compliance possible impact on the environment. According saving. As an industry-leading enterprise, we evaluation, performance monitoring, internal system audit and to the Environmental Impact Review and continue to perfect our own environmental management review, and released 18 standard documents concernApproval , ZTE will not discharge industrial management system for production and ing energy conservation & emission reduction, energy management waste water and gas, and the industrial hazardoperation and to propel green packaging and green production to gradually solidify energy management ous wastes will be commissioned to qualified process and institutional norms. By means of analyzing ZTE’s energy through developing green foods and services. consumption situations and identifying feasible energy-saving units for deposition. The corresponding Moreover, we work with global customers to measures & solutions, we continue to improve ZTE’s energy efficienZTE’s ISO50001 Certificate of Energy management procedures have also been jointly cope with climate changes and protect cy. Meanwhile, we lay emphasis on training professional personnel. Management System conducted. In terms of energy use, ZTE relies our beautiful home. Now, we have trained 22 internal auditors of the energy management mainly on electronic consumption, plus the system to boost ZTE’s energy conservation & emission reduction certain demand of natural gas, gasoline and management. diesel from the company canteen and vehicles. In daily operation and management, we have implemented water pump motor energy-saving renovation and energy-saving kitchen range renovation for mess halls in the Science Park, and conducted feedback-oriented load improvement on high-temperature equipment so as to reduce energy consumption. We developed and improved the water management system, used the latest water-saving technology and water-saving taps and carried out water balance testing on a regular basis so as to ensure the nonexistence of leaking points in the pipe network and to strengthen water-saving management. Moreover, we publish publicity information related to water and electricity saving through ZTE’s internal website, e-mail and other channels, and give warning notifications for waste phenomena so as to enhance employees’ energy-saving consciousness.  (QYLURQPHQWRXU2EOLJDWLRQWR3URWHFW  Overview for ZTE’s Energy Management Scheme in 2016 Pollution Emission Reduction Investment Content Annual savings (10 thousand yuan) Reducing greenhouse gas emission and positively coping with climate changes is the significant responsibility of an ICT enterprise. Starting from sources, we reduce greenmplement water system renovation in the plant   house gas emission and waste discharge in each link of area of the Science Park, adopting energy-sav190 operation and production, and attach importance to waste 46KWh  ing renovation for water pump motors.    treatment to boost the sustainable development of the human living environment. There are no legal or non-comBefore renovation, the natural gas pliance cases related to pollution and emission in 2016. There are 18 kitchen ranges in the mess halls. Each year, we reduce the impact on the environment by consumption is 20,270m 3 ; after renovaNew energy-saving kitchen ranges are used to 20 setting environmental objectives & indexes and greention, it becomes 18,919m 3, with the house gas emission objectives & indexes. We may replace the original ordinary kitchen ranges. energy-saving volume of 21.28tce reduce the emission of 4,300 tons of CO 2 every year. In 2016, ZTE carried out carbon transaction inspection in Shenzhen, with the greenhouse gas emission equivalent    High-temperature cabinet load adopts feedback, The original total power is 728KW. After to 169,245 tons of CO2 . which can return to equipment load. The improved renovation, the actual total power is 156KW, feedback mode directly returns to high-tempera20 saving power 572KW, with the annual saved The waste gas generated in ZTE’s operation mainly &DUERQHPLVVLRQRIXQLWVDOHV comes from the technology waste gas and generator ture cabinet DC supply. electric quantity of 4.1184 million KWh. W&2HPLOOLRQ\XDQ waste gas in the production process. After undergoing purification treatment, all waste gases shall follow the local standard of Guangdong – Emission Limits of Air Pollutants. After meeting standard, such gases may be In 2016, the carbon emission of ZTE’s gasoline was 7KH&RPSDQ\FRQVXPHGYDULRXVW\SHVRIHQHUJ\ discharged in air through pipelines. All discharged waste preliminary filtration will flow into the level-3 grease 585.05tCO2e, and the carbon emission of diesel was HTXLYDOHQWWRWRQVRIVWDQGDUGFRDO gases completely meet the requirements of national laws trap. Through oil separation, the water with main 481.37tCO2e. The Company consumed various types and regulations. In 2016, ZTE discharged 0.187 tons pollutants removed will be discharged into the munici of energy equivalent to 21,469.07 tons of standard methane and 0.055 tons NOX in Shenzhen. pal sewage pipe network. coal, of which, purchased electricity accounted for 93.77%*. WRQV ZTE’s daily water is from the urban water supply system, In the production process, we focus on product with the main use of domestic water in offices. ZTE’s assembly, which does not involve the industrial water wastewater mainly comes from the water discharged from link and will not generate technology wastewater. Thus, office toilets and kitchens, and does not involve the it will not produce a severe impact on continental rivers, =7(ŇV(QHUJ\DQG5HVRXUFHV&RQVXPSWLRQLQ discharge of any toxic substances or special substances. lakes, underground water and glaciers. In the meanFor the oily wastewater generated from cleaning of the time, we will gradually propel the implementation of the kitchens in mess halls, we will filter solid impurities through smart water supply pipe network and fully enhance (QHUJ\FRQVXPSWLRQSHU (TXLYDOHQWWR 3HUFHQWDJHRXWRI cleaning strainers. The kitchen water after receiving water resource management. $FWXDO (QHUJ\W\SH XQLWRIRXWSXWYDOXH VWDQGDUGFRDO WKHWRWDOHQHUJ\ TXDQWLW\ SHUWKRXVDQG\XDQ WRQ FRQVXPSWLRQ Natural gas (10,000m 3 ) 68.05 0.0429 826.33 3.59Ѿ 6ROXWLRQIRU)LYH:DWHU7UHDWPHQW Purchased electricity Strengthening water resource monitoring is an important means for the government to improve 17565.55 0.00111 21588.06 93.77Ѿ management efficiency. Through releasing the solution for five water treatment, we made an online (10,000 KWh) full-automatic intelligent environment monitoring & control system integrating water sampling, water Tap water (10,000m 3 ) 100.48 0.06334 86.11 0.37Ѿ sample pretreatment, automatic water quality analysis, data acquisition & transmission, retaining of water samples and remote monitoring & control, which can effectively realize flood prevention, Gasoline (ton) 210.11 0.00001 309.16 1.34Ѿ water-logging prevention and pollution prevention, and achieve the effect of five water treatment regarding cleaning and saving water resource. Diesel (ton) 146.79 0.00001 213.89 0.93Ѿ The solution for five water treatment has been selected into the List of China's Communication Total   23023.55 100.00% Industry (10th) of 2015-2016, and won the Most Competitive Product/Technology Award. We will jointly promote water resource protection with customers to make water clearer and mountains greener. * The data are relevant data from the HQ building of ZTE in Shenzhen. ZTE total industry output value in 2016 is 158,640,306,000 yuan =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  (QYLURQPHQWRXU2EOLJDWLRQWR3URWHFW  We strictly observe the Management Rules for network covering the world, and conducted Waste Electronic Equipment in countries worldone-stop dismantling and further recovery treatment for the telecommunication equipment Cloud Desktop wide, and actively propel the recovery of waste products and cyclic utilization of resources. A worldwide, realizing resources recycling. To respond to the call for energy conservation & introduced 450 ZTE cloud desktops. Considspecialized reverse logistics treatment department emission reduction and low-carbon office from ering that the energy consumption of the is established in the Company, which is responsible In 2016, ZTE generated 410 tons of non-hazardous the state, we launched uSmartView cloud cloud desktop only accounts for one fifth of for ZTE’s green recovery and cyclic utilization. waste and 245.6 tons of hazardous waste in total desktop, bringing usage experience exceeding that of traditional PC, and its service life is Through the close cooperation with world-leading within Shenzhen area. The hazardous waste was users’ expectations with good security properlonger, we will propel the energy conservation environmental protection service suppliers, we recycled by the unit with a professional qualificaties as well as an intelligent and visual opera& environmental protection practice together have established a material recycling & treatment tion. tion & maintenance mode. In 2016, Guilin with users by further expanding the usage government authorities, universities, etc. scale of the cloud desktop. Hazard-free Control Green Service We conduct hazardous substance management ous Substance Process Management System throughout the process concerning product for Electrical and Electronic Components and design, procurement, distribution, production, Products, with 30 types of level-1 controlled Supporting the development of energy conservation delivery and other links in compliance with the substances and 169 substances to be declared & environment protection, new energy and other latest requirements of the QC080000 Hazardso far. industries is one of the themes in China’s “13th Five-Year” Plan. We continue to explore the R&D and application of new energy technology, gradually cover power, traffic, production, service and other industries, and strive to release diversified green products. Moreover, we continuously perfect product Green Test Green Production Management and service quality. We have constructed a cloud test environIn the manufacturing link, we carry out lean ment to achieve the cloud sharing of testing production, and fully implement the electronic instruments, which can save 630,000KWh KANBAN and electronic information manageelectricity per year. For the product aging test, ment board, reducing 20% of paper consumpwe adopt an auto-thermal high-temperature tion in the production link. scheme, and utilize the self-heating of Green Product and Service communication equipment as an aging environment, which can lower 14 million KWh electricity demand per year. We continue to meet governments, enterprises, social organizations and the masses’ requirements for green products and services by creating green Scheme Optimization for Systemoffice products, strict hazard-free product control, Product Loading etc., ensure that all links of products in the full life cycle conform to relevant domestic and overseas standards, and continuously improve service quality. We have established a specialized loading team, and optimized the loading scheme to continuously improve the container loading rate of system equipment. In 2016, the container loading rate was increased from 64% to 80%, with the reduction of 1,800 containers, the saving of 1,104 tons of diesel oil and the transportation cost reduction of over RMB 50 million in total. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  (QYLURQPHQWRXU2EOLJDWLRQWR3URWHFW  New Energy Technology Application As mobile Internet enjoys support among the At present, ZTE has released the next generation of people, a higher requirement is raised for data green data center ZEGO, using multiple innovative storage and transmission. The green energy saving technologies that can increase efficiency to of the data center relates to the sustainable developconstruct the solution for the next generation of ment of the entire environment. Relying on strong modular data center regarding green energy saving. technical strength and years of accumulation in the This center will realize the PUE of 1.1 below, save field of data centers, ZTE further advances the research and practice of green energy saving in 30% energy more than that of the current data center, and boost the further elevation of the energy Green Packaging data centers, and is widely recognized in the efficiency of the global customer Internet data industry. center. We continue to propel green packaging, lower resource consumption, reduce the environmental footprints of ICT and slow down the pace of global climate change. In 2016, ZTE consumed 30,782 tons of packing Constructing the Western Laboratory for Customers materials. In May 2016, ZTE constructed the Western Laboratory for customers, adopted solar PV clean energy, We actively implement the green packaging scheme of replacing wood with paper and iron, and promote the commercially used the natural cooling unit with indirect evaporation for the first time in China, with the recycling of packing materials so as to reduce the consumption of packing resources. So far, over 70% of addition of ZTE’s independently developed intelligent management platform for infrastructure of the ZTE’s cabinet products have achieved carton packaging, wherein, 98% of power and wireless products have iDCIM Data Center, which has the characteristic functions of green energy saving, fast delivery, achieved carton packaging; the wood pallets used for integrated packaging and delivery of over 70% of small mobility and so forth. products have been replaced by iron and paper pallets. Relying on industry-leading technical highlights, ZTE won two awards, “Internet Data Center” and We adopt packaging material reduction design, and research on using new packing materials. We have “Modular Deployment” issued by Data Center Dynamics (referred to as DCD), which are praised as reduced the carbon emission of 17,164 tons and wood of 2,136m 3 in total. Through optimizing mobile phone the “Oscar” in the data center industry. packaging, ZTE reduced the using of 1,800 containers and saved the diesel oil consumption of 1,104 tons in 2016. Solution for New Generation of Hybrid Energy Power Supply – PowerMaster ONE To enable telecommunication operators to further power, solar energy, wind energy and stored energy. improve network energy efficiency and lower the Moreover, ZTE has integrated its iEnergy network total cost of ownership (TCO), ZTE released a energy management software based on cloud technolnew solution PowerMaster ONE, and adopted ogy, which can implement real-time monitoring on the integrated design, supporting the input and whole communication network and achieve visual unified management of such energy as utility operation and fine management of network energy. Energy Master Scheme ZTE has been committed to providing one-stop site management. As a result, the generating capacity all-around services for network power supply and of solar energy and wind energy could not be optimally energy management, and developing a communiutilized, and the backend could not monitor the cation station power supply scheme with environequipment operation state of the site, with frequent ment-friendliness, low cost and high reliability. In station stoppage out of service. The scheme supports 2016, for the renovation requirement on the power diversified hybrid energy input and multiform output, supply system of China Tower Jiuquan site, we and can combine various energy storage devices, provided the energy master scheme, and conductmeeting diversified loading requirements. ed integrated cabinet rectification indoors to help it realize the reliable power supply, integrated control and remote intelligent management of remote sites Since 2009, ZTE has been engaged in new energy with no weak utility power. automobile industry in an in-depth way, propelling the development of power batteries and materials, wireless Before the renovation of Jiuquan site, the base charging, smart transport, vehicle networking, as well station was arranged with multiple sets of new as the new energy bus business, and boosting the energy power supply system, but lacked unified construction of urban green life. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  6XVWDLQDEOH6XSSO\&KDLQWKH&65WR8QGHUWDNH   The CSR Management Practices for Suppliers published by the Company formally established the supplier CSR management system, covering the five modules of labor rights, health and safety, environmental protection, corporate governance and supply chain CSR. In the process of supplier evaluation and certification, introduce the certification requirements for supplier's social responsibility. There are 9 thresholds in supplier qualification certification, in which CSR has a veto as one of the key threshold. Sustainable Supply Chain, Suppliers are required to sign the Supplier CSR Agreement and the Supplier Code of Conduct in certification. the CSR to Undertake The supplier CSR questionnaire and the self-assessment form are issued to the supplier in certification to conduct a thorough investigation of the CSR basic situation of the supplier. According to the investigation, conduct a CSR risk assessment of the supplier, and implement CSR on-site audit on medium and high risk suppliers. The supplier on-site audit contains four modules (SSA/QSA/QPA/CSR), in which the CSR module accounts for 10%. If the audit result of CSR module is not up to standard, the audit cannot be “passed”. The supplier CSR on-site audit module includes labor rights, health and safety, environmental protection and corporate governance. In the new supplier certification audit in 2016, some suppliers failed by one-vote veto because of the CSR issue and the audit did not pass. We always maintain communication and cooperation with our suppliers in corporate social responsibility, share practical experience in the industry with our suppliers and help them improve their sustainable development ability. We provided CSR training for 111 suppliers and representatives in 2016. =7($QQXDO*OREDO6XSSOLHU&RQIHUHQFH As the world's leading integrated communications equipment product development strategy, industry strategy and supply manufacturer, we are inevitably involved in the issue of conflict chain strategy under the guidance of M-ICT2.0 strategy with ZTE Supplier Code of Conduct is the Compaminerals in the manufacturing process. We take an active part the core partners, and invited supplier partners for discussion ny's basic management guideline for suppliin relevant industry projects, join the Global Electronics and interaction on the topic of “deep coordination”. Sustainable Development Promotion Association, and improve CEO Zhao Xianming together with senior leaders present at ers, which puts forward sustainable developour own management methods for the issue of conflict the conference signed the Letter of Commitment on Honest ment requirements to our suppliers in terms minerals. The Company appointed a vice president as our Procurement and Co-construction at the conference, of law abidance, respect for human rights, representative of the conflict minerals management, we also promising to create a sunshine procurement environment labor employment, health and safety, environrelease the ZTE’s Trade Policy on Natural Resources, require with openness, fairness, impartiality and full competition for suppliers to sign the Declaration of Metal Conflict-Free in the the suppliers, build the sunshine supply chain and enhance mental protection, and business ethics. All supplier certification stage, promising not to purchase and use suppliers’ confidence in cooperation, at the same time suppliers are required to comply with the metal minerals from conflict areas or high-risk areas. In the require suppliers to strictly abide by the Letter of CommitCode and relevant laws and regulations of supplier survey phase, we also use the EICC-GeSI survey ment on Supplier Sunshine Cooperation to eliminate the countries they run business in. The template to conduct a survey of conflict metals to promote the corruption and other immoral, illegal business practices, conflict-free supply chain with ZTE's leading position in the jointly create a cooperative environment of sunshine integrity, Company has signed the CSR Agreement supply chain. On December 9th, 2016, ZTE 2017 annual and jointly promote the healthy sustainable development of with suppliers accounting for more than 90%. global supplier conference with the theme of “Together for a ICT industry. Better Future” was held in Shenzhen. 246 strategic suppliers and senior representatives of core suppliers from around the The conference set nine awards, such as the World’s Best world attended the conference. Partner, Best Overall Performance Award, Best Quality Performance Award and so on, honoring 75 supplier partners At the conference, the Company shared M-ICT2.0 strategy, with excellent performance in the cooperation in 2016. %HQHƉWVIRU*OREDO&LWL]HQV2XU9LVLRQDQG3URPLVHWR'HOLYHU  ZTE cherishes the support and understanding of all made an annual external donation of 6.5506 million stakeholders, advocates public spirit, fulfills corpoYuan. In April 2016, ZTE Public Welfare Foundation rate responsibilities and promotes the development was awarded the “Annual Poverty Alleviation Award” of public welfare. ZTE Public Welfare Foundation, as by China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation. In a separate executive department of the Company's December 2016, ZTE received the Annual Overseas public service, strives to build the brand project of Contribution Award of the 11th People's Corporate special public welfare, guides and mobilizes Social Responsibility Award organized by the influential people in the industry and people from all People's Daily Online. The project of “Care for walks of life to participate in public welfare, takes Veterans of the Anti-Japanese War in West Yunnan” educational poverty alleviation, environmental won the annual “Top Ten Brand Commonweal Benefits for Global Citizens, protection legal aid, poverty alleviation, care for Anti-Japanese War veterans and overseas public welfare development as the Foundation’s public Project” selected by the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of School of Economics of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, “Charity Our Vision and Promise strategic focus, and has carried out a number of public welfare activities. Paradigm Project” of Shenzhen Pengcheng Charity Award and other awards. to Deliver In 2016, the Company's Public Welfare Foundation 2016 China International Philanthropic Movie Festival On November 1st, 2016, “2016 China International Philanthropic Movie Festival” supported by ZTE Public Welfare Foundation was held in Nanshan District, Shenzhen City. With the theme of “seeing the love in the world”, this festival is China’s only national and innovative visual imagery festival with the theme of public welfare. A total of 733 public films at home and abroad participated in the selection, in which “Home, the Heaven”, a music video shot by ZTE Public Welfare Foundation to veterans of the Anti-Japanese War in West Yunnan won the special contribution award. The festival this year set up a CSR Innovation award for the first time, looking forward to building a platform to connect more social forces to help public welfare development. Finally, more than 28% of the works selected was selected by the enterprise. Enterprises pay close attention to public welfare by means of visual images, which sets a benchmark to the whole society not only in the direction of social responsibility but also in the public welfare and image technology communication culture. It is ZTE’s original intention in the movie festival to spread public welfare with images and so that more people can participate. In the future, public welfare is no longer a simple image presentation, however, more diversified ways of transmission will burst forth glory with the development of science and technology. ZTE Public Welfare Foundation will actively explore the frontier of public welfare as always, and support public welfare development. Employee Volunteers ZTE Public Welfare Foundation established a volunteer team with 1,326 employees, arranging 16 (once a week) care activities for Vcare Center in Shenzhen Children's Hospital, annual veterans care activities, flood relief in Wuhan, 2016 Philanthropic Movie Festival, Winter Clothing Collection and Delivery to Gannan Xiaobanzi Primary School and a series of public welfare activities. Volunteers accumulated services up to 3, 326 hours. In addition, many ZTE employees actively participate in various social welfare projects as volunteers, dedicating their love in more places in need of help.  %HQHƉWVIRU*OREDO&LWL]HQV2XU9LVLRQDQG3URPLVHWR'HOLYHU  Poverty Alleviation Charity Hiking We have always taken “no departure, continuous according to the Company’s annual poverty care, ZTE love” as the principle, play our own alleviation plan to ensure that poverty alleviation technological advantages, strengthen the integration funds are in full use, and professional teams are On June 18th, 2016, ZTE, China Love Save Pneumoconiosis Welfare Foundation, ZTE Public Welfare of industry resources, promote public spirit to enjoy established to implement poverty alleviation Foundation and Xingyue Public Welfare carried out charity hiking activities in collaboration. This popular support, and ultimately promote the developprojects, so that poverty alleviation funds can activity was conducted in the Company's 13 research institutes at the same time, attracting the ment of social welfare. Over the years, in terms of maximize the value. During the year, we invested a participation of 10,000 company executives, employees and family members, students and customers. educational development, ZTE has donated school total of 3.91 million Yuan for targeted poverty buildings in poor mountainous areas in many provincalleviation, in which 3 million Yuan was used to es across the country, raising the teaching standards support 400 poor students, 0.51 million Yuan was of schools from hardware and software facilities, so used to improve school buildings in poor areas and “We hope to give more encouragement to leaves falling in Xi'an, tracing the root along that more children can enjoy high quality education. In 0.40 million Yuan was used to for individual true feelings and beauty in the world, hope Mather River in Jinan, stepping on Jinling terms of help for disadvantaged groups, ZTE gives a support of disadvantaged poverty. The Company hand to disadvantaged groups suffering from serious won the “Silver Award for Pengcheng Corporate to do our little bit to the public welfare, and City to feel historical changes in Nanjing, diseases, losing labor ability or with low income Philanthropy” of the third Pencheng Charity Award. hope to give health more care and love. sightseeing rainforest, canyons, waterfalls through contribution in cash and materials, training Let’s write life chapter together, work hard and flowers in Sanya, seeking China's and learning and other ways. In terms of disaster In the future, we plan to carry out educational together to grow together, so that this Silicon Valley and Zhangjiang Star in rescue, ZTE never gives up in major natural disasters poverty alleviation in rural teaching spots, village heavy love can keep passing and sharing!” Shanghai. This is the starting point of the from Wenchuan earthquake, Yushu earthquake, the teachers and high school students in poverPacific tsunami, Japan tsunami to the recent floods in ty-stricken areas of Gansu and Yunnan, mainly story, ten thousand people go hiking, fighting Hubei, stretches out a helping hand, accumulates including helping positive and excellent high school “Looking at rainy wetlands and vast sea in and winning together. ” tens of millions of yuan of donated materials to warm students from poor families in Gansu Province to Shenzhen, watching the golden ginkgo the people in the disaster area with love. finish school; donating books to rural teaching ——Participants' comments spots; senior one students’ dream-helping plan in ZTE will establish a sound long-term working mechawestern areas to broaden horizons. We will nism to ensure that poverty alleviation work can keep introduce more social resources to join our effective implementation. The corresponding poverty educational poverty alleviation team through the alleviation funds are reserved from the budget above actions. Public Action O2O “Cherish every moment of feeling touched; every Educational Aid in Gansu On November 19th, 2016, ZTE Human hope lies in your hand. When we reached the end, In 2016, ZTE Public Welfare began to carry out student aid cooperation with Gansu Xinghua Resources Department and ZTE Public the sun shed its rays in all directions, emitting Teenager Enlightenment Foundation (hereinafter referred to as Xinghua Funds). From 2016, ZTE Welfare Foundation carried out “public Public Welfare donated 3 million Yuan to Xinghua Funds every year to entrust it to choose poor and burning passion to cheer for everyone. Life has welfare + colleges and universities” excellent high school students in Gansu for funding. At the same time, ZTE Public Welfare will go activity together. This activity was roses and thorns, the history has roaring waves, deep into the reality, study and broaden the scope of secondary schools funded by Xinghua Funds, carried out in the form of outdoor hiking and ultimately they all pass. Along the way, we and participate in communication with the funded students. If these funded high school students are + online hiking, one day for outdoor support and encourage each other, giving full admitted to the western universities, ZTE Funds will continue to help them finish university. hiking and one month for online hiking, expression to the team spirit and cohesion of ZTE.” attracting the participation of 8,000 company executives, employees and “ZTE's public welfare activities have now formed a family members, students and customers. A total of more than 400 volunteers certain influence in major cities across the country, VCare Charity Space in the Company supported the smooth however we don’t meet the status quo as ZTER, we should make our own corporate culture brand VCare Public Welfare Space is a public welfare project jointly founded by Shenzhen Project Care progress of this activity. Donated Organizing Committee Office, Shenzhen Children's Hospital, Shenzhen Evening News Agency, ZTE materials were collected through online bigger, stronger and better. We should use the and many other enterprises and public institutions, with the purpose of creation of a colorful public registration during the activity, and 3 persistence in everyone’s heart to make constant welfare space which will carry out a series of public welfare activities to design and introduce donators were chosen from 2,000 improvement of idea and action capacity, pass it on interactive activities suitable for different types of children with diseases for participation experience donors to follow the ZTE public welfare well and make our brand enjoy popular support! ” to ease their psychological pressure. It is China’s first hospital-based public welfare information port volunteers to Gansu, personally particifor children medical aid. pating in the public welfare activity. ——Participants' comments =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  %HQHƉWVIRU*OREDO&LWL]HQV2XU9LVLRQDQG3URPLVHWR'HOLYHU  ZTE Public Welfare Space is located in the 12th floor of Shenzhen Children's Hospital, mainly for children patients in Kidney Immunology Department and Gastroenterology Department. From 2013, ZTE Public Welfare Foundation donated 0.20 million Yuan to Shenzhen Children's Hospital each year to help children with nephropathy fully recover or significantly improve the condition in short time so that they can re-experience the normal healthy and happy life. The “wish wall”, “rescue information query terminal” and other facilities are set up in the space to provide public welfare activities of interactive experience and services. Children can not only get rehabilitation here, but also feel the enthusiastic service from volunteers in the activities and gain care and warmth from ZTE. In 2016, ZTE Public Welfare Foundation and the Immunology Department of Shenzhen Children's Hospital jointly established the “Children's Primary Immunodeficiency Disease Fund” and “AssociaInstalling a new bed, making the bed and tion of Patients with Primary Immunodeficiency Disease”, which aimed to help poor children with bedding, volunteers are more and more skilled in practice. primary immunodeficiency disease with diagnosis and prenatal screening, provide necessary support in the course of treatment, and encourage patients with primary immunodeficiency disease and their parents through the form of association of patients to reintegrate into society. Veterans Care Program Veteran Liu Xian specially put on the clothes for the 70th Anniversary of the Chinese Anti-Japanese War Victory Parade to meet us. It has been 11 years since ZTE launched the project of “Care for Veterans of the Anti-Japanese War in West Yunnan” in Veteran Huang Qichun was sitting in a clean new bed. 2005. As of 2016, ZTE had visited a total of 273 veterans in Baoshan District, Yunnan, 1,698 person-times in accumulaHis room was fixed up last year, and seemed cleaner and brighter with the new bed. tion, and a total of 4.51 million Yuan in total donation amount. With the passage of time, the door leaves knocked open by volunteers reduce year by year. In 2016, in order to give deep love to the veterans of the Anti-Japanese War in West Yunnan and let the veterans alive enjoy a more comfortable and warmer life in old age, ZTE Public Welfare Foundation launched the “Condolence and Bed Setting Activity”, organizing employee volunteers to send 5,000 Yuan of condolence payments to each veteran, and personally set new beds and configured full sets of bedding for 100 veterans alive (including 25 new veterans) in Baoshan District, Yunnan. The old friend of ZTE -100-year-old veteran Wang Xiangjiu presented a banner for ZTE Public Welfare Foundation. 100-year-old veteran Wu Zhongtang, whose ears Veteran Xu Benzhen insisted on seeing us off, “Sharpshooter” Li Huiying who once came to were almost exploded deaf by the cannon in the war, following us. A volunteer stopped him telling him Shenzhen to participate in the picture exhibition the communication with him is limited to paper. not to see off, hugged him and parted with does not have a tough body as last year. He was Although the old man can not listen, he insists on reluctance, and the old man stopped in his tracks. holding his photograph taken by ZTE volunteers, using his eyes, and looks over all the documents to laughing happily. him to sign no matter how small the words are. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  %HQHƉWVIRU*OREDO&LWL]HQV2XU9LVLRQDQG3URPLVHWR'HOLYHU  Global Philanthropy Community Payback-ZTE’s Charity Dinner in Chicago We have adhered to the concept of “Global Success, Local Wisdom” since the beginning On November 13th, 2016, the Every Home for “Dream Garden”, organizing children from poor of the establishment of the enterprise to Christ (community shelter) in Pacific Garden, families to visit the Children's Museum of Science establish the corporate culture and tradition of Chicago, the U.S. was filled with happy laughers and Technology with basketball players with fulfilling corporate social responsibility and and cheerful voices. A group of receptionists Houston Rockets and so on. Up to now, the making efforts to contribute to the community. dressed like waiters shuttled back and forth, Company has organized 38 activities, and the We are engaged in local construction based eye-catching, since they rode the whirlwind in the direct beneficiaries in the U.S. have reached on the development and culture of different market and court. However, they held the trays 110,000 person-times. operating countries, committed to becoming here, no less than the hotel’s professional service part of the community to get local people's manager. They were ZTE Senior Vice President Volunteers from the Philanthropic Movie Festival “We can’t stop since we started this event since recognition. Cheng Lixin, NBA Chicago Bulls President 14 years ago. We used the actual charity to Michael Reinsdorf, Bulls’ active players Taj Gibson, Rajon Rondo and Cristiano Felicio as drive and influence more communities and well as the legendary stars of the Bulls such as individuals to take part in the event. We are so Cocci, Bill Wellington, Horace Grant and so on. happy that ZTE also joined us two years ago and very proud to have opened a love outreach They formed a service squad with more than 20 with particular meanings.” executive volunteer representatives from the Sino-Ethiopian Sister School company partner US Cellular to the Community ——Michael Reinsdorf, President of NBA Relief Center located in southern suburbs in Chicago Bulls Love has no boundaries, and public welfare has no borders. ZTE pays attention to positive and Chicago to attend the annual Bulls Thanksgiving earnest fulfillment of their corporate social responsibility in the local places in nearly 20 years of Charity Event and offer a delicious turkey dinner internationalization process, having become beautiful local scenery. for the homeless. In Ethiopia in Africa, due to lack of vocational education and higher education, a large number of “ZTE has a good tradition of serving the commuteenagers flow into society after finishing middle school, engaged in simple shepherding, farming, nity and returning the society. We are very small business and other means of livelihood, so broken ring has appeared in basic talents in pleased to provide the warmness of home for the social development. In order to close the broken ring, ZTE decided in 2016 to build a “Sino-Egyphomeless in the most special festival of the year. tian Sister School” next to Yewahniye Preparatory High School in Edja, Ethiopia, Africa, to provide It has been two years for us to carry out the a preparatory study environment for local teenagers and give assistance from the fundamental link charity activity with Chicago Bulls that has a of education. “Sino-Egyptian Sister School” includes classrooms, library, staff dormitory, auditorium, common sense of social responsibility. We are school facilities, etc. for hundreds of high school students, and will also include assistance football very proud to constantly deliver positive energy team. Football playing, popular in Africa, is a unique way for teenagers in Africa. to the community!” said Cheng Lixin. This tradition has lasted for 14 years and it is the At the end of 2016, ZTE received the “Overseas Contribution Award” of the 11th People's Corposecond consecutive year to participate in the rate Social Responsibility Award organized by the state-run media People's Daily Online. activity and repay the local community since the Company became the Bulls' official Smartphone. The Company has long been committed to the positive energy delivery to the local community, adhered to the long-term community feedback, which has covered many cities along east and west coasts of the U.S., to care for disadvantaged groups and repay the community through such ways as donations to the Children's Cancer Association with Golden State Warriors, donating goods and cell phones to disadvantaged groups, ZTE work with NBA team s on charity. Fans can donate supporting the charity organization’s “Hunger used mobile devices to the Bay area charity foundations. Elimination Program”, setting “Community Hero” ZTE supports Ethiopia youth’s dream 1.5 million Bay area fans participated, a fan even Anorphanahe in Ethiopiaruralarea Award with New York Knicks in Greater New to build a aircraft donated 8 phones alone York, supporting the children's charity project of =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  %HQHƉWVIRU*OREDO&LWL]HQV2XU9LVLRQDQG3URPLVHWR'HOLYHU  0DSRI=7(*OREDO3KLODQWKURS\ Fund local schools to build smart Annual condolences to campuses and donate equipment. local orphanages. The Republic of Belarus Russia 1. Participate in the Organization Committee for Sino-Myanmar Myanmar Charity Association. 2. Donate to the people suffering from floods in Myanmar. Malaysia Donate laboratories to Multimedia University. Nepal India Donate to Indonesia The U.S. 1. Donate clothes to the local orphanages. 1. Donate to Raudhatul Jannah orphanages. 2. Set up charity donation Foundation for orphanage 1. Cooperate with NBA teams to boxes to regularly donate to construction. integrate into the community for orphans and buy books and 2. Donate to the Indonesian charity activities. food for children. Thailand Childhood Cancer Foundation. 2. Fund charities to raise money for Pakistan Send water and food for local Children Welfare Houses. worshipping people. 1. Provide internship opportunities for graduates every year. 2. Cooperate with China Mobile to build college students’communication laboratories for local schools for free. 3. Donate solar energy equipment to residents. =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW ,QGHSHQGHQW$VVXUDQFH6WDWHPHQW  Independent Assurance Statement Assurance Methodology: he Independent Assurance was carried out based on the current best practices and the Report was reviewed against the ESG guidelines reporting principles of Materiality, Quantitative, Balance and Consistency. TÜV has examined the report contents and assess the process undertaken by ZTE from source to aggregate in disclosure of information/data related to sustainability performance. Our judgment is based on the objective review of reported information as per the assurance principles mentioned above. Analytical methods and the performance of interviews as well as verification of data, were done by random sampling to verify and validate the correctness of reported data and contents in light of contractual assurance Introduction: agreement. Our work included interviewing about 20 ZTE’s representatives including senior management and report preparation staff. The approach deemed to be appropriate for the purpose of assurance of the Report TÜV Rheinland Greater China, member of TÜV Rheinland Group, Germany (TÜV, We) has been commissince all data therein could be verified through document evidences, direct response, and verified database sioned by the ZTE Corporation (ZTE) to conduct independent assurance of ZTE Corporation Sustainability entries. Report 2016 (version no.: 2017.3.15 , the Report). All contractual contents for this assurance engagement rest The Assurance was performed by our multidisciplinary team of experienced professionals in the field of within the responsibility of ZTE. Our task was to give a fair and adequate judgment on ZTE Corporation Corporate Sustainability, Environment, Social and Stakeholder Engagement. Our work offers a sufficient and Sustainability Report 2016. substantiated basis to enable us to come to a conclusion mentioned below and based on the content of our The intended readers of this assurance statement are stakeholders having relevance to ZTE’s overall sustaincontract. TÜV shall not bear any liability or responsibility to a third party for perception and decision based on ability performance and impacts of its operations during 2016 (1 Jan 2016 to 31 Dec 2016). We have mainthis Assurance Statement. tained complete impartiality and independence during the assurance engagement and were not involved in the preparation of report contents. Conclusion: In conclusion, we can mention that no instances or information came to our attention that would be to the Scope of Assurance: contrary of the statement made below: • ZTE Corporation Sustainability Report 2016 meets the requirement of HKEX’s ESG reporting Our Assurance engagement covers the following: guidelines (See the appendix for details). • ZTE’s sustainability performance as described in the Report in accordance with Environmental, Social • The Report includes statements and claims supported by documentary evidences and internal records. The and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guidelines issued by Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEX), information provided in the Report are accurate and consistent. performance indicators and according disclosure on the general disclosures and key performance indicators • The performance data are collected, stored and analyzed in a systematic and professional manner and were (KPIs) from Environment & Social aspects, as well as the reporting boundaries;҅ reasonable. • By reference to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guideline G4; and • Evaluation of disclosed information in the Report as per the Assurance Methodology. For and on behalf of TÜV Rheinland Greater China Limitation: The assurance engagement was carried out at ZTE Headquarters at No. 55, Hi-tech Road South, Shenzhen, P.R.China. The consultations with external stakeholders were not carried out. We did not observe any signifiMr. Harold Hai cant situations to limit our assurance activity. The verification was carried out based on (i) the data and informaLocation Manager tion provided by ZTE, assuming they are complete and true; and (ii) interview of the ZTE’s report preparation Systems (Audit and Certification) Business Stream team, assuming information reliable. Date: 16-Mar-2017  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW *ORVVDU\  Glossary The strategy of ZTE is to be an “Enabler@M-ICT that facilitates the creation of value through information.” The letter “M” denotes a variety of meanings, which include: 1) M-ICT Mobile: as handheld smart terminals become increasingly popular, ICT services are This glossary contains definitions of certain technical terms used in this report as they relate to the Group. Some Strategy present everywhere; 2) M2M: the inter-connection of all things (Man-Man, Man-Maof these definitions may not correspond to standard industry definitions or usage. chine, Machine-Machine); 3) Multiple connection: all-present connection; 4) Multiservice, More coverage and accessibility; 5) More secure, More reliable and easier to use. Narrow Band Internet of Things, a 3GPP-defined LPWAN standard applicable to Fourth-generation mobile networks operating according to IMT-Advanced standards as 3GPP-licensed frequency bands specifically designed for IOT connection. It mainly defined by ITU, including LTE-Advanced and Wireless MAN-Advanced (802.16m) NB-IoT features: 1) connection by massive number of users; 2) substantially stronger coverage 4G standards, which support theoretical download rates of 1Gbit/s at fixed locations and compared to traditional cellular network; 3) low power consumption; 4) simplified and 100Mbit/s in motion. optimized radio frequency that reduces cost for end-users. Fifth-generation mobile communications, which is a general reference to the ensemble of post-4G broadband wireless communication technologies. The general view of the The adoption of the 5G technology without modifying existing air interfaces standards, Pre-5G industry is that 5G is capable of providing faster data throughput (1,000 times faster than providing in advance a 5G-like user experience on existing terminals. currently available) and more connections (100 times more than currently available), 5G more efficient utilisation of energy (10 times of the current level of efficiency) and shorter A data set that is too large and complex to be processed by existing conventional end-to-end time delay (1/5 of the current length of time delay). It goes beyond database management technologies and tools, and that requires the use of new data human-to-human communication to cover a wide range of applications such as ultra-inprocessing and management technologies in order to create value from the set in a Big Data tensive networks, machine-to-machine communication and the internet of vehicles. speedy and economic manner. It has revolutionary long-term implications for the development of informatisation, smart applications and business models of the society. New products and services arising from the integration of IT (information technology) and Big Data is often characterised by 4Vs: Volume, Variety, Velocity and Value. ICT CT (communications (i.e., the transmission of information) technology). Internet Data Center, the venue where server groups of hosting corporations, tenants or websites are managed; it is the infrastructure facility underpinning the secure operation Ultra-high-definition videos such as 4K/8K/VR/AR, as opposed to standard-definition of various types of e-commerce activities, as well as a platform that supports value chain and high-definition videos, which feature richer contents and more exacting requireIDC management by a corporation and its business alliance (such as distributors, suppliers Big Video ments for channels, signifying the big video era for the video business. and customers). IDC provides ICPs, corporations, media and websites with large-scale specialised server management service, space leasing, network bandwidth wholesale, as well as ASP and EC services which are safe and reliable and of high quality. Virtual Reality, a virtual 3D environment created with the aid of the computer system Internet of Things, also known as the sensor net, is a massive network connecting all and sensor technologies, providing the visual experience of a highly simulated reality sorts of information sensory devices, such as radio frequency identification units, VR and immersive human-machine interaction by engaging all senses of users (sight, IoT ultra-red sensors, global positioning systems and laser scanners, to the Internet with the sound, touch and smell). aim of connecting all things to the network for easy identification and management. The application of information technologies such as Cloud Computing, Internet of Internet Protocol Television is a new technology that utilises the broadband cable TV Things and Big Data in combination with wireline and wireless broadband communicaIPTV network and integrates Internet access, multimedia and communications in one device, tion technologies to sense, analyse and integrate various key information of the core providing a variety of interactive services, such as digital TV, to home users. Smart operation systems of the city, so as to make automated responses to various requireCity ments such as livelihood, environmental protection, public security, urban services and International Telecommunication Union, an United Nation specialized agency of industrial / commercial activities, in realisation of smart management and operation of ITU cities, creating better lives for citizens and facilitating harmony in and sustainable information and telecommunication affairs. development for the city. LTE (Long Term Evolution) which is the long-term evolution of 3G technology, refers to fourth-generation mobile communication technologies with OFDM as its core technoloAugmented Reality, a technology that superimposes virtual objects not existing in gy. LTE is being promoted by 3GPP and is continuously under evolution. There are two reality onto the real world through 3D registration and “aug-mediation”, facilitating a types of LTE, distinguished by the mode of division duplex, namely FDD-LTE of AR natural interaction between virtual objects and the reality to create faked reality with frequency division and TDD-LTE of time division. The mixed operation of FDD-LTE and real-time images, which are further projected to end-to-end technologies and devices of LTE TDD-LTE is supported. In terms of networking, its supports homogeneous networks other media via monitoring devices. formed by macro base stations as well as heterogeneous networks formed by macro base stations and micro base stations.  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW (6*5HSRUWLQJ*XLGHOLQH,QGH[  ESG Reporting Guideline Index ESG Guidelines subject Areas, Aspects, General Verified Disclosure Locations in the Report Disclosures and KPIs Situation Environment, our obligation to General disclosure )XOO\'LVFORVHG 3DUWLDO'LVFORVHG 1RW'LVFORVHG protect green operation Total water consumption and density (e.g., in Environment, our obligation to A2.2 terms of per yield unit, or per facility). protect green operation ESG Guidelines subject Areas, Aspects, General Verified Disclosure Locations in the Report Disclosures and KPIs Situation Describe the plan of energy use efficiency, Environment, our obligation to A2.3 and the results. protect green operation A:Environment Describes if there is any problem in seeking for the applicable water source, and the plan Environment, our obligation to Aspect A1ғEmissions A2.4 of improving the water use efficiency, and the protect green operation results. Environment, our obligation to General disclosure protect green operation Total amount of packaging materials used for Environment, our obligation to Types of emissions and related emissions Environment, our obligation to A2.5 finished goods (in terms of metric tons) and A1.1 protect green operation data. protect green operation (if applicable) amount of per production unit. Total greenhouse gas emissions (in terms of Environment, our obligation to A1.2 metric tons) and (if applicable) density (e.g., Aspect A3ғEnvironment and natural resources protect green operation in terms of per yield unit, or per facility). Environment, our obligation to General disclosure protect Total hazardous wastes produced (in terms Environment, our obligation to A1.3 of metric tons) and (if applicable) density Description of the significant impacts of protect green operation Preserve the ecological (e.g., in terms of per yield unit, or per facility). activities on the environment and natural A3.1 environment green operation, resources and the actions taken to manage green service Total non-hazardous wastes produced (in them. terms of metric tons) and (if applicable) Environment, our obligation to A1.4 density (e.g., in terms of per yield unit, or per protect green operation B: Society facility). Employment and Labor Standards Describe the measures to reduce emissions, Environment, our obligation to A1.5 and the results. protect green operation Aspect B1ғEmployment Describe the method of handling hazardous Environment, our obligation to Employees, the enabler of the A1.6 and non-hazardous wastes, reducing the General disclosure protect green operation future output, and the results. Total number of employees by gender, Employees, the enabler of the Aspect A2ғUse of resources B1.1 employment type, age group and the regional future – Diversity and division. Inclusiveness Environment, our obligation to General disclosure protect green operation, Employee turnover rate by gender, age group green packaging B1.2 and the regional division. Total consumption of direct and (or) indirect $VSHFW%ғ+HDOWKDQGVDIHW\ energies (such as electricity, gas and oil) Environment, our obligation to A2.1 classified by type (in terms of thousand protect green operation KWH) and density (e.g., in terms of per yield enabler of the future – Employee General disclosure unit, or per facility). Care  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW (6*5HSRUWLQJ*XLGHOLQH,QGH[  ESG Guidelines subject Areas, Aspects, General Verified Disclosure ESG Guidelines subject Areas, Aspects, General Verified Disclosure Locations in the Report Locations in the Report Disclosures and KPIs Situation Disclosures and KPIs Situation Working together to create the B2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities. Aspect B6：Product responsibility future-staff care Information Security, WorldWorking together to create the B2.2 Lost days due to work injury. wide Concern to Tackle, future-staff care General disclosure Innovation, the Impetus for Development Description of occupational health and Working together to create the B2.3 safety measures adopted, how they are Information Security, Worldfuture-staff care Percentage of sold or shipped products to be implemented and monitored. B6.1 wide Concern to Tackle – R&D recalled due to safety and health reasons. Process Aspect B3ғDevelopment and training Number of received complaints about Information Security, WorldB6.2 products and services and the methods of wide Concern to Tackle – mployees, the enabler of the dealing with the complaints. Response to client requirement General disclosure future – Vocational Ability Innovation, the Impetus for Training Describe the practices related to the Development – Management B6.3 maintenance and protection of intellectual of innovation and intellectual Percentage of trained employees classified by property rights. property gender and employee category (such as senior B3.1 management, middle management, etc.). Information Security, WorldDescribe the quality verification process and B6.4 wide Concern to Tackle – product recycling program. Average training hours per employee Product security control B2.2 classified by gender and employee category. Describe consumer data security and privacy Information Security, Worldwide B6.5 policy, and related implementation and Concern to Tackle – Information Aspect B4ғLabor guidelines supervision methods. security management Employees, the enabler of the Aspect B7: Anti-corruption General disclosure future – Diversity and Inclusiveness Corporate Governance General disclosure Employees, the enabler of the compliance management Description of measures to review employment B4.1 future – Diversity and practices to avoid child and forced labour. Inclusiveness Number of corruption lawsuits and the result Corporate Governance B7.1 of litigation during the period of reporting to compliance management Employees, the enabler of the the issuer or its employees. Description of steps taken to eliminate such B4.2 future – Diversity and practices when discovered. Inclusiveness Describe the preventive measures and Corporate Governance B7.2 reporting procedures, and related implemencompliance management Operational practices tation and supervision methods. Aspect B5：Supply chain management Community Sustainable supply chain, the Aspect B8: Community investment General disclosure CSR to undertake Benefits for global citizens, our General disclosure B5.1 Number of suppliers divided by regions. vision and promise to deliver Describe the practices of hiring suppliers, Focus on contribution category (e.g., educanumber of suppliers to whom the practices are Sustainable supply chain, the Benefits for global citizens, our B5.2 B8.1 tion, environmental issues, labor demand, performed, and the methods of executing and CSR to undertake vision and promise to deliver health, culture, and sports) supervising related practices. Use of resources (e.g., money or time) in Benefits for global citizens, our B7.2 focused categories. vision and promise to deliver  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW *5,*6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUWLQJ*XLGHOLQH&RQWHQW,QGH[  GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting GRI Indicator Position in the Report Guideline Content Index Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the G4-13 About Us organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is G4-14 Corporate Governance addressed by the organization. Innovation, the Impetus GRI Indicator Position in the Report for Development, Information Security, Strategy and analysis List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, Worldwide Concern to G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it Tackle, Sustainable Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization A Message from the endorses. Supply Chain, the CSR (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of CEO, A Message from to Undertake, EmployG4-1 sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressthe Executive Represenees, the Enabler of the ing sustainability. tative of Sustainability future A Message from the Innovation, the Impetus CEO, A Message from for Development, G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities the Executive RepresenInformation Security, tative of Sustainability Worldwide Concern to List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national G4-16 Tackle, Sustainable or international advocacy organizations Organizational profile Supply Chain, the CSR to Undertake, Employees, the Enabler of the G4-3 Report the name of the organization. About Us future G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. About Us Identified material aspects and boundaries List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. About Us statements or equivalent documents. Report whether any entity included in G4-17 About This Report the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names is not covered by the report. G4-6 of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that About Us are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect BoundarSustainability G4-18 ies. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles Management G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. About Us for Defining Report Content List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report Sustainability Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, G4-19 G4-8 About Us Management and types of customers and beneficiaries). content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization Sustainability G4-20 G4-9 Report the scale of the organization About Us Management Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender Employees, the Enabler Sustainability G4-10 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization of the future Management Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining Employees, the Enabler Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous G4-11 G4-22 About This Report agreements. of the future reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Sustainable Supply Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Chain, the CSR to G4-23 About This Report Aspect Boundaries. Undertake  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW *5,*6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUWLQJ*XLGHOLQH&RQWHQW,QGH[  GRI Indicator Position in the Report GRI Indicator Position in the Report Stakeholder engagement Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and Sustainability Management, G4-35 social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other Corporate Governance employees. Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Sustainability G4-24 Management Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and Sustainability Management, Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Sustainability G4-36 social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other Corporate Governance G4-25 engage. Management employees. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication Sustainability G4-26 governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation Sustainability Management, of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the Management G4-37 is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest Corporate Governance report preparation process. governance body. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Sustainability Management, engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics Sustainability G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees G4-27 Corporate Governance and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups Management that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Sustainability Management, G4-39 officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and Corporate Governance Report Profile the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About This Report G4-40 and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About This Report Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest G4-41 are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). About This Report Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the Questionnaire development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or Sustainability Management, G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. G4-42 mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environCorporate Governance mental and social impacts. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. Report the reference to the External Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance G4-43 G4-32 Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends About This Report body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report G4-44 whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. Report actions taken in response accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any Independent Assurance to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to G4-33 external assurance provided. Report the relationship between the organization Statement governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include Governance the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence Sustainability Management, G4-45 processes. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the Corporate Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of Sustainability Management, highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environG4-34 the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for Corporate Governance mental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts.  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW *5,*6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUWLQJ*XLGHOLQH&RQWHQW,QGH[  GRI Indicator Position in the Report GRI Indicator Position in the Report Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about G4-46 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, G4-58 Corporate Governance social topics. such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, Economic G4-47 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed About Us Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the Sustainability Management, G4-48 organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are Corporate Governance covered. A Message from the Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's CEO, A Message from G4-EC2 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest Sustainability activities due to climate change the Executive RepresenG4-49 governance body. Management tative of Sustainability Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicatG4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations Sustainability Management, G4-50 ed to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and Corporate Governance resolve them.` G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior G4-51 executives. Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum G4-EC5 wage at significant locations of operation. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant G4-52 G4-EC6 independent of management. Report any other relationships which the locations of operation. remuneration consultants have with the organization. Features: Jointly Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding Building the “InformaG4-53 remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and tion Silk Road” to help G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported proposals, if applicable. connect the world, Smart City, the Bridge to the World Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median G4-54 annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid Features: Jointly Building G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts individual) in the same country. the “Information Silk Road” to help connect the world, Smart City, the Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the Bridge to the World organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations G4-55 to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employSustainability ees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Management Ethics and Integrity Environmental Environment, our Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavSustainability Management, G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume G4-56 Obligation to Protect ior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Corporate Governance Materials used by weight Percentage of materials used that are recycled Environment, our G4-EN2 input materialsor volume Obligation to Protect Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and G4-57 lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as Corporate Governance Environment, our helplines or advice lines. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Obligation to Protect  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW *5,*6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUWLQJ*XLGHOLQH&RQWHQW,QGH[  GRI Indicator Position in the Report GRI Indicator Position in the Report Environment, our Environment, our G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Obligation to Protect Obligation to Protect Environment, our Environment, our G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN23 Obligation to Protect Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Obligation to Protect Environment, our G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Obligation to Protect Environment, our G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Obligation to Protect G4-EN25 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Environment, our G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Obligation to Protect Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Environment, our G4-EN26 related habitats significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Obligation to Protect and runoff Environment, our G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Obligation to Protect Environment, our G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Obligation to Protect Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas G4-EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Environment, our G4-EN28 category Obligation to Protect Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Environment, our G4-EN29 protected areas for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Obligation to Protect Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Sustainable Supply Chain, G4-EN32 materials for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the the CSR to Undertake G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored workforce Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Sustainable Supply Chain, G4-EN14 G4-EN33 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk the CSR to Undertake Environment, our Environment, our G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN34 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Obligation to Protect Obligation to Protect Environment, our Social G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Obligation to Protect Environment, our Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Employees, the G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-LA1 Obligation to Protect group, gender and region Enabler of the future Environment, our G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Employees, the Obligation to Protect G4-LA2 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Enabler of the future Environment, our G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Obligation to Protect Environment, our Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) G4-LA4 Obligation to Protect these are specified in collective agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker Environment, our G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational Obligation to Protect health and safety programs  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW *5,*6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUWLQJ*XLGHOLQH&RQWHQW,QGH[  GRI Indicator Position in the Report GRI Indicator Position in the Report Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Employees, the G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's human rights G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by Enabler of the future policies or procedures that are relevant to operations gender Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples G4-HR8 and actions taken Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to G4-LA7 G4-HR9 occupation human rights reviews or impact assessments G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Employees, the Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply G4-LA9 G4-HR11 employee category Enabler of the future chain and actions taken Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Employees, the Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and G4-LA10 G4-HR12 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career Enabler of the future resolved through formal grievance mechanisms endings Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, G4-SO1 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Employees, the impact assessments, and development programs G4-LA11 development reviews, by gender and by employee category Enabler of the future Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local G4-SO2 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Employees, the communities G4-LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Enabler of the future membership, and other indicators of diversity Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO3 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee corruption and the significant risks identified Sustainable Supply Chain, G4-LA14 category, by significant locations of operation the CSR to Undertake Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices Corporate GoverSustainable Supply Chain, G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures G4-LA15 nance criteria the CSR to Undertake Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the Employees, the Corporate GoverG4-LA16 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken supply chain and actions taken Enabler of the future nance Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and G4-HR1 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Corporate GoverG4-SO7 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures Environment, our monopoly practices and their outcomes nance G4-HR2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, Obligation to Protect including the percentage of employees trained Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Corporate GoverG4-SO8 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations nance Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Employees, the G4-HR3 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on Sustainable Supply Chain, Enabler of the future G4-SO9 society the CSR to Undertake Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom G4-HR4 of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply Sustainable Supply Chain, risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-SO10 chain and actions taken the CSR to Undertake Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Employees, the G4-HR5 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and Information Security, of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of Enabler of the future G4-PR1 safety impacts are assessed for improvement Worldwide Concern to Tackle child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Employees, the Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-HR6 Information Security, of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the eliminaEnabler of the future G4-PR2 codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Worldwide Concern to Tackle tion of all forms of forced or compulsory labor during their life cycle, by type of outcomes  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW *5,*6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUWLQJ*XLGHOLQH&RQWHQW,QGH[  GRI Indicator Position in the Report Type of product and service information required by the organization's Information Security, G4-PR3 procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentWorldwide Concern to age of significant product and service categories subject to such information Tackle requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Information Security, G4-PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of Worldwide Concern to outcomes Tackle Information Security, G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Worldwide Concern to Tackle Information Security, G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Worldwide Concern to Tackle Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Information Security, G4-PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, Worldwide Concern to promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Tackle Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Information Security, G4-PR8 privacy and losses of customer data Worldwide Concern to Tackle Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Information Security, G4-PR9 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Worldwide Concern to Tackle  =7(&RUSRUDWLRQ6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW 4XHVWLRQQDLUH  4XHVWLRQQDLUH Dear Reader: First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for reading this report. We mostly welcome your opinion on the report as an important tool for ZTE’s better sustainability performance. Thank you very much! ZTE 2016 Sustainability Report Team March 2017 I. Your personal information Name Company Phone number E mail II. Select which feels right for you 1. Do you think this report reflects ZTE's major impact on the economy, society, and environment? Yes Average No 2. Do you think this report accurately and fully identifies ZTE's stakeholders and analyzes the relations between them and ZTE? Yes Average No 3. Do you think the information disclosed in this report discloses is complete? Yes Average No 4. Do you think the information disclosed in this report discloses is complete? Yes Average No III. Open Questions 1. Is there any information you are concerned about but not disclosed in this report? If yes, please write it down. 2. Do you have any suggestions on improvements to this report? If yes, please write them down.
