COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS YEAR: 2016/2017 Committed reliable competent trusted MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Iconet Solutions Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Since we became members in May 2016, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Innocent Mutiso Muinde CEO, Iconet Solutions Limited Committed reliable competent trusted Company Name: Iconet Solutions Limited Sector: Technology Hardware & Equipment Number of employees: 16 UN Global Compact signatory since: 7th March 2016 Contact person: Mary Makasi Address: Vision Plaza, along Mombasa Road, P. O. Box 13653-00800, Nairobi Kenya Email: Marymakasi@iconet.co.ke Phone: +254 721 276 809 Committed reliable competent trusted INTRODUCTION ICONET SOLUTIONS LTD specializes in the Design, Installation, Support and Maintenance of Telecommunication, Security Systems and Access Control, Mechanical Ventilation and Air con and ICT equipment’s; Various Networks testing and commissioning. We partner with the bestof-breed turnkey companies, Clients, Mechanical/Electrical Consultants and building contractors to provide the most innovative solutions available. We serve public and private sector clients with the following supply and installation Services: mechanical ventilation, Electrical works, ICT supplies and Install, Security Equipment etc. We are also do integration solutions and onsite professionals in support Of these systems. About us We are a Kenyan Private Limited company and have been in existence since Sept 2007. Mission To be Committed, Reliable, competent and Trusted (our core values) to our clients in the overall management of projects assigned to us; all the while developing new innovative products and services that are made to suit our client unique needs & specifications. Vision To be the preferred Communications, engineering, ICT and Security Technology System Integrator partner of choice. Committed reliable competent trusted HUMAN RIGHTS OUR COMMITMENT Iconet as a company is committed to family-friendly policies that provide employees with a safe and conducive working environment in line with the international human rights as well as adequate resources to perform optimally in their roles. These policies are aligned to the employment act to ensure full compliance with the law. A brief description of our processes  The company has an able HR department which ensures that the rights of its employees and stakeholders are adhered to and none is violated. These policies are made clear to all new employees & existing employees through the company’s handbook.  Field Engineers are also provided with safety gears, like reflector jakes, helmets, safety boots, safety harness and gloves.  Company has a qualified internal monitoring inspection team who are in charge of workplace health & safety of all employees.  The company also provides stationery items for his workers for maximum productivity.  Maternity/paternity leave: We also offer female employees (3) three months maternity leave with full pay in addition to their annual leave entitlement while male employees are entitled to two (2) weeks paternity leave.  We have 21 annual leave days per year to all employees to enable them to have ample rest as required and are approved by respective line manager, (7) Seven days compassionate leave for employees who are bereaved in their immediate family and (2 ) two weeks to those who are planning their wedding.  The employees have access to tea and safe drinking water. Those based in the field are paid a separate pantry allowance to enable them to buy good quality drinking water.  We provide a lunch space of an hour (1 hour) per floor for the employees to enjoy their lunch break which is equipped with a fridge and a microwave for their use.  The company also advocate for clean desks policy where all employees are expected to keep their working desks and area clean at all times. They are also provided with lockable drawers where they can keep their records secure. Committed reliable competent trusted  We also have an in house fire marshals and first aiders on each floor and a mandatory floor audit every day by our contracted security vendor. These fire marshals show all new staff the emergency exits and explains the fire alarm procedures and how it will be an offence to obstruct an emergency exit for whatever reason.  All employees who have any physical or hearing disability which could affect either their speed or ease with which they leave the building are aided by other employees. Activities we implemented in the last year  Training on first aid and fire safety to selected employees who were selected to be fire marshals and first aiders on their respective floors as part of our Safety Policy.  We implemented a proactive team who will be dealing with occupational health & safety issues.  We had a one day opportunity of educating our workers and their families on good health practices which helps to promote healthy living in the community.  All employees were taken through one fire safety and security training to equip them with the required knowledge.  The fire equipment and emergency exit are inspected every morning by the contracted security vendor.  Published our Security policy on each floor as well as the evacuation plan for employees and public awareness.  Installation of a new CCTV security system complete with live audio advisory to the Head of security.  We employed monitoring systems within the workplace & all workers are aware before monitoring takes place. Measurements taken for our company  At least two fire drills must be executed in a year to inculcate a culture of safety awareness to all employees.  Use Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) as a key performance indicator of health & safety performance.  Completing health and safety policies which are continually enforced. Committed reliable competent trusted  Internally and externally audit of our health & safety management systems and implement improvements  Routine database which will be continually enforced.  Tracking of leave accrual per staff member by HR and ensuring approved annual leave plans are in place so that employees commit to going on leave.  Internal Monitoring of our security systems to ensure our environment is secure at all times. Activities planned for next year  Discuss safety, health and welfare matters with our managers, and company Safety, Health & Environmental Coaches who will offer or obtain further expert advice, where necessary.  Have an overview Strategic Plan and specific objectives & targets which will be updated annually.  Fire marshals wearing the reflective gear every Monday for easy identification and also awareness purpose.  Co-operate at all times; contribute good ideas and improvements; report defects and short falls.  Constantly work towards improving the safety culture at all levels within Iconet Solutions Ltd.  Ensure compliance with all relevant legal duties in respect of health and safety at work legislation.  Communicating health and safety requirements to suppliers.  Provide adequate resources for planning, provision and maintenance of safe working conditions and a safe system of work. Committed reliable competent trusted LABOUR RIGHTS Our company is committed to employee policies that are in adherence to the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and other International Standards, eliminating all forms of labour malpractices and also enforcing a culture of Iconet being an equal opportunity employer in support to a zero tolerance attitude in respect to employment and occupation. Iconet Solutions Ltd as a company states clearly that no staﬀ shall be discriminated against due to sex, race, color, political opinion, HIV status and beliefs. A brief description of our processes  We advocate the standard working hours for Iconet employees to be 8 hours per day and lunch break of 1 hour except those working on shift programs.  We don’t recruit persons under the age of 18 years since it’s a violation of children rights and we extend it to our vendors and partners and at the same time we strongly advocate for the abolition of child labour.  We also have compensation and benefits policy where employees are entitled to some benefits that are additional to their salary and allowances.  We have transparent disciplinary process that gives either party freedom to air their grievance before a final decision is taken be it a gross misconduct or a general misconduct. Committed reliable competent trusted Activities we implemented in the last year  We have engaged several team buildings to build team spirit & encouragement.  We also engage employee Communication seminars where employees gathered to reaffirm their commitment to the company strategy and setup goals.  Adopted daily recap meetings to provide a platform where staff can give feedback and express their concerns, compliments and ideas.  Recognition of best employee of the Month.  Recognition & award of the best top three employees of the year. Measurement of outcomes  Rewarding performance and desired behaviour in line with Company values which is designed as a tool for motivation and giving feedback as a way of embodying the company’s core values.  Continued review of our customer engagement and processes to ensure a solid control, satisfactions of our clients and ensure their expectations are met. Activities planned for next year  Conduct to recruit a lead technical engineer who has an experience in both office & field operations in line with our core business. Committed reliable competent trusted ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS We at Iconet Solutions ltd recognize environment as a centre to the very existence of the human race. Though the nature of our day to day business activities impact minimally on the environment, the long term net effect of other causes of environmental degradation must still be a concern to us all. Activities implemented in the last year  We promoted a greener, sustainable environment in the workplace through an E waste management and computerized filing systems.  Regular Servicing and maintenance of our vehicles to ensure they are in good condition to reduce greenhouse gases emission.  We have planted in-house gardens that will help purify air & freshen our environment indoors. Committed reliable competent trusted Measurement of outcomes  The computerized system has improved and enhanced document safety, a reliable backup services and a paper free working environment.  Employees’ positive feedback on the safe & efficient cars.  Employees’ positive feedback on a conducive environment at the working place. Committed reliable competent trusted ANTI-CORRUPTION Our management is committed to ensuring a corrupt free environment by ensuring ethics, integrity and nurturing a culture of compliance and zero tolerance to the vice. This position underlies our signing up with the UN Global Compact and other initiatives that support the fight against this scourge. The effects of corruption cause untold suffering among members of the world especially the poor as resources that would have been channelled towards giving better basic services are diverted and denied the very people who NEED it the most. A brief description of our Processes We as Iconet Solutions Ltd support all efforts to fight corruption within Kenya and worldwide. Our employees are strictly forbidden to accept any bribe, improper payment or inappropriate favors of any kind As a policy of choice we don’t do business with organizations or individuals who are involved in graft or kickbacks. Within the company, we have put in place measures to encourage ethical behavior among our employees and in the way we do business or interact with other companies that give us business. Safaricom Ltd being our major partner has a comprehensive Code of Ethics that we should comply with and practice its key points. Measurement of outcomes On breach of company ethics and values, the company issue warning letters to employees found in contravention of code of conduct. Increased awareness of compliance as a result of tying Compliance Key Result Areas to Performance appraisals and subsequent compensation benefits. Reduced fraud impact and revenue leakages and Reduction in Customer Resolution timelines Committed reliable competent trusted DONATIONS AND AWARDS Iconet solutions ltd is building a culture to give back to the society by sponsoring education for 3 primary pupils and 2 secondary pupils from poor backgrounds, visiting and giving food and textbooks donation to children’s home and nyumba ya wazee. We have also sponsored rhino charge event. By doing this it ensures more people especially the least privileged get equal opportunities. With children of House of mercy children’s home-Githurai entertaining us after sharing a meal. Committed reliable competent trusted Rhino Charge Event Committed reliable competent trusted Part of Iconet team during team building Committed reliable competent trusted Iconet team on a seminar/training session. Committed reliable competent trusted
