Sus tain abl eD eve lop me nt Rep or t 20 16 Table of contents Comment by the CEO.......................................................................... 4 Strategy and Management............................................................. 5 Who We Are............................................................................................. 6 Involvement of Interested Parties............................................... 8 Our Employees....................................................................................... 10 Our Community...................................................................................... 16 Environmental Protection................................................................ 18 GRI G4 Index........................................................................................... 21 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Comment by the CEO Dear all, This report demonstrates that we have been We are living in a time of change: we see the consistent in implementing our initiatives for economic and social transformations in the creating a safe and healthy workplace as well face of a fourth industrial revolution that as a motivating work environment, increasing make both businesses and individuals feel opportunities for youth employment, and competitive tension. Bearing in mind the avoiding negative impact by the company on pace of current change, sustainable practices the environment. In 2016, we have focused have never been more important to all of us. a lot of our attention on the safety and emWhich is why, as we note in this report, suspowerment of our employees to ensure their tainable development is an integral part of wellbeing at work, at home, and in their re­s­ the PakMarkas business strategy. pective communities. We have updated our strategy for 2016We will maintain our aim to be part of the 2018. Our main direction is increasing profit force that is creating better living conditions and centralising organisation to implement in our country by further communicating our long term goals. It is clear to us that we with our clients and other interested parties must focus more and more of our attention as well as utilising innovations and strategies on creating value added in every field of acfor sustainable development. We already tivity so we could lay down a firm foundation have a strong foundation that will help us for a competitive advantage in the world of in our task: a determined team and a well tomorrow. This is what we will continue to known company name. strive for by maintaining a continuous dialogue with our clients, colleagues, public institutions, and local communities. 4 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Strategy and Management Sustainable development goals are part of the PakMarkas business company and socially sensitive issues important for the employees. strategy for 2016-2018, which focuses on three interested parties: The agenda for these meetings includes internal audits, during which clients, employees, and shareholders. an assessment of work environment, employee promotion schemes, The sustainable development of the company is supported by compliance with human rights, and various risk factors is carried out. shareholders, board members, and the CEO. The company has a The Policy of Ethical Employment, Social Accountability Standard Social Responsibility Management representative who reports di(SA 8000), Policy on Environmental Protection, and other guiderectly to the CEO. Everyday work relations are overseen by Social lines for our activities reveal our stance on the promotion of susResponsibility representatives in each department. The representainable development. For more information, see our website: tatives regularly hold meetings to discuss topics relevant to the http://en.pakmarkas.lt/about-pakmarkas.html We have set the following goals to promote the sustainable development of our business: ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL (to create value added for the sharehol­ (to respect human rights; to ensure safe (to utilise production waste and natural reders; to satisfy the needs of our clients; to and healthy working conditions; to mainsources effectively; to carry out systemic create high quality workplaces; to improve tain a transparent relationship with our monitoring of environmental protection; to products and services; to promote innovacommunity and aid its development); comply with environmental legislation; to tion); provide an example for our suppliers); 5 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Who We Are Our mission and vision FOR CLIENTS MISSION VISION To provide professional solutions in labelGuaranteed quality, long term cooperaling, packaging and automation tion, offered innovations FOR SHAREHOLDERS MISSION VISION To consistently increase the long term Strong inter departmental cooperation and value of the company in all fields of activity expansion into new markets FOR EMPLOYEES MISSION VISION To work responsibly to achieve mutual Professional decision making, valued comgoals, continually improve, and seek effecpetence, guaranteed communication tive communication 6 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index PakMarkas offers professional solutions in labelling, packaging, and automation Main business directions Overview of 2016 23 years of experience Self adhesive label Exports to and package printing employees in Lithua229 nia and Latvia Latvia, Estonia, Russia, Poland, Belarus, Germany, Sweden, Kazakhstan, etc. thousand euros of Engineering solu19,04 consolidated turnover Main markets tions for packaging Food and beverages, auto and household chemical goods, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, 30 percent of exports etc. Sale of gears and automation elements 2540859 euros in investment 7 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Involvement of Interested Parties The interested parties are important partners whose feedback helps us develop our business. We aim to always react quickly to their sugOur goal is to ensure that cooperation with gestions and complaints. Our partnership includes financial support, industrial initiatives, client and supplier education, audits and assessinterested parties takes the form of an open ments of suppliers, participation in conferences, employee surveys, conversation based on honesty and trust. etc. Selection criteria We have named 6 main interested parties (WHO), set the main criteria for selecting them (WHY), and determined the ways in which we will seek to achieve our goals (HOW). WHO Shareholders WHO Clients WHY ʇʇ Profitable return on investment WHY ʇʇ Various innovative solutions for products that help both our clients and our company to achieve their ʇʇ Preservation of company values goals ʇʇ Timely disclosure of relevant information (related ʇʇ A range of high quality goods and services to offer to economic, environmental, and social issues) ʇʇ Supplying sustainable packaging in an effort to mitiHOW ʇʇ Regular meetings and reports gate global environmental issues HOW ʇʇ International conferences and exhibitions of packa ging technologies and innovations ʇʇ Equipment and technology upgrades 8 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index WHO Employees WHO State regulatory WHY ʇʇ Respect for human rights ʇʇ A safe and healthy work environment WHY ʇʇ Compliance with laws and other legislative acts ʇʇ Motivation and improvement ʇʇ Support for, and involvement in, change ʇʇ Equal opportunities ʇʇ A company the employees can be proud of HOW ʇʇ Regular reports given to regulatory institutions, meetings HOW ʇʇ Compliance with the PakMarkas Policy of Ethical ʇʇ Participation in common activities: UN Global ComEmployment pact, Association for Responsible Business of Lithuania ʇʇ Employees’ interests represented by the Social (LAVA), Association of Lithuanian Printing Industries Responsibility representatives (LISPA), Lithuanian Packagers Association (LPK), Germany Baltic States Chamber of Commerce (AHK), ʇʇ Training programs for professional and personal Vilnius Industry and Business Association (VPVA), improvement Lithuanian Engineering Industries Association (LINPRA) ʇʇ Company climate surveys WHO Suppliers WHO Local community WHY ʇʇ Collective efforts to achieve mutual business goals WHY ʇʇ Creation of common economic and social value ʇʇ Cooperation to strengthen sustainable development ʇʇ Contribution to the improvement of the quality of life initiatives of the local community ʇʇ Reputational risks; guarantee of high quality pro­ ducts and services in the entire supply chain HOW ʇʇ Aid ʇʇ Participation in social projects HOW ʇʇ Audits 9 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Our Employees We know people are most productive when they feel appreciated, safe, and have the freedom 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees 179 196 199 Total employee turnover, % 20 23 24,5 Full time employees 196 197 192 Part time employees 4 3 7 Employees on a contract of indefinite duration 198 198 195 Employees on a fixed term contract 2 2 4 Employees with disabilities, % 1 1 1 10 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Respect for Human Rights In our work, we follow the key business and We respect the freedom of association for human right principles laid down by the UN. workers and the right of workers to join inOur commitment to respecting human rights terest groups or professional organizations involves respecting the rights of our employof their choice. However, the cornerstone ees, suppliers, partners, clients, and other of our organisational culture is communica­ persons related to the company. ting with our employees directly rather than We oppose any kind of violation of human through mediators. For this reason, our emrights, discrimination, violence, harassment, ployees have chosen 6 Social Responsibility forced or child labour. These principles are representatives who undertake the task to laid down in our Policy of Ethical Employtackle social issues and other relevant matment. ters on their behalf. Ongoing initiatives Each new employee is informed about the PakMarkas We regularly carry out internal audits to ensure compliPolicy of Ethical Employment, which reveals our stance ance with human rights in our company. The company on mutual respect, intolerance of forced and compulsory has a system for providing anonymous complaints and labour, non discrimination, protection of children’s rights, suggestions. equitable wage, and the right of workers to join profesNot a single case of human rights violations was regissional or other organizations with the aim of collective tered in 2016. bargaining. 11 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Diversity We believe it is important to have a team of people who have different opinions, see various opportunities, and strengthen the company by making diverse decisions. DIVERSITY BY AGE GROUP, % 2014 2015 2016 16–29 35 29 27 30–49 54 60 61 > 50 11 11 12 2016 Employees that are eligible for retirement in the next 3 5 years, % 2014 2015 2016 Average employee age by years 35 36 37 EMPLOYEES BY SENIORITY 2014 2015 2016 Employees in management positions 26 26 31 Employees in other positions 153 170 168 12 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Focus on Gender Equality In the field of gender equality, our aim is to create a fair and just workplace, where everyone has equal rights in every aspect of work, including pay. 2014 2015 2016 Share of female employees, % 23 29 30 Share of male employees, % 77 71 70 Share of female employees in management, % 26 Share of male employees in management, % 74 Number of employees on maternity / paternity leave 7 females, 1 male 8 females, 1 male Number of employees on paternity leave 7 7 New initiatives During the employee motivation review, we also carried We have also organised employee training sessions on out an audit on gender equality, by which we sought to equality and compliance with human rights in a work enensure our compliance with the policy of equal pay for vironment. equal work. The audit assessed base pay and bonuses. 13 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Health Is Wealth The health and safety of our employees is the main priority of PakMarkas. We monitor the compliance with safety regulations constantly, focusing on preventative measures. Not a single accident was registered in the company in 2016. Ongoing initiatives We provide additional health insurance for our employTo encourage employees to be more physically active, we ees. They can choose the option more suitable for their provide financial support for those wishing to participate needs: medicine and treatment or massages and gym. in public marathons. Employees have the opportunity to balance work and We provide an additional financial bonus on the occasion other needs like family, studies, or leisure by choosing of the employee’s first marriage, their reaching retireconvenient work hours. ment age and leaving work, or in the case of family crisis. 14 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Competence Building We believe that the growth of the company is directly related to the improvement of our people. New initiative INITIATIVE We are actively introducing the “Lean” system. Its methods promote employee competence upgrade and the development of leadership skills. 2014 2015 2016 Funds allocated to training per employee, in euros 170 244 316 15 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Our Community An increasingly important role in ensuring the continuation of our business is played by community. We pay the greatest attention to our local community, to which we contribute by promoting its economic, social, and cultural wellbeing. New initiatives To encourage the public to take greater interest in the creation of national packing, we participated in the 2016 National Packaging Design Awards (NAPA). For the event, one of PakMarkas employees gave a lecture on the development of a package from idea to product. We participated in the President’s social campaign “Už saugią Lietuvą” (“For a Safe Lithuania”), which aims to fight domestic violence, addiction, and suicide. 16 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Ongoing initiatives We continue to cooperate with educational institutions. In 2016, the company had 4 students in traineeship, 3 of which became employees. We are contributors to the initiative by the local school that organises the summer camp “Lietuvos turtai” for children from disadvantaged families. Our modest financial contribution provides more opportunities for the children to see unique locations in Lithuania. We have been participating in an unpaid blood donation campaign for several years in a row. The campaign enjoys a wide support among our employees, who urge their new colleagues to join in each year and save a life. The company has started a beautiful tradition to contribute to the President’s campaign “Knygų Kalėdos” (“Christmas of Books”). We participate in the campaign by producing special stickers. 17 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Environmental Protection Working in the packaging industry, we take responsibility for decreasing negative impact on nature made by businesses and industries. The PakMarkas environmental protection policy defines our stance on responsible environmental stewardship and conservation of resources with a focus on the prevention of pollution sources. For more information, see our website: http://en.pakmarkas.lt/environment.html New initiatives On 22 December 2016, PakMarkas was granted an InterWe have purchased digital printing equipment. Digital national FSC® Chain of Custody Certification. Certificaprinting is considered to be one of the most environtion No TT COC-006025. Licence No FSC C133563. mentally friendly means of printing labels in the modern Having introduced the FSC standard, we are able to meet world: the use of this machinery ensures minimal waste the need of clients more successfully, as we are now of raw materials. printing labels on FSC certified paper. 18 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index Environmental Protection Indicators Being Monitored 2015 2016 KW/h 2 371 628 2 508 250 ELECTRICITY Electricity consumption KWh/m2 0,17 kg 256 314 Amount of wastewater discharge kg (per employee) 0,16 SOURCES OF POLLUTION Amount of mobile emission sources (gasoline, diesel, l 85 966 gas) Fines for environmental pollution eur 0 0 Amount of packaging material used m2 17 050 725 14 572 529 RAW Label waste m2 136 624 129 684 MATERIALS AND WASTE kartonas, t 8,8 10,00 Other waste that sent for recycling BOPP, t 3.37 3,00 m3 2 865 2 788 WATER Amount of water consumed m3 (per employee) 14,5 19 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index About the Report We have prepared this report in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines provided by the Global Reporting Initiative. The GRI indicator disclosure table specifies where certain indicators and facts can be found in the report. This year, we have been focusing mainly on issues of sustainable development, which allows us to implement the company’s business strategy for 2016-2018. We have been releasing sustainable development reports every year since 2006. The last report was released on 20 September 2016. The data provided in this report covers the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Earlier reports can be found on our website: http://en.pakmarkas.lt/social-activity-reports.html We are looking forward to hearing your thoughts on the sustainable development indicators monitored by PakMarkas and other activities by the company. Please contact us at jurgitar@pakmarkas.lt 20 Comment by Strategy and Who Involvement of Our Our Environmental GRI G4 the CEO Management We Are Interested Parties Employees Community Protection Index GRI G4 Index General disclosure Title Page General disclosure Title Page Strategy and Analysis Work Relations G4-1 Comment by the CEO 4 G4-LA1 Types of contract, positions, employee 10, 12 turnover About the Company G4-LA2 Additional social benefits 14 G4-3 Name of company 7 G4-LA3 Maternal / paternal leave 13 G4-4 Main activities 7 G4-LA9 Monitoring of training 15 G4-5 Address of head office and branches 22 G4-LA12 Employee diversity indicators 12, 13 G4-6 Countries of operation 7 G4-LA13 Payment scheme for male and female 13 G4-8 Markets of operation 7 employees G4-9 Main indicators for the company 7 Compliance with Human Rights G4-10 Number of employees 10 G4-HR3 Non discrimination 12, 13 G4-16 Association membership 9 G4-HR5, HR6 Stance on child and forced labour 11 Interested Parties G4-HR12 Number of incidents related to human 11 right violations G4-24 Involvement of interested parties 8, 9 Environmental Protection G4-25 Selection criteria 8, 9 G4-EN1 Resources used (by weight or volume) 19 Report Parameters G4-EN2 Waste sent for recycling (by weight or 19 G4-28 Period of accountability 20 volume) G4-EN3 Internal consumption of electricity 19 G4-30 Frequency of report release 20 G4-EN8 Total water consumption 19 G4-31 Contact person information 20 G4-EN22 Amount of wastewater discharged into 19 G4-32 GRI G4 indicator disclosure table 21 the environment 21 Contact information Head office Branches UAB PakMarkas SIA PakMarkas Daržininkų k., Nemėžio sen., Ropažu iela 19a, Vilniaus r., LT-13281, Lietuva Ryga, LV-1039, Latvija Phone +37052052900 Phone +37167185927 Fax +37052052901 Fax +37167513502 Email info@pakmarkas.lt Email info@pakmarkas.lv This report was printed on FSC certified paper.
