Fung Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Contents 2016 at a glance 1 Statement of continuing support 2 Fung Group of companies: Who we are 3 Our approach to sustainability 4 Our role: UN Sustainable Development Goals 5 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact 16 Human Rights & Labor 17 Environment 22 Anti-corruption 28 2016 at a glance HERproject 89 factories 178,000+ workers Training statistics 630 factory training sessions 8,247 factory representatives and 3,579 employees attended 7 average training hours per Li & Fung employee 154,712 Li & Fung training hours 13,200 Trinity training hours 9,082 Global Brands training hours Workplace safety Zero fatalities Youtube channel views 18,700 views Total volunteering hours 23,737 hours Environmental 5,000 trees planted by Li & Fung 1,883 kg of plastic recycled by Trinity 1 Statement of continuing support The Fung Group of companies (the “Group”) is pleased to publish its Communication on Progress for 2016. This report outlines the steps that we have taken to protect and promote the United Nations Global Compact (ungc) Principles within our Group companies, as well as throughout our supply chains and among our stakeholders. The Fung Group has always been committed to the principles of the Global Compact. We aim to operate sustainable businesses that provide useful goods and services, create decent jobs and contribute to the economic, environmental and social wellbeing of the communities in which we operate. While we continue to track our progress in implementing the Global Compact’s principles, we also took a renewed look at our businesses in the context of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Sustainable Development Goals (sdg) provide a useful framework for collective action and collaboration, and we are committed to doing our part to promote inclusive and sustainable growth in line with the sdgs. In laying out our actions and efforts to continue to improve our performance under the UNGC framework, we share our experiences and invite others to join us in partnership. Victor Fung Group Chairman 2 Fung Group of companies: Who we are The Fung Group is a multinational group Its customers are primarily retailers, including headquartered in Hong Kong whose companies department stores, specialty retailers and are engaged in trading, logistics, distribution and e-commerce channels in the Americas, Europe and retailing of consumer products. Asia. The Group’s trading and logistics operations are The Group’s retailing operations include two operated by the publicly-listed Li & Fung Limited publicly-listed entities: Convenience Retail Asia (Li & Fung), which offers end-to-end supply chain Limited (cra), which operates convenience stores solutions from product design and development, and bakeries in Hong Kong, Macau and Southern raw material sourcing, factory selection, production China, and Trinity Limited (Trinity), which is engaged management and quality control to customers. The in the retailing of premium menswear in Greater company also provides in-country logistics, global China and Europe. The Group also has a number of freight management and e-logistics services that privately-held retail businesses. span the time the product leaves the factory to the time it reaches the hands of the consumer. In sum, the Fung Group employs approximately 39,900 men and women across 40 economies, The Group’s distribution businesses are run by with total revenue of over us$22.51 billion as of the publicly-listed Global Brands Group Holding December 2016. Limited (Global Brands), one of the world’s leading branded fashion accessories, footwear, and apparel While our commitments to uphold the UNGC companies. Global Brands designs, develops, Principles and our approach to sustainability markets and sells products under a diverse array applies to the whole Group, the performance data of owned and licensed brands and a wide range of in this report is provided for the four publicly-listed product categories. entities of the Group: Li & Fung Limited, Global Brands Group Holding Limited, Convenience Retail Asia Limited and Trinity Limited. Fung Holdings (1937) Limited A privately-held entity and major shareholder of the Fung Group Trading / Distribution Retailing Logistics Li & Fung Limited Global Brands Group Fung Retailing Limited Listed on SEHK Holding Limited Privately-held entity Listed on SEHK Trinity Limited Convenience Listed on SEHK Retail Asia Limited Listed on SEHK 3 Our approach to sustainability Our operating companies share a common vision for sustainability and dedication to support the economic, social and environmental wellbeing of Economic the communities we serve around the world. Each of our companies integrates sustainability into its core business operations, backed by a dedicated sustainability function that develops, coordinates and manages the overall sustainability strategy. In Li & Fung Limited, this structure is reinforced by the Risk Management and Sustainability Committee of Social Environment the Board of Directors. Our Group supports a number of initiatives to further our sustainability agenda. Our Sustainability Working Group comprises the sustainability leaders across all of our Group companies, plus key functions such as IT and compliance, and convenes In this report, we highlight our policies and progress regularly to share global best practices, build in 2016 to support the ungc Principles, and invite partnerships and coordinate actions. anyone with further interest to explore the public disclosures and websites of our respective Group To supplement this, the Fung Academy provides companies. Access the following links for further accelerated learning and development across the information: Fung Group through dedicated programs focused on sustainability, innovation and leadership to l Fung Group: www.funggroup.com empower our people and supply chain partners. Through the Sustainability Working Group, the l Li & Fung Limited 2016 Annual Report: Fung Academy, industry groups, and our networks https://www.lifung.com/wp-content/ within the business, we are constantly scanning to uploads/2017/03/ar2016.pdf understand how changes in markets, technology and policies may impact our sustainability l Global Brands Group Holding Limited 2016 strategies. This could be as direct as regulation on Annual Report: http://ir.globalbrandsgroup.com/ environmental, social and corporate governance financial-highlights-reports/annual-interim-reports (esg) disclosures, or emerging trends related to consumer consciousness about the sustainability l Trinity Limited 2016 ESG Report: attributes of products. In both cases, our overall https://www.trinitygroup.com/en/investor-relations/ direction may be clear and constant, but we may financial-reports.html need to accelerate actions or redirect resources in order to meet changing circumstances as they l Convenience Retail Asia Limited 2016 ESG appear. Report: http://www.cr-asia.com/eng/ir/reports.php 4 Our role: UN Sustainable Development Goals The Fung Group welcomes the opportunity to support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We view the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as a necessary response to pressures in the global system and a good platform for collective action to deliver needed progress. While we support the achievement of all the SDGs, we focus our attention and action on five that are particularly aligned with our business, given our operational and geographical footprints. Our efforts with regard to these five goals are summarized in this report. 5 Goal 1. No poverty Our role: Our work in this area reflects the belief that improving lives starts most directly with poverty alleviation through decent work and the protection of human rights. Through our business, we support job creation and economic growth, particularly in emerging markets, and ensure that human rights, safety at work, and fair practices are upheld wherever we operate. Our aim is to leverage our global network and collaborate throughout the supply chain to achieve sustainable progress in the fight against poverty. 6 We are committed to internationally-recognized frameworks and principles, including the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and relevant local frameworks. We implement Codes of Conduct across our businesses to meet these commitments in our workplaces and supply chains. Empowering women We implement the HERproject, in partnership with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), to empower women with knowledge and skills to improve their health, living conditions and livelihoods. Addressing child labor As a member of the Center for Child Rights & Corporate Social Responsibility, we focus on raising awareness of underage labor and finding ways to prevent child labor in the supply chain. Addressing modern slavery We joined the Mekong Club, which engages, educates and supports the private sector to eradicate modern slavery. Through the Mekong Club we share knowledge and tools for use in our supply chains. 7 Goal 3. Good Health & Wellbeing Our role: Good health is fundamental to enabling employees and those of our business partners and suppliers, to live fully and reach their greatest potential. From a business perspective, this means creating safe and healthy workplaces, particularly in the factories in our supply chains. Beyond this, we educate and engage our own employees as well as employees in our supplier network on health issues so that they can become advocates in their families and communities as well. 8 Li & Fung Health, Safety and Sustainability This YouTube channel is dedicated to promoting health and safety for workers and factory managers. In China, it is accessible through Tudou.com. 18,700 views 137 active subscribers 14 languages Supporting women and families HERproject supports women in our supply chain through education on nutrition, health awareness and improving the workplace environment. 178,000+ workers in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Haiti, India and Vietnam 89 factories Raising awareness We organize regular health-related initiatives and partner with local NGOs to raise awareness in our communities, and encourage our people to live life to the fullest. 7,752 hours of activities 850 pints of blood donated 9 Goal 5. Gender Equality Our role: It is truism to say that “women hold up half the sky”, and this is often the case in our supply chains where women constitute the majority of workers in factories or on the front lines of retail. We believe that all women working in our networks should have equal opportunities in the workplace, and that we have a critical role to play to empower them to advance, not only in our workplaces, but also in their careers. Our programs therefore focus on training, education and empowerment for women, as well as men who share in the responsibility of nurturing inclusive workplaces and communities. 10 Driving progress for women We joined a collaborative initiative called Business Action for Women, a multi-stakeholder, multi-sector program organized by Business for Social Responsibility. The program brings together companies with a shared vision to drive progress for women. Bridging the gap between workers and children To bridge the gap between factory workers and children in China, we cooperate with the Center for Child Rights & Corporate Social Responsibility to promote access to childcare and provide online resources to support and connect working parents with their children. Inspiring the next generation of women leaders We support a broad range of community partners and initiatives around the world, including the Asian University for Women, The Women’s Foundation and Seng Girls Vocational Training School. We believe these programs will provide opportunities and inspire the next generation of women leaders. 11 Goal 8. Decent Work & Economic Growth Our role: Decent work is the foundation of economic growth and prosperity, and we actively promote this in our supply chains. To further this cause, we protect human rights and provide fair conditions in the workplace; we educate and train our people and those of our suppliers with tools that will be valuable in their current and future workplaces and lives; and we engage and partner with other organizations to promote the cause of decent work regionally and globally. 12 Capacity building programs We focus on strengthening the skills of our workers in our supplier network, through capacity building programs such as the Fung Manufacturing Excellence Program (FMEP), where factory workers and management can learn and develop best practices in manufacturing. 8,247 factory representatives trained Focusing on global partnerships We are a partner of the Better Work program, a joint partnership with the International Labour Organization and the International Finance Corporation. As a Buyer Partner, we work with the industry to focus on long-term development in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Haiti, Indonesia, Jordan and Vietnam. Building trust through dialogue We partnered with Just Solutions to create the Social Dialogue Program in Bangladesh. The program aims to improve the relationship and build trust between factory management and workers. 96 suppliers 258 factories 545 factory managers 13 Goal 13. Climate Change Our role: Climate change is one of the defining challenges of our times, and we know that all of our choices will either contribute to, or put obstacles in front of, the global quest for a low-carbon future. While we do play roles in the larger tasks of educating, engaging policy makers, and supporting change, our immediate actions focus on resource efficiency in energy, water and reducing waste, as well as the safe handling of toxins in our supply chains. 14 Managing our environmental footprint We run a global environmental management system, which our group companies use to track and manage environmental data on their operations. Our goal is to mitigate our impact and support the global fight against climate change. Promoting resource efficiency Li & Fung Health, Safety and Sustainability YouTube channel is a public platform to promote resource efficiency and raise environmental awareness, with topics such as managing chemical and fire safety. The channel is available in Tudou.com in China. Offering sustainable sourcing solutions For our customers, suppliers and industry partners, we offer sustainable sourcing solutions including sustainable design, material selection, manufacturing and packaging services to minimize environmental impact. 15 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Labor collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Environment environmental challenges; 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies. Anti10 Businesses should work against corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 16 Human Rights and Labor The Fung Group of companies is committed to confidentially to the Group Chief Compliance and upholding internationally-recognized human rights Risk Management Officer. The Chief Compliance and labor standards within our own operations and and Risk Management Officer audits compliance across our supply chains. We strive to conduct to the Code throughout the Group and reports our business with integrity and respect based on any material non-compliance independently to universal human rights and labor principles. These the Chairmen and for our listed companies, to the principles are an integral part of the way we do relevant Board of Directors. business in each operating company within Fung Group. Supply Chain Focus The Group upholds the International Labour Managing risk and compliance is only the first step Organization’s (ilo) Declaration on Fundamental towards a sustainable supply chain. Li & Fung Principles and Rights at Work, the Tripartite continues to expand its capacity building initiatives Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational and engage stakeholders through social dialogue Enterprises and Social Policy (mne Declaration) programs. The expanded audit equivalency and the United Nation Declaration of Human Rights. program reinforces Li & Fung’s supplier monitoring process, with over 70 percent of active factories We are committed to maintaining a safe and benefiting from a reduced number of audits. The healthy working environment that embraces harmonization of compliance auditing improves diversity and dignity, respect for one another and efficiency and promotes transparency across Li & equal opportunities for all. This is in line with our Fung’s network of suppliers. In 2016, the Vendor commitment to uphold the ungc Principles and Support Services (vss) business unit continued work towards achieving the SDGs. the transformation and rolled out the total sourcing portal to digitally connect with our global vendor Each of our Group companies has a Supplier Code network. of Conduct, with explanatory supplements that set the benchmarks for human and labor rights Capacity Building and Partnerships in their respective supplier networks. The Code outlines what is expected of suppliers, including the To uphold the principles on human rights and requirement to respect and uphold local legislation labor standards, Li & Fung in particular focuses and internationally-recognized standards on on building capacity across its supplier network human rights and labor practices. The company in multiple dimensions as part of its ongoing upholds these core values for both employees and operations, for instance through the herproject suppliers, in compliance with changing international in partnership with the Business for Social legislation such as the California Transparency in Responsibility (BSR). The herproject empowers Supply Chains Act and the uk Modern Slavery Act. women with knowledge and skills to improve their health, living conditions and livelihoods. This year, It is our collective responsibility to manage human the Fung Academy, Li & Fung and Global Brands rights and labor issues across the Fung Group. We jointly implemented the herproject in 89 factories have established a clear escalation path, where in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Haiti, India and Vietnam, employees are encouraged to report any violations together reaching over 178,000 workers. Since to their manager, or as an alternative, directly and 2015, we have witnessed a positive influence on 17 factory productivity and workers’ wellbeing, with accompanying sustainability tools. The tools reduced absenteeism, reduced sick leave and help to standardize how the industry measures improved workplace communication between and evaluates the environmental and social workers and factory management. performance of apparel products. This year Li & Fung participated in the SAC’s regional and global We have found that the combination of industry meetings, provided input on the Higg Analytics programs and training resources is an effective way platform and worked with a key customer and to build capacity across our supply chain. In 2016, the SAC to pilot Advance Analytics for Higg Index Li & Fung organized over 630 training sessions for data. Li & Fung is a signatory to the SAC Social over 8,247 factory representatives and more than and Labor Convergence Project, an industry 3,579 Li & Fung employees participated in training collaboration project launched in 2016, which seeks and implementation of the principles outlined by the to develop a simple, unified and effective industryungc and internationally-recognized standards. wide assessment framework. Li & Fung continues to support several key Details on Li & Fung’s capacity building projects industry initiatives that bring customers, industry can be found on the company’s website (https:// associations and non-governmental organizations www.lifung.com/suppliers/industry-collaboration/). together to work collectively to make a positive impact, including: Engaging Our Communities l As You Sow – through which we engage with We seek to engage with communities wherever we our suppliers to not knowingly source cotton operate, to connect and make a positive impact to from Uzbekistan where forced and child labor is a society and demonstrate our commitment to the significant concern; UNGC Principles and SDGs. We engage global communities through Li & Fung Foundation, which l International Labour Organization’s Better supports Li & Fung’s employees and their families Work program – as an ILO recognized Better Work in capacity building activities that contribute partner, Li & Fung and Global Brands continued to to communities worldwide. The Fung Hon Chu support factories in Cambodia, Haiti, Indonesia, Foundation supports outreach activities for Fung Jordan and Vietnam to improve labor conditions. Group’s colleagues. The Victor and William Fung Li & Fung and Global Brands are Better Work Foundation provides funding for scholarships and Buyer Partners, collaborating and supporting labor supports thought leadership within think tanks and standards across the supply chains. By supporting other organizations. Better Work in these countries we have committed to accepting ILO monitoring reports and have Li & Fung has participated in 395 activities in stopped auditing member factories in the program; 72 locations across 28 countries, with staff volunteering over 19,500 hours last year in a wide l Mekong Club – Li & Fung established a variety of activities such as working with children, partnership with the Mekong Club to focus on women’s and men’s health awareness campaigns, modern slavery. The first step was to hold a blood donations, disaster relief and other programs workshop on how to raise internal awareness on to care for local communities. Global Brands has the issue of modern slavery, and to start the joint donated us$1.85 million and 553 volunteer hours development of a risk assessment tool for the to various community organizations including New industry; and Alternatives for Children, Good+ Foundation and Feeding America. Trinity has contributed 1,384 l Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) – Li volunteer hours to social and community activities & Fung is actively involved with the SAC and in Hong Kong. cra raised hk2.4 million for the the development of the Higg Index and its community, volunteered over 2,300 hours to care 18 for senior citizens and partnered with New Life Psychiatric Rehabilitation Association to provide employment opportunities for people recovering from mental illness. Fung Manufacturing Excellence Program (FMEP) and Li & Fung’s Supplier Capacity Building Programs These programs improve the skills and knowledge of factory managers and workers to enable them to run more efficient, sustainable factories. For critical issues such as fire and electrical safety, we provided classroom and onsite sessions to factory workers and management on how to identify solutions to minimize safety incidents, while empowering teams to work together to protect the safety of employees and their surrounding communities. 19 Bangladesh Safety and Working Conditions Li & Fung has served as an advisor to the Boards of both the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety (the Alliance) and the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety (the Accord) to improve safety conditions in Bangladesh’s readymade garment factories. By supporting workers’ training, empowerment, support remediation and grievance mechanisms and other initiatives, we have seen more than one million garment workers working in safer factories. Social Dialogue Program – Bangladesh Li & Fung launched a social dialogue program to raise awareness of and improve the relationship between factory management and workers in Bangladesh for factories located outside the Export Promotion Zones. One of the first programs in the industry to target middle management, the program focuses on topics such as freedom of association, participation committees, safety committees and grievance mechanisms. The program was developed in partnership with Just Solutions, a UK-based organization with experience in improving industrial relationships in Bangladeshi factories. Since its launch in 2016, the program has engaged 258 factories and 545 members of factory management. The program is expected to continue into 2018. 20 HERproject Li & Fung’s Vendor Compliance & Sustainability (VCS) team and the Fung Academy have worked with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) and local community 89 partners to develop and implement the HERproject in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Haiti, India and Vietnam. In Cambodia, we have partnered with 14 of Li & Fung’s key suppliers to educate factory workers on nutrition, hygiene, health and personal wellbeing. We also worked with food vendors and factory management to provide workers with regular access to nutritious meals. This collaboration was the first in the industry to specifically address nutrition through the factories HERproject. The program is a key part of our efforts to support workers along the supply chain. 178,000+ workers Positive impact in Cambodia: 18,000 workers 11 factories -10% female worker turnover +18% productivity increase 21 Environment Addressing climate change and building measure our energy consumption, GHG emissions, environmental resilience is critical to our world’s water consumption and paper usage for our own sustainable future, and business must rise to facilities. This year we have consolidated our this global challenge. Tackling climate change as footprint into the table below, summarizing our part of the sdg Goal 13, our Group companies environmental performance across the Fung Group instill the principles of prevention, management of companies in 2016. and resilience by implementing environmental responsibility programs which cover their own For Li & Fung Limited, the company reached its operations as well as their supply chains. We also GHG and electricity intensity reduction targets in operate a global environmental management and 2015, that were set for 2016 against the baseline data collection system to measure our performance year of 2014. Consumption disclosed below across a number of environmental metrics such as was adjusted for 2015 and 2016 to reflect the greenhouse gas emissions (ghg), energy and water divestment of the Asia consumer and healthcare consumption, and specific waste streams. We have distribution business in June 2016. This new identified new opportunities to enhance and further baseline will be used to measure Li & Fung’s expand our technology platform for all four of our performance going forward. In 2016, the company’s listed companies under the Fung Group. overall GHG intensity reduced by 5 percent, electricity intensity reduced by 9 percent and Efficiency in Our Operations absolute water consumption reduced by 2,600 cubic meters*. One of our key focus areas is resource efficiency across our own operations, as highlighted in * Refer to https://www.lifung.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/ar2016.pdf and our commitment to the climate change goal. We https://www.lifung.com/sustainability/managing-footprint/ for details. Fung Group 2015-16 Environmental Data Global Brands Convenience Group Holding Li & Fung Limited Trinity Limited Retail Asia Limited Limited Year 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 GHG Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 4,050 5,826 41 41 1,100 968 518 591 GHG Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 56,471 58,786 2,486 2,478 40,918 40,368 5,728 5,946 Electricity (kWh) 103,182,279 104,839,425 3,781,638 3,685,400 62,626,596 60,146,209 11,758,513 12,957,596 Water (m3) 528,390 525,790 4,805 3,243 141,487 152,087 Paper (reams) 205,378 207,967 2,270 2,717 16,573 4,401 LF – The figures for 2015 and 2016 exclude data from entities of Li & Fung’s Asia consumer and healthcare distribution business (refer to this link) that were divested in June 2016. Consumption attributable to Li & Fung with entities of the Asia consumer and healthcare distribution business for 2015 and from January to June 2016 is available at this link. GBG – 2015 data restated for base year 2015 Trinity Limited Data for Hong Kong and Macau operations only. Convenience Retail Asia Limited Data for Hong Kong and Shenzhen only, 2015 data restated inclusive of factories in Hong Kong and Shenzhen. 22 LF Logistics Singapore Distribution Center Li & Fung opened a new state-of-the-art distribution center (DC) in Singapore, which was certified to LEED Gold and received the Green Mark Platinum rating from the Building and Construction Authority of the Government of Singapore. This nine-story, one-million-square-foot, multi-temperature facility is Singapore’s largest, automated and customs-bonded warehouse. The DC has a suite of best-in-class technologies and product-handling methods, including an automated storage and retrieval system, semi-automated pallet shuttle system, robotics, put-to-light pick systems and marketleading e-commerce logistics solutions. The facility consumes 30 percent less energy than its previous facility in Singapore, despite being four times larger in size. LEED Gold and BCA Green Mark Platinum1 40% efficient air conditioning more systems2 with CO2 demand control 50% construction waste recycled of 23 1. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and Building Construction Authority (BCA) rating from the Government of Singapore. 2. Efficiency is compared against conventional systems of comparable scale. Frye Store Expansion Global Brands’ controlled brand Frye is building on the achievement that has been made since certified to LEED Platinum in 2012 for retail commercial interiors for its New York flagship store. Its new store in Denver also selected fit-out materials to meet or exceed LEED requirements, such as using Gypsum wall panels in place of concrete, recycled steel for tables and furniture, and sustainably harvested timber with minimal finishing. This is complemented by efficient LED and micro LED lighting used to enhance product display while minimizing energy consumption. The Group plans to adopt these features across its existing portfolio of retail stores and any new outlets in the future. 24 Li & Fung launched the Paper Free Hero Challenge, working environment and minimize our impact. a paper-use awareness campaign to educate The Group has maintained and continued to employees about the impact of excessive enhance its portfolio of high performing and paper waste and encourage everyone to reduce environmentally-responsible buildings. Examples of consumption. At the same time the Hong Kong our achievements include: offices have removed over 440 printers to encourage staff to think before they consume. The l In 2016, Li & Fung maintained a total of device reduction program has been completed thirteen LEED/BREEAM certifications, including across other offices including Cambodia, one platinum, six gold and five silver LEED Guatemala, Indonesia, Philippines, Sri Lanka, certifications, and Silver Class Green Building Thailand and Vietnam. Devices were donated to certification for its Rui Fang distribution center in local charities or disposed responsibly as a last Taiwan. Li & Fung’s new office in Paris is located resort. in a BREEAM certified building and its new DC in Singapore, which was certified to LEED Gold in Trinity Limited has made consistent improvement 2016, also received the Green Mark Platinum rating in resource management, reducing overall resource from the Building and Construction Authority of the consumption and GHG emissions across all Government of Singapore. Global Brands occupies categories compared to 2015. This year Trinity six LEED certified office floors, including two that recycled 6,166 kilograms of paper and 1,833 are platinum and four that are gold certified. kilograms of plastic and became a signatory to the Hong Kong Environment Bureau’s Energy Saving l Group facilities in Hong Kong are part of Charter, to reduce energy consumption and support the Wastewi$e scheme run by the Hong Kong energy saving initiatives. Environmental Protection Department. Convenience Retail Asia Limited made incremental l Circle K Convenience Stores (HK) Limited, part progress in reducing its environmental footprint in of CRA, was awarded the “Joint Energy Saving 2016. This includes the partial outsourcing of the Award” for the third consecutive year in the RetailCircle K logistics fleet and undertaking an energy Chain Store Category of the CLP GreenPlus efficiency initiative as part of the CLP Power Hong Recognition Award, organized by CLP Power Hong Kong Limited (CLP) GreenPlus program. These Kong Limited. factors combined to maintain a similar GHG emission profile as 2015, while reducing electricity and paper consumption for the retail group. Global Brands Group Holding Limited updated its baseline environmental footprint in 2015 which facilitated the comparison of environmental performance for the full year of 2016. The overall footprint has increased slightly to reflect an expansion of its retail outlets in North America and expanded data coverage to all of its facilities during the reporting year of 2016. Consumption is driven by a total workforce of 4,328 employees located in offices across the globe, and retail stores in North America and Europe. As our facilities represent a significant part of our footprint, it is vital we continue to improve our 25 Sustainable Sourcing sessions, community clean-ups and tree planting activities are regularly organized by our offices. Recognizing the scope of our global business network, we are committed to promoting To promote the UNGC’s Environmental Principles responsible sourcing and minimizing environmental in our supply chains and engage with our impacts across our supply chain. We identify this as stakeholders, the Group companies are partnering a key area of opportunity, and focus our efforts on with a number of non-governmental organizations, sustainable product design, responsibly-sourcing industry associations, foundations, and academic raw or recycled materials, environmentallyorganizations including: responsibly manufacturing and efficient logistics to deliver products to our customers. Over 2016, l Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) and the Li & Fung began using software to create virtual Fung Academy – continue to share the Water samples instead of physical models for apparel Management Guidelines and other tools to support customers. This program significantly reduces factories on effective water and wastewater waste generated to create and approve product management to both mitigate risk and to identify designs. opportunities for improvement in factories. At our manufacturing facilities, measures are l Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) – as a founding adopted to better manage materials and minimize member, Li & Fung has been actively involved waste generation, ranging from flexible processing in the development of the Higg Index, a suite lines that adapt for multiple product runs to lean of sustainability tools designed to standardize manufacturing projects to reduce consumption the measurement of environmental performance and waste, to the proper handling, storage and of apparel products across the supply chain at disposal of materials and chemicals to meet the brand, product and facility levels. Li & Fung legal and REACH requirements. Furthermore, our participated in the SAC’s regional and global manufacturing and logistics facilities reuse and meetings, provided input on the Higg Analytics recycle pallets made from plastic and wood-based platform and worked with a customer and the SAC materials, recycle waste materials and minimize to pilot the Advance Analytics for Higg Index data. packaging for the internal storage and delivery of As SAC updates the tool, we will support its pilot finished goods. testing in a number of factories in our supply chain. Li & Fung has been certified as a preferred service See more examples of sustainably-sourced provider for environmental training and onsite materials and products at Li & Fung’s verification activities for factories as recommended website: https://www.lifung.com/wp-content/ by SAC and its members. We also continue to uploads/2014/05/AR2016_SustainableSourcing.pdf. support the Natural Resources Defense Council and SAC to implement Clean by Design, an initiative to Stakeholder Engagement reduce environmental impacts from manufacturing, in several textile mills in China. The Group actively promotes environmental awareness amongst employees through our l The Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) – to communication and online resources, formal promote environmental awareness amongst our training, sustainability speaker series and regular employees, through activities such as beach cleanengagement activities. In keeping with our role up days in collaboration with Coastal Watch. as a responsible employer and corporate citizen, we have also introduced programs to raise and l Business Environmental Council of Hong Kong encourage greater environmental awareness and the Environmental Sustainability Committee of amongst employees and the community at large. the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce – For example, lunch and learn and other sharing member of both, which aim to raise awareness of 26 environmental issues and climate change in Hong Kong, as well as share best practices amongst companies. Sustainable Supply Chains Forum Fung Academy and Li & Fung organized the first Sustainable Supply Chains Forum in 2016. The event brought together more than 80 brands, vendors, industry organizations and NGOs to discuss supply chain issues and identify solutions and partnerships to address global topics such as modern slavery, water scarcity and the impact of technology in revolutionizing manufacturing and the supply chain. The forum coincided with the launch of the Freshwater Health Index by Conservation International, to create a benchmarking tool for evaluating the health of freshwater basins in China and Cambodia affected by industrial use. The Index is supported by the Fung Group through the Victor and William Fung Foundation. 27 Anti-corruption The Fung Group of companies is committed to Convenience Retail Asia Limited conducting business fairly and responsibly, and http://www.cr-asia.com/eng/ir/governance.htm prohibits all forms of corruption and bribery. This commitment extends to all personnel across the Whistleblowing Group, including employees, contractors, third parties, business partners and supplier networks Our Guidelines on Whistleblowing/Reporting of across the world. Integrity is embedded within Concerns enable staff to report actual or potential our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, the bribery activities to their direct line manager or keystone to how we operate with the highest level directly and confidentially to the Group Chief of accountability, transparency and governance. Compliance and Risk Management Officer. Upon receipt of any concerns or reports under Each operating company within the Group has a these Guidelines, executive management and Code of Conduct and Business Ethics with strict Corporate Governance division will undertake a guidelines on corruption and matters relating to formal investigation. Furthermore, our Group Chief bribery. All employees must sign and abide by Compliance and Risk Management Officer reports the Code. The Code of Conduct and Business any concerns raised under these Guidelines, that Ethics emphasizes the prohibition of bribery and have significant impact on the Group’s business, corruption practices by all staff in the countries to the operating company’s audit committee on a where the Group operates. regular basis. The Group Corporate Governance division audits compliance performance and reports Li & Fung has also developed an Anti-Bribery any material non-compliance directly to the Board Policy and Guidelines on Gifts, Entertainment and of Directors of the respective operating company. Hospitality, and Guidelines on Whistleblowing/ Reporting of Concerns, in support of the Code with Supplier Code of Conduct all relevant policies available on the company’s website. Suppliers to Group companies are required to comply with each company’s Supplier Code of Our latest policies can be found in the following Conduct, which includes principles addressing antilinks: bribery and anti-corruption. Li & Fung Limited Compliance Training https://www.lifung.com/about-us/corporategovernance/code-of-conduct-and-business-ethics/ Compliance training for newly-joined and existing staff, and internal audits by the Corporate Global Brands Group Holding Limited Governance division, are conducted on a periodic http://ir.globalbrandsgroup.com/corporatebasis to reinforce staff compliance and maintain a governance/code-of-conduct-and-business-ethics strong ethical culture within the Group. The Fung Group companies conduct interactive forums, Trinity Limited training and individual meetings with management https://www.trinitygroup.com/en/the-group/ and staff to ensure a culture of good governance, sustainability/our-approach.html risk identification and compliance is embedded in our operations. 28 In 2016, there were no material cases of corruption In recognition of the achievements in all areas across the Group. The Group employees continued reflected in the UNGC Principles, and based on to demonstrate integrity and good ethical behavior an extensive third-party ESG analysis, Li & Fung across all areas of operation. and Global Brands are included in the FTSE4Good Index Series and the Hang Seng Corporate Awards and Indices Sustainability Index Series in Hong Kong. Li & Fung is also a member of the MSCI Global Sustainability Our Group companies have been recognized for Indexes and STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices. their achievements in environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. A few examples of our accolades include the following: Li & Fung Limited l “Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2017” by HR Asia l “Asia’s Best CSR” – Asia Excellence Awards by Corporate Governance Asia, 2012-2014, 2016 l “Platinum Award in Financial Performance, Corporate Governance, Social Responsibility, Environmental Responsibility and Investor Relations” by The Asset Magazine, 2009-2016 l “Caring Company” by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service, 2002-2016 l “Gold Award in Servicing and Trading Sector” – Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence, 2015-16 Global Brands Group Holding Limited l “Best Investor Relations Company” by Corporate Governance Asia, 2015-2016 Trinity Limited l “Caring Company” by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service, 2009-2017 Convenience Retail Asia Limited l “Caring Company” by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service, 2000-2016 29 Fung Group 11th Floor, LiFung Tower 888 Cheung Sha Wan Road Kowloon, Hong Kong www.funggroup.com
