Sustainability Report 2016 102-1 102-45 102-46 102-50 102-52 102-54 About the Report İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 3 About the Report This fifth sustainability report of İşbank presents the sustainability performance of the Bank during Contents About the Report 3 the one-year period between January 1st, 2016 and December 31st, 2016. About İşbank 4 2016 Sustainability Report is intended to present up-to-date information about the sustainability İşbank in Figures 6 activities of İşbank to all its stakeholders. The report has been prepared in compliance with the “comprehensive” level requirements specified in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Chairman’s Message 8 Standards Guideline. The data disclosed in the report covers the operations of İşbank in Turkey, while CEO’s Message 10 its subsidiaries and overseas operations are out of scope. Corporate Governance at İşbank 12 This report also serves as the Communication on Progress for UN Global Compact, of which İşbank is Sustainability at İşbank 16 a signatory. The summary table for İşbank’s UN Global Compact Communication on Progress can be found on page 50. The Bank’s approach in relation to UN Sustainable Development Goals has also For Our Customers 20 been included within the scope of the report. The relevant summary table can be found on page 51. For Our World 28 The photographs in the report are from İşbank Forests, which are planted under “81 Forests in 81 For Our Employees 36 Cities” project of İşbank held in collaboration with TEMA Foundation and Ministry of Forestry and For the Society 40 Water Affairs, in the cities of Antalya, Çanakkale, Denizli and Zonguldak. Environmental and Social Indicators 48 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 50 UN Sustainable Development Goals and İşbank 51 GRI Content Index 52 4 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 About İşbank 102-2 102-4 102-5 102-6 102-7 102-16 İşbank’s vision, objectives, values, and strategy İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 5 About İşbank’s vision, objectives, values, İşbank and strategy Established in 1924, İşbank is the largest private bank in Turkey with total assets worth TL 311.6 billion as of 2016 Shareholding Structure of İşbank * İşbank’s vision İşbank’s values year-end. İşbank has maintained its position as the largest For our employees; private bank in Turkey in terms of total assets, loan volume, Atatürk Shares İşbank Personnel Supplementary To be the most preferred bank in Our values that represent our corporate • to be a preferred employer and to deposit base and shareholders’ equity in 2016. İşbank has (Republican People’s Party) Pension Fund; Turkey by customers, shareholders identity, guide us to reach our vision and offer our employees programs and the largest branch network among private banks with and employees by maintaining our 28.09 objectives, and that are internalized by our 40.15 its 1,351 domestic branches, as well as the largest ATM training opportunities that will foster leading, pioneering and trusted employees as their way of work and life, have network in the sector with a total of 6,527 Bankamatiks % their personal and professional % position as the regional financial been defined as “Leadership, that is powered (ATMs). development power. by a Shared Mindset generated in Solidarity, With a broad shareholder base, İşbank has approximately • to propagate of our customer and that is Trusted under all conditions with 170 thousand shareholders consisting of corporate and a strong Service orientation. focused approach among all our individual shareholders. 40.15% share of the bank capital İşbank’s objectives personnel is owned by İşbank Personnel Supplementary Pension Fund, whose members include nearly 50 thousand employees and retirees. For our customers; • to support and encourage loyalty, İşbank’s strategy • to be the bank that is the most assuming responsibility and Identified with the trust of the Turkish people, İşbank creativity Our strategy is achieving sustainable and preferred service provider in all the profitable growth based on “the bank closest serves approximately 15 million customers with its 24,756 employees, as of 2016 year-end. İşbank was the highest sectors and customer groups that • to deploy an employee hiring, to customers” philosophy in an effort to fulfill ranking Turkish Bank in the “Top 1,000 World Banks” list of we target evaluation, appointment and our vision and objectives. The Banker magazine in 2016. advancement system that is based on • to provide our customers İşbank Group is an integrated group with subsidiaries comprehensive, reliable and high competencies and performance and operating domestically and overseas in many fields related Public Shares; quality service with our competent that is fair and trustworthy to production of goods and services. As of 2016 year-end, employees, extensive branch 31.76 İşbank has direct participations in 25 companies, while the In summary, Bank has direct or indirect control over 108 companies. network and non-branch banking % İşbank’s goal is “to consistently channels increase the value it creates for • to abide by our high business ethics shareholders, as a bank that responds * As of December 31st, 2016 and principles without compromise to customer needs quickly, effectively and with high-quality solutions and For our shareholders; that encourages its employees to • to consistently increase the value of achieve a high level of performance in our shares their jobs. Detailed information regarding the • to operate with an effective risk subsidiaries of İşbank is available at management approach http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/aboutisbank/who-we-are/our-subsidiaries/ Pages/our-subsidiaries.aspx 6 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 İşbank in Figures 201-1 İşbank in Figures İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 7 İşbank in Figures 311.6billion TL 203.1 billion TL 36 billion TL 44.3 billion TL 80 thousand + 8 thousand + Total Assets Loans Shareholders’ Equity Total amount of loans provided to SMEs Number of members of “İŞ’TE KOBİ” (SME Total number of SMEs offered at İşbank) website free consultancy service 1,351 24,756 6,527 2 billion TL 1,234 ton 3,387 Number of Branches Total Number of Employees Number of ATMs Number of saplings planted as part Total amount of cash commercial loans Total amount of paper recycled as part of TEMA of the Paper Recycling Project in extended to the agricultural sector Foundation Paper Recycling Project 2016 8.1 million 2.8 million 3.6 million 12,347 2,439 40 Total number of saplings planted as Number of ATMs with Audio Number of “İş’le Buluşmalar” Number of customers using Number of customers using Number of customers using part of the Paper Recycling Project (Meetings with İşbank) Sessions Transaction Features ATMs; Online Banking Mobile Banking 84% 32% 625 million USD 16,549 2,750 11 million + Share of transactions made Share of mobile banking Number of employees Total number through digital channels in transactions in total Loans extended to renewable participated in trainings in 2016 of chess classes opened Total number of books distributed to children total transactions transactions with the ‘One Million Books, One Million energy projects in 2016 Children” Campaign 874 MW 5,653 MW 98 213.8 million USD Number of renewable energy projects Installed power of renewable energy Total installed power of financed financed in 2016 Amount of sustainability themed loan projects financed in 2016 renewable energy projects as of agreements signed with international 2016 year-end financial institutions in 2016 8 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 Chairman’s Message 102-14 Chairman’s Message İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 9 Chairman’s Message Esteemed stakeholders of İşbank, and social impacts as well as our short Sustainability constitutes the basis term financial impacts. In this regard, In line with our main mission defined Celebrating its 92nd anniversary in sustainability constitutes the basis of İşbank’s business manner and its 2016, İşbank continues to work with of İşbank’s business manner and its as “contributing to the development the understanding of generating corporate reputation. corporate reputation. The importance and construction of Turkey”, we long-term and permanent benefit for we attach to renewable energy all its stakeholders. The year we left investment financing, our supports take into account our long-term behind witnessed many unforeseeable for SMEs and women entrepreneurs, environmental, economic and social developments for the global and Turkish our long-running social responsibility economies. As İşbank, we think that a impacts as well as our short term projects, and long term career mindset that emphasizes permanent management approach are the primary financial impacts. value creation for the society and the indicators revealing the internalization principles of sustainability become even of sustainability by İşbank. more prominent in times of difficult economic conditions. We believe that Signing the United Nations Global these are times in which corporations Compact in 2012, our Bank declared the United Nations Sustainable Development The corporate reputation of İşbank is our can reflect their values and their importance it attaches to sustainability Goals embraces a total of 17 different most precious capital which is carefully business manner is tested. Regardless in an international platform. We issues, ranging from climate change protected by all İşbank members. I of the global and domestic market rigorously pay attention to the 10 to fair working conditions, which are would like to thank all our stakeholders conditions, we continue to support all principles of the compact regarding presented as the most significant global who contribute to our long-term and the economic actors and households, human rights, working conditions, challenges for humanity. Our support sustainable value creation perspective, offering added value for our country, environment, and anti-corruption for the UN Global Compact initiative, which forms the basis of this capital, without compromising ethical banking in all our operations. We share our whose perspective was extended in on behalf of our Board of Directors and and sustainability principles. performance in this area with the public light of these goals, continued while myself for their precious efforts and the comprehensively and in line with the gaining a new dimension in the year trust they have in us. İşbank always acts with the awareness requirements of the Global Reporting that it is the “Bank of Turkey” in Initiative, an international standard, 2016. In this sustainability report, we Yours sincerely, the allocation of the resources it is through our sustainability reports. also touched upon our contributions entrusted with. In line with our main We are listed in the Borsa Istanbul towards the mentioned goals. In this way, mission defined as “Contributing to Sustainability Index and we see that our we aimed to blend our contributions to the development and construction sustainability performance also receives the development of our country with our of Turkey”, we take into account our positive assessments from independent efforts regarding the goals set for the H. Ersin Özince long-term environmental, economic external institutions in this context. solution of global problems. Chairman of the Board of Directors 10 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 CEO’s Message 102-14 CEO’s Message İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 11 CEO’s Message Esteemed stakeholders, all of our stakeholders as well as our world. In this regard, we take the environmental İşbank, which is among the most I am glad to share our fifth sustainability report impacts of our operations into account, we Taking firm steps towards the future with you. ensure fair and safe working conditions for important institutions in the history İşbank, which is among the most important all of our employees, and we contribute to with the power it draws from its social welfare through long-lasting social of the Republic, stands out in the institutions in the history of the Republic, responsibility projects. 92-years’ of history, İşbank will stands out in the sector with its strong sector with its strong financial financial structure, long-running and sound Our collaborations with international financial continue to create added value relations with its stakeholders and responsible institutions constitute a significant component structure, long-running and sound management perspective which is a result of of the support we provide for sustainable for the domestic economy and its broad investor base. development. In 2016, we signed USD 213.8 relations with its stakeholders million worth of sustainable development the society in accordance with its Identified with the trust of Turkish people, our and responsible management Bank is serving around 15 million customers focused loan agreements in total with these sustainable and profitable growth with its 24,756 employees as of 2016 yearinstitutions. With these loans, we met the perspective which is a result of its end. With our operations spreading over 14 financing needs of small and medium sized strategy in any circumstances, in the countries and our wide physical and digital enterprises; besides, we financed renewable broad investor base. service network, we ensure the access of all energy and energy efficiency projects. forthcoming period as well. segments of the society to financial services As İşbank, we have maintained our operations While we continuously maintained our We believe that the financial world needs to and we accompany the development of our with the mission of contributing to the digitalization investments in 2016 by means of the adopt a responsible investment approach in country by transferring resources to commerce social development of our country alongside Digital Transformation Program, a program which order to minimize the social and environmental and production. its economic development, since our we started with the goal of becoming Turkey’s impacts of climate change. For this purpose, we include environmental and social risks establishment. We continue to be the “Bank best digital bank, we took measures regarding the In the year 2016, when political and in our risk analyses and we make use of the of Turkey” thanks to the strong devotion information security of our customers. economic fluctuations were experienced both domestically and internationally, along Environmental and Social Risk Evaluation of our employees at every level. Within In addition, we also continued to contribute to with extraordinary developments in our Model in project finance deals. Using this the framework of our responsible banking social development with our social responsibility nearby geography, we continued to preserve model, we evaluate new investment projects approach, we offer support to large segments activities, which we consider as an integral part our robust financial structure, to efficiently exceeding USD 10 million according to in every area regarding the growth of national of our core business and manage with a longmanage our risks and to provide benefit to various environmental and social criteria and economy, while also making substantial term perspective, in 2016. Turkish economy. In 2016, a year when global we do not provide loans for projects under contribution to the real economy. In this Taking firm steps towards the future with the economic growth slowed down, geopolitical certain risk categories. In 2016, we evaluated regard, the total amount of the loans we power it draws from its 92-years’ of history, risks increased and the said developments 15 projects with this model and provided extended to SMEs, which we regard as the İşbank will continue to create added value negatively impacted the macroeconomic financing for 13 of them. capillaries of the economy, reached TL 44.3 for the domestic economy and the society in balances of our country, our Bank, which billion, as of 2016 year-end. On the other accordance with its sustainable and profitable We promote the low carbon economy with increased the size of its assets to TL 311.6 side, we have been maintaining our efforts growth strategy in any circumstances, in the the financing we provide for renewable billion, preserved its position as the largest aimed at raising savings awareness among forthcoming period as well. energy projects. In this way, we both support private bank of Turkey. İşbank became the the public, since the establishment of our environmentalist solutions for meeting With this report, whereby we put forward our highest ranking Turkish bank in The Banker Bank to this day. We have supported our the rising energy demand of our country, sustainability approach and performance, magazine’s “Top 1,000 Banks of the World” list traditional moneybox, which we have been and contribute to the mitigation of import I extend my thanks to all our stakeholders, in 2016. distributing since 1928, with Money Box Fund, dependency in energy. In 2016, renewable primarily to our employees who contributed to As İşbank, we carry out our activities with energy projects amounted to half of our total our product allowing parents to make savings İşbank’s success and prestige, to our customers, the responsibility of our customers’ trust in energy projects portfolio and around a fourth for their children. In addition to offering our and to our shareholders, us. While our sustainability approach, which of our project finance portfolio. As of 2016 women entrepreneurs international financing Yours sincerely, is the main pillar of our corporate culture, year-end, the total installed power capacity of opportunities, we maintained our support for contributes to welfare of our country, we are the renewable energy projects financed by our them by allocating TL 600 million from our creating permanent and sustainable value for Bank reached 5,653 MW. own resources. Adnan Bali Chief Executive Officer 12 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 Corporate Governance at İşbank 102-11 102-15 102-18 102-22 102-23 102-26 102-30 Corporate Governance at İşbank İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 13 Corporate İşbank has had a modern, transparent, principled, fair, Governance and accountable approach and structure of management Internal Audit, Internal at İşbank throughout its history. Control, Compliance and Risk Management Systems İşbank is the first national bank that was İşbank has a proactive risk management established as a result of the wish of approach. The risk approach of the Bank Mustafa Kemal Atatürk to “establish a involves social, environmental, and The risk approach of İşbank covers truly modern and national bank that arises corporate reputation related risks, alongside directly from the public’s esteem and trust” financial risks. The risk management financial, social, environmental and during the first years of the Republic. In works of the Bank are conducted on the reputational risks. accordance with its purpose of foundation, basis of the regulations and best practices İşbank has been identified with trust, published by the Banking Regulation and dignity and reputation among the society Supervision Agency (BDDK). for years. The level of risk to which the Bank is The highest governing body of İşbank, exposed is systematically measured the Board of Directors, is responsible for and monitored in compliance with the determining the essential strategies and international standards and in accordance policies of İşbank and for supervising the with the written risk policies. Risk policies of practices of the Executive Committee. the Bank and related practice methods are İşbank Board of Directors consists of approved by the Board of Directors. In this 11 members, of which 3 are regarded regard, the Bank conducts risk management as independent members within the processes in line with various regulations, framework of the Capital Market regulations. such as Capital Adequacy, Credit Risk, Asset Except for the Chief Executive Officer, all Liability Management Risk, Operational members are non-executive members. At Risk, Reputational Risk, Consolidated Risk İşbank, the positions of Chairman of the and Information Systems Management, and Board of Directors and Chief Executive Stress Testing Policies. Officer are held by different individuals. At İşbank, the Audit Committee, TRNC Internal The categorization of risks that might be Systems Committee, Credit Committee, encountered during operations is organized Credit Revision Committee, Corporate by referring to the “Risk Catalogue”. The Social Responsibility Committee, Corporate Risk Catalogue is the principal document Detailed information about the corporate governance Governance Committee, Risk Committee and used to define and classify all probable structure of İşbank is available at Remuneration Committee operate under risks. Risk Policies and Risk Catalogue are http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investorthe Board of Directors. updated in accordance with developing relations/corporate-overview/corporate-information/Pages/ risk management practices and changing corporate-information.aspx The policies developed by İşbank in line with regulations. In the risk catalogue, all risks its vision, strategy and objectives shape except financial risks are considered within The corporate policies of İşbank is available at the works of the Bank in all its areas of the scope of operational risk. Concerning http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ operation. human resources risks evaluated in this corporate-governance/Pages/corporate-governance.aspx respect, risk elements such as employee health and safety, environmental health, human resources development and backup, discrimination and performance 81 Forests in 81 Cities Project measurement, are also taken into 1 2 consideration. 14 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 Corporate Governance at İşbank 102-11 102-15 102-18 102-22 102-23 102-26 102-30 102-18 102-22 102-23 102-26 205-1 205-2 205-3 Corporate Governance at İşbank İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 15 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank Financial and non-financial risks are At İşbank, compliance is the most important All the processes of İşbank are prepared including risk, control, audit, and law subject monthly reported to the Risk Committee, fundamental duty and responsibility of and reviewed in consideration of the matters. These trainings also encourage Compliance at İşbank is a core Audit Committee and Board of Directors, the Bank’s managers and employees at all fundamental principles and procedures employees’ compliance with the Bank’s In all processes of İşbank, the respectively. A report on internal capital levels. The monitoring of the Bank’s duties included in the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. responsibility for every manager adequacy evaluation process (ISEDES) is and activities in relation to compliance Anti-Corruption Policy. The Bank also fundamental principles and One of the main purposes of the routine and employee and is managed prepared annually and presented to BDDK. is ensured by the Corporate Compliance demonstrates the value it places on the audit activities performed by the Board procedures of Anti-Bribery and AntiProcess and impact-probability analyses are Division, which operates under the Board issue at the international level with the diligently. conducted at least once a year for exposed of Directors through the Audit Committee. UN Global Compact, of which it became a of Inspectors is to remove the risk of Corruption Policy are considered. operational risks, with the “self-assessment The Corporate Compliance Division is signatory in 2012. Besides, a structure is in corruption. All risks pertaining to corruption method” and action plans are implemented. responsible for managing and controlling place that allows the communication of all are evaluated in detail during the audits; compliance risk at the Bank and for the kinds of related complaints and opinions to audit results are reported to the authorized Risk management efforts are delivered Bank’s operations to be conducted and the Bank management. units of the Bank. In case of violation by the Risk Management Division. İşbank managed in accordance and compliance of anti-corruption policies, action is Risk Committee performs the activities of with relevant legislation, regulations, The Bank organizes trainings to enhance taken within the framework of internal preparing the risk management strategies and standards. The Head of Corporate the awareness of employees at all levels disciplinary provisions and legal regulations. and policies to be pursued by the Bank on Compliance Division also serves as the in relation to combating bribery and The Board of Inspectors audited 587 a solo and consolidated basis, presenting Bank’s legal “Compliance Officer” and corruption. Newly recruited employees domestic branches, 6 overseas branches, these to the approval of the Board of fulfills the duties required by the Law on at İşbank also receive this information as 8 Headquarter units and 9 subsidiaries, in Directors, and monitoring the practices. Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime part of “I Start My Career” trainings. Branch 2016. and related legislation. At İşbank, activities managers are conveyed information and At İşbank, works necessary for all the aimed at preventing the laundering of experience regarding the detection and In case confirmed corruption cases are components of the internal control system crime proceeds and financing of terrorism prevention of irregularities and misconduct identified, relevant administrative and to function efficiently and in harmony are conducted within the frame of relevant at career training programs aimed legal process is promptly initiated and are conducted meticulously under the legislation and regulations, as well as the specially at managers. Also, trainings for cases are rigorously investigated in all supervision of the Board of Directors, with Bank Policy and Compliance Program, detecting and preventing irregularities and aspects. Thanks to the Bank’s determined the support of all employees and within the constituted in this regard. misconduct are organized for the members attitude about combating corruption and frame of the utmost professional care and of the Bank’s Board of Inspectors. In 2016, the multifaceted precautions it takes in attention in all processes. İşbank also manages its corporate 597 employees were provided with a total this regard, as well as the effective audits reputational risks meticulously. The risk of 5,065 man*hour of training covering performed by members of the Board The design and execution efficiency of of reputation for the Bank is defined as these issues. of Inspectors, cases of corruption are internal control activities conducted by loss that might arise from a decline of prevented to a great extent. process owners are also regularly monitored trust in the Bank or damage to the Bank’s As part of the “Getting to Know Our Bank” by the Internal Control Division, an reputation in consequence of unfavorable and “5 Star Service Culture Standards” Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy independent function. For this purpose, the of İşbank aims to enable the compliance Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy of İşbank is opinions of parties, such as current trainings offered to newly recruited available at Internal Control Division conducts on-site or potential customers, shareholders, employees, participators are provided with of all business partners of the Bank that and/or central controls on the activities competitors and audit authorities, about information regarding the Bank’s ethical act in the name of or provide services to http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourconducted at İşbank’s domestic and foreign the Bank or noncompliance with current principles and business manner. In 2016, the Bank, with the legal regulations on policies/Documents/anti_bribery_policy.pdf branches and head office units, financial legal regulations. Components that might the total participation for these trainings combating bribery and corruption. Antireporting and information systems, and the impact the Bank’s reputation are evaluated was 5,479 man*hour. Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy of İşbank internal control structures of subsidiaries both separately and as a whole. was translated into English and brought to subject to consolidation with a risk oriented In 2016, 11,387 employees were provided the attention of the Bank’s stakeholders approach. with a total of 40,856 man*hour of training overseas. 102-9 102-19 102-20 102-21 102-29 102-31 102-32 204-1 308-2 408-1 409-1 414-1 414-2 Sustainability at İşbank İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 17 The solution to many global problems, such as climate change, Sustainability waves of migration, aging population, requires common at İşbank action on multi-stakeholder Sustainability Sustainability platforms involving the private sector. management in the supply chain The integration of sustainability into business models İşbank established the Sustainability Management İşbank maintains its environmental and social sensitivity is an indispensable method that is both necessitated by System in order to integrate its sustainability in its relations with suppliers as well. As an inseparable comprehensive risk management and required to benefit understanding into its operations, in 2015. As part of the part of the principles set forth within the context of from the opportunities generated by these risks. Sustainability Management System, different processes İşbank Sustainability Policy, all goods and services have been determined with the purpose of evaluating purchases are also evaluated in terms of environmental İşbank runs its operations with an integrated and long the environmental impacts of the Bank, managing the and social impacts. termed perspective, in accordance with its founding environmental and social impacts originating from loans, philosophy and sustainability understanding, while it -improving internal capacity, performing control and audit The environmental impacts of the products are simultaneously manages economic, environmental, and activities, future planning and strategy development. The a significant element taken into consideration in social issues. Aiming to create sustainable value for all duties and responsibilities related to processes and work purchasing processes. Besides, the Bank prefers its stakeholders, the Bank, has been supporting the steps have been clearly defined. In this regard, there is a companies that fulfill their responsibilities with regards sustainable development of Turkey by transferring funds Sustainability Management System Handbook prepared to occupational health and safety while selecting the to the real economy, since the first years of the Republic. as guidance for the use of relevant personnel during suppliers. The Bank’s supplier selection process is shaped İşbank contributes to the sector’s human resource by the implementation of system requirements. In parallel within the framework of universal working conditions. training competent and talented bankers with ethical with the Bank’s strategy, the sustainability approach of values. The Bank offers its customers rational products İşbank also cooperates with local suppliers within the the Bank is also taken into consideration in determining bounds of possibility, in consequence of the importance and services with its philosophy of being the “closest corporate performance targets. In 2016, activities aimed bank to the customer”. İşbank implements practices that it attributes to local economic development. The rate at converting sustainability objectives into performance of local suppliers in procurement processes for support will ensure the adoption of its principles for anti-bribery indicators were continued. and anti-corruption, respect for human rights and ethical services is 99%. values, by all its business partners. The Sustainability Policy, which is the fundamental At İşbank, supply management and procurement document of İşbank in the area of sustainability, is activities are carried out within the context of the supported by the Environmental and Social Impacts Policy, Procurement Policy of İşbank, which sets forth the Human Rights and Human Resources Policy, Anti-Bribery fundamental principles and basis to comply with in and Anti-Corruption Policy, and Gifts and Hospitality Policy. purchases of goods and services purchases, and of the Adopting İşbank’s sustainability approach is among the internal regulations constituted in line with the said duties and responsibilities of employees at all levels. policy. The Corporate Governance Committee is the highest authority of the Bank responsible for sustainability. The Head of İşbank Investor Relations Division serves as Sustainability Coordinator. The Sustainability Work Group, which consists of members from different units, ensures the management of sustainability operations and the information flow. İşbank, thanks to its efforts in the field of sustainable banking, has been included in the BIST Sustainability Index, in 2016 as well. Policies setting forth İşbank’s sustainability Procurement Policy of İşbank is available at approach is available at http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ sustainability/our-policies/Documents/ our-policies/Pages/our-policies.aspx ProcurementPolicy.pdf 81 Forests in 81 Cities Project 18 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability at İşbank 102-21 102-33 102-40 102-42 102-43 102-34 102-44 102-47 Sustainability at İşbank İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 19 Relations with Sustainability Stakeholders priorities İşbank believes in the importance of establishing open, transparent, and honest communication with İşbank takes into consideration stakeholder expectations, industry all its stakeholders. The opinions, views, and suggestions collected from stakeholders through different practices, good practice examples, requirements of national and Enhancing • Sustainable • communication channels are evaluated through different internal processes and form the basis for new customer financial Materiality of the issue according to stakeholders international initiatives it supports, and GRI Standard indicators, satisfaction success projects and practices. alongside its corporate strategy to determine its sustainability priorities. In 2016, material issues of sustainability were updated • Information security with a survey study participated by senior executives. A large Environmental• • Development Stakeholder Frequency of universe of sustainability issues was examined in the survey study; and social risk of corporate Method of Communication the risks and opportunities presented by these issues and the level management for loans governance practices Groups Communication Anti-bribery • of stakeholders’ expectations regarding the issues were evaluated. and antiBranches, ATM, Internet Branch, Telephone Branch and The results of the survey study were reviewed through a workshop corruption • Energy/resource efficiency and the materiality matrix shared hereinafter was obtained. and emission management mobile banking channels, customer relations representatives, Contributing to social • Customers Continuous meetings, surveys measuring customer satisfaction and welfare through social expectations, social media responsibility activities General Assembly meetings, investor meetings, analyst/ Employee rights and investor days, roadshows, teleconferences, daily The expectations of main stakeholder groups of İşbank • satisfaction Shareholders and Annual and quarterly; communication work by the Investor Relations Division, Investor • Equality of opportunity investors as needed Relations web page, Public Disclosure Platform, Information Stakeholder • Responsible Society Services Platform established as per the Turkish Code Stakeholder Expectations products and Groups of Commerce, Annual Report and investor presentations services • Increasing access to financial services Comprehensive financial services offered Employee satisfaction surveys, training activities, performance Customers with ethical banking practices, ensuring the Employees Daily assessment, internal communication platforms, regular confidentiality of customer data • Sustainability in executive meetings the supply chain Shareholders and Sustainable financial success and preserving investors corporate reputation Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects, information and Society As needed collaboration meetings, feedback mechanisms A reliable employer that respects human rights Employees and invests in employee development Nongovernmental CSR projects, information and collaboration meetings, feedback As needed Organizations mechanisms A bank that carries out environmentalist Society operations and contributes to social welfare Public institutions / through social responsibility As needed Reporting processes, meetings Regulatory agencies Materiality of the issue according to İşbank Nongovernmental Contributing to social welfare through joint Organizations and the projects; Accurate and timely information Sectoral unions, Media regarding products and services organizations and Meetings and presentations, workshops, daily communication As needed other sectoral activities Public Institutions / Robust corporate structure, full compliance with stakeholders Regulatory Agencies laws and regulations Information communication, press meetings, special meetings, Sectoral unions, Contribution to sectoral development through Media As needed organizations, and other joint projects, contribution to the sustainability answering written questions sectoral stakeholders impacts of the sector. Daily communication with goods and service suppliers, Working with the understanding of winning Suppliers Daily initiatives aiming at raising sustainability awareness among Suppliers together suppliers 417-1 For Our Customers İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 21 İşbank has been the symbol of trust and consistency for its For Our customers since its establishment. The Bank’s corporate reputation Customers and its desire to always be the “closest bank to the customer” lie Customer at the basis of this trust. satisfaction With the power it draws from its deepAdopting a customer oriented service approach; rooted history, İşbank positions the İşbank places customer needs and expectations updating of the services it provides in at the center of its service processes. İşbank is İşbank supports its mission to be accordance with the requirements of the ready to hear from its customers 24/7 through age at the core of its banking vision. The its branches, Telephone Branch, Call Center, the closest bank to the customer by corporate website, Internet Branch, social Bank, with respect to its sustainability media accounts as well as mail and fax. The engaging in activities for improving approach, aims to offer responsible products and services, to consistently Customer Relations Team of İşbank, which customer experience and enhancing increase customer satisfaction, to ensure regards customer messages as an opportunity, the access of all segments of the society vigorously works for responding to shared customer satisfaction. to financial services and to implement views, opinions and complaints with a rate systems and practices that will guarantee and content that matches with customer the security of customer information while expectations. increasing digitalization. Customer suggestions, demands and complaints communicated to the Bank are recorded through the Customer Relations Program. The content of these messages and the responds are regularly assessed and reported. Moreover, the Bank makes surveys towards the measurement of customer satisfaction and comprehension of their expectations. Efforts regarding the enhancement of customer satisfaction and experience and actions taken across the Bank are reported to the Board of Directors. The “Digital Transformation Program”, started by İşbank in 2015, aims at digitalizing the business processes of the Bank and achieving a structure that continuously learns by using customer analytics and understands customer needs. Through these works, İşbank endeavors to create a “living ecosystem” together with its business partners by offering personalized suggestions according to the needs of customer groups. In 2016, İşbank was deemed worthy of the “Bronze Stevie” award in the category of the “Best Use of Technology in Services Offered to Customers” with its solutions which facilitate and accelerate Face to Face Banking customers’ communication with customer representatives 81 Forests in 81 Cities Project at the call center and branches. 22 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For Our Customers 418-1 For Our Customers İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 23 Information Security Responsible products and services An important part of customer satisfaction customer information is reviewed during İşbank adopts offering responsible and Kalsın service increased by 16.5% as at İşbank is the confidentiality of customer the routine audit activities as well as ethical banking products to its customers as against 2015, reaching the level of TL 60.5 İşbank, while maintaining its pace information. While the rapid proliferation investigations conducted by the members a principle. The Bank provides its customers million. İşbank retains the practice of of digital technologies increases access of the Board of Inspectors. In case there with detailed and comprehensible on digitalization investments, to financial services, thereby providing is a customer complaint submitted to the information about its products and services, As the first bank in Turkey to engage in distributing money boxes to its Gold Banking, İşbank offers its customers increasingly invests in information economic benefits, it also leads to Bank, which is alleging violation of privacy and makes effort to increase financial many gold products and includes this junior customers to increase savings information security concerns. İşbank, through loss of customer information or literacy. Through products that encourage security. while maintaining its pace on digitalization its disclosure to third parties, the issue is customers to save and provide social traditional savings product in the financial awareness in the society since 1928. investments, increasingly invests in meticulously approached by covering all its benefits, social welfare is supported. system. The Gold Meetings, which have information security. aspects and audit results are reported. In been convened since 2012, were held at case there is a reasonable suspicion that İşbank regards raising savings awareness 1,097 branches in 2016; and thanks to The Bank attributes great importance said information is revealed to third parties, in the society and promoting savings these meetings, customers’ savings worth to the confidentiality and preservation investigations on the issue are deepened practices as an important component of approximately 1.5 tons of physical gold were of customer information in accordance and if these suspicions are verified, the sustainable development within the scope transferred into economy. with legal regulations. In order to ensure necessary precautions and decisions within of its prospective banking approach. The that all employees show the highest level the context of both internal regulations and Bank strongly retains the practice of giving İşbank acts with the awareness of social of sensitivity about this issue, detailed effective legislation are taken as soon as out money boxes to its junior customers, a responsibility in the design of all its arrangements are included in the Bank’s possible. practice originally launched back in 1928 to products and services. As a result of its internal regulations. The employees are increase savings awareness in the society. corporate sustainability approach, it is always kept aware about this issue and Necessary controls for defending the Bank’s intended to support social welfare with their awareness is increased through information systems from current and Money Box Fund, which allows to make each product and service developed. various trainings and announcements. new threats are established at every level, long-term investments in small amounts and actions are planned to quickly meet for children’s future, is one of the most İşbank, in 2013, became the first of its Besides, the Bank ensures that its support the needs that arise as attack techniques preferred investment options by parents for kind in the sector by equipping all of its service providers comply with the privacy change. their children. As of 2016 year-end, Money Maximum credit cards with Müzekart standards and conditions of the Bank. The Box Fund has reached over 231 thousand (Museum Card) features. This allows efficiency of the precautions taken by the investors. İşbank credit card holders to visit more Bank with regard to the confidentiality of than 300 museums and archaeological With an innovative credit card service Üstü sites affiliated with the Ministry of Culture Kalsın (Keep the Change), the first of its and Tourism, free of charge, for a period kind in Turkey, customers are encouraged of one month each year. This cooperation to make savings simultaneously when both contributed to the preservation shopping with their credit cards. As and promotion of the cultural heritage of 2016 year-end, the total value of of the country and increased customer investment funds purchased under Üstü satisfaction. 24 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For Our Customers 203-1 203-2 413-1 For Our Customers İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 25 Access to financial services Ensuring the access of every segment was added to the new generation ATM Support for technological who use their smartphones in accessible In 2016 of the society to financial services has device called İşCepMatik, which combines mode, have the opportunity to listen to the İşbank offers products and services a significant impact on struggle against “Bankamatik” and “İşCep” brands, also in start-ups information in the SMS they receive. In 2016, poverty and improvement of social wealth. 2016. 4,326 SMSs were sent in this regard. for all segments of society to support İşbank promotes access to financial services İşbank makes efforts to promote the Number of customers using ATMs: entrepreneurship ecosystem in Turkey and inclusive business models. through its extended branch network, The Instant Loan product, which was to increase opportunities for cooperation Support for SMEs 8.1 million digital banking practices, and products and launched in 2015 to ease customers' lives with technological enterprises. The services developed for different customer and to cater to their cash needs most İşbank supports SMEs, which it Innovation Unit, which was established groups, thereby contributing to national rapidly and easily, makes loans available characterizes as the capillaries of the within the body of the Digital Banking welfare. for customers 24/7 without visiting any economy, with multifaceted loan and Number of customers using Internet Division in 2016, establishes close relations branches or submitting income certificate. service packages, contributes to the İşbank regards allocating resources to The share of Instant Loan within all with technological start-ups at the office opened within Kolektif House, a shared business success of small and mediumBanking: 2.8 million with a 10% an economy that also embraces more general purpose consumer loans stood at sized enterprises with its high value added office center that is at the heart of the increase as against 2015 environmentalist and disadvantaged 5% by amount and at 16% by count, as of consultancy approach. As of 2016 yearentrepreneurial ecosystem, serving as a segments as one of its most significant 2016 year-end. end, the total size of the loans provided by bridge between technological ventures impacts in terms of sustainability. For and other units of the Bank. Works aimed İşbank to SMEs has reached TL 44.3 billion. this purpose, it carries out joint projects Through the Social Account application, Number of customers using Mobile at meeting the financial needs of start-ups İşCep users are provided with the with international financial institutions. The Bank has signed sustainable opportunity to save their friends’ contacts are carried out by forming favorable product packages tailored for technological start-ups. The İş’le Buluşmalar gatherings, organized for the 40th time in 2016, aim to support the Banking: 3.6 million with a 53% development oriented loan agreements in the phonebook exclusive to the commercial development of SMEs and to increase as against 2015 with international financial institutions application and request remittances of suggest solutions for their needs. amounting to a total of USD 213.8 million, any amount to a specified account by SMS Services aimed for people in 2016. These loans are used to meet the or instant notifications for organizations with disabilities İş’te KOBİ is a web portal offering SMEs Share of digital banking transactions in funding needs of small and medium-sized such as dinners, gifts and the like. Likewise, the opportunity to benefit from free enterprises and to finance projects which İşCep users who are sent requests can also İşbank believes in the significance of enhancing the access of customers with consultancy services in different fields total transactions: 84 % with a 2% promote renewable energy and energy participate in organizations by transferring ranging from tax and business law to money easily from the accounts they disabilities to banking services for increasing foreign trade and entrepreneurship, to increase as against 2015 efficiency. For the list of loans provided in 2016 by international financial institutions, specified for Social Account. the comprehensiveness of financial services. technology to farming and livestock, please see page 47. In 2016, the number of Bankamatiks (ATMs) alongside a wide range of content, such İşbank also enriches its digital banking where visually impaired customers can do as current news, articles, industry-specific Share of Mobile Banking transactions in Digital Banking services with practices aimed for the use of all customer groups. The Bank’s SME audio transactions was 2,438. The efforts to proliferate Bankamatiks which are suitable reports, and expert comments. The number of subscribers to İş’te KOBİ website total transactions: 32 % with a 31% customers can benefit from features that for use with wheelchairs continue in order exceeded 80 thousand as of 2016 yearincrease as against 2015 İşbank accelerated digitalization both in its facilitate commercial users’ life, such as to facilitate accessibility for customers with end, more than 8 thousand SMEs have been internal processes and in its products and multiple money transfers, checks and disabilities. As of 2016 year-end, there are provided with free consultancy services. services with the “Digital Transformation promissory notes, POS, commercial loans, 161 Bankamatiks which are within the scope Program”. With the proliferation of digital banking, customers can access financial salary transactions and direct debit system by using the internet branch. of that definition. Thanks to SUNUMATİK application exclusively available for members of İş’te Number of ATMs: 6,527 services regardless of time and place. After Bankamatik card/credit card KOBİ, SMEs can prepare their promotional İşbank won 24 awards with 11 new or transactions of visually impaired customers, presentations in Turkish or in English and İşbank maintained its position as the improved products in 12 categories in retail the transaction amount is now being sent they can easily and effectively promote private bank with the largest ATM network as SMS to their mobile phones registered in Turkey in 2016. Cash deposit function banking, in the year 2016. their products, services and campaigns with the Bank. Visually impaired customers, online. The SUNUMATİK application was 26 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For Our Customers 203-1 203-2 413-1 For Our Customers İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 27 deemed worthy of 15 different international products and services tailored for women Support for agricultural banking aims at supporting agribusinesses operating awards to this day. entrepreneurs. in the regions of Turkey that have difficulty in Financial Literacy Trainings The agriculture and livestock sector, which accessing financing, the process of extending With the Tradesman Loan , small1 İşbank is among stakeholders of the are among the most significant industries in loans using the resources worth USD 25 enterprises and tradesmen looking for loans “Program on Finance and Advice for Turkey, is a line of business that is emphasized million made available by the European Bank The Financial Literacy Training is a half-day long up to TL 100,000 were provided with loans Women in Business”, a joint initiative of by İşbank. Through the agricultural banking for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) certificate program which is prepared specifically at an interest rate of 0.99%. As part of the the European Bank for Reconstruction services available at 12 branches, it is ensured in 2014, were completed by 2016. for college students. The training aims to familiarize campaign that was started on October 30th, and Development (EBRD), Delegation of that sector-specific loans and products are college students with fundamental economic 2016, more than 27,000 tradesmen and the European Union to Turkey, Ministry offered to producers in the fastest and most Life stage banking concepts and the methodology of economics to small businesses were provided over TL 1.9 of Labor and Social Security, and Turkish accurate way. The cash commercial loans provide them with the skills to analyze economic billion of favorable credit opportunity within Employment Agency, aimed at extending extended to the agricultural sector reached İşbank designs its products and services parameters and interpret financial indicators. 141 8 weeks, entirely from Bank resources. financial and technical support to facilitate the level of TL 2 billion, as of 2016 year-end. to meet the demands of customer needs students participated to these trainings which Tradesman Support Loan campaigns aimed female entrepreneurs’ access to finances that change in every stage of their lifecycle. were organized 5 times during 2016. Trainings at meeting the needs of tradesmen are and render them more competitive. The İşbank started to use the Agricultural Loans As part of life stage banking approach, the which have been held in Fall and Spring terms since organized throughout the year. Bank continues to transfer funds worth Assessment System (TARDES) launched Bank offers services aimed for children, December 2013 were attended by a total of 1,296 USD 55 million, secured through the by Kredi Kayıt Bürosu A.Ş. (Credit Bureau youth, adults, and pensioners. students. İşbank realized a first in the sector by agreement signed in 2015, to women led Inc.) in 2014, in order to evaluate and offering a commercial card exclusively for enterprises. meet financing needs related to various The Children’s Account and the Money exporter SMEs that account for 50% of agricultural activities in the most accurate Box Fund Account for children between the Turkish exports. With the Exporter Card, While providing loan opportunities through manner. The “Medium-Term Installment ages of 0 and 18 are products with various SMEs can both benefit from all the features the Program on Finance and Advice for Loan for Agriculture” was developed in 2016 features. The Children’s Account serves as a of the corporate credit card and win Women in Business, İşbank also offers to meet the needs of farmer customers to TL currency demand deposit account while MaxiPuan points for export transactions non-financial support, such as seminars, maintain production activities. the Money Box Fund Account contributes they conduct through İşbank. workshops and mentorship provided by to the future of children as a mutual fund the Bank and EBRD. As part of the said In the livestock sector, the “Small Cattle account. Available for customers between İşbank, who always stands by industrialists, program, seminars are organized by EBRD (Sheep for Breeding) Working Capital Loan” the ages of 12 and 18, the First Signature tradesmen and SMEs in order to contribute in different provinces of Turkey to inform and “Meat Poultry Working Loan” were Account is a product that allows children to the development of Turkish economy, women entrepreneurs in a number of developed for the purpose of meeting to make basic banking transactions. Thus also establishes various collaborations issues ranging from access to financing to customers’ operating capital needs. it is aimed for children to develop the aimed at promoting commercial life and social media use. During these seminars, competence to manage their own account entrepreneurship. Within the framework of İşbank both promotes its banking products Thanks to its feature of non-payment and to develop a habit of saving. the agreements signed with KOSGEB in 2016, and services that might benefit women period up to 6 months, İmece Card offers İşbank became one of the banks mediating entrepreneurs and creates an opportunity farmers repayment maturities in line with Offered to meet the financial needs of the the Machinery and Equipment Loan Interest to develop business networking. their harvesting periods. Thanks to this youth, İş'te Üniversiteli Credit Card is Support Program and Interest-Free Working product, farmers can make transactions designed to be the first step in the credit Capital Loan Interest Support Program. A “Women Entrepreneur” page was created with advantageous conditions at member card relation of college students. in the İş’te KOBİ website exclusively merchants that are supplying agricultural Support for women for women entrepreneurs. Women inputs, such as contracted sectoral unions With the Pensioner Package, which includes a rich selection of retail banking entrepreneurs entrepreneurs, who are members of İş’te and cooperatives, chambers of agriculture, products and services for people retired 1 Companies registered with the Chamber of Tradesmen that KOBİ can benefit from the free consultancy and fuel companies. do not exceed a maximum of 50 employees and TL 8 million With the belief that the participation of service on entrepreneurship by directing from SGK (Social Security Institution), of turnover according to 2015 year-end financial data have women in the economy will contribute their questions online to an expert on this As part of the Turkey Agribusiness SME customers who are paid their pensions via benefited from the offer. to social welfare, İşbank offers many page. Financing Facility Program (TurAFF), which İşbank enjoy various privileges. 201-2 302-5 413-2 For Our World İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 29 The environmental sensitivity of İşbank constitutes an important aspect of the Bank’s understanding For our of responsible banking. Caring about the risks and opportunities brought World Environmental about by the climate change, the Bank develops environmentally friendly products and practices to mitigate the environmental impacts of its and social risk operations. management in loans One of the foremost indirect environmental practices, beyond the requirements of legal impacts of the banking and finance sector regulations. The compliance of investing is the impacts of extended loans. The companies with these plans is guaranteed by İşbank diligently evaluates social negative social and environmental impacts loan agreements. of the projects that are financed constitute and environmental impacts of the In 2016, 15 projects were subjected to ERET financial and reputational risks for İşbank. evaluation, and 13 projects were financed. Of projects it finances. For this reason, both environmental and social risks associated with financed the projects assessed and financed in 2016, projects are meticulously evaluated through 74.5% were rated B+ and 25.5% were rated different processes, as part of the risk B-. İşbank does not finance hydroelectric management approach of İşbank. power plant projects under 25 MW of installed capacity since they cause intense damage to Projects, which are assessed within the the nature in the area of operation. context of project financing and are worth more than USD 10 million, are included The principal commitments required by İşbank within the evaluation and monitoring in order to eliminate, mitigate, or compensate system of the Environmental and Social for the negative environmental and social Management Team. These projects are impacts of the projects it financed in 2016 assessed under 26 headings through and the obtained benefits are specified below. a specialized environmental and social •• To reduce and offset carbon emissions, risk measurement model known as afforestation efforts were carried out, Environmental and Social Risk Evaluation indigenous species are preferred while Tool (ERET). During the evaluation process, planting trees, trees are carried to projects are scored in consideration appropriate spaces in the project site as of factors such as elements of risk, much as possible and endemic species are probability of actualization, frequency, protected. and manageability of risks. A suitable •• Investors were asked to prioritize the action plan for the project is determined in negotiated purchasing of land, prepare a accordance with the risk category which is resettlement plan for the local community calculated as a result of scoring. ERET model and develop compensatory and incomeresults are classified in 4 categories, namely generating social responsibility projects. A, B+, B-, and C, where category A denotes the most risky projects and category C •• Additional works, such as cumulative denotes the least risky projects. Detailed impact analysis and ecosystem analysis, Environmental Social Management Plans were carried out while emphasizing the aimed at minimizing the risks associated implementation of additional measures with the projects are prepared, and project to this end in environmental and social owners are expected to act in accordance management plans. with the precautions included in these •• Essential plans and assignments regarding plans. Environmental Social Management occupational health and safety are prepared, Plans involve actions regarding compliance implemented and meticulously monitored. 81 Forests in 81 Cities Project with international standards and best 30 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For Our World 302-5 201-2 For Our World İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 31 Environmentfriendly products •• Commitments were made to ensure that İşbank aims to rank among significant The renewable energy portfolio of İşbank for 2016 fluids extracted in geothermal projects are actors of green economy. For this purpose, In 2016, İşbank provided loans absolutely re-injected to protect surface it includes many environment-friendly In 2016, USD 47.6 million worth of water and to protect the quality and Number of Loan amount Total installed products and services in its product worth USD 625 million for 98 sustainability of the reserve and to prevent portfolio, most notably providing support Projects (USD million) power (MW) new resources were provided from negative impacts through the use of tailing renewable energy projects with a impoundments during the test phase. for renewable energy, energy efficiency, Biomass Power the European Investment Bank for and waste management projects. 7 31.4 53 Plant total of 874 MW capacity. •• Instruments such as stakeholder the financing of SMEs fitting certain participation plan and complaints Financing renewable energy mechanism are devised and employed Solar Power Plant 82 97.2 98 criteria. in order to consider the project-related projects views of employees, locals, and other Hydroelectric The promotion of renewable energy 7 368.0 672 stakeholders and eliminate their Power Plant projects not only increases energy supply discomfort. aimed at meeting the ever increasing energy demand of the country, but also Wind Power Plant 1 38.0 26 The compliance of companies with the project-based Environmental and Social strengthens environment-friendly energy Management Plans and the relevant generation by reducing carbon emissions Geothermal 1 90.0 26 commitments are monitored through regular and minimizing impacts of climate change. Power Plant field visits during both construction and İşbank promotes the low-carbon economy operation stages; warning notices are issued with the finance it provides to renewable Total 98 624.5 874 to non-compliant companies. energy projects. Renewable energy projects account for approximately 50% of its energy projects portfolio and 25% Unfunded operations of its project financing portfolio. In 2016, İşbank extended USD 625 million loans for İşbank monitors operations that are 98 renewable energy projects with a total The extending of the second package of the same program, in 2016, USD 111.2 forbidden or restricted by national installed capacity of 874 MW. of Turkish Sustainable Energy Financing million worth of resources were provided by regulations and international agreements Facility (TurSEFF) provided by EBRD for EIB and USD 55 million by EBRD and works of which Turkey is a party within the As of 2016 year-end, the total installed context of “İşbank Exclusion List”, the financing of the renewable energy and for financing the investments of customers power of renewable energy projects energy efficiency investments of SMEs were continued. and turns down loan applications for financed by İşbank reached 5,679 MW. was completed in 2016. In 2016, USD such operations without giving any The mentioned power plants ensure a 47.6 million worth of new resources were In 2016, taking into account the demands Environmental and Social Impacts Policy and the consideration. Operations involving forced reduction of approximately 8 million tons of provided from the European Investment of customers operating in the energy Exclusion List of İşbank is available at and/or compulsory labor and child labor CO2 emission annually, in comparison with Bank (EIB) for the financing of SMEs sector, a new loan product called risks, production and commerce of drugs http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ prohibited by international agreements power plants that do not rely on renewable fitting certain criteria. The majority of the “Unlicensed Power Generation Loan” was our-policies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_ energy sources. Of the 821 MW installed developed to be extended for the financing and substances that are harmful to the resources provided within the scope of policy.pdf capacity geothermal power generation in ozone layer, and operations that result the Turkish Mid-size Sustainable Energy of unlicensed power generation plants in significant alteration, damage, or Turkey, 58% was financed by İşbank.The Financing Facility (MidSEFF) by EIB and with an installed capacity of 1 MW or less, removal of cultural assets included in the Bank is leading the sector in the area of EBRD for the financing of medium and relying on solar, wind and other renewable UNESCO World Heritage List and UNESCO geothermal power financing. large scaled companies in relation to energy sources. World Heritage Tentative List are among renewable energy and energy efficiency operations that are not funded by the Bank. were extended. As part of the third phase 32 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For Our World 201-2 For Our World İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 33 Mitigation of the environmental impacts of operations Energy Efficient Housing the card are obtained without causing any Another important corporate responsibility amount of paper saving. In addition, works harm to nature and ecological life. Maximum assumed by İşbank is the mitigation of the for individual loan agreements and printed İşbank offers housing loans to be Loans TEMA Corporate Credit Card, which has all environmental impacts of its operations. matters to be digitally approved by customers Since the start of paper recycling the features of Maximum TEMA Card is also For this reason, energy efficiency projects, and preserved by the Bank in a digital used by customers buying homes Fully supporting initiatives aimed emission mitigation projects, recycling environment are in progress. project in 2012, a total of 1,234 at increasing energy efficiency and offered to commercial customers. in energy efficient buildings within encouraging its customers in this sense, practices, and “paper-free banking” efforts are The proliferation of digital banking practices tonnes of paper has been delivered made. By this means it is aimed to minimize the İşbank offers housing loans to be used TEMA Environmental Flexible the context of the resources impacts of the Bank on climate change. also reduces paper consumption. In 2017, to TEMA Foundation and 12,347 by customers buying homes in energy Fund 24.7 million pages of paper saving in physical worth USD 75 million totally, efficient buildings within the context Paper recycling project loan files will be ensured by receiving approval saplings were planted across of the resources worth USD 75 million TEMA Environmental Flexible Fund provides through İşCep, tablet, or SMS in cash loan extended by the European Bank for totally, extended by the European Bank for environment-friendly investors with the As part of the project conducted in cooperation processes. It is expected to achieve savings Turkey. opportunity to support environmental from 34 million receipts by limiting receipt Reconstruction and Development Reconstruction and Development and the with TEMA Foundation, documents that need printing options for transactions that do not Clean Technology Fund. In this way, İşbank activities while appraising their savings. to be disposed at the Bank are given to TEMA and the Clean Technology Fund. is aiming to increase the demand for green With the resource allocated to TEMA Foundation. For every 100 kg of paper donated require printed receipts. buildings and promote the construction of Foundation from the fund, environmental to the Foundation, one sapling is planted in the name of the Bank. In 2016, 3,387 saplings As a result of actualization of the digitalization environmentally friendly buildings. projects are provided with sustainable were planted at Balıkesir Balya Çamucu field for in the payer intelligence process and physical financing support. The fund, which invests the 338,700 kg of waste paper collected. Since loan files in addition to the revision of receipt Maximum TEMA Card in companies with effective environmental printing options, total amount of annual management systems with part of its 2012, when the project was initiated, 1,234 tonnes of paper were collected and delivered expected energy saving is 912,250 kwh. Maximum TEMA Card is a product of İşbank portfolio, emphasizes that companies This amount is equivalent to rescue of 3,783 developed to support the activities of overseeing their environmental impacts will to TEMA Foundation, and 12,347 saplings were planted in different regions of Turkey. mature trees from being cut. the Turkish Foundation for Combating achieve more successful financial results in Soil Erosion, for Reforestation, and the the long term. Printers used by employees were set to Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA). The Paper-free banking practices two-sided printing with the Laser Printer margin of contribution calculated based on Management Practice, thereby achieving One of the most significant natural resource the amount of transaction using the card is 39% of paper savings. consumption items of the banking sector is transferred to TEMA Foundation from the paper. İşbank carries out projects to reduce İşbank tries to increase its customers’ resources of İşbank'. By this way, Maximum paper use in its operational processes. In awareness to reduce paper consumption TEMA Card users have the opportunity to this regard, processes are digitalized and as well. In 2016, efforts were made aimed contribute to TEMA Foundation when they efficiency works are delivered at physical at customers, who have a registered e-mail are shopping. This contribution to TEMA archives. address with the Bank yet receive their Foundation is used in activities aimed at account summaries through mail, thereby combating soil erosion, afforestation, and The project for the digitalization of the payer encouraging more customers to receive raising environmental awareness among intelligence process, which accounts for most their account summaries in the form of the public. Maximum TEMA Card also stands of the operational work load at branches, e-statement. As a result of the efforts, as of out with its environmentalist features. continues and it is aimed to be extended to 2016, 67% of customers who are provided all İşbank branches by the second quarter These cards are manufactured from with account summaries prefer e-statements. of 2017. As part of the current practice, the recycled material used for the first time in In 2016, 240 thousand credit card statements process conducted by printing and archiving Turkey, while all paper products related to were printed by using nature-friendly FSC 2.8 million pages annually is projected to be (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper. digitalized, thereby ensuring a significant 34 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For Our World 302-4 305-5 306-2 302-4 306-2 For Our World İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 35 Environmental efficiency efforts İşbank conducts efficiency efforts that will •• Environment-friendly refrigerant gases benefit from daylight, thereby ensuring In 2016, a total of 767 new generation air reduce the energy and natural resource that are not harmful to the ozone layer are energy savings. conditioners were installed at service points İşbank monitors its environmental consumption and increase employee and used in cooling systems. and ATMs. Thanks to the energy efficient customer comfort at all of its operation As of 2016, the electricity consumption impacts and undertakes initiatives points. As part of the works to collect and sort of 1,244 branches is remotely monitored, Thanks to the energy efficient air air conditioners preferred at the recyclable metal, plastic, glass and paper allowing for the identification of factors conditioners preferred at the Bank since to minimize those impacts. İşbank Head Office building, located in wastes, waste bins are used at Head Office contributing to energy loss and preventing 2009 in addition to the new systems, the Bank since 2009 in addition to the Levent, Istanbul, holds BREEAM In-use and TUTOM. Metal wastes are sold to overconsumption. Besides the inclusion total energy consumption amount of a new systems, the total energy ‘Excellent’ certification. The new operational contractor companies as scrap in order to be of generators in the remote monitoring typical branch was reduced by 10%. center of İşbank which was opened to use reintroduced to the economy. Paper, glass system, efforts in order to detail the remote consumption amount of a typical in 2015, Tuzla Technology and Operation and plastic wastes that are collected at monitoring functions are maintained. With In 2016, total expenditure amount made Center (TUTOM) is a campus equipped specific points are given to the municipality the detailing of the monitoring system, within the scope of environmental branch was reduced by 10%. with smart building technologies. TUTOM, at the Head Office, and recycled through it is aimed for points where losses occur efficiency efforts was approximately TL 1 which was designed as a green building, subcontractor companies at TUTOM to be more accurately identified, allowing million. is expected to receive LEED v3 Gold building. for further reduction of energy losses. certification. All branches that were newly opened or ATLAS, İşbank’s new data center that is Electronic wastes are eliminated through renovated in 2016 have switched to LED under construction, was designed with a At Head Office and TUTOM buildings, periodical scrap sales. In this regard, lighting. view to energy efficiency. It is also aimed companies holding AEEE certification are for ATLAS, which will have high technology •• Waste oils are collected by means of the oil cooperated with. In order to ensure the Significant levels of savings are achieved in and safety standards, to acquire LEED v4 slingers located between the wastewater recycling of depleted toner cartridges, carbon emissions generated by the Bank Gold, Uptime Institute Tier IV Design, Tier line for the cafeteria kitchen and the these waste toner cartridges are sent to a through wide ranging shuttle opportunities IV Facility and Tier IV Gold Operational urban sewer line, and they are recycled at recycling company. provided to employees. Indeed, the CO2 Sustainability certifications, which will be the oil recovery station. equivalent emissions arising from the use a first for a data center in Turkey. Through Methods such as WebEx and Telepresence of shuttles are assessed to be much lower the use of Mass Air Free Cooling, which will •• Photocell batteries are used to achieve are preferred for in-house meetings, be engaged in 2017, PUE (Power Usage than individual trips. water savings. thereby ensuring significant emission Effectiveness) values will improve and the savings. In 2016, 3,758 Telepresence and In addition to the thermostatic valve Bank’s energy consumption for information •• Rainwaters are collected and used for 2,829 WebEx meetings were organized. In practice, which has long been used as technologies will decrease by 25%. At the landscape irrigation. this way, 98,021.147 kg of CO2 emission was standard in the heating system of branches, new data center, where green IT practices prevented 2. room thermostats and ambient air sensors are pursued, office spaces will be heated •• System infrastructures for drinking water were started to be used in new branches, by the heat gained from the cooling of were installed throughout the building, As part of efficiency efforts at branch in 2016. In this way, it was aimed for fuel systems through energy recovery, thereby eliminating the use of plastic water buildings, LED lighting fixtures, water consumption in heating to be minimized. eliminating energy consumption for bottles and greenhouse gas emissions efficient batteries, and high efficiency 2 It was assumed that for every meeting the round trip of an automobile Besides, in newly opened or renovated heating. generated by their transportation. climate control systems are preferred in all with 1.5 dCi 90bg engine capacity with a CO2 emission per km of 115 gr branches, cooling systems using R410 gas, between the Head Office and TUTOM buildings was economized. The renovated or new branches. In addition, which is less harmful for the ozone layer, one-way distance between the Head Office and TUTOM is 64.7 km branches are designed to ensure maximum was started to be used instead of R22 gas. 102-17 401-3 For Our Employees İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 37 Being among the most deeplyrooted employers of the Turkish banking sector, İşbank aims For our to create a modern working environment, where human Employees rights and social justice are respected, working rights are Equality of Employee rights constantly improved, and employee opportunity and satisfaction development is supported. Adopting the principle of transparency İşbank remunerates employees according in its relations with employees, İşbank to their seniority and performance within shares the processes, such as recruitment, the context of the principles of equal wage In 2016, the rate of employees performance and career management, and rights for equal work. Remuneration at İşbank who returned to their personal benefits management, cease of Policy of the Bank covers managers and employment, with its employees in a clear, employees at all levels and it is executed by position following a parental leave comprehensible and updated manner. The the Remuneration Committee under the Board Bank is against all kinds of discrimination in of Directors. was 98.2%. all its processes, and supports all initiatives The employees’ compensation and benefits in this regard. İşbank believes in the are determined according to the Remuneration importance of women’s employment for Policy, within the framework of the Collective achieving social justice. At the Bank, there Bargaining Agreement and the relevant are systems that facilitate the return of legislation. In this regard, in 2016, works women employees taking a maternity leave were continued to ensure compliance with to work. In 2016, the rate of employees the regulations of the “Guideline for Good at İşbank who returned to their position Remuneration Practices at Banks”. The following a parental leave was 98.2%. provision regarding the payment of dividends The training of executives within the to members of the Bank’s Board of Directors corporation is a principal component of was removed from the articles of incorporation, İşbank’s culture. The Bank regards this and it was ensured that all the payments tradition as an investment in the future made to non-executive members of the Board of both employees and the institution. are fixed. Senior executive compensation is At the Bank, no executives from outside determined in a manner that complies with the the institution are employed. All İşbank Bank’s strategies, long-term targets and risk employees have the opportunity to rise to management structure, prevents excessive managerial positions in accordance with risk-taking, and conforms with ethical values their performance. and internal balances of the Bank. İşbank employees are members of the Union of Banking, Finance and Insurance Workers (BASISEN). A Collective Bargaining Agreement is signed between the Bank and BASISEN every two years. Under the Collective Bargaining Agreement signed with BASISEN, employees enjoy healthcare assistance as per the principles laid down in the Implementing Regulation on Healthcare Assistance at İşbank. İşbank regularly measures its employees’ engagement, satisfaction, and employees’ satisfaction with managers through survey 81 Forests in 81 Cities Project studies, since 2009. The measurement results are used to improve human resources practices. 38 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For Our Employees 404-1 404-2 403-1 For Our Employees İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 39 Employee development Occupational Health and Safety Practices Putting great emphasis on employee İşbank aims to ensure the sustainability With the proliferation of big data At İşbank, occupational health and safety communication, İşbank allows its employees of the Bank’s pioneering role in the sector applications, the “Data Analytics Academy” practices are designed in order to engender to provide feedback by constituting and its values through its training and was designed in cooperation with Boğaziçi a culture of occupational health and safety different grievance and notification development activities. The Bank trains all of University Business Analytics and Customer throughout the Bank, beyond legal liabilities. Occupational health and safety mechanisms. Every complaint, opinion and its executives within its body, with its career Insight Research Center team and launched suggestion communicated by employees structure that offers long-term employment. in 2016 in order to provide the technical The Occupational Health and Safety Unit practices at İşbank is designed to For this reason, it offers its employees knowledge and analytical skills needed was established by İşbank in order to plan are regarded as significant feedbacks for diverse learning and development by Bank employees who are expected to and coordinate occupational health and create a health and safety culture at the Bank’s decision-making processes. safety (OHS) activities. Occupational Health opportunities throughout their career, with generate business value from data. and Safety Committees were established in the Bank. One of the most important channels of the perspective of ‘lifelong learning’. the trust-based communication between Collaborations are made with reputable 26 buildings with more than 50 employees. employees and the Bank is the Negative Acting on the idea that investing in the educational institutions in order to improve There are occupational safety experts and Feedback Line. The Negative Feedback Line future requires investment in employees, the competences of İşbank executives. workplace physicians present in the Head is a practice that allows employees to report İşbank centers its training design processes Division and Branch Managers participate Office building and in all buildings with an violations they identify at the Bank and on its human oriented approach. The “World in the Harvard Business School Advanced OHS Committee. As of 2016 year-end, all of make suggestions to correct flaws in any of Learning” training center, where it is Management Program. Also, the school’s İşbank’s human resource is represented on issue. Matters communicated by employees aimed for participants to have an effective distant learning tool, Harvard Manage Mentor, OHS Committees. At all operation points, to the Negative Feedback Line, which learning experience, was opened for use is available for the use of all requesting occupational health and safety risk analyses can be accessed online through the Bank at Tuzla Technology and Operation Center managers. The “Marketing Academy”, which are performed and corrective precautions (TUTOM), in 2016. was actualized in cooperation with Boğaziçi are taken based on the findings. system, are only seen by a limited number University, continues to contribute to the of senior executives who are defined in Employees can benefit from digital The awareness of employees regarding professional development of participants. the system. Employees, who report to the platforms, such as “Training Catalogue”, OHS is constantly enhanced thanks to the With the “İşbank Series of Management Negative Feedback Line, where employee “Development Campus”, in accordance with trainings offered throughout the Bank. Development Seminars””, experts meet confidentiality is protected at the highest their requests and needs; besides, they with managers. The Development Academy In 2016, 2,513 employees were provided level, are never subjected to maltreatment can access corporate information through practice aims to equip Head Office managers with a total of 10,312 hours of in-class on account of their reporting. digital applications, such as “İştube” and with a branch perspective. occupational health and safety training. “İşpedia”. In 2016, 213 videos were shared İşbank organizes many artistic and sports on “İştube”, the videos reached about The “Management Development activities in order to consolidate its employees’ sense of belonging and team 22,000 employees, and the number of total views was at the level of 60 thousand. Program for the Future”, aimed at critical managerial competences, such as effective Innovation Culture spirit as well as to contribute to their social communication, team management, lives. İş Theater Club, which is maintained by In order to support the objective and problem solving and decision making, İşbank makes efforts to foster the culture voluntary employees, continued its activities strategies of İşbank, all employees are involving different learning tools that will of innovation within the corporation and in 2016 as well. The proceeds of the provided with the ease of access to digital raise awareness among participants and to actualize its employees’ innovative “Spring Point” play, which is an adaptation learning tools through mobile devices at improve their performance, was actualized ideas. The Innovative Ideas Competition, of W. Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s any time. The banking and strategy game for employees who are candidates for which was organized within the company Dream”, is donated to charities. Employee “İşVille” went live in order to gamify training managerial positions. in 2016 for this purpose, was attended sports events called “İş’te Turnuva” (İşbank activities and render them entertaining and by 1,250 employees with 2,852 ideas. By Tournaments), which was started in 1974 interesting. The game came in the first place The average training hour per person at implementing the winning ideas at the end and still continues in different branches, was and was deemed worthy of the “Golden” İşbank was 15.83, in 2016. This figure was of the competition, it is aimed to strengthen attended by approximately 1,000 employees award in the “Best Learning Game” category 13.59 hours among female employees and employees’ sense of belonging and in 2016. İşbank Hobby Workshops and İşbank at the “Learning Technologies Award”, the 18.73 hours among male employees. In engagement by including them in decision Turkish Folk Music Choir also continued their largest award ceremony about technology 2016, 16,418 people participated in training making processes and seeking their activities. oriented learning tools in Europe. activities. contribution in new product and service development processes. 40 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For Our Employees 203-1 203-2 413-1 For the Society İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 41 İşbank, which has a reputable corporate culture that has been For the identified with the Republic, regards its corporate social Society responsibility activities as an integral part of its principal Projects in the field operations. of education The corporate social responsibility mission Main Sponsor of Turkish Chess of the Bank, which closely follows the needs and expectations of the society Federation The corporate social responsibility in the fields of education, environment İşbank cooperated with the Turkish mission of the Bank, is to contribute and arts & culture, is to contribute to Chess Federation (TSF) for the purpose social development through long-lasting, of transforming chess into a popular, to social development through far-reaching and sustainable social mass and easily accessible sport in the responsibility works. long-lasting, far-reaching and country and became the promoter of İşbank maintained its social value this sport across Turkey, in 2005. It was sustainable social responsibility generating projects in 2016 in accordance aimed for popularizing chess especially with the planning of the Corporate Social among children, transforming it into an works. Responsibility Committee, which carries out easily accessible sport, eliminating issues its activities under the Board of Directors. regarding chess training, transforming it İşbank regards its social responsibility works into a popular and in-demand sport and as a rational investment to the future of improving international success in this field Turkish society. by accessing a higher number of skilled children. Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy Following the completion of İşbank's 11th The corporate social responsibility activities year as the main sponsor of TSF; of İşbank are conducted according to a •• the number of licensed chess players strategy shaped around the following essential principles: increased to 698,270 from 30,000, •• the number of chess coaches rose to •• Contributing to the advancement of our country’s people and the enhancement of 80,769 from 2,000, their quality of living, •• the number of chess tournaments •• Aiming to preserve and enhance the social increased to 5,260 from 400, values created by the Republic, •• and the number of chess clubs rose to •• Supporting the bringing up of generations 1,981 from 600. who espouse the principles of Atatürk and The number of medals won in international will play a role in advancing our society to tournaments stood at 344. the level of contemporary civilization, •• Providing opportunities for the progress of Main Sponsor of Northern Turkish arts and culture and promoting the same across the world, Cyprus Chess Federation •• Bringing our people together with world İşbank became the sponsor of Northern arts and culture, Cyprus Chess Federation (KKSF) in 2013. •• Assuming a pioneering role in protecting Following the sponsorship, chess earned the environment and raising environmental itself a place in primary schools in the TRNC 81 Forests in 81 Cities Project awareness among the public. one day a week as an educational branch. 42 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For the Society 203-1 203-2 413-1 203-1 203-2 413-1 For the Society İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 43 Establishment of İşbank families, “İşbank Chess Festival for Children development of the students and students Book Donations to Schools Under 8” has been held every year since are met at social and cultural events. In 2016, 2,750 chess classes were Chess Classes in Primary and 2006, following the end of the academic and Libraries In 2016, more than 17 thousand opened and the total number of Secondary Schools year. The Festival has also been organized in One Million Books, One Million As part of the Bank's corporate social books were donated to 1,790 Ankara and Izmir every year since 2014, as chess classes in schools reached Chess classes are established at schools well as in TRNC in 2016, thanks to the huge Children Campaign responsibility initiatives in education, İşbank schools and libraries. in order to make chess a more accessible continued to donate books published by İş interest it has received. More than 6,500 İşbank launched the “One Million Books, Bankası Kültür Yayınları publishing house to 17,591. sport in primary and secondary schools, to players attended the festival to date. One Million Children” campaign, one of encourage children to play chess, to attract schools and public libraries around Turkey. the most significant book campaigns In 2016, more than 17 thousand books were teachers' and parents' attention to this Turkish Youth and organized so far in Turkey, at the end of the donated to 1,790 schools and libraries. sport, and to eliminate any lack of materials in schools with limited opportunities. In Stars Chess Championship 2007-2008 academic year. The campaign 2016, 2,750 chess classes were opened and aims to support the development of Golden Youth Awards Turkish Youth and Stars Chess children’s cognitive and cultural skills, the the total number of chess classes in schools Championship was held in Antalya, in 2016. emergence of a curious generation that Every year since 1971, students who are reached 17,591. The championship was attended by 2,194 loves reading books and to contribute to the successful in the university entrance exam players between the ages of 7 and 18 from establishment of a close communication at are awarded within the scope of the “Golden Issuing Chess License Cards 81 cities as well as the TRNC. an early age between children and İşbank. Youth” program. To date, more than 3,000 at İşbank Branches students have received Golden Youth awards. İşbank Chess League With the campaign that was held for the 9th Licenses allocated to players by Turkish Chess time at the end of the 2015-2016 academic Federation are offered as Bankamatik cards year, the number of books distributed to “Unite to End Violence İşbank Chess League is the top flight of since 2007 in order to establish a prospective chess in our country and one of the major primary school children exceeded 11 million. Against Women” Campaign relationship with players and their families leagues in Europe. In the 2015-2016 under the support extended to chess. Through the campaign, books were gifted Violence against women continues to season, “Hatay Metropolitan Municipality” to children who brought their school reports exist around the globe as a human rights won the championship title of the İşbank to İşbank branches in Turkey, TRNC, Georgia, violation that does not know any cultural, Playchess.com Chess League. geographical, religious, social or economic Iraq, England and Kosovo as well as İşbank Germany and İşbank Russia. As it had been boundaries. As part of the “Unite To End In 2008, İşbank entered into collaboration 81 Students from 81 Cities the case in previous years, a certain number Violence Against Women” campaign of the with Playchess.com, the world’s largest online chess platform with some 250,000 of books were printed in Braille for visually United Nations aimed at bringing the world İşbank, in collaboration with Darüşşafaka registered users. Through this cooperation, handicapped children and sent to the together on this issue; many landmarks Society, has launched one of the most the content on the website was translated libraries of schools for visually handicapped of Istanbul, such as Maiden Tower, Galata comprehensive and long-term educational into Turkish. More than 8,000 licensed students. Furthermore, books were gifted Tower and Beyazıt Tower, were lightened in projects in the country with the “81 Students chess players who log on to Playchess.com to students studying at Regional Boarding orange. from 81 Cities” project in the 2008-2009 from Turkey can now play online chess via academic year. Each year, İşbank covers Secondary Schools and children living at Homes of Affection affiliated with the The Bank supported this campaign, which the website, free-ofcharge. all education expenses of 81 successful Directorate General of Services for Children. was organized worldwide with the purpose students, placed first from each city, of raising public awareness regarding İşbank Chess Festival for who pass the exam held by Darüşşafaka Visits were paid to students who studied at violence against women, by lighting up the private education centers and did not have Children Under 8 Education Institutions, starting from fifth the chance to visit İşbank branches as well Head Office building in orange for 16 days grade until their high school graduation. With between November 25th and December 10th, the “81 Students from 81 Cities” project, as students who had to take a break from To present children with an entertaining as in the previous year. it is also aimed to contribute to the social school to receive treatment in hospital. environment they can enjoy with their 44 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 For the Society 203-1 203-2 413-1 203-1 203-2 413-1 For the Society İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 45 Projects in arts Projects in the field & culture of environment Kültür Yayınları In the 2015-2016 season, Kibele Art Gallery workshops for children, such as Budget Archeology sponsorships 81 Forests in 81 Cities project hosted the retrospective exhibits of Halil Economy and Savings, World of Money, Celebrating its 16 anniversary in th Established in 1956 by former Minister of Akdeniz and Habip Aydoğdu. Besides these My Memory of a Museum, Price Discovery İşbank also maintains its understanding of exhibits, works of educator artists, who Lab and Reading with Authors, are held at Zeugma Ancient City “House environmental responsibility through joint 2016, İş Sanat held 27 concerts and Education Hasan Âli Yücel, Kültür Yayınları of the Muses” project with nongovernmental organizations. continues publishing by providing rich have contributed to the bringing up of İşbank Museum. Furthermore, Financial dance shows, 6 children’s events content and high quality printing services to generations as professors in art academies Literacy trainings are offered for college Excavations started in 1987 have been In this way, the Bank aims to minimize its customers. Kültür Yayınları, which attracts and became prominent with their artistic students. About 11 thousand people environmental impacts and contribute to and 6 poetry readings. much attention with the works it publishes, productions as artists were brought attended the workshops in the 2015-2016 going on since then at the Ancient City of biodiversity. together with art lovers at the two-part “Art academic year. Zeugma, a most significant historical and is among indispensable publishing houses, Producers Art Teachers” selection. cultural site in Turkey located by the banks “81 Forests in 81 Cities” Project was launched for all readers and especially researchers. The museum welcomed around 100 of Birecik Dam in Nizip district of Gaziantep. in 2008 in collaboration with TEMA (Turkish More than 3 million books which were Archaeological finds from excavations are Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for published by İş Kültür Yayınları met with Mimar Sinan Fine Arts thousand visitors in 2016, with the total exhibited in Zeugma Open Air Museum. The Reforestation and the Protection of Natural their readers in 2016. number of visitors since the establishment University Laboratory of of the museum exceeding 680 thousand. sponsorship for excavation at the “House of Habitats) and Ministry of Forestry and Water İş Sanat Concert Hall Art Works Conservation and Muses”, one of the excavation sites at the Affairs. As part of the project, which aims İstanbul Foundation for Ancient City of Zeugma, each of which is a at protecting the environment and raising Restoration separate project site, has been assumed by environmental awareness among the public, İşbank’s exhibition and performance arts Culture and Arts İstanbul İşbank since 2012. primarily children, 2,205,000 saplings were events have been held under the roof Restoration efforts required for pieces of İş Sanat since 2000. İş Sanat is one of from the İşbank collection are carried Music Festival planted on a land of 1,500 hectares in all the most important arts platform, where out at Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University Patara Ancient City provinces and 35,200 saplings were planted İşbank sponsored the “Venetian Baroc on a land of 22 hectares in the TRNC. leading artists from Turkey and the world Laboratory of Art Works Conservation and Orchestra & Patricia Petibon” concert Excavations maintained since 1988 in the perform, children’s plays are staged, and Restoration. The Art Works Conservation Maintenance efforts, expected to continue performed at Hagia Irene Museum during Patara Ancient City, one of Turkey’s most poetry readings as well as exhibitions are and Restoration Bachelor of Arts (BA) for a five-year period following the planting, the 44th Istanbul Music Festival by Istanbul important excavation areas located in held. program established in the university will were also continued in 2016. As part of Foundation for Culture and Arts, of which Antalya’s Kaş district, are being sponsored produce its first graduates at the end of the maintenance efforts, approximately 950 Celebrating its 16th anniversary last season, the Bank is a member of the Board of for a five-year period together with Şişecam 2016-2017 academic year. thousand completion plantings were İş Sanat held 27 concerts, 6 children’s Trustees. and Turkish Industrial Development Bank. performed to date. The total number of events and 6 poetry readings. Also, 12 young artists performed at Milli Reasürans, Türkiye İş Bankası Müzesi planted saplings has thereby exceeded 3 million, including completion plantings. as part of the “Sparkling Stars” series. The (İşbank Museum) events held by İş Sanat in its 16th season were attended by some 21,000 people. Opened in 2007, İşbank Museum tells Participation in the Earth the Bank’s deep-rooted corporate history Hour Global Action as well as the story of the economic İş Sanat Art Galleries development of Turkey through documents, On March 19th, 2016, lights were turned off As part of İşbank’s art galleries exhibitions banking instruments, communication tools, all around the world for one hour between that have been maintained since 1976, the photos, advertisement and promotion 20:30 21:30 in order to draw attention to the works of master artists in plastic arts are materials and films. The collection at climate change threatening our world. The being exhibited at Kibele Art Gallery. the museum consists mainly of threeBank supported the global action organized dimensional objects which have been used by the World Wildlife Foundation (WWF) under since the foundation of the Bank. Various the name of “Earth Hour” by turning off the lights at all its buildings including İş Towers, where the Head Office is located, and its organizations abroad, as in the previous years. 46 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 İşbank’s corporate memberships 102-12 102-13 Outstanding loans granted to İşbank by international financial institutions İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 47 İşbank’s corporate memberships Outstanding loans granted to İşbank by international financial institutions İşbank actively supports civil society efforts that accord with the Bank’s vision and corporate values, based on the significance of civil society in terms of İşbank considers its cooperation with international financial institutions in the areas of financing to be a milestone for investing in the future. accountability and transparency. As of 2016 year-end, besides supporting the following national and international initiatives, İşbank is also represented International Financial Date of Maturity through the Bank’s various divisions and specifically the Senior Management. Amount Purpose of Extending Loans Institution Signature (years) AKUT Search and Rescue Association Association of Corporate Communicators € 5,800,000 KfW 10.01.2013 3.5 Financing small-size enterprises in 49 cities of Turkey € 11,840,000 International Chamber of Commerce Turkey Commission on Banking European Association for Banking and Financial History (EABH) 04.13.2009 € 250,000,000 12 Financing SMEs Techniques and Practices 12.09.2011 € 150,000,000 10 Financing SMEs European Financial Management and Marketing Association (EFMA) National Education Foundation Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects as part of European Association of Communication Directors (EACD) METU Alumni Association 06.28.2012 € 75,000,000 12 the MidSEFF Program The Research Institute of Banking and Commercial Law Advertisers’ Association of Turkey 12.04.2013 € 150,000,000 8 Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 employees European Investment Financing of the loans to be extended to residential buildings that fall The Interbank Card Center (BKM) Association of Risk Managers 05.09.2014 € 200,000,000 10 into the scope of Law No. 6306 and conform to the EIB criteria, in order to Bank (EIB) improve earthquake safety and energy efficiency in residential buildings Bilkent University Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) 10.31.2015 $ 221,200,000 10 Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 employees Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects as part of Call Centers Association 12.01.2016 $ 111,200,000 13 Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) the MidSEFF Program Darüşşafaka Society Turkish Historical Society 12.01.2016 $ 47,600,000 10 Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 employees $ 33,300,000 5 Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association (Turmepa) The Banks Association of Turkey Ethics Commission 10.27.2011 Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the TurSEFF Program $ 6,660,000 15 Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey (DEIK) Ethics and Reputation Society Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy and projects as part 06.28.2012 € 50,000,000 12 Working Group of the Banks Association of Turkey on the Role of Finance of the MidSEFF Program Elginkan Community Sector in Sustainable Growth € 25,000,000 Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the WiB Program The Bankers Association for Finance and Trade (BAFT-IFSA) The Institute of Internal Auditing Turkey 05.09.2013 € 15,000,000 7 Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the TurSEFF Program € 10,000,000 Financing of agricultural investments as part of the TuRAFF Program Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association (FODER) Quality Association of Turkey (KalDer) European Bank for Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy and projects as part 12.18.2013 € 50,000,000 12 Financial Managers Association (Finans Kulüp) Turkish Institutional Investment Managers’ Association Reconstruction and of the MidSEFF Program Development (EBRD) $ 12,500,000 Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the WiB Program Global Relations Forum Turkish Human Resources Management Association (PERYÖN) 12.19.2014 $ 90,000,000 5 Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the TurSEFF Program Global Compact Turkey Sustainable Banking and Finance Working Group Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) $ 25,000,000 Financing of agricultural investments as part of the TuRAFF Program Economic Development Foundation Institute of International Finance (IIF) $ 60,000,000 7 Financing of energy efficiency in residences as part of the TurEEFF 03.30.2015 $ 15,000,000 15 program Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (İKSV) Vehbi Koç Foundation $ 55,000,000 5 Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the TuR WiB Program Credit Bureau of Turkey (KKB) Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects as part of 10.21.2016 $ 55,000,000 12 the MidSEFF Program 12.09.2010 € 50,000,000 12 Financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects PROPARCO Financing of loans extended to residential buildings conforming to 03.01.2013 € 50,000,000 10 domestic energy efficiency criteria in Turkey Financing of SMEs, prioritized regions in development, and female OPIC 12.10.2014 $ 220,000,000 14 entrepreneurs 48 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 Environmental and Social Indicators 302-1 302-2 302-3 303-1 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-4 306-1 306-2 102-41 401-1 403-2 404-1 405-1 Environmental and Social Indicators İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 49 Environmental Indicators* Social Indicators Indicator 2013 2014 2015 2016 Indicator* 2015 2016 Carbon Footprint (ton) Demographic Data Scope 1 3,504 2,770 3,431 4,455 Total number of employees 25,157 24,756 Scope 2 14,361 14,280 19,799 17,663 Number of female employees 12,864 12,669 Number of male employees 12,293 12,087 Scope 3 1,431 Breakdown of employees on age groups** Total carbon-equivalent emissions (tCO2e) 17,865 17,050 23,230 23,549 30 and below 6,013 4,751 Emission per employee (tCO2e/total number of employees) 3.513 3.442 4.282 4.465 31-45 18,320 18,951 Emission according to total consolidated assets (tCO2e/USD thousand) 0.00016 0.00014 0.00020 0.00022 46-65 811 1,041 Emission according to consolidated net profit (tCO2e/USD thousand) 0.01046 0.00981 0.01780 0.01446 66 and over 3 3 Number of employees (at Head Office buildings in İstanbul) 5,085 4,954 5,425 5,274 Breakdown of employees on education Total consolidated assets (USD thousand) 114,375,924 119,737,784 113,612,207 107,111,823 Middle School 95 85 High School 4,410 4,248 Consolidated net profit (USD thousand) 1,707,389 1,737,432 1,305,295 1,628,326 Graduate School (for 2and 3-Years) 555 538 Resource Usage University 19,100 18,851 Electricity (KWh) 31,061,752 29,624,209 34,913,010 39,735.301 Master’s Degree 988 1,022 Natural gas (m3) 1,237,672 1,022,875 1.325.969 1.715.992 PhD Degree 9 12 Total amount of consumed energy (GJ) 154,551.70 141,960.89 171,464.59 202,290 Gender breakdown of Board Members Total 11 11 Energy density (GJ) 30.39 28.66 32.51 38.35 Female 2 2 Vehicle fuel consumption (Head Office vehicles) Male 9 9 Diesel oil (L) 289,262 244,565 211,174 239,874 Age breakdown of Board Members Gas (L) 15,599 11,496 11,901 1,621 30 and below 31-45 1 1 Shuttle vehicles (L) 501,099 514,087 489,210 534,616 46-65 8 7 Paper consumption (Tonnes) 176.3 174.7 156.5 161.8 66 and over 2 3 Water Footprint Average year of seniority** Mains water (Blue) (m3) 67,365 58,970 112,466 117,648 Female 10.98 11.77 Waste water (Grey) (m3) 33,683 47,678 4,028 0 Male 9.72 10.54 Spring water (Green) (m3) 0 66,498 12,271 9,985 Newly-hired employees Female 852 214 Total water Consumption (m3) 101,048 173,146 128,765 127,633 Male 864 237 Area of usage (m2) 207,087 200,534 367.903 342,491 Employee turnover rate 2.24 2.19 Amount of mains water used per employee (m3/employee) 13.25 11.9 20.73 22.31 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Amount of mains water used per area of usage (m3/m2) 0.33 0.29 0.31 0.34 Number of unionized female employees 12,096 12,490 Number of unionized male employees 12,613 11,947 Employee Trainings Number of participants (people) Total 20,033 16,418 Female 11,089 8,364 Male 8,944 8,054 * Includes the Head Office buildings located in İstanbul. Total hours (manxhour) 557,556 354,838 Female 294,477 172,027 Relative increase in 2015 compared to 2014 in resource usage, hence carbon emissions, was affected by the transfer of Head Office divisions to Tuzla Technology and Operation Center (TUTOM). Head Office divisions located in different districts of Istanbul and undertaking operational activities have been gradually moved to TUTOM Facility starting from the 3rd quarter of 2015. In this process, operations and resources usage took place concurrently in both Male 263,079 182,811 the buildings that are phased out and TUTOM Facility. Emission calculations were performed in accordance with GHG Protocol standards. New indexes, taking into account spring water (green) for Istanbul calculations, were published in the 2014 report of World Water Forum. 2014 data was reported in this framework. Total actual water consumption for 2014 is 125,468 m3. * Indicators are dated as of 31 December. ** Board Members are not included in age breakdown and year of seniority calculations. 50 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 407-1 102-8 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and İşbank İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 51 Indicator 2016 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and İşbank Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) İşbank, running its operations in the light of its deep-rooted corporate culture and consistent and principled business approach, aims to create permanent value for all Number of established OHS Committees 27 stakeholders. In this regard, the Bank adopts and supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals, published by the United Nations in 2015 to put forth the prioritized global Total number of members of the established OHS Committees 183 problems waiting to be solved by 2030. The table summarizing the approach and contribution of İşbank to UN Sustainable Development Goals is presented below. Number of employee representatives in the established OHS Committees 125 Sustainable Development Goal İşbank’s Approach Relevant Section Injury rate We offer fair working conditions. For Our Employees Total 0.0042 We contribute to economic development. For Our Customers Female 0.0029 We support social welfare through social responsibility projects. For the Society Male 0.0013 We support sustainable agriculture. For Our Customers Lost day rate (LDR) We support women entrepreneurs. For Our Customers Total 0.0018 We care for our employees’ health. For Our Employees Female We invest in our employees’ development. For Our Employees Male 0.0018 We carry out social responsibility projects in the field of education. For the Society Number of work related fatalities We support women’s employment. For Our Employees Total 0 Female 0 We make efforts to decrease our water consumption. For Our World Male 0 We make efforts to mitigate our energy consumption. For Our World Geographical Breakdown of Employees We provide renewable energy financing. For Our World Turkey 24,464 We offer fair working conditions. For Our Employees We support women entrepreneurs. For Our Customers Abroad 292 We provide financing to SMEs. For Our Customers Total 24,756 We work to increase access to financial services. For Our Customers We offer fair working conditions. For Our Employees We support women entrepreneurs. For Our Customers UN Global Compact Communication on Progress We provide renewable energy financing. For Our World We make efforts to mitigate our natural resource usage. For Our World We make efforts to reduce our paper consumption. For Our World Extending support to initiatives aiming to bequeath a more livable world to future generations, İşbank declared its support and commitment to the Global Compact before the We provide accurate information regarding our products and services. For Our Customers United Nations on March 7, 2012. In different sections, this report refers to the Bank’s efforts under the Global Compact and the performance it achieved during this reporting period. We work to minimize the environmental impacts of our operations. For Our World We provide renewable energy financing. For Our Customers We evaluate environmental and social risks in our project finances. For Our World Additional Information Available in Principal Issues İşbank’s Approach We work to mitigate our water consumption. For Our World Section We monitor the social and environmental impacts of the projects we finance. For Our Customers İşbank is always attentive to ensure full compliance with national and international norms regulating Human Rights human rights, specifically the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the UN. Corporate Governance at İşbank; For Our Employees We monitor the social and environmental impacts of the projects we finance. For Our World We make efforts to reduce our paper consumption. For Our World İşbank acknowledges its employees’ freedom of association and right to collective bargaining. İşbank does We carry out social responsibility projects in the field of environment. For the Society Working Conditions not accept child labor, forced or compulsory labor under any conditions. The Bank provides its all employees For Our Employees and business partners with a working environment where social justice is achieved. We support sustainable agriculture. For Our Customers İşbank’s Memberships We offer fair working conditions. For Our Employees İşbank carefully monitors its environmental impacts in its operations and the loans it extends. In this field Protecting the environment the Bank develops projects and practices at international standards, beyond legal regulations. For Our World We respect our employees’ freedom of association. For Our Employees Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management at İşbank İşbank fully, truly and effectively supports combating corruption and preventing financing of terrorism Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption within the framework of relevant regulations and Bank policies. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank We support international initiatives in the area of sustainability. Corporate Memberships of İşbank 52 İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index İşbank Sustainability Report 2016 53 GRI GRI GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Disclosure Disclosure Indicator Indicator Indicator Indicator GRI 101: Foundation 2016 102-47 Sustainability Priorities p.18 Anti-competitive Behavior (Not material) 404-2 Employee development p.38 General Disclosures 102-48 GRI Content Index: There is no such information in reporting period. İşbank Ethical Guidelines http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ 404-3 GRI Content Index: In 2016, 22,396 employees were subjected to performance evaluations at İşbank. 103-1 corporate-governance/ethical-principles/Documents/BankingEthics.pdf Organizational Profile 102-49 GRI Content Index: There is no such information in reporting period. 407-1 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress p.50 İşbank Ethical Guidelines http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ 102-50 About the Report p.3 103-2 Equality of Oppurtunity 102-1 About the Report p.3 corporate-governance/ethical-principles/Documents/BankingEthics.pdf 102-2 About İşBank p.4 102-51 GRI Content Index: June, 2016 İşbank Ethical Guidelines http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ 103-1 Equality of opportunity 103-3 102-52 About the Report p.3 corporate-governance/ethical-principles/Documents/BankingEthics.pdf 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 102-3 Contact p.54 GRI Content Index: There are no cases of anti-trust and anti-competitive behaviour in the 102-4 About İşBank p.4 102-53 Contact p.54 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 reporting period. The updates for 2 ongoing cases are announced via Special Disclosures. 102-5 About İşBank p.4 102-54 About the Report p.3 206-1 Current special disclosures on aforementioned 2 cases can be found via 401-3 Equality of opportunity 102-55 GRI Content Index https://www.kap.org.tr/tr/Bildirim/605228 405-1 Social Indicators p.49 102-6 About İşBank p.4 http://www.kap.gov.tr/bildirim-sorgulari/bildirim-detayi.aspx?id=171600 102-7 About İşBank p.4 102-56 GRI Content Index: This report has not been subject to external assurance. 405-2 GRI Content Index; This ratio is one since there is no gender-based wage discrimination in İşbank. GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series 102-8 Social Indicators p.49 Material Issues 406-1 GRI Content Index:No discrimination cases occured during the reporting period. Energy/Resource Efficiency and Emission Management 102-9 Sustainability in the Supply Chain p.17 GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Human Rights Assessment (Not material) 103-1 For Our World pp.29-35 102-10 GRI Content Index: There are no significant changes in reporting period. Sustainable Financial Success 103-1 Environmental and Social Risk Management in Loans p.29 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 102-11 Internal Audit, Internal Control, Compliance, and Risk Management Systems pp.13-14 103-1 Sustainability at İşbank pp.17-19 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 102-12 İşbank’s Corporate Memberships p.46 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 302-1 Environmental Indicators p.48 102-13 İşbank’s Corporate Memberships p.46 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 GRI Content Index: The credit agreements for investments financed by İşbank are evaluated in 302-2 Environmental Indicators p.48 412-3 accordance with International Human Rights and Human Resources Policy. Environmental and Strategy 201-1 İşbank in Figures p.6 302-3 Environmental Indicators p.48 Social Risk Management in Loans 102-14 Chairman’s Message p.8; CEO's Message p.10 Environmental and social risk management in loans p.29; Financing of renewable energy projects 201-2 302-4 Environmental Efficiency Efforts pp.34-35 Public Policy (Not material) p.30; Mitigation of the environmental impacts of operations p.32 102-15 Internal Audit, Internal Control, Compliance, and Risk Management Systems pp.13-14 302-5 Environmental and social risk management in loans p.29; Environment friendly products p.30 103-1 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank p.15 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ Ethics and Integrity 201-3 sustainability/our-policies/Documents/Human_rights.pdf 303-1 Environmental Indicators p.48 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 102-16 İşbank’s Vision, Objectives, Values, and Strategy p.5 GRI Content Index: In 2016, 1,742 thousand TL R&D discount is achieved in line with the 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 303-2 GRI Content Index: There are no significant affected resources due to İşbank operations. 201-4 announcement in Official Gazette, dated 10.08.2016, titled The Regulation on Supporting R&D 102-17 Employee Rights and Satisfaction p.37 303-3 GRI Content Index: The recycled and reused water amount in Istanbul Levent HQ is 7,654 m3. 415-1 GRI Content Index: İşbank does not provide aids to political parties. and Design Activities . Governance Market Presence (Not material) 305-1 Environmental Indicators p.48 Responsible Products and Services 102-18 Corporate Governance at İşbank pp.13-15 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ 305-2 Environmental Indicators p.48 103-1 For Our Customers pp.21-27; Responsible Products and Services p.23 103-1 102-19 Sustainability Management p.17 sustainability/our-policies/Documents/Human_rights.pdf 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 305-3 Environmental Indicators p.48 102-20 Sustainability Management p.17 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ 103-2 305-4 Environmental Indicators p.48 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 sustainability/our-policies/Documents/Human_rights.pdf 102-21 Sustainability Management p.17; Relations with Stakeholders p.19 305-5 Environmental Efficiency Efforts pp.34-35 417-1 Customer Satisfaction p.21 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ 102-22 Corporate Governance at İşbank pp.13-15 103-3 sustainability/our-policies/Documents/Human_rights.pdf 305-6 GRI Content Index: This data is not available. 417-2 GRI Content Index: There is no such case in the reporting period. 102-23 Corporate Governance at İşbank pp.13-15 202-2 GRI Content Index: All İşbank executives are citizens of the Republic of Turkey. 305-7 GRI Content Index: This data is not available. 417-3 GRI Content Index: There is no such case in reporting period. 102-24 2016 Annual Report p.81 Contributing to Social Welfare by CSR Projects 306-1 Environmental Indicators p.48 Information security 102-25 2016 Annual Report p.81-82 103-1 For the Society pp.41-45 306-2 Environmental Indicators p.48; Environmental Efficiency Efforts pp34-35 103-1 Information Security p.22 102-26 Corporate Governance at İşbank; 2016 Annual Report p.83 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 GRI Content Index: As a result of the activities of İşbank, there are no significantly affected water 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 306-5 http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/corporate-overview/corporate103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 sources. 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 102-27 information/board-of-directors/Pages/board-of-directors.aspx Environmental Compliance (Not material) 203-1 For the Society pp.41-45; Support for SMEs p.26; Support for Women Entrepreneurs p.26 Information Security p.22, GRI Content Index: Number of complaints is not disclosed due to data 2016 Annual Report p.82 http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ 418-1 102-28 203-2 For the Society pp.41-45; Support for SMEs p.26; Support for Women Entrepreneurs p.26 103-1 For Our World pp.29-35 privacy. publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2016.pdf 413-1 For the Society pp.41-45; Support for SMEs p.26; Support for Women Entrepreneurs p.26 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 Enhancing Customer Satisfaction 102-29 Sustainability Management p.17 413-2 Environmental and Social Risk Management in Loans p.29 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 103-1 Customer Satisfaction p.21 102-30 Internal Audit, Internal Control, Compliance, and Risk Management Systems pp.13-14 Responsible Procurement Practices 307-1 GRI Content Index: There are no significant fines or sanctions in the reporting period. 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 102-31 Sustainability Management p.17 103-1 Sustainability in the Supply Chain p.17 GRI 400 Social Standards Series 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 102-32 Sustainability Management p.17 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 Employee Rights and Satisfaction Increasing Access to Financial Services 102-33 Relations with Stakeholders p.19 2016 Annual Report pp.82-83; The main stakeholder groups of İşbank and their sustainability 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 103-1 Employee Rights and Satisfaction p.37 103-1 Access to Financial Services p.24 102-34 priorities 204-1 Sustainability in the Supply Chain p.17 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 102-35 2016 Annual Report p.80, p.83 308-1 GRI Content Index: There are no suppliers subject to environmental inspection. 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 102-36 2016 Annual Report p.80, p.83 308-2 Sustainability in the Supply Chain p.17 GRI Content Index:There is no gender or location based discrimination in renumaration. Human Development of Corporate Governance Practices 102-37 2016 Annual Report p.80, p.83 202-1 Rights and Human Resources Policy http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ 103-1 Corporate Governance at İşbank pp.13-15 Sustainability in the Supply Chain p.17; GRI Content Index: İşbank operations do not have the risk our-policies/Documents/Human_rights.pdf 408-1 102-38 2016 Annual Report p.80, p.83 of child labor. 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 401-1 Social Indicators p.49 102-39 2016 Annual Report p.80, p.83 Sustainability in the Supply Chain p.17; GRI Content Index: İşbank operations do not have the risk 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 409-1 GRI Content Index: Employees at İşbank are covered by collective bargaining agreement. These of forced labor. Stakeholder Engagement employees enjoy financial and social benefits outlined in the agreement. For positions that Environmental and Social Risk Management in Loans 414-1 Sustainability in the supply chain p.17 401-2 102-40 Relations with Stakeholders p.19 require specializations, private contracts are offered beyond the scope of collective bargaining 103-1 Environmental and Social Risk Management in Loans p.29 414-2 Sustainability in the Supply Chain p.17 agreement. Such employees enjoy the benefits outlined in private contracts. 102-41 Social Indicators p.49 103-2 Sustainability Management p.17 Anti-Bribery and And-Corruption 402-1 GRI Content Index: Minimum legal notice periods are applied. 102-42 Relations with Stakeholders p.19 103-3 Sustainability Management p.17 103-1 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank p.15 403-1 Occupational Health and Safety Practices p.39 102-43 Relations with Stakeholders p.19 103-2 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank p.15 403-2 Social Indicators p.49 102-44 The expectations of main stakeholder groups of İşbank p.18 103-3 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank p.15 GRI Content Index: Due to area of activity of İşbank, there are no employees with high risk of Reporting 403-3 occupational diseases or accidents. 205-1 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank p.15 102-45 About the Report p.3 GRI Content Index: Employees enjoy health benefits in compliance with the collective bargaining 205-2 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank p.15 403-4 102-46 About the Report p.3 agreement with BASİSEN and İşbank Health Aid Regulation. 205-3 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank p.15 404-1 Social Indicators p.49; Employee development p.38 102-3 102-53 TÜRKİYE İŞ BANKASI A.Ş. Head Office İş Towers 34330 Levent/İstanbul-TURKEY Phone: (+90 212) 316 00 00 Fax: (+90 212) 316 04 04 Call Center: (+90850) 724 0 724 E-mail: 4440202@isbank.com.tr Reporting Consultant & Design kiymetiharbiye.com www.isbank.com.tr
