Communication On Progress COP 2017 1 Statement of continued support by our Chariman General Manager 2 About the Group Founded in 1966 Fernand Hosri Group is currently headed by Fernand & Eugenie Hosri. It is a group of companies operating in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Iraq, Saud Arabia, Cyprus and France We have grown our business to cover different sectors of the local and international markets and operate in the fields of Security and Telecommunications, Building Automation & Communication, Office Supplies and Equipment, FMGC, Distribution, Publishing and Editing, Insurance, Automotive and Property management. Despite our diversification philosophy we all do the same we sell quality. The recognition of our product qual.ity is universal but our pride is in the quality of our service Modern Technology Owes Ecology An Apology Alan M. Eddison 3 Our Mission: The recogntion of the quality of our products is universal, but our pride is in the quality of our service. Although our companies operate in different fields of activities and in different countries, we all do the same. WE SELL QUALITY The recognition of the quality of our products is universal but our pride is the QUALITY OF OUR SERVICES Our Values: Learning org. Respect Integer Accountable Transparent Passionate Teamwork 4 Group Companies: Sacotel is part of Fernand Hosri Group of companies operating in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Cyprus and France; in diversified fields such as Security and Telecommunicatins, Building Automation& Communication, Office Supplies and Equipment, FMCG, Distribution, Editing and Publishing, Insurance, Hotels and Restaurants, Property management. F.A. Hosri sal, established itself as a major Importer and Exporter of fast moving consumer goods in Lebanon in the year 2000. Today, F.A. Hosri provides logistics, warehouusing and supply different products to the Lebanese and Middle East markets. A retail concept for: Mobiles, Pads, Laptops, IP Cameras & Accessories, Printers and related services. Bikes & Co. proposes the full line of Piaggio group namely Vespa, Arpilla, Moto Guzzi, Gilera and Piaggion brands, in addition to the other famous brands KTM, Bajaj, Pulsar and TVS. Most recently Bikes&Co. became the sole importer &Distributor for Shiro Helmets in 15 different countries. 5 Moms Entrepreneurship YOUR DIRECT COMPETITORS PICK IT UP INSTANTLY! People define direct competitors as business providers selling similar products/services to Nutrition Travel with peace of mind, the same target market for a similar price range. Indirect competition refers to businesses providing protect yourself from unexpected events, a substitute offering for the same target market. Below are some tips from another angle regarding direct competition; they could be your team, your serious medical emergency or ﬂight cancelation… My Toddler Licensed #1 insurance broker in Lebanon deals suppliers and even your clients: Constipation • Your team could be direct competitors in the following cases: If you don’t treat them well; their unproductivity could kill your business quickly Don’t forget the most with all types of insurances life, medical, motor, If they are lazy: they will delay your projects If you don’t assess them properly: they will be either over-rated or under-rated and this will create We are here to help you, not only have a worry-free important item to pack conflicts every single time If they don’t respect your time: they will distract drive, but also safeguard the investment you have you from the main tasks you should be performing made in your car, and protect you from liability How lawsuits marine, travel, workmen compensation, fire Can I tell if My Child is Constipated? • Your suppliers could be your direct competitors in the following cases: and from under-insured motorists. Young children usually have bowel movements several times a week; your child may go after every If they delay your orders: putting you in an meal, or he might wait a day or two in between. embarrassing situation with your top clients His individual pattern depends on his eating habits, If they send you defected products: this could and burglary, public liability, cash and yacht. his level of daily activity and his ability to digest consequently harm your reputation If they over promise and under deliver: making food. Watch the signs of constipation such as less you expect miracles and then find out you are 460 Pasteur str. F. A . Hosri Bldg. Gemmayzeh frequent bowel movements than usual, and pain Tel +961 1 566999 567999 ext. 300 306 selling a very regular product that doesn’t have any BUILDMART, Groundfloor Yellow zone, Kfarhbab Ghazir during defecation with hard and dry stools. added value Tel +961 9 856 786 ext. 222 Mob: +961 3 968 473 Why is my Child Getting Constipated? If they don’t respect your time; not answering your Help Line: +961 76 440 340 Constipation usually is due to a diet that doesn’t requests on time, missing deadlines, etc. : HosriInsuranceServices e-mail: his@hosriholding.com include enough water and fibers. Kids who eat lots Member of of processed foods, cheeses, white bread, bagels, 34 Moms & To Be November 2017 and meats may become constipated fairly often. Constipation can happen in babies as they move from breast milk to baby formulas or from baby food to solid food. Toddlers who are toilet training sometimes can become constipated, especially if they’re pushed to toilet train before they’re ready. Some kids avoid going to the bathroom, even when they really have the urge to go; ignoring the urge to go makes it 460 Pasteur str. F. A . Hosri Bldg. Gemmayzeh harder to go later. Tel +961 1 566999 567999 ext. 300 306 A division of F.A. Hosri, and your guide BUILDMART, Groundfloor Yellow zone, Kfarhbab Ghazir Tel +961 9 856 786 ext. 222 Mob: +961 3 968 473 Help Line: +961 76 440 340 : HosriInsuranceServices e-mail: his@hosriholding.com Member of to easy supplies and services that offers 30 Moms & To Be November 2017 you the opportunity to order from your own premises and at your convenient time. Moms & To Be is the only free all in one parenting publication bringing moms to be trusted advice on pregnancy and being a parent. 20th April starting le at POD Availab Editing and publishing house. Makas Establishement for Safety Equipment (MESE-Jeddah), member of Fernand Hosri Group, is one of the leading professional entities in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the supply, design and installation, service and maintenance of all types of fire protection, safety and security systems. 6 Hosri Group is also proudly represented in the below organizations: Syndicate of Security and Safety proffessionals in Lebanon (SSSPL) Chamber of Commerce Industry and Agriculture of Beirut and Mount Lebanon Lebanese-Japanese Cultural and Business Leaders' Association Association of Electrical Household Appliances & Eletronics Importers in Lebanon Beirut Traders Association Rassemblement des dirigeants et chefs d'entreprises Libanaises (RDCL) Forum francophone des affaires (FFA) Syndicte of staionary traders Lebanese insurance brokers syndicate Family Business Network (Levant) Press club Press syndicate 7 Fernand Hosri Group enjoys an outstanding Chairman * Nominated life member of the International Association of Business Leaders 2001 * Outstanding People of the 20th century 1999-2000 * Who’s Who in Finance (USA) 1993 * International Who’s Who of Professionals (USA) 1992 * Marquis who’s Who (USA) 1990 * Lifetime fellow of the international biographical centre Cambridge (UK) * Nominated International Ambassador of the American Biographical Centre (USA) * Lifetime fellow of the Oxford Club * Lifetime member of the International Association of the Lions’ Clubs 8 International Awards Nominated life member of the International Association of Business Leaders 2001 Outstanding People of the 20th century 1999-2000 Who’s Who in Finance (USA) 1993 International Who’s Who of Professionals (USA) 1992 Marquis who’s Who (USA) 1990 Lifetime fellow of the international biographical centre Cambridge (UK) Nominated International Ambassador of the American Biographical Centre (USA) Lifetime fellow of the Oxford Club Lifetime member of the International Association of the Lions’ Clubs LIBS (Lebanses Insurance Brokers Syndicate) Outstanding Achievement Award Honoring our chairman and Board member Mr. Fernand Hosri in recognition and appreciation for his 50 years of dedicated service to the Insurance Brokerage sector. 9 Green Business Oportunities Award: Fernand Hosri Group has received an Award of Recognition for its Green Initiative, thanks to Lebanon Opportunities. 10 Communication on Progress Human Rights: SDG1: No poverty Objectives: Works on reducing poverty by enabling women to work and helping them find decent jobs and therefore allowing financial independence and double income for families. SDG2: Zero Hunger Objectives: Works on ending hunger by giving healthy free meals to the children at the association. Achieving food security and improved nutrition for young children. 11 SDG3: Good health and well-being Objectives: Kitchen that delivers food. Every meal bought from Queasine feeds a kid at the association. Food is home tool. Nutritious, low in fat and full of nutrients and well balanced. Nutritionist advice: Healthy not junk given that moms are working and limits them to cook. Allow families to afford nutritious, balanced, healthy cuisine. Selling low cost meals to families. Our Business provides to all our employees accessible and affordable health care regardless of their gender, sex or any other disaggregation. All our employees are covered in case of work accidents. Our Business provide 70 days maternity leave to all future moms. We also provide work flexibility policy and work from home policy. We have the privilege of having our facility as a smoke-free indoor workplace and offices. Queasine: Quick. Easy. Cuisine Kitchen that delivers food. Every meal bought from Queasine feeds a kid at the association and provide healthier meals and additional rest time for working mothers. 12 SDG4: Quaulity Education Objectives: EYWA Association: Educates young women and empowers them to become active members in the society. Offering them education and matching them with jobs as well as well-developed. Education program for toddlers that will equip them with standards for future education. Labour: SDG5: Gender Equality Objectives: Allow girls and women to be more confident stronger through internships Struggle to achieve gender equality, empower all women and girls and allowing financial independence. Works on empowering women through providing them with equal opportunities of employment. We have more women on the board of directors than men. 60/40 ratio. 13 SDG8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Objectives: Works on strengthening economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all. Profits from Queasine go to EYWA in turn promoting Gender Equality etc. … We make sure to consider the diversity of language culture and family circumstances which may exists in the work place. Our employee seniority is high as proof of privilege work environment. Unleash your creativity: Inter-university contest aiming to promote sustainable development through engaging young talent in the economic and social world in a sustainable development way (quality education, gender equality, decent work and economic growth). Students shortlisted in the competition get to undergo coaching sessions with the best coaches to better prepare the to the working world in the future, gaining experience. Working for a real client and hence allowing the better job opportunities. Through networking opportunities and the contacts created, students will get financing opportunities and access to financial institutions. The students come out of this experience with brighter insights and grades. 14 Anti-Corruption: SDG17: Partnerships for the goals Objectives: Our business has zero-tolerance against corruption and bribery in all their forms. We assure business growth by working to fight against corruption in order to grow our economy and develop our communities. Work with our partners and distributers on how to ensure an ethical behavior between the employees of both companies. We make sure to have a clause stating that we should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Our company tries to resists the solicitation of bribes and extortion combatting bribery. We enhance the transparency of our activities in the fight against it and we adopt measures in order to honor these commitments. 15 Measurement of outcome: Management persons: 5 (3 Women and 2 Men) who are also board members. Total employees of Hosri Group are 102 employees. In Lebanon, there are 67 employees of which are 16 Women and 51 Men. Age varies between 20 64 years’ old. Rate of absenteeism is 303 times out of 252 Days in 2016; Hosri Group employees in KSA are 35 in which all are men given the country's constraints. The percentage of recycled materials is around 60% if not more 100% of paper, cartons, cans, plastic, goes to recycling 100% Ink & computers also goes to special companies for recycling 16 What unites us is our values, actions and the way we do business 460, Pasteur st., F.A. Hosri bldg. P.O. Box: 11-0565 Beirut, Lebanon Tel.: 01-566999 Fax: 01-583824 assist@hosriholding.com fah@hosriholding.com 17
