Sustainability Information 2017 siemens.com Foreword Dear Reader, Sustainability is a core principle at Siemens. However, for us, it involves more than the sustainable use of natural resources; it also comprises the sustainable development of businesses, communities, and countries. Since its founding in 1847, our company’s aspiration has been to provide technologies that improve quality of life and create value for people all over the world. Today, our reference for determining value we create for society is the United Nations’ “Agenda 2030” for Sustainable Development. Its 17 Sustainable Development Goals include good health and well-being, affordable and clean energy, sustainable cities and communities, and climate action, and they are designed to foster sustainable development in all areas of life. Working from these goals, we identify issues that are relevant to the country and demonstrate how we can contribute to achieving these goals – through our electrification, automation, and digitalization portfolio, through our healthcare technologies and through our corporate social responsibility activities. We call this approach “Business to Society” (B2S). Combating climate change is one of these goals. And decarbonization is a major lever for accomplishing that. Siemens supports the COP 21 climate protection goals as well as the G7 aspiration to decarbonize the global economy by the year 2100. Siemens recently analyzed Germany’s ambitious climate protection targets for 2050 and found that reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Germany by at least 80 percent by 2050 is both technically and economically feasible. The main lever here is switching from emission-intensive ­conventional power generation to renewable energy and low carbon technologies, such as highly efficient gas-fired power plants. According to our analysis, this approach would reduce CO2 emissions by 50 percent by 2035 and, at the same time, meet base load demand until renewables provide a much larger share of the energy mix later in the century. While the decarbonization of the supply side is crucial, that will not be enough to achieve Germany’s climate goals. Wherever possible, energy efficiency must be increased on the demand side. One important lever here is ‘sector coupling’, where clean energy from one sector is transferred to another. For instance, electrifying the heating, transportation, and industry sectors would deliver significant efficiency gains. And here, electricity-generated synthetic fuels as well as heat pumps and solar thermal systems will play a major role in the decades to come. Siemens’ Environmental Portfolio is a major factor in global decarbonization efforts. In fiscal 2017, the technologies of our Environmental Portfolio enabled customers all over the world to reduce their CO2 emissions by 570 million metric tons. That’s equivalent to about 70 percent of Germany’s annual CO2 emissions. Our Environmental Portfolio currently accounts for about 50 percent of our annual revenue and comprises technologies such as smart grids, industrial automation, e-vehicles, energy-efficient systems, and renewable energy technologies. And we use these technologies in our company. In 2015, Siemens committed to becoming carbon-neutral by 2030. We have made significant progress in this regard. The company was able to cut its CO2 emissions from 2.2 million tons in fiscal 2014 to 1.6 million tons in fiscal 2017, a reduction approximately 27 percent. We reduce our carbon footprint, for example, by deploying distributed energy systems, by investing in smart e-mobility solutions, and by increasing the use of renewables. 60 percent of our German sites are powered by 100 percent green energy. This approach is not only good for the environment, it’s good for business. We expect to save € 20 million per year starting in 2020. Digital technologies play a major role in the energy sector. We use them to boost efficiency in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity – and not just for large utilities. In a pilot project in New York City, we are helping small producers of solar energy develop an energy platform based on blockchain technology that enables both producers and consumers to trade electricity simply and efficiently. But the United Nations’ “Agenda 2030” is also about the societal development of the countries in which we operate. That is why we analyze how we contribute to the prosperity of a country in our B2S reports. To 2 Foreword date, we have published reports on more than 20 countries, among them, the U. S., Germany, Mexico, and the United Arab Emirates. To foster societal development in Mexico, Siemens signed an agreement with the government that calls for the implementation of projects over the next decade that are valued at 36 billion U. S. dollars. As a first step, Siemens will invest US$ 200 million and create 1,000 jobs while drastically reducing its own CO2 emissions. Our B2S reports make our activities transparent to all stakeholders, help us stay focused on what really matters, and, so far, has opened up business opportunities in countries such as Mexico, Saudi Arabia, and Argentina. Fighting crime and corruption is another important Sustainable Development Goal. At Siemens, there is zero tolerance for misconduct and violations of applicable laws on the part of employees. That is our clear message and the tone from the top. We systematically anchor integrity and compliance in our company culture. Compliance training is mandatory for all employees, and employees are encouraged to report ­illegal behavior. In 2017, the independent research publication “Fuchsbriefe” recognized Siemens as the “best bluechip company for compliance quality” of the 30 companies listed on the German DAX stock exchange. Beyond the boundaries of our company, we are committed to Collective Action, a cooperation that supports the fight against corruption and promotes fair competition. During the German presidency of the G20 in 2017, our Chief Compliance Officer was appointed chairperson of the B20 Working Group on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption. We will continue to support the Siemens Integrity Initiative by launching the Third Funding Round in spring 2018. Our commitment to sustainability is recognized throughout the world. For the first time ever, Corporate Knights, a Canadian media company, rated Siemens as the world’s most sustainable company. And Siemens has been listed in the DJSI World Index for the 18th consecutive time and was again ranked as one of the most sustainable companies in the industrial conglomerates industry group. CDP recognized our performance to mitigate climate change with a score of A– that’s among the best when it comes to decarbonizing the economy. And, finally, the U. S. magazine Forbes in cooperation with Statista asked 15,000 respondents from 60 countries to rate the trustworthiness, honesty, social conduct, performance, and quality of products and services of the Global 2000 companies. The result: according to this survey, Siemens is the world’s top regarded company. We are very proud of these accolades. However, we know that the UN Sustainable Development Goals can only be met if many stakeholders cooperate and contribute. That’s why we are committed to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact and to the CEO Water Mandate. In August 2016, we also signed the CEO statement for the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles. And we continue to support the network of WEF’s ‘CEO Climate Leaders’ and the ‘We mean business’ coalition. Without the customers who place their trust in us, without the partners who help us innovate, without the competitors who push us toward excellence, without the investors who believe in our vision, and without the communities who welcome us, we would not receive so much recognition and we would not dare to aim for such ambitious goals. On behalf of the 372,000 people who work for Siemens, we thank you for your support. And you can count on Siemens to remain committed to a sustainable future. Sincerely yours, Joe Kaeser Dr. Roland Busch Foreword 3 Content Foreword P. 2 Sustainability at Siemens Annex 1 – Sustainable Development of Societies P. 6 Reporting method P. 49 Environmental Portfolio ­reporting principles P. 50 GRI Standards – key topics and boundaries P. 54 United Nations Global Compact P. 56 2 – Sustainability Management P. 10 United Nations Water Mandate P. 59 2.1 Materiality Assessment P. 10 Independent auditor’s limited ­assurance 2.2 Sustainability Governance and ­Organization P. 10 ­report ­regarding ­sustainability information P. 60 2.3 Partnerships and Collaborations Notes and forward-looking ­statements P. 62 for Sustainability P. 11 Further information and ­information resources P. 63 2.4 Sustainability Ratings P. 11 3 – Customers P. 12 4 – Research and Development P. 14 5 – People and Society P. 18 5.1 Working at Siemens P. 19 5.2 Occupational Health and Safety P. 24 5.3 Corporate Citizenship P. 26 6 – Environment P. 28 6.1 Decarbonization P. 29 6.2 Environmental Portfolio P. 30 6.3 Conservation of resources P. 31 6.4 Product Stewardship P. 34 7 – Responsible Business Practices P. 36 7.1 Compliance P. 37 7. 2 Supply Chain Management P. 41 7.3 Human rights P. 44 Sustainability at Siemens P. 06 – 47 1 – Sustainable Development of Societies Megatrends like climate change, urbanization, demographic Nevertheless, the impact we have on the SDGs varies significantly. change, globalization and digitalization are stimulating change Therefore, we have clustered them into three categories: high, in our world which needs to be driven towards a more sustainmedium and low impact. For the most part, SDGs we consider able future. The aim is to improve the prosperity and quality of having a high impact on are strongly correlated to our products life of all people whilst staying within the limits of the planet. To and solutions, often in combination with our thought leadership globally strive towards sustainable development, 193 UN meminitiatives in collaboration with partners around the world. ber states adopted the Agenda 2030 and its 17 Sustainable Devel­Medium impact SDGs are mainly enablers that relate to responopment Goals (SDGs) that came into effect in January 2016. The sible business practices, including the area of human rights, as SDGs and their related targets address the most important well as compliance and supply chain management. Still others ­economic, social, environmental and governance challenges of are impacted by our Corporate Citizenship and community our times and stimulate transformational changes. This requires ­engagement activities. SDGs where we have low impact are governments, businesses, cities and civil societies to contribute touched selectively by some parts of our business or indirectly via their fair share. our customer industries. However, they may be rated differently on a specific business or country level. As a global industrial conglomerate with businesses along the energy value chain and in the healthcare sector, Siemens is in a These are the SDGs rated high and medium impact by Siemens unique position to touch on substantial business opportunities from a global perspective: from several trillions of euros of investment per annum needed to drive the UN Agenda 2030 towards reaching the SDGs and related targets. We are having an impact on most of the SDGs in four important ways: through our products and solutions, by responsibly operating our business, through our expertise and thought leadership, and through our Corporate Citizenship activities and community engagement. 6 Sustainable Development of Societies 1 High Impact Goal 3 – Ensure healthy lives and promote Goal 11 – Make cities and human well-being for all at all ages ­settlements inclusive, safe, resilient We impact SDG 3 through our business port­ and ­sustainable folio, be it by Siemens Healthineers or via the Siemens is a trusted partner to city authorities production technology we provide to pharmaoffering solutions across many infrastructure ceutical companies. In addition to the impact of our portfolio, domains to make cities more efficient, sustainable and resilient, we also care about the health and safety of our employees and for example, via intelligent transportation solutions, efficient and contractors and engage in health-related community engagesafe buildings and smart cities initiatives leveraging the power ment ­activities, like cancer awareness campaigns and mobile of digitalization. clinics. Goal 13 – Take urgent action to combat Goal 7 – Ensure access to affordable, reliable, ­climate change and its impacts sustainable and modern energy for all Siemens is the first global industrial player that We impact SDG 7 with our business portfolio set itself the target of becoming CO2-neutral in ­being one of the largest providers of technoloall of its operations by 2030. The company is gies along the energy value chain. With our thus underlining the need for businesses to lead by example and technologies, we support customers from various industries to contribute to decarbonizing the economy in this century – as set provide reliable, affordable and low-carbon energy and to perout in the historic Paris Agreement. With our technologies, we manently improve energy efficiency with a positive business help customers across various industries to permanently improve case. In addition, we also strive for energy efficiency internally, energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions with a positive especially via our CO2-neutral program. ­business case. Goal 9 – Build resilient infrastructure, ­promote inclusive and sustainable indus­ trialization and foster innovation We impact SDG 9 as a technological c­ ompany and innovation leader in electrification, automation and digitalization. Siemens supports sustainable industrialization, helping our business partners via engineering, domain and ­digital know-how across the entire value chain, from design to production and from operations to maintenance. A large part of our customers and suppliers are small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). We believe in international partnerships as key to innovations that make real what matters. Sustainable Development of Societies 7 2 Medium Impact Goal 4 – Ensure inclusive and equitable Goal 12 – Ensure sustainable consumption ­quality education and promote lifelong and production patterns learning ­opportunities for all Siemens is committed to responsibly using Siemens believes that lifelong learning is key to ­resources and acknowledges the opportunities secure employability for our own employees and of the Circular Economy as highly beneficial for beyond. We impact SDG 4 by providing access to education in business, environment and society. While having established multiple ways, including learning and education opportunities global strategic initiatives for the design phase and the end of life for all employees as well as vocational education and training phase of our products and operations, Siemens businesses use (VET), delivered in partnership with schools and colleges. In addidisruptive technologies and innovative business models to take tion, training of customers and suppliers is high on our agenda. part in the circular advantage. We also aim to inspire young people to have careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) via numerous Our sustainability initiatives are an essential aspect of successcorporate citizenship engagements around the world. fully implementing the Siemens Strategy Program Vision 2020. Our understanding of sustainability is fully based on our company Goal 5 – Achieve gender equality and values – responsible, excellent and innovative. empower all women and girls Our main impact on SDG 5 is via the way we Goal 16 – Promote peaceful and inclusive manage our own workforce. We believe that societies for sustainable development, driving diversity creates a win-win for society and ­provide access to justice for all and build Siemens because diversity strengthens our innovative capacity, effective, accountable and inclusive unleashes the potential of our employees and thereby directly ­institutions at all levels contributes to business success. We also drive change in senior We contribute to SDG 16 by anchoring integrity and compliance management, where there is significant potential for improvethroughout our company and by driving the Siemens Integrity ment, by recruiting more women into top positions, network Initiatives with external stakeholders. By this means and through activities, training and mentoring. our activities with other actors, we support fair competition and secure the long-term success of our company. Siemens is comGoal 8 – Promote sustained, inclusive mitted to spread the requirements of the UN Global Compact, the and ­sustainable economic growth, Human Rights Declaration and all other relevant regulations into full and ­productive employment and our supply chain and through our collaborations with external decent work for all organizations and institutions. Siemens directly impacts SDG 8 by its global ­operations contributing to GDP development in many countries, Goal 17 – Strengthen the means of impleour commitment to providing decent jobs and enabling employmentation and revitalize the Global ment and by driving the decoupling of economic growth from ­Partnership for Sustainable Development energy usage as a thought leader. As a truly global company and advocate of free trade, we believe partnerships are key for sustainable development as much as for our company success. In addition, we recognize the importance of digitalization, financing and public private partnerships for sustainable development, and are partnering in all of these areas with international organizations, business organizations, think tanks, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and academia, such as the UN Global Compact, World Economic Forum (WEF), World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Transparency International or various universities. 8 Sustainable Development of Societies We believe that companies need to evaluate their impact on sustainable development from various perspectives. That’s why we have developed our Siemens – Business to Society (B2S) approach allowing us to objectively measure the impacts of our projects, sites, and businesses – even activities in entire countries and their societies. Launched as a pilot project in fiscal 2015 and since then being rolled out globally, the B2S approach consists of four steps: 1 Adopting an ”outside-in” perspective of the most relevant development priorities in a given context (e.g., global, ­national, project); 2 Identifying and measuring our contribution in the ­priority ­areas; 3 Defining strategic actions to enhance our contributions and help shape further development; 4 Being transparent about our contributions by keeping ­external and internal stakeholders informed. By the end of fiscal 2017, 23 countries had finished their analysis. In addition, we finished our global analysis resulting in the Siemens – Business to Society Global Value Map. We are being recognized globally as a thought leader with this approach. Customers and governments appreciate the information it provides to them, for example, in the course of large infra­ structure projects. Employee feedback on social media posts indicates that our contribution to societies makes our employees proud to work for Siemens. Hence, transparently contributing to society provides tangible business value to Siemens. In fiscal 2018, we will continue the B2S country roll-out, continuously improve our impact measurement methodology, and drive the communication of our impact on sustainable development internally and externally. Our sustainability initiatives are an essential aspect of successfully implementing the Siemens Strategy Program Vision 2020. Our understanding of sustainability is fully based on our company values – responsible, excellent and innovative. Sustainable Development of Societies 9 2 – Sustainability Management To us, being a sustainable business means ensuring profitable Planet and long-term growth while balancing profit, people and planet. We help our customers increase energy efficiency, save We believe that the SDGs are a responsibility but also offer new ­resources and reduce carbon emissions. business opportunities to Siemens, notably by opening doors to We develop our products, solutions and services using a life work with national and local governments that want to reshape cycle perspective and sound eco-design standards. their own development agenda. We hope to continue our colWe minimize the environmental impact of our operations laboration with them in areas such as energy and decarbonization, through environmental management programs, and we aim transportation, infrastructure, industrial development, urban to become carbon-neutral by 2030. development, healthcare, innovation, job creation, education and the fight against corruption. People We contribute to the sustainable development of societies with Integrating the perspective of Siemens’ contribution to the SDGs our portfolio, local operations, and thought leadership. enriched the assessment of the most important issues and enabled We foster long-term relationships with local societies through a well-informed materiality process. Corporate Citizenship projects jointly with partners. We live a zero-harm culture and promote the health of our employees. 2.1 Materiality Assessment We live a culture of leadership based on common values, ­innovation mindset, people orientation and diversity. Analyzing our impact on the SDGs added a new perspective on the assessment of the most important issues for Siemens and These 12 principles are our key statements that describe how we confirmed our findings from the previous materiality assessments. implement sustainability at Siemens at the corporate level, in In the course of this assessment process, 12 principles emerged the businesses and at the regional level. The principles were from regular dialogues with external and internal stakeholders by ­discussed with our Sustainability Board and approved by our setting priorities based on their importance for Siemens and its Managing Board and Supervisory Board. stakeholders. These principles are clustered under the three headings – profit, people and planet – and reflect our ambition to contribute to societies as well as developing new business 2.2 Sustainability Governance opportunities together with our customers: and ­Organization Profit The importance we attach to sustainability is evident by how it is We contribute to the competitiveness of our customers with embedded in our organization, our programs, and by the measures our products, solutions, and services. we undertake. Sustainability management is a company-wide We partner with our customers to identify and develop sustain­effort that has become embedded in our corporate culture and is ability-related business opportunities. expressed through our Vision 2020 strategy. We operate an efficient and resilient supply chain by using a supplier code of conduct, risk management, and capacity All sustainability activities are led by our Chief Sustainability building. Officer (CSO), who is a member of our Managing Board. This We take the initiative to work with our stakeholders to manage individual chairs the Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB), which project and reputational risks and identify relevant business consists of representatives of the Managing Board, Divisions, trends. countries, and corporate functions. The SSB is the central steerWe adhere to the highest compliance and anti-corruption ing committee for sustainability at Siemens. It meets quarterly to standards and promote integrity via the Siemens Integrity direct our sustainability activities as part of our corporate stratInitiative, which fights corruption and fraud through collective egy, and adopts appropriate measures and initiatives. The Sustainaction, education and training. ability Director directly reports to the Chief Sustainability Officer and manages the Sustainability Department, which is responsible for driving sustainability within Siemens and for coordinating the company-wide sustainability activities, programs, and measures. Sustainability is further anchored throughout the organization by our global network of Sustainability Managers in the different Corporate Units, Divisions and countries. This helps ensure that all measures and initiatives are fully and properly implemented. 10 Sustainability Management 2.3 Partnerships and Collaborations 2.4 Sustainability Ratings for Sustainability We actively participate in external ratings to benchmark ourselves As a truly global company, we enter into partnerships on various against peers and competitors. This helps us to assess our levels with a diverse set of actors. That is in line with SDG 17, ­sustainability performance globally and within our industry and which calls for a revitalized and enhanced global partnership that derive reasonable improvement measures. External ratings and brings together governments, civil society, the private sector, the rankings recognize the efforts we put into contributing to United Nations system, and other actors. ­sustainable development and our strongly implemented sustainable business practices along the value chain. Close collaboration with stakeholders helps us to address complex and intertwined challenges in the sustainability realm. We regularly Forbes awarded us as the world’s most regarded company in this adjust to trends and specific requirements based on constant year, evaluating trustworthiness and honesty, social conduct, dialogue with key stakeholders such as investors, suppliers, the company as an employer and the performance of the ­employees, communities, policymakers, media, non-governmen­company’s product or service. tal organizations, business organizations, and academia. These ­engagements create value on all sides of the equation through With a score of 86 points, we were listed in the Dow Jones Susthe exchange of knowledge and information and creative parttainability World Index (DJSI World) for the 18th straight year. In nerships. They help us improve business conditions and reduce early 2017, Corporate Knights, a Canadian media agency, rated risk externally and internally. One example of this stakeholder Siemens as #1 in the 2017 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corpora­engagement process are our intensified human rights activities tions in the World rating. The CDP (formally Carbon Disclosure led by a task force that was setup last fiscal year by our SSB (see Project) rated us an A− in the climate section and a B in the water chapter HUMAN RIGHTS in this report). assessment. The Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) included Siemens again in its FTSE4Good Index series for ethical investWe work with governments to share expertise and responsibility, ment while the MSCI World ESG Index included Siemens for the for example, we closed an agreement in September 2016 first time. with the government of Argentina to stimulate job creation and ­economic development. More examples of our partnerships: We For EcoVadis, which provides supplier sustainability ratings for are working with the Organization for Economic Co-operation global supply chains, Siemens increased its score to 59 points and and Development (OECD), the UN, the European Union, the reached the Silver recognition level. Also here, we are among the ­International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), the World Economic top performers. Last but not least, scoring 78 points, we were Forum (WEF) and national and local governments. rated as Leader in the Sustainalytics index, leading the industry against peers and being in the Top 3 on a global scale. We work closely with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), for example, during the UN climate conferences. We are committed to the UNGC’s 10 principles and actively contribute to the CEO Water Mandate. In fiscal 2016, we committed to the UNGC Women’s Empowerment Principles and signed the Diversity Charter, an initiative by the German government. We have long supported One Young World, a non-profit that champions young leaders around the globe. We are a Gold Member of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and apply their Sustainability ­Standards in this report. Our Chief Compliance Officer serves as chairman of the Anti-­ Corruption Task Force of the Business and Industry Advisory Committee of the OECD. He also served as chairman of the B20 Working Group on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-­Corruption during the 2017 German presidency of the G20. In addition, we participate in the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) of the World Economic Forum. Sustainability Management 11 3 – Customers With rising competition in all business sectors, it is important to put customers at the core. Siemens is continuously striving to address its customers’ needs and contribute to their long-term competitiveness and success with its products, solutions, and services. With reference to our sustainability principles we identify ­business opportunities in partnership with our customers. With our portfolio we have a high to medium impact on SDG 3 ”Good Health and Well-being”, SDG 7 ”Affordable and Clean Energy”, SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Economic Growth”, SDG 9 ”Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure”, SDG 11 ”Sustainable Cities and Communities”, SDG 12 ”Responsible Consumption and ­Production” and SDG 13 ”Climate Action”. 12 Customers Customers are our lifeblood. They are always at the center of our strong sales vision and key messages; use cutting-edge sales thinking with regard to technology and innovation. methods to streamline and optimize sales tools and processes; and push sales for digital-service and software-driven business We provide products and services in almost every country in the models. This new model represents an important element of world. The majority of our customers are small and medium-sized ­Vision 2020, our strategic program that aims to generate profitcompanies and organizations that are engaged at a local level. To able growth through reliable customer relations and innovation meet their needs, we draw on a global sales force that receives in three core areas: electrification, automation and digitalization. orientation from our regional outposts. Our regional teams can These procedures are designed to make the company more also call upon our global network of partners, which includes adaptable and flexible, putting us in a better position to adjust consultants, distributors, integrators, engineers, procurement to constant shifts in the business environment. and construction companies, and machine builders. To measure customer satisfaction and, by extension, the quality With our portfolio along the energy value chain, from power of our partnerships, we use the Net Promoter Score (NPS). This ­generation and distribution, to energy usage in buildings, indussystematic evaluation is based on comprehensive annual customer try and mobility, up to products, solutions, and services in the satisfaction surveys. The score itself is based on a single queshealthcare sector we have high and medium impact on numerous tion: ”How likely is it that you would recommend Siemens to a SDGs: SDG 3 ”Good Health and Well-being”, SDG 7 ”Affordable colleague or business partner?” But that’s just the starting point. and Clean Energy”, SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Economic Growth”, The survey has set in motion a holistic approach to customer relaSDG 9 ”Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure”, SDG 11 ”Sustaintions that includes follow-up to implement processes and systems able Cities and Communities”, SDG 12 ”Responsible Consumption designed to help foster long-term customer loyalty. and Production” as well as SDG 13 ”Climate Action”. There is follow-up, both internally and externally, regardless of For a select group of top customers, we have a key account manthe score. When a score is low enough to be considered critical, we agement (KAM) system. KAM enables us to provide key customers take immediate action to identify key issues and determine what with the full spectrum of products and solutions in a coordinated measures need to be taken to upgrade the relationship. way – thereby improving the ”ease of doing business”. In addition, top managers focus on developing and maintaining long-lasting As part of the survey, we receive feedback from customers about relationships. These efforts are managed through our Executive areas of possible improvement. In response, the relevant business Relationship Program, which ensures that leading executives and regional entities establish measures for improvement that remain in direct contact with selected customers on a regular are reviewed on a regular basis. By making these adjustments, we basis. aim to improve relations and make Siemens the partner of choice for all our customers. Our main goal is to establish ourselves as the partner of choice for our customers by fostering close and trusted partnerships. We Based on 27,000 interviews in 114 countries in 32 languages, the aim to solidify long-term customer loyalty. Not only do loyal cusoverall NPS score for fiscal 2017 was up, with good results in the tomers keep buying and even increase their purchases, but they vast majority of Divisions and headquarters, and in our lead are also likely to recommend Siemens to peers, partners and countries. The V ­ ision 2020 target of at least a 20 % improvement ­associates. over the 2014 baseline has been achieved. Improvements are in large part based on results from the Divisions and regions, as well Putting customers first is a tradition. But the way we do it must as the focus on maintaining closer contact with customers. adapt to a world where change itself is accelerating. Growth markets can be volatile. Innovation and development cycles have Our efforts don’t stop there. We plan to intensify our endeavors been drastically shortened. Reduced barriers to entry are bringtowards customer satisfaction to take advantage of new opporing on nimble new competitors. Digitalization can be disruptive tunities to grow our existing business and tap into new ones. but also offers new opportunities. It has also sparked wholesale Specifically, in the near future, we intend to transform our operational changes – including, for example, lean management ­current customer relationship management (CRM) strategy into and agile software development. Data-driven business models one based on customer life cycle management. This will place and technology-based services are flourishing. the customer journey at the center of our thinking and acting. (A ”customer journey” is defined as the entire sum of experiences To meet these challenges, Siemens strives to become more flexible. that a customer has when interacting with a company and its We are implementing a ”sales excellence workstream” as part of brand(s).) our operating model. It will help us do several things: define a Customers 13 4 – Research and Development Innovation expands the technological capabilities of industrial sectors and leads to the development of new skills. Siemens is not only shaping the digital transformation with groundbreaking innovations, but also ­contributing to technological developments in electrification and automatization. Our efforts in Research and Development are reflected in our materiality assessment. With our innovations we address SDG 3 ”Good Health and Well-being”, SDG 7 ”Affordable and Clean Energy”, SDG 9 ”Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure”, SDG 11 ”Sustainable Cities and Communities” and SDG 13 ­”Climate Action”. 14 Research and Development Our research and development (R & D) activities are ultimately The growing connectivity of field devices gives rise to the geared to developing innovative, sustainable solutions for our I­ ndustrial Internet of Things (IIoT), and hence to the potential customers – and the Siemens businesses – and simultaneously for massively distributed industrial systems. With MindSphere, safeguarding our competitiveness. To this end, we are focusing we have introduced an open, cloud-based operating system our R & D activities on a number of selected technologies and for this IIoT. MindSphere allows our businesses, customers and ­innovation fields. Examples include the following: partners to develop and deploy applications and digital services based on data gathered from assets, such as a product or in The stable operating of power grids in the presence of interthe field, e. g. to predict equipment failure, increase asset mittent, renewable power generation depends, amongst other availability, improve product designs or increase product or factors, on further advances in power electronics as well as plant performances. the availability of economically viable large energy storage We also invest in industrial cyber security – a key enabler for units. These are also key ingredients for distributed energy the digitalization of industries as well as a growing source of systems, which combine onsite generation with local concompetitive advantage – and test the emerging blockchain sumption to offer secure power supply at lower cost. technology in various application scenarios. Turbo machinery, switching gear and other power equipment stand to benefit from novel materials enabling higher generaBoth within and beyond these focus areas, R & D activities are tion efficiency and fewer losses in power transmission and carried out by cross-functional teams involving both our busidistribution. In particular, the ability to print parts with novel nesses and our central R & D department Corporate Technology topologies using 3D printers embedded in an integrated, (CT). In addition, we work closely with scholars from leading uni­digital tool chain is a key innovation driver. versities and research institutions. These partnerships, along with Automation technologies continue to evolve. Our R & D activiclose collaborations with start-up companies and the use of crowd ties aim to reduce engineering efforts, enhance flexibility and innovation methods, are an important part of Siemens’ open increase our customers’ productivity. ­innovation concept. Future mobility systems will be increasingly electrified and connected. Amongst others, our R & D efforts are aiming for Siemens’ unit for partnership with start-ups, next47, is focusing ubiquitous electric charging as well as the digitally supported on three pillars: Capital, Catalyst and Create. The unit provides integration and management of multi-modal transportation capital to help start-ups expand and scale. As a catalyst, next47 systems. can accelerate growth for start-ups by making it easy to access An example of a disruptive development is electrically powered and use the powerful Siemens ecosystem. And next47 serves as flight. In cooperation with Airbus, Siemens intends to demthe creator of next-generation businesses for Siemens by buildonstrate by 2020 that electricity can be used to power large ing, buying and partnering with start-ups at any stage. The next47 planes. unit is focused on anticipating how technologies including 3D We are continuously adopting and developing foundational printing, robotics and drones, artificial intelligence and virtual digital technologies, such as data analytics and artificial intelreality will impact and potentially disrupt our end markets. This ligence or modeling and simulation technologies. The former intelligence enables Siemens and Siemens’ customers to grow are essential to generate value and impact out of the growing and thrive in the age of digitalization. amount of data generated in the field; the latter enable the creation of a digital twin for physical products, systems and In fiscal 2017, we reported research and development expenses infrastructures, e. g. for the purpose of virtually testing and of € 5.2 billion, compared to € 4.7 billion in fiscal 2016. The resultcommissioning a system prior to building it. ing R & D intensity, defined as the ratio of R & D expenses and revenue, was 6.2 %, thus above the R & D intensity of 5.9 % in fiscal 2016. Additions to capitalized development expenses amounted to € 0.4 billion in fiscal 2017, compared to € 0.3 billion in fiscal 2016. As of September 30, 2017, Siemens held approximately 63,000 granted patents worldwide in its continuing operations. As of September 30, 2016, we held approximately 59,800 granted patents. On average, we had 37,800 R & D employees in fiscal 2017. Research and Development 15 Research and Development in our Businesses mentally friendly. Decarbonization and seamlessly connected R & D at the Power and Gas Division concentrates on developing intermodal (e)mobility are key factors for the future of transporproducts and solutions for enhancing efficiency, flexibility and tation. Reflecting this, Mobility’s R & D activities emphasize digieconomy in power generation as well as in the oil and gas industry. talization in developing state-of-the art mobility solutions for rail These products and solutions include turbomachinery – primarily and road combined with new business models such as availabilhigh-performance, low-emission gas turbines for single operation ity-as-a-service (AaaS) via our data analytics platform Railigent or for combined cycle power plants – and compressor solutions for and other MindSphere based applications. Together with next47, various process industries. The Division’s current technology Mobility invests in the future mobility landscape together with ­initiative, which started in fiscal 2015, is aimed at intensifying other partners in areas such as sensor technologies, connectivR & D in innovative materials, advanced manufacturing methods ity / IoT solutions, software for intermodal transport and additive and plant optimization. In fiscal 2017, Siemens introduced a new manufacturing. 44-megawatt aeroderivative gas turbine for mobile power generation which currently is the most powerful mobile unit on the marR & D activities at the Digital Factory Division are aimed at further ket. The Division announced that it will test and validate its largest enhancing speed, flexibility, quality and efficiency within comgas turbine (HL-class) under real-world conditions. This will pave panies of the discrete manufacturing industry. The key lever is to the way for achieving the next level of efficiency; we aim for 63 % automate and digitalize the entire value-added process – from efficiency near-term, with a mid-term goal to reach 65 %. product development through production design to actual production – with the highest possible IT security. The focus of research The R & D activities of our Energy Management Division focus lies on further developing the Digital Enterprise portfolio. This on preparing our portfolio for changes on all voltage levels in the involves preparing an integrated digital twin for physical products, world of electricity. The increasing infeed of renewable energy to production processes and production facilities and then implementpower grids requires that those grids become more flexible and ing these facilities and efficiently manufacturing the products in efficient, particularly with distributed generation on the rise. The the real world. This close dovetailing between the virtual and real digitalization of future grids will enable intelligent grid operation worlds enables customers to simulate and optimize their prodand data-driven services. Our innovations are centered on power ucts, their machinery and facilities at an early stage, while assurelectronics, digitalization and grid stabilization. The development ing high-performance production. The acquisition of M ­ entor of new technologies, e.g. Process Bus communication for applicaGraphics further extends the possibilities of the digital twin: In tions in energy management or NCITs (Non-Conventional Instruaddition to designing and testing the mechanics and software of ment Transformer), enables a cost-effective investment and new products, it is now also possible to develop and simulate economic operation of digital substations as well as a secure and electrical and electronic systems in an integrated way. A further reliable grid operation. core area of development is MindSphere, the open, cloud-based operating system for the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). MindR & D work at the Building Technologies Division focuses on Sphere is used as a basis for innovative applications (MindApps) ­optimizing comfort and operational and energy efficiency in and new digital services based on these apps, such as predictive buildings and infrastructures, protecting against fire and security maintenance. Open application programming interfaces (APIs) hazards, and minimizing related risks. We drive the digital transenable MindSphere users to easily and efficiently develop and sell formation of the building industry by creating open-standardstheir own apps. MindSphere therefore makes it possible for cusbased Building Information Modeling (BIM)-ready products and tomers to clearly expand their portfolios and tap into the additional services. Digitalization improves productivity across the entire business potential offered by their installed base. A network building life cycle, enabling new product ordering and configuraof partners in the fields of app development, connectivity and tion options through our online store Siemens Industry Mall. New technology further enriches the open ecosystem. mobile device apps close the feedback loop to building occupants, enabling increased comfort and safety with lower energy conThe R & D activities in the Process Industries and Drives Division sumption. The digitalization portfolio will expand on the basis of are continuously concentrating on the digital transformation of Siemens MindSphere. products, solutions and services, especially via focused integration of information and communication technologies. The digital The Mobility Division’s R & D strategy aims to fulfill customers’ enhancement of automation and drives platforms is a key enabler demand for maximum availability, high throughput and enhanced for additional customer value for all verticals in the process induspassenger experience. Although there is a growing need for mobiltry, such as oil & gas, chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Examples ity worldwide, possibilities for building new roads and railways are connecting motors to MindSphere and Digital Enterprise for are limited. Meeting the demand for mobility requires intelligent process industries. Increased operational efficiency and digital solutions that make transport more efficient, safe and environservices such as condition monitoring or predictive maintenance 16 Research and Development are examples for benefits in process plant operation. The digitalization of our process automation and industrial communication portfolio includes a holistic industrial security concept. Another central objective of our R & D activities is to further increase energy efficiency while reducing the consumption of raw materials and cutting emissions. Healthineers’ R & D activities are strongly focused on the development of innovative product lines which use new technologies such as artificial intelligence. This will, amongst other results, enable faster handling of medical information and can lead to more precise and personalized clinical decisions. It also promises added value: New computer algorithms can detect hidden patterns in the data and give physicians valuable support for diagnosis and therapy decisions. Besides constantly innovating its portfolio, Healthineers continuously extends existing products and solutions. Diagnostics performance for customers improves with systems such as the recently launched Atellica. This laboratory diagnostics platform transports samples ten times faster than previous systems and it is also more flexible. Expanding the ­innovation map beyond the established portfolio, and investing in new ideas, strengthen the ability to tap opportunities in new fields. The services business is expanding beyond product related services by adding a digital services portfolio and increasing ­enterprise transformation services to help customers in their transition to outcome-focused care. A major step forward is the Digital Ecosystem platform to link healthcare providers and solution providers with one another as well as to bring together their data, applications and services. Users gain new insights through data analytics and use it to network with their peers. The R & D efforts of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy are focused on innovative products and solutions that allow it to take the lead in wind power performance, improve competitiveness, and build a stronger business case for its customers. Using digitalization, among other efforts, includes more intelligent monitoring and analysis of turbine conditions as well as smart diagnostic services. Research and Development 17 5 – People and Society As a business that serves societies we put people front and center. We are creating and developing decent jobs, strengthening skills of employees promoting diver­sity within the workforce, ensuring people’s health and­ ­safety, and are taking action as a responsible corporate citizen. Our approach to People and Society is strongly anchored in our 12 principles. With this, Siemens lays the foundation for a sustained, inclusive and sustainable future for people and society by addressing SDG 3 ”Good Health and Well-being”, SDG 4 ”Quality Education”, SDG 5 ”Gender Equality”, SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Economic Growth”, SDG 10 ”Reduced Inequalities”, SDG 11 ”Sustainable Cities and Communities” and SDG 17 ”Partnerships for the Goals”. 18 People and Society 5.1 Working at Siemens Siemens employees At Siemens, we understand that our people make us what we are. September 30, We strive to hire the best candidates and retain employees around 2017 2016 the world. We aim to be the employer of choice by empowering Siemens (in thousands) 372 351 and motivating all employees within a high performing culture, Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East with lifelong learning and development possibilities. We seek to (as a percentage of total employees) 61 61 create a respectful, inclusive and diverse workplace. At Siemens, Americas (as a percentage of total employees) 20 21 we believe that talent and effort should drive advancement. EveryAsia, Australia one should be treated fairly regardless of their ethnicity, sexual (as a percentage of total employees) 19 18 orientation, gender, age, disability status, professional background, or other personal traits. 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Globalization, demographic change and digitalization are changThe proportion of women as a percentage of the total workforce ing the world of work. This creates opportunities, but also presents remained unchanged at 23 %. challenges – especially for those accustomed to earlier models of workplace organization. Constant connectivity and the intensification of work threaten to blur the boundaries between work and Proportion of women private life. September 30, (as a percentage of total employees) 2017 2016 Working at Siemens can be especially related to SDG 4 ”Quality Siemens 23 23 Education”, SDG 5 ”Gender Equality”, SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East 22 22 Economic Growth” which extends beyond mere job creation to Americas 24 24 encompass the quality of work and SDG 10 ”Reduced Inequalities”. Asia, Australia 25 26 In line with the mentioned SDGs, we aim to create an environment where all people are treated with respect and valued for 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. their individual strengths. New hires were up by 11 % in the year under review compared to As part of its family-friendly corporate policy, Siemens assisted its fiscal 2016, while exits remained unchanged. The percentage of employees for example in Germany with a tax-free childcare benall company dismissals – as a share of employee exits – was 19 % efit of up to € 1,200 for external care in a kindergarten or similar for the year, compared with 16 % in the previous year. All other for each child. In fiscal 2016, this support amounted to more than variations result from changes in the basis for ­consolidation and € 14 million. other changes. As of September 30, 2017, we employed 372,000 employees worldwide, which represents an increase of approximately 21,000 in Siemens employee hires comparison to September 30, 2016. Thereof 61 % were in Europe, Fiscal year C.I.S and Africa and Middle East, 20 % in the Americas and 19 % (in thousands) 2017 2016 in Asia, ­Australia. More than 90 % of our employees – women as Siemens 38.8 35.1 well as men – have a permanent contract. In Asia, Australia about Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 19.2 18.5 a quarter of the contracts are temporary, whilst in the other regions Americas 9.9 8.5 more than 90 % of our employees are permanently employed. Asia, Australia 9.7 8.1 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. People and Society 19 Working hours and working arrangements Women hired Fiscal year Average official weekly working hours ¹ (as a percentage of new hires) 2017 2016 Siemens 26 25 September 30, Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East 25 24 2017 2016 Americas 29 26 Siemens 39.1 39.0 Asia, Australia 26 26 Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 37.7 37.7 Americas 41.1 41.0 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Asia, Australia 41.4 41.3 1 Contractually agreed weekly working hours at the end of the fiscal year. Siemens employee exits 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. Fiscal year (in thousands) 2017 2016 Use of working hour programs at Siemens Siemens 30.8 30.8 September 30, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Part-time 11.4 10.4 Employees on leave of absence 9.1 9.0 Employee turnover rate ¹ Fiscal year (in %) 2017 2016 Employee decision 4.0 4.1 DIVERSITY Other reasons for exit 4.5 4.7 Siemens has made a conscious decision to foster a diverse Total 8.5 8.8 workforce. By bringing in people with different experiences, backgrounds, and skills, we are better able to meet a wide range 1 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary e ­ xits of challenges and encourage innovation. We aim to strengthen from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. our company by recruiting different kinds of people who can help create value in unique ways for the company, our customers and partners, and society at large. Retiring within the next five years September 30, Efforts to achieve diversity can contribute to the United Nations (as a percentage of total employees) 1 2017 2016 Agenda 2030 in several ways, notably by promoting equality, Siemens 15 15 educational opportunities, job creation, and high-quality employment. To help ensure progress in this area, a Managing Board 1 Based on the Siemens worldwide average retirement age of 60. member is also Chief Diversity Officer as well as member of the Siemens Sustainability Board. Changes in age structure The distribution of employees by age group remained virtually unchanged compared to the year before. The median age in the year under review was 41. Age structure in fiscal 2017 (as a percentage of total employees) < 35 35 – 44 45 – 54 > 54 Siemens 31 29 25 15 Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East 26 28 29 17 Americas 26 26 26 22 Asia, Australia 50 34 13 3 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. 20 People and Society Our diversity strategy is facilitated by our geographic reach: we program. And we have joined the Chefsache Initiative. Backed by employ individuals of about 170 nationalities. Beyond that, we German Chancellor Angela Merkel, this is a network of leaders have taken a number of steps to promote and strengthen the from industry, science, the public sector, and the media who diversity of our workforce: have agreed to make gender balance a top management priority. Addressing unconscious bias; TALENT ACQUISITION, DEVELOPMENT promoting gender balance; AND ­RETENTION encouraging LGBTI communities (lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, Our employees make our organization what it is. We need to and intersex); ­attract, develop, and retain top-notch people to be successful. supporting Ability@Siemens – for people with disabilities; Our talent acquisition efforts are geared to finding the best indifostering the value of globality; viduals, wherever they may be. Our development and retention ensuring an inclusive culture that values the contributions of programs help employees reach their personal goals as they different people from diverse backgrounds. ­contribute to making Siemens the best company it can be. Through these policies, we aim to Technology makes both job offers and candidates more visible on ­encourage and develop a global level. For example, many candidates now have an instantly a workplace environment that encourages high-quality visible online CV via LinkedIn. Communities of practice and groups ­performance and individual engagement as a function of of people united along professional or other interests, have ­diverse teams; changed the dynamics of recruitment and job seeking. a company with a richly diverse pipeline of people who are prepared to advance within the organization; Unlike many people in previous generations, members of Generaan attractive image as a company that welcomes people who tion Y (born in the 1980s and 1990s) are not necessarily looking think differently. for secure positions with a single company for their entire lives. Instead, many of them focus on what’s called the employee/­ However, like many of our peers in the engineering industry, we employer value proposition (EVP), whereby each side helps the face a special challenge when it comes to recruiting more women other advance toward their own goals. There is also a greater and supporting them in their professional development. emphasis on the work-life balance. While there is still much work to do, we are encouraged by a number Competition has changed − largely due to globalization. Emerging of measurable examples of progress. Compared to fiscal 2016, the markets are expanding, and traditional competitors are entering proportion of women in management positions increased by 3%. what established firms have always considered to be their home markets. Meanwhile, start-ups are appealing to the above-mentioned Generation Y values, adding an additional ­element. Employees in management positions¹ September 30, Global workforce demographics are changing. In countries such 2017 2016 as Germany and the USA, where educational standards are high, Siemens 64,800 61,800 the workforce is highly trained but aging, and this will lead to a Female employees in management positions shortage of skilled workers in the future. In developing countries, (percentage of all management positions) 16.0 15.6 where the workforce is younger, the level of skill may not be at the desired level. As a result, the size of the workforce will be 1 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary r­ esponsibility, adequate, but the skill level may not meet the needs of organisaplus project managers. tions such as Siemens. Diversity has become a key element of our hiring, global placement, and promotion processes. We are taking strides to ensure diversity in the candidate pools for top positions as well as on the teams that make decisions related to hiring and promotions. We continue to strive to foster a strong culture of inclusion. For example, we support LGBTI networks within the company. We are working to improve access to our facilities for people with disabilities. We are implementing an Unconscious Bias training People and Society 21 To maintain a high-quality workforce in this The Siemens Global Employee Survey ­context, we have taken several initiatives. We regularly measure employee engagement through the Siemens They include: Global Employee Survey (SGES). Launched during fiscal 2010, Efforts to recruit the best recruiters – based on the concept the survey was updated in fiscal 2017. It is now digitalized and that if we want to recruit the best people, we need the best fully transparent, and includes questions about the transformarecruiters, this initiative focuses on improving the skills of our tion of our company. The Vision 2020 strategy sets targets of 75 % recruiters around the world, in part through innovative online approval ratings for issues such as ”leadership” and ”diversity”. training and certification processes; Proactive Sourcing – Adopting Avature, a candidate relationIn fiscal 2017, 74 % of all invited employees took part in the ­survey. ship management platform helps us to identify and nurture The scores remain high. For leadership, the approval rate was talent before vacancies turn up; 69 %, compared to 70 % in fiscal 2015. For diversity, it was 78 %, Improving the candidate ­experience – this includes the adopup from 74 %. tion of Jibe, an online r­ecruitment platform adapted to the mobile world; The survey results, and suggestions for ways to improve, are disRedoubled efforts to make sure that current employees receive cussed at the team level. At the company level, we have identified serious consideration for better positions; if they aren’t ”collaboration”, ”leadership” and ”talent development” as areas that ­promoted, they may leave; deserve special attention. Use of video interviews to screen candidates more efficiently and effectively. LEADERSHIP AND TRAINING Having the right people with the right skills in the right places at OWNERSHIP CULTURE AND the right time is essential to our success as a company. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT ”Always act as if it were your own company” is the motto of The Siemens Global Learning Campus (SGLC) is a continuing eduthe Siemens Ownership Culture initiative, part of the company’s cation program that offers training to employees around the globe. strategic Vision 2020 program. Its courses help people develop personal skills, support managers in team development, and assist those in charge of key operaWe contribute to the long-term financial stability of our employtions to think strategically and change procedures and processes. ees through personal financial planning and awareness programs. The core curriculum provides the skills people need to perform In fiscal 2017, we contributed approximately € 1.3 billion to defined their duties effectively, thereby systematically improving the benefit and defined contribution employee pension plans and ­quality of our workforce. It addresses challenges in diverse parts ap­proxi­mately €1.5 billion to state plans, and we offer early retireof our business, including sales, project management, procurement in many countries. To respond to Siemens’ diverse workforce, ment, development, production, service, product management flexible benefits are a focus topic on the benefits agenda. and quality management. New learning techniques (such as ”hackathons”, ”business impulse workshops” and ”digital busiWe believe that employees who hold shares in their company will ness labs”) contribute to the company ’s digital transformation. identify more closely with it and act accordingly. About 97 % of All employees can access the new ”Digitalization Learning World” Siemens employees are eligible to participate in a special stock online platform, which offers digital education materials. purchasing plan. For every three shares they buy, they receive one matching share at no extra cost, as long as they hold the ones The Siemens Leadership Excellence (SLE) program is aimed at they bought for the requisite three-year period and remain on the high-­level managers and leading prospects for advancement. payroll. This allows everyone to participate, regardless of their Guided programs help them learn how to identify sustainable, income level. In addition, during fiscal 2015, a profit-sharing pool effective solutions. SLE also helps us establish a strong global was inaugurated to encourage employees below senior managenetwork of managers and promote our corporate culture. ment to acquire shares. The current endowment of the pool is at € 400 million. We never forget that employees are an integral part of our culture. The process is becoming increasingly important for executives. Those who promote the ownership culture and serve as role models are rewarded accordingly. It isn’t just about what was achieved, but also how it came about. 22 People and Society Europeans @ Siemens Average number of training hours of employees The ”Europeans @ Siemens” program was launched in 2012 and in ­management positions there are around 30 apprentices in each annual intake. In the Fiscal year three-and-a-half years they spend at Siemens in Berlin, the (per participant per category) 1 2017 2016 ­apprentices are given full vocational training as electronics techniSLE Training Alumni Top Management cians or mechatronics engineers: They cram theory at the Werner(8 ­participants in fiscal 2017) 25 n.a. von-Siemens Vocational School in Berlin, work on their own New general management appointees (75 ­participants in fiscal 2017) 94 94 ­projects at the Training Center, and have to prove themselves in New advanced management appointees everyday working life at the plants. There are also German courses (207 participants in fiscal 2017)2 92 66 and other offerings that let them deepen their experience abroad. New management appointees At the end, there is the official final exam, which is held by the (272 ­participants in fiscal 2017) 66 66 Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK), after which they return to their Siemens home base. 1 Based on mandatory participants in Siemens Leadership Excellence programs or executive courses. 2 Changed number of training hours due to change of training system. During the last years, the program expanded beyond Europe. Today, it is called: International Tech Apprenticeship @ Siemens. This year, we welcome apprentices from 15 different countries, Siemens remains one of Germany ’s leading providers of vocasuch as Mozambique, Saudi Arabia or Angola. tional education for secondary school graduates. 8,743 apprentices and dual students are on scheme in Germany – thereof Siemens product schools work with Divisions and business units 2,273 for third parties and 6,470 internally. In the fall of 2017, to offer comprehensive continuing development for employees 1,691 secondary school graduates accepted offers of apprenticewith a view toward building expertise in specific products and ships or dual-study positions. In 2017, Siemens reserved at least solutions over the long term. Conventional training methods 10 % of these slots for young people from disadvantaged back(online, face-to-face, etc.) are enhanced by innovative remote grounds who had been unable to find opportunities elsewhere and mobile learning, and virtual classrooms. These highly practidue to lower-than-average grades or the lack of basic skills. cal courses help employees keep pace with changes in products and new technologies. The Siemens Professional Education (SPE) program includes technical education and training along with business education, Siemens connects employees around the globe through expert including bachelor degrees. SPE has intensified its international communities, development programs and social media groups work. In addition to those from Germany, more than 2,500 that cover topics of shared interest. More than half of our employyoung people from around the world are enrolled. Since the ees, roughly 216,000 individuals, are active on our Siemens Social 2016 application period, SPE has reserved slots for refugees as Network, where they can participate in over 29,000 different part of a specific integration initiative. Nearly one hundred such groups. The network fosters knowledge exchange, cross-cultural candidates are expected to be accepted via this program during understanding and collaboration beyond national borders. the 2018 application period. During the past fiscal year, Siemens spent € 266 million on employee development, an average of € 735 per person for training and education. The expenditures for employee development remain at a constantly high level. People and Society 23 5.2 Occupational Health and Safety A Culture of Occupational Health and Safety At Siemens, we pride ourselves on our consistent efforts to build Occupational health and safety management is an essential elelocal management systems and adopt best practices to ensure the ment of our sustainability principles and business practices. It is best possible results over the long term. In the occupational health also reflected in our Business Conduct Guidelines, internal moniand safety realm, we launched our Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens toring systems, risk management work and internal controls. In program five years ago. It contains three guiding principles: addition, it is covered by the international framework agreement between Siemens AG and labor organizations: the Central Works Zero incidents – it is achievable! Unrealistic? No, we are conCouncil of Siemens AG, Germany ’s Industrial Union of Metalvinced that it is possible. Everyone must be able to work at workers (IG Metall), and IndustriALL, a global union that repreSiemens without suffering an incident. Everywhere. At all sents workers in the mining, energy and manufacturing sectors. times. That is our goal. Finally, we comply with all laws, regulations and procedures that Health and safety – no compromises! Deadline pressure? govern workplace health and safety wherever we operate. Yes. Cost pressure? Yes. Compromising safety? Absolutely not. The health and safety of all employees is our highest priority. Occupational health and safety are directly related to SDG 3 ”Good These values come first. No ifs or buts! Health and Well-being” as well as to SDG 8 ”Decent Work and We take care of each other! We work with our eyes open to Economic Growth”. Both as a company and as individual employrecognize dangerous situations and look after one another. ees, we are responsible for guaranteeing a workplace environment Risky behavior is not cool – and we intervene when we see it. that is safe for everyone. Behavior that encourages health and We lead by example! safety emerges from the personal values of managers and all employees. It is vital to customers, suppliers, regulatory authoriThe Siemens Managing Board made Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens ties, and other stakeholders. Our impact on SDG 8 stems from a top priority for fiscal 2017. This set in motion a series of further the relationship with topics such as ”costs for days lost” and activities and campaigns worldwide. The importance of this initia”non-conformance costs”, the latter meaning those caused by the tive is reflected in the fact that the CEO of the relevant business failure to conform to accepted standards of behavior; this would unit is personally responsible for reporting work-related ­fatalities include delays caused by workplace safety incidents. and serious incidents to the Managing Board. Those reports must include analysis of the root causes and contributing factors of the incident. This procedure helps spur the implementation of corrective actions. At the country and Division levels, tailor-made activities have been developed to sensitize employees regarding the relevant safety issues in their respective workplaces. These have included things such as trainings as well as awareness activities like ”safety moments” and ”safety walk and talks”. Interactive sessions have helped management teams integrate safety awareness into every segment of the project management process. Management teams have also implemented the Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens principles and taken measures to improve safety practice in accordance with local needs and requirements. Practical examples are the hands-on training centers for employees of Siemens, its contractors and other partners in India, Egypt and Malaysia. These centers include a number of realistic stations where employees can become acquainted with construction-site dangers and practice the use of safety measures. In the Safety Training Center in India alone, more than 2,000 people have been trained since the opening in 2015. 24 People and Society To underscore the importance of the Zero Harm Culture, we Contractors and Partners ­introduced the Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens Label during fiscal Contractors are essential to our operations, especially in the project 2015. To earn the label, organizational units around the world business. Therefore, we must make the safety performance of conmust prove that they have deployed the program in a comprehentractors a central concern. The selection process for contractors, sive and systematic manner, and that it covers over 80 % of the especially for high risk activities (such as electrical works or working employees in the country. The relevant criteria include procedural, at heights), includes the mandatory participation of safety experts. quantitative and qualitative elements. They are reviewed by a Additionally, we also train the employees of contractors and label panel and verified by an in-country assessment. Since the ­partners in our practical Safety Training Centers at different localabel was launched, ten lead countries have earned this distinction. tions. Further, we have developed company programs and processes Auditing that are implemented around the world, adapted as needed to In fiscal 2017, we continued a series of health and safety audits local conditions. For example, an electrical safety campaign coninto high-risk activities that had been launched a year earlier. The sisting of on-site workshops for electricians has helped to raise Siemens internal audit department has been conducting environawareness and improve safety in that realm. Over the last two mental health and safety (EHS) audits to analyze both internal years, workshops have been conducted in 15 lead countries in and external conditions. All told, 54 EHS audits have been per560 sessions that reached 2,400 employees, contractors and cusformed in the following Divisions: Power and Gas, Process Industomers. The campaign was developed by the Center of Competries and Drives, Digital Factory, Mobility, Building Technologies tence for Electrical Safety (CoC-ES), an internal group of electrical and Energy Management. experts with representatives from all regions and Divisions. ACCIDENTS WORLDWIDE Another example are special reports based on the biennial global Since our goal is ”zero harm”, we cannot be satisfied with our employee survey on work-related stress factors. These reports safety performance. We’re improving, but we have not yet hit our are the basis for managers to conduct psychosocial risk assesstarget. Our employees and those of our contractors still suffer too ments aiming at detecting and avoiding work-related strain for many incidents. employees. Such efforts are complemented by additional activities, again according to local needs and requirements. Siemens figures include Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy data since April 1, 2017. Incident Investigations In our drive to constantly improve our safety performance and share lessons learned, we are constantly strengthening our inciLTIFR employees and contractors 1 dent investigation capabilities through training and support. Fiscal year Training sessions to systematically analyze the root causes of 2017 2016 incidents and to address measures preventing recurrence have Employees 2 0.51 0.56 been conducted in Austria, the United Kingdom, the United Contractors 3 0.55 0.47 States, China, Germany, Scandinavia and the Middle East. Over 500 investigators have been trained over the past two years. 1 Lost-time injury frequency rate: number of lost-time injuries (LTI) × 200,000 / work hours performed; LTIs are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work. 2 Depending on national regulations, foreign or temporary workers may also count as employees. 3 Contractors who bill by time, especially those who work on large project sites. When recording lost-time injuries (LTIs), we use applicable ­national definitions for incidents as work-related. People and Society 25 5.3 Corporate Citizenship Fatalities Fiscal year Good corporate citizenship has been embedded in our DNA 2017 2016 since Werner von Siemens founded the company in 1847. It is Fatalities at Siemens reflected in our mission to provide technologies that improve (work related) 2 2 the quality of life and create lasting value for society. Fatalities at Siemens (commuting accidents) 2 5 Being present around the globe, Siemens has grown deep roots 4 7 wherever we operate. While never losing sight of the bottom Fatalities of Siemens Contractors (work-related) 4 0 line, the firm has voluntarily extended its commitment to the Total 8 7 betterment of humankind by making our skills and knowledge readily available. Our corporate citizenship activities extend beyond philanthropy. In fiscal 2017, the overall number of fatalities was slightly higher We mine our core competencies to find ways to contribute. Our than in fiscal 2016. Regrettably, we reported eight fatalities. Of work ranges from disaster relief, for example, financial support these, four fatalities involved contractors (all work-related) and related to victims of forest fires in Chile or in response to hurrifour involved Siemens employees. The four Siemens cases incanes and earthquakes, to inclusive and innovative business cluded two commuting accidents on the way to or from work and practices such as mobile health clinics in India. two work-related. Thereof, two fatalities (one employee and one contractor) are related to Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy. We have three focus areas for our corporate citizenship work: Access to Technology, Access to Education and Sustaining ComOCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS munities. They emerged from our business strategy, core com­ Despite a moderate increase, the total number of cases of occupetencies, global targets for the betterment of society, global pational illness relative to the number of employees has remained megatrends (demographics, urbanization, climate change, gloat a low level for many years. The corresponding indicator (occupabalization and digitalization), and stakeholder dialog. They are tional illness frequency rate, or OIFR, relative to 1,000,000 work rooted in our Business to Society approach and our Vision 2020 hours performed) was 0.52 in the year under review compared strategy. to 0.48 in fiscal 2016. Here we report the figures for Siemens ­Germany, only. OIFR is calculated solely on the basis of cases of Our activities in Corporate Citizenship contribute to advances on occupational illness recognized by the Employers’ Liability Insurthe SDGs across the board. By providing access to education, we ance Association. specifically have a medium impact on SDG 4 ”Quality Education”. The importance of our focus areas Access to Technology and PROMOTING HEALTH Sustaining Communities is also highlighted in the SDG 11 ”SusDigitalization and demographic change are driving change in the tainable Cities and Communities” and SDG 17 ”Partnerships for world of work and are impacting nearly all workplaces. To ensure the Goals”. a sustainable promotion of our employees’ health and well-being, we set up the company-wide program Healthy @ Siemens to manage health risks and resources proactively. In fiscal 2014, we introduced the Healthy @ Siemens Label as a quality characteristic for sustainable health management to encourage implementation. To achieve the Healthy @ Siemens Label, Siemens country organizations have to meet requirements in seven categories and pass a comprehensive on-site assessment. So far, 30 countries have been awarded the Healthy @Siemens Label. 26 People and Society Corporate Citizenship focus areas Access to Technology − We draw on our core competencies, plus Donations scientific research, to help improve living conditions through Fiscal year ­access to technology. One interesting example of our work in this (in millions of € ; in %) 2017 2016 realm is Project Asha in rural India and that we have replicated in Total 23.0 22.8 various other locations. It helps marginalized communities by Share of net profit 0.4 0.4 applying sustainable and inclusive technology that can be scaled up and replicated. The project ­focuses on enhancing the living conditions of people who often lack basic necessities such as electricity, clean drinking water and basic healthcare. Donations by category Fiscal year Access to Education – We work to extend educational opportu(in millions of € ) 2017 2016 nities to more people and improve research, especially for science, Education and science 15.2 16.0 technology, engineering, and mathematics (known as the STEM Social 4.8 4.6 subjects). This improves educational levels, spurs interest in STEM, Environment 0.2 0.1 and indirectly helps train our future workforce. Since these efforts Arts and culture 2.2 2.2 often involve employees as volunteers, mentors, and advisors, Total1 23.0 22.8 they also promote employee satisfaction and retention. In Brazil, for example, the Formare School helps students from low-income 1 Total includes Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy donations of € 0.6 million without ­further breakdown. families who live near Siemens sites to earn certificates as assistants in electronic and mechanical assembly. Another example, in Germany, is a contest called Jugend forscht that encourages Donations by region and supports talented young people in the STEM fields. Fiscal year Sustaining Communities – Access to basic provisions is essential (in millions of € ) 2017 2016 for sustaining communities, but at the same time local identificaEurope, C.I.S.,¹ Africa, Middle East 9.6 10.2 tion on the base of cultural patterns is as important. Therefore the Americas 10.0 10.1 support of cultural and societal activities is part of our self-underAsia, Australia 3.5 2.5 standing as a socially responsible company protecting values, Total 23.0 22.8 unleashing creativity, enhancing intercultural understanding and inspiring progress. Furthermore, our cultural, social and environ1 Commonwealth of Independent States. mental commitment includes humanitarian emergency aid and financial and technical assistance in the wake of natural disasters. Additionally, at Siemens, employees take responsibility. Corporate Volunteering is an efficient and personal way to provide a societal commitment. In 2016, employee volunteering was identified as a strategic priority. This combines the company’s desire to contribute to communities with our employees’ wish to be more engaged. To that end, we are rolling out a volunteering platform and guidelines. These efforts will continue to advance in fiscal 2018. Goals include creating a more structured approach, encouraging volunteerism, raising awareness, and broadening the impact on our communities and our business. People and Society 27 6 – Environment Sustaining the environment lies at the heart of our ­sustainability efforts that we drive internally and together with our customers by improving energy and resource ­efficiency. This is reflected by our decarbonization and ­environmental programs that aim at conserving resources by optimizing their use along the entire product life cycle. Through our engagement towards the environment, we ­contribute to the planet. Our engagement towards the ­environment is embedded in our 12 sustainability principles. With this, Siemens addresses SDG 3 ”Good Health and Well-being”, SDG 6 ”Clean Water and Sanitation”, SDG 7 ”Affordable and Clean Energy”, SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Economic Growth”, SDG 9 ”Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure”, SDG 11 ”Sustainable ­Cities and Communities”, SDG 12 ”Respon­sible Consumption and Production” and SDG 13 ”Climate Action”. 28 Environment 6.1 Decarbonization Our environmental portfolio represents our biggest contribution to climate change mitigation. The Siemens Environmental PortClimate change is a key challenge that Siemens has been tackling folio is part of Siemens’ response to global challenges such as for more than a decade. We are committed to making an imporclimate change, scarcity of natural resources and environmental tant contribution to the decarbonization of the global economy, pollution. It is therefore a key element of the sustainability focus which according to experts must happen way before the end of area ”Decarbonization”, as described in the chapter ENVIRONthe 21st century. Herewith we mainly contribute to SDG 7 ”AffordMENTAL PORTFOLIO of this report. able and Clean Energy”, SDG 12 ”Responsible Consumption and Production” as well as SDG 13 ”Climate Action”. There are several CO 2-neutral Siemens main ways to reach this goal, such as: With regard to our own operations, in September 2015, Siemens launched the global ”CO2-neutral Program”. On the basis of a Use energy as efficiently as possible; positive business case we plan to halve the footprint of our own increase the share of renewable energy and accelerate the operations by 2020 as compared with 2014, and become carbonswitch of the remaining conventional electricity generation to neutral by 2030. low-carbon fuels; redesign electricity markets to ensure sufficient investments into a sustainable, secure and efficient energy system; CO2-neutral target trajectory (in Mt CO2)¹ accelerate the uptake of highly flexible technologies to integrate renewable energies and ensure system stability; accelerate the decarbonization of other sectors with sector 2.2 – 50 % integration, including Power-to-X-technologies. 2.0 1. 7 1.6 Siemens also considers carbon pricing a must-have for effective 1.1 decarbonization and believes a carbon price floor or corridor is the 0.0 best way forward. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 2030 Siemens is working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions along 1 As reported in respective fiscal year. our entire value chain − in the supply chain, in our own operations, and through the goods and services we ­provide to our By fiscal 2017, we managed to reduce our CO2 emissions by more customers. than 600,000 metric tons versus 2014, putting us well on track to meet our 2020 interim goal. Value chain emissions and savings from Environmental Our CO2-neutral Program not only enables us to protect the ­Portfolio (EP) in fiscal 2017 (in Mt CO2) ­environment and reduce costs, but also to gain experience and 570 strengthen our expertise in environmentally-friendly technologies that may well be useful for our suppliers and customers. ~30x The emission reductions are coming from a series of ongoing initiatives. We discuss each briefly below. 1. 6 Drive Energy Efficiency Program 16.6 18.2 Between fiscal 2016 and 2020 we are investing € 100 million to Supply Own Cradle to EP savings 1 improve energy efficiency at our own sites. We expect this to result Chain ­operations gate in approximately € 20 million worth of energy cost savings per year 1 Total annual savings of products installed since 2002 at our customers and still in use in ­fiscal 2017: 570 Mt CO2. once the program is completed. By fiscal 2017, seven projects have been completed in Europe, North America and Asia. In addiEmissions in our supply chain stand at about 17 million metric tons tion, 20 energy efficiency projects are ongoing. of carbon dioxide equivalent (Mt CO2). Emissions from our own operations are roughly 10% of that, at 1.6 Mt CO2. This is because The new Siemens corporate headquarters building in Munich, supply chain operations tend to be more energy-intensive, mainly inaugurated in June 2016, was nominated as a finalist for the 2017 owing to the processing of raw materials. We continue to work MIPIM Best Innovative Green Building award, considered the closely with our suppliers to help them improve energy efficiency ­Oscars of the real estate world. The building consumes 90 % less and reduce their CO2 footprints. Environment 29 electricity than its predecessor. A tilted inner facade increases 6.2 Environmental Portfolio the amount of natural daylight in the interior, cutting down on the need for artificial lighting. Smart building technologies use Our environmental portfolio represents our biggest contribution 30,000 data points to control heating, ventilation, and air conto climate change mitigation. The Siemens Environmental Portditioning. The building has DGNB Platinum and LEED Platinum folio is part of Siemens’ response to global challenges such as ”green” certification. climate change, scarcity of natural resources and environmental pollution. Leverage distributed energy systems We are expanding our use of distributed energy systems at our The Environmental Portfolio consists of products, systems, soluown sites through combined heat and power plants, solar panels, tions, and services (Environmental Portfolio elements) that wind turbines, intelligent energy management systems, and meet one of our selection criteria, namely energy efficiency ­energy storage solutions. Our long-term target is to satisfy 10 % of and renewable energy. While these elements reduce impact on our electricity demand through onsite power generation with a the environment and emissions of carbon dioxide and other high renewable energy share. The Siemens Campus Erlangen will greenhouse gases (defined together in the following as carbon be one of the first showcases and will be carbon-neutral from dioxide emissions) they directly influence SDG 7 ”Affordable and day one. Another ten projects were initiated in fiscal 2017 and Clean Energy”, SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Economic Growth”, SDG further 15 are in concept development. 9 ”Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure”, SDG 11 ”Sustainable Cities and Communities”, SDG 12 ”Responsible Consumption and Reduce fleet emissions Production as well as SDG 13 ”Climate Action”. The reduced level We are working to reduce the emissions of our fleet of around of the environmental impact is measured by carrying out com47,000 vehicles. Our goal is to reduce emissions and related fuel parisons with reference solutions (baselines). costs by 33 % by 2025, i. e. a reduction to approximately 200,000 metric tons CO2. In fiscal 2017, emissions stood at approximately With our Environmental Portfolio we intend, among other things, 300,000 metric tons CO2. On the basis of a survey of mobility to help our customers mitigate their carbon dioxide footprint, cut requirements, e-car options are being given greater support. In their energy costs and improve their profitability through an some countries, economic individual behavior is coming into ­increase in their productivity. In addition to its environmental ­focus. We will continue to include CO2 emission factors as an ­benefits, our Environmental Portfolio enables us to compete sucintegral part of our local car fleet policies around the world. cessfully in attractive markets and generate profitable growth under­lining Siemens’ strategic focus on technologies for energy Purchase ”green” energy efficiency and climate and environmental protection. For fiscal We are increasing the share of electricity that we purchase from 2017, three-quarters of the revenue from our Environmental renewable sources such as wind farms. In fiscal 2017, a significant Portfolio was generated from products and solutions for energy share of sites in Germany, the United States, United Kingdom, efficiency. Austria and Spain were already supplied with ”green” electricity. These countries covered about 40 % of Siemens’ total electricity demand in fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2017, emissions could be reduced Key results of the Environmental Portfolio by more than 400,000 metric tons, through purchasing electricFiscal year ity from renewable sources. 2017 2016 Revenue generated by the Siemens Environmental Portfolio (continuing operations, in billions of € ) 38.7 36.3 Annual customer abatement of carbon dioxide emissions enabled by elements from the Siemens Environmental Portfolio newly installed in the reporting year (continuing operations, in millions of metric tons) 59 60 Accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions generated by elements from the Siemens Environmental Portfolio within the reporting year (continuing operations, in millions of metric tons) 570 522 30 Environment The Environmental Portfolio elements that contribute the most With these activities we contribute to SDG 3 ”Good Health and to the total mitigation of carbon dioxide emissions at our customers Wellbeing”, SDG 6 ”Clean Water and Sanitation”, SDG 7 ”Affordare combined cycle power plants (CCPP), power plant modernizaable and Clean Energy”, SDG 12 ”Responsible Consumption and tion and upgrade activities, power generation from wind power, Production” as well as SDG 13 ”Climate Action”. frequency converters and high-voltage direct current (HVDC) power transmission systems. We have been able to significantly improve efficiency in primary energy by 34 % compared to fiscal 2014. Through StE efficiency Including revenue from newly developed and additionally qualimeasures and purchasing renewable energy, in line with the CO2fied Environmental Portfolio elements and excluding revenue neutral program, we can reduce considerably the primary energy from elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria, revneeded for our own operations while simultaneously cutting enue from continuing operations relating to the Environmental emissions. Portfolio in the current year amounted to € 38.7 billion, exceeding the comparable revenue of € 36.3 billion from fiscal 2016. This Compared with fiscal 2016, comparable waste production (withmeans that in fiscal 2017 our Environmental Portfolio accounted out Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy) decreased in fiscal 2017, for 47 % of our revenue from continuing operations. although comparable revenue increased by approximately 3 %. Waste efficiency therefore improved to 2 % as compared with the Furthermore, with our Siemens Environmental Portfolio elements base year 2014. We were also able to further reduce waste to installed in fiscal 2017, we helped our customers mitigate their landfill by 19 % compared with the base year, which underlines emissions by a further 59 million metric tons of carbon dioxide. our ”zero waste to landfill” ambitions. This was supported by a With the total of our Siemens Environmental Portfolio elements company-wide waste reduction and material efficiency training. installed at customer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002 that remain in use today, we mitigated accumulated annual cusResults on resource conservation through tomer carbon dioxide emissions by 570 million metric tons in Serve the ­Environment fiscal 2017. Our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on attaining optimal energy and resource efficiency at our sites. Serve the To learn more about the Siemens Environmental Portfolio, please Environment (StE) and CO2-neutral complement each other and visit: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ENVIRONMENTALPORTFOLIO define Siemens-wide targets: StE through 2020 and CO2-neutral through 2030. 6.3 Conservation of resources Other goals include improved waste efficiency, reduced waste for disposal, and the assessment of water-related risks – with the We strive to meet the needs of our customers while strengthening subsequent application of adequate mitigation measures. our position as a sustainable company, especially by improving energy and resource efficiency. We also work to meet a growing As the StE program moves forward, we are integrating energy number of environmental protection requirements around the and waste efficiency elements into our supply chain manageworld. Our comprehensive Environmental Protection, Health ment, and assessing the total cost of ownership for energy-intenManagement and Safety (EHS) management system helps sive products. Air pollution control will be considered holistically, ­operating units comply with the applicable laws, regulations, taking into account the general local air conditions at our producand customer demands. It also helps us satisfy our corporate tion plants and offices and in particular our emissions from volarequirements and meet group-wide environmental targets. tile organic substances (VOC) and ozone depleting substances (ODS) at the most relevant sites. At sites where energy consumpAll relevant production and office sites must therefore implement tion is significant, we will examine the possibility of on-site genenvironmental management systems that meet the criteria of eration to foster energy efficiency and provide a buffer against ISO 14001, the relevant standard of the International Organizapotential price increases. Our water management strategy is tion for Standardization. being expanded to include growing concerns such as water scarcity, water pollution, climate change, and changing precipitaSiemens drives the conservation of resources with the Serve the tion and flood patterns. Environment (StE) program. Within StE, objectives and activities are defined in order to reduce negative environmental impacts at all Siemens sites. Training and workshops in key markets help boost employee engagement. And our ”We say thank you” campaign honors outstanding individual contributions to environmental protection. Environment 31 Environmental Management Systems Energy consumed by company business vehicles is recorded cenAll our locations have environmental management systems in trally. Staff vehicles, service vehicles, and trucks owned by Siemens place. At least 279 are certified to ISO 14001, at least 278 of them are grouped together for this purpose. In fiscal 2017, the fleet audited by external auditors. The decision to pursue ISO 14001 consumed around 3.94 million gigajoules compared with 4.0 milcertification is made by environmental protection executives of lion gigajoules in the previous year (without Siemens Gamesa the business units and countries in close consultation with enviRenewable Energy). The decrease of 1 % is mainly due to our ronmental ­protection officers at the group level. car policy, which encourages employees to use more energy-­ efficient vehicles. The International Organization for Standardization revised its ISO 14001 standard for environmental management in 2015. The Greenhouse gas emissions new requirements of ISO 14001:2015 have been gradually inteWe report our greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of the Corgrated into our processes. At least 93 of our sites are already porate Standard of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World certified under the new regime. This includes a matrix certificaResource Institute (WRI) and of the World Business Council for tion for all sites in the Power and Gas and Power Generation Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Direct greenhouse gas emisService Divisions. A total of 64 Siemens locations have implesions (Scope 1) arise from sources in the Company ’s ownership mented energy management systems according to ISO 50001, or under its control. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) and others are ready to follow suit. refer to the consumption of purchased electrical energy and district heating. Since fiscal 2016, we also report upstream Scope 3 Energy consumption emissions from our supply chain, such as business travel, capital In fiscal 2017, consumption of natural and liquid petroleum gases goods, fuel and energy related activities and transportation. increased by 14 % due to a higher heating demand. The use of Scope 3 emissions from supply chain have been calculated by other fossil fuels is minor in comparison to natural gas. Overall, means of a multi-regional macroeconomic input-output model primary energy consumption increased by 15 % compared with on the basis of our volume of purchased goods and services. the previous year basically due to increased activities at two test bays for turbines and newly acquired business activities. Greenhouse gas emissions Fiscal year Primary energy (in 1,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents) 2017 2016 Fiscal year Scope 1 862 874 (1,000 gigajoules) 2017 2016 Scope 2 1 740 935 Natural gas/liquid petroleum gas 6,522 5,710 Sum Scope 1 and 2 1,602 1,809 Fuel oil, coal, gasoline/diesel 568 454 Scope 3 2 Total 7,090 6,165 Purchases goods & services 14,686 15,071 Capital Goods 402 393 Fuel and energy related activities 251 235 Waste in operations 44 55 Electricity consumption remained stable. The share of renewable Transportation upstream 782 634 electricity amounted to 38 % compared with 23 % the year before. Business travel 411 380 Energy consumption from district heat increased by 14 % due to Total Scope 3 16,575 16,768 heating demand. 1 We calculate our emissions resulting from electrical consumption based on the carbon ­emission factors of our local sites after the marked based approach. Secondary energy 2 Without Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy. Fiscal year (1,000 gigajoules) 2017 2016 For Scope 1 and 2 combined, we reached a reduction in emissions Electricity 9,093 9,089 of 207 kt CO2e. Compared to fiscal 2016, this is a reduction of 11 %. District heating 2,219 1,944 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) have been reduced Total 11,312 11,033 by 1 %. For the other Kyoto gases, including sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), we also see a reduction. For SF6 alone we had an emission of 133 kt CO2e which shows a reduction close to 20 %. The ­reduction 32 Environment results from an improved handling and emission control ­approach Waste as well as from improved specifications for reporting at one major The environmental relevance of waste depends on the type of site. waste and the method used to dispose of it. Our waste per­ formance indicator addresses both waste efficiency and absoThe significant reduction of Scope 2 emissions by 21 % is mainly lute disposal waste reduction. Several sites, for instance Digital a result of our continued power purchasing policy. In fiscal 2017, ­Factory Congleton, UK have already achieved a Zero Disposal we purchased ”green” electricity from hydro and wind power waste status. We differentiate between hazardous, non-hazardmainly in Denmark, UK, Spain and Austria and increased the ous, and construction waste. The groups of hazardous and nonshare of ”green” electricity in the US and Germany. Compared to hazardous waste are each further divided into recyclable waste the average national electricity mix of grids our green electricity and waste for disposal. We report waste from construction or purchasing strategy saved 416 kt CO2e. demolition work separately because this kind of waste material arises independently of production. Within Scope 3 the biggest impact is coming from purchasing goods and services which did not change significantly as it is true for the other Scope 3 categories. Waste Fiscal year Atmospheric pollutant emissions (in 1,000 metric tons) 2017 2016 Other industrial emissions are also relevant to environmental Non-hazardous waste 378 371 protection. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) contribute to the Hazardous waste 29 28 formation of ozone close to the earth’s surface and are responConstruction waste ¹ 172 43 sible for what is known as summer smog. We use these organic Total 580 441 compounds as solvents in paints and adhesives, in impregnation processes, and for surface cleaning. We monitor ozone-depleting 1 Without Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy. substances (ODS) and comply with the Montreal Protocol, the Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, in addition to Year-on-year, non-hazardous waste increased by 2 %. Hazardous national laws. waste increased by 4 %. Including all waste types, we increased our waste volume by 32 % compared with fiscal 2016. The ­increase results from a major demolition project in Erlangen, Atmospheric pollutant emissions Germany, generating a high amount of construction waste. Fiscal year (in metric tons) 2017 2016 Recycling Volatile organic compounds 859 866 Ozone-depleting substances in metric tons of Fiscal year R11 equivalent ¹ 0.144 0.165 (in %, excluding construction waste) 2017 2016 Share of recycling in total waste 90 90 1 R11 equivalent measures ozone depletion potential. The volume of emissions of volatile organic compounds d ­ ecreased by 1 % to 859t. The volume of ODS emissions decreased by 0.021 The recycling rate remained at the same level as last fiscal year. tons of R11 equivalent (R11 is one of the many substances that cause ozone depletion). Overall, we are aware of the need for Water phase-out plans and s­ ubstitution, especially for R22, the subThe Siemens Water Strategy aims to reduce the local negative stance we use most. impact of our water use. It takes into account factors such as water stress, water pollution, and flooding. So far, we have In calculating nitrogen oxides, we have assumed typical combusanalyzed 310 of our sites using the Global Water Tool of the tion conditions in the relevant thermal processes, resulting in a World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The results figure of 215 metric tons for environmentally relevant locations of these analyses show that Siemens faces relevant risks. They in the year under review, compared with 193 metric tons the year also demonstrate that our centralized risk assessments must be before. The figure includes nitrogen oxides released during the complemented by local assessments to improve their precision. incineration of fuels reported in the section on primary energy. This effort is under way. From the start of fiscal 2015 through end of fiscal 2017, 66 % of our sites have implemented the water strategy. Environment 33 one a hazardous waste inspection violation and one was an Implementation of Water Strategy ­exceeding of threshold values in wastewater. These are occurFiscal year rences that have to be notified to the authorities – notifiable inci(in %) 2017 2016 dents – or that had an external impact on the environment. Total Sites with implemented Water Strategy 66 18 fines from penalties in the year under review were not ­significant. Methodology, reporting on environmental factors and collection of environmental data For the last two years, water consumption without chemically In fiscal 2017, we used our environmental information system to unchanged cooling water has remained more or less stable. The analyze 310 reports from sites in all relevant countries where reduction of chemically unchanged cooling water results from defined threshold values were exceeded for parameters such less cooling demand and cooling process changes. as energy use, resource consumption and emissions within the environmental management. To measure and monitor our environmental impact, we use absolute values such as energy conWater consumption sumption in gigajoules. We report environmental data for conFiscal year tinuing operations. Extrapolation to 100 % was applied to reflect (in million cubic meters) 2017 2016 complete consumptions in our figures. Overall, the extrapolation Water consumption 7.91 8.07 was significant for water with 12 % and primary energy with 20 %. Ground and surface water for cooling water Due to updated extrapolation factors, figures from the previous purposes (returned to receiving water body year were adjusted, too. We monitor our environmental impact chemically unchanged, but warmed) 17.61 21.85 for all office and production sites of environmental relevance Total 25.52 29.92 ­using environmental data gathered quarterly. We calculate environmental efficiency in industrial environmental Wastewater from manufacturing processes amounts to less than protection on a portfolio-adjusted basis equivalent to the adjustone million cubic meters. Volume-wise, our main water use is for ment used to calculate the comparable revenue change as stated cooling processes; most of this water is returned to the receiving in the annual report. Revenue change in this context means the water body with the same chemical quality as when it was drawn change of revenue from fiscal 2016 to fiscal 2017 excluding curfrom the environment. rency translation and portfolio effects. This portfolio adjustment procedure for revenue was accordingly used for the environmental efficiency parameters of waste and energy as well as for the Wastewater percentage of revenue covered by life cycle assessments (LCAs) Fiscal year and Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs). The approach (in million cubic meters) 2017 2016 therefore enables us to monitor and compare our environmental Wastewater from employee facilities 4.91 5.10 performance over time, regardless currency translations, acquisiWastewater from manufacturing processes tions and disposals from year to year and closely relates environ(­total) 0.93 0.94 mental performance to business performance. Other (incl. losses, ) 1.44 1.49 Conditioned cooling water discharged as wastewater Total wastewater without chemically 0.43 0.46 6.4 Product Stewardship ­unchanged cooling water 7.72 7.98 Cooling water (returned to receiving water Resource productivity starts with better awareness inside the body chemically unchanged, but warmed) 17.61 21.85 company. In that spirit, we have focused our attention on imTotal wastewater 25.32 29.84 provements in the materials and components that affect the environmental impact of our products. These efforts are supported by internal assessment tools, workshops and methodologies designed to help increase the efficiency of our use of resources. Environment-related incidents and penalties In the year under review, we recorded three incidents classed With our product-related environmental activities we mainly conas being of environmentally minor relevance (without Siemens tribute to SDG 12 that aims at ensuring sustainable consumption Gamesa Renewable Energy). Incidents are reported in the and production patterns. Siemens environmental reporting system. One was an oil spillage, 34 Environment Product Eco Excellence: 2020 Goals As we continue to increase the amount of LCAs, we are learning The Product Eco Excellence program aims to improve the effiabout our environmental footprints throughout the life cycle of ciency of resource use and increase the transparency surrounding different products. This has led us to start using that information product-related environmental information for our stakeholders. for product service operations. Additive manufacturing has beThis is partly a response to developments in various markets and come a key element of the service business, for example, to create to achieve sustainable products but also to ensure compliance spare parts for gas turbine burner repair at Siemens Power and with legal and customer requirements, regarding such things as Gas in Finspang, Sweden. LCAs can also be used to improve eco-design, labeling, and product environmental footprints. processes and internal production. These efforts deliver added value to our customers and our business as well as for the environment. We strive to produce more The current reporting period shows continued high coverage for with less. To get there, we take a sustainable management business units with LCAs (screening and full-scale) and environ­approach over the entire product life cycle. mental product declarations (EPDs). Even though the revenuebased coverage ratio of LCAs and EPDs is constant from fiscal The program has established several targets for 2020. One in2016 to fiscal 2017, the detailed analysis shows an increase of the volves the adoption of automated data collection and processing total number of LCAs by 10 % and 5 % concerning EPDs. for declarable substances. This will increase transparency. It will also help us to work on developing substitutes to meet future statWe aim to increase our LCA and EPD investigations in the future. utory requirements and customer demands. We also strength­en the countries by conducting workshops on Substance Management. Life cycle assessments and environmental product declarations We plan to improve the coverage of life cycle assessments (LCAs) and environmental product declarations (EPDs). Both of these tools Fiscal year provide in-depth information about the environmental impacts (percentage of revenue ¹ covered) 2017 2016 of products throughout their life cycles. They help us meet cusFull-scale LCAs 65 65 tomer demands for environmental performance. Another key goal Screening LCAs 46 46 is to reduce the use of critical materials in Siemens products. To EPD 65 65 motivate the stakeholder of the entire product life cycle management (PLM) process and the EHS departments, we conduct work1 We consider the revenue of a Business Unit in relation to Siemens revenue once we have carried out at least one ”Full-scale LCA,” ”Screening LCA,” or ”EPD” for their products or shops that make the benefit of dealing with LCAs and critical ­systems. No product-related coverage is calculated. ­materials transparent and concrete. Critical materials List of Declarable Substances (LoDS) In the ”Report on critical raw materials for the EU”, the European During their qualification process, suppliers must reveal whether Commission has identified the top 20 critical raw materials for their product parts, components, and/or compositions contain high tech industries, focusing on future availability. To be better substances on the Siemens global List of Declarable Substances prepared regarding future risks associated with critical materials (LoDS). They must disclose relevant details about these sub– be they environmental, toxicological, or related to possible stances. This systematic reporting helps establish a foundation ­future scarcity – we have transformed and globally rolled out our for automated data collection and processing. In addition, Siemens critical material assessment methodology. This tool helps comhas established an Internet database in which suppliers declare ponent and product engineers make the right material choices. relevant substances. We have rolled out this tool and implemented It also provides support for decisions to reduce or avoid the use it in business to support quality-based judgments about informaof certain materials. tion accuracy. The purchasing volume of eight critical materials has been monLife cycle assessments (LCAs) itored via a supply chain database. Based on this analysis and in Within Siemens, we aim to identify the environmental load of our comparison with fiscal 2015 (baseline), the current analysis products by using full-scale and screening LCAs, and to reduce shows a slight increase due to consumption based price increase. their environmental impacts. Both approaches are in line with the In 2017, a first strategic workshop has been conducted within one requirements of ISO 14040 / 44, the standards of the International Division to reduce the amount of critical materials. Further workOrganization for Standardization that cover the procedure for shops are planned for fiscal 2018. creating life cycle assessments. However, screening LCAs are by their nature less extensive, covering only parts of the life cycle − e. g., the use phase most critical to our customers or the phase affected by a design change. Environment 35 7 – Responsible Business Practices Global value chains affect working environments and production processes adding challenges to decision making, level of authorities and monitoring processes. The business practices we commit to are based on ­integrity, fairness, transparency, and responsibility. They build the core principles for all our compliance and anti-bribery, supply chain management and human rights related activities. Our responsible business practices have an impact on SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Economic Growth”, SDG 12 ”Responsible Consumption and Production”, SDG 16 ”Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions” and SDG 17 ”Partnerships for the Goals”. 36 Responsible Business Practices 7.1 Compliance (PACI). We actively support the enactment of the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the Anti-Bribery Convention At Siemens, we take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption, vioof the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Developlations of fair competition principles, and breaches of applicable ment (OECD). We play a leading role in the Anti-Corruption Task law. If these do occur, we respond vigorously. For us, integrity Force of the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the means acting in accordance with our values – responsible, excelOrganization for Economic Co-operation and Development lent and innovative – wherever we do business. A key element of (OECD-BIAC), and our Chief Compliance Officer is acting as integrity is compliance: adherence to the law and to our own inter­chairman of the task force since 2013. During the German presinal regulations. dency of the G20 in 2017, he was also appointed chairman of the B20 working group on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-­ SDG 16 ”Peace, Justice and strong Institutions” includes a call for Corruption. The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and companies to substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all these other initiatives provide guidance for our work in this area their forms. This in turn promotes fair competition, which benthroughout our organization. efits innovation-driven companies such as Siemens. Efforts to combat corruption coupled with strong compliance systems Siemens operates in nearly every country of the world – with protect companies, their employees and shareholders against customers in both the private and public sectors, covering a wide the risks of misconduct. Developing countries and their citizens range of industries. On September 30, the company had stand to benefit greatly from reduced corruption. Since corrup372,000 ­employees worldwide. The environment in which our tion is a drag on the economy and sustainable development, company conducts its business and thus its compliance activities efforts to squelch it can contribute to progress on all of the SDGs. is correspondingly complex. Our global business activities are subject to numerous national legal systems, as well as diverse We have a specific program to anchor integrity and compliance political, social and cultural frameworks. All of which are in a in the minds and actions of all Siemens employees and external constant state of flux. stakeholders, and we run company-wide Integrity Dialogues. We require suppliers and business partners to meet our standards of To be effective, our Compliance System must adapt to meet busiconduct, including those for anti-corruption and fair competiness-specific risks and multiple local legal requirements. Given tion. Beyond our company’s borders, we are committed to supthat we develop new technologies and bring them to market, we port the fight against corruption and promote fair competition in need to stay ahead of the game with a Compliance System that our markets in cooperation with other organizations in the is adaptable on that front as well. Tasks range from drawing up course of our Collective Action activities. topic-specific compliance regulations and processes to supporting employees with information, training and advice about comOur Business Conduct Guidelines describe how we fulfill our compliance. On-site compliance officers and experts lead the way in pliance-related responsibilities. They also serve as an expression managing these efforts in our business units around the world. of our values and lay the foundation for more detailed internal regulations. The Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all Export controls and sanctions are a defined compliance risk and employees worldwide. enforcement has increased in this realm. Therefore, the Siemens Managing Board decided to integrate the export control unit into Our Compliance System aims to ensure that our worldwide busithe global compliance function under the leadership of the Chief ness practices comply with these guidelines and obey all appliCompliance Officer, effective July 1, 2017. Bundling regulatory cable laws. To this end, and to protect against compliance risk, our risks will help to increase the assurance level of the company ’s Compliance System is based on three pillars: prevent, detect and business. respond.1 Management approach We work with a myriad of international and national organizaThe company-wide compliance structure combines strong govertions around the world to help combat corruption and promote nance at the group level with the presence of qualified compliance fair competition (see the section on ”Collective Action” below). We officers who ensure that the Compliance System is implemented work with external stakeholders in the private sector, government in the company units around the world. They work closely with and civil society. These include our commitment to the United employees and managers who assume personal responsibility for Nations Global Compact globally, an initiative to encourage busicompliance in their respective units. nesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation; and the World This responsibility extends beyond the unequivocal role of senior Economic Forum, with its Partnering Against Corruption Initiative management. All managers must embody our commitment to 1 T o be noted: In fully consolidated Siemens entities that are being newly acquired or established, the elements of the Siemens Compliance System as described in this chapter are or will be implemented. Responsible Business Practices 37 compliance and ensure that business decisions and actions in As of fiscal 2015, we had defined our compliance priorities as their areas of responsibility are always in accordance with the ­illustrated and briefly described in the figure below. They are relevant legal requirements and our own values and guidelines. developed in line with Vision 2020, the Siemens strategic proIn general, Siemens’ top and middle managers demonstrate strong gram to create a reliable long-term perspective for the developcommitments to compliance. A loud-and-clear message has been ment of our compliance efforts. Ownership Culture is a cornersent in the decade since the Siemens corruption scandal. Complistone of Vision 2020 and of compliance. These priorities are ance and integrity are deeply rooted in the company culture. supplemented by focus areas and specific activities for each fiscal year and have continued to guide our work in fiscal 2017. Compliance Priorities in Fiscal 2017 They serve as the basis for employee targets that are reviewed Our compliance priorities provide the basis for the constant deas part of each individual’s Performance Management Process velopment and improvement of our system. We closely monitor (”PMP”). Every compliance employee is actively encouraged and the continuously evolving requirements in the compliance field committed to making contributions to the further development and strive to fulfill them. The challenges include changes in market of the Compliance System. conditions and in the compliance risks of our business activities. Compliance Priorities Foster Integrity Support business management to meet its responsibilities for compliance and further strengthen the culture of integrity in our ­Company and beyond. Committed to Business liance Priorit Manage Risk & Assurance mp ies Co Further intensify cooperation between the Foster Continue providing our businesses with Compliance Organization and our businesses Integrity the appropriate level of assurance within and reinforce our Compliance System’s our Compliance System. Risk & ­market and customer focus. Committ e age Busine d to a n r an c e M Assu ss Ownership Culture Excellent Compliance Team Effective Processes Ex c Com elle e tiv Provide an excellent compliance team through p Te lian nt ec e s Continue to further optimize and streamline a first-class learning and development landam ce Eff cess our compliance processes. Pro scape and close collaboration. Vision 2020 38 Responsible Business Practices Achievements in Fiscal 2017 We conduct regular surveys to gauge how Siemens employees A new process for compliance in project execution has enhanced perceive the topic of compliance. The results for fiscal 2017 the collaboration between our project managers and compliance ­demonstrate a continued positive compliance perception of our officers. They work together to create structured compliance risk employees. assessments and identify mitigation measures at various points in the project execution phase. To more fully integrate compliCompliance Risk Management ance into the entire project management life cycle, we worked Compliance risks in individual Siemens entities worldwide are on ways to improve the role of compliance during the project revealed through a Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) process. sales phase. CEOs, relevant managers, and Compliance Officers of the respective companies must systematically determine and assess compliProgress continued in several other areas: ance risks to their units on a regular basis. The use of analytics for risk management, using big data visualization and data mining; Since 2014, the CRA has been implemented in two ways: Work on developing compliance pacts for consortia projects – In odd-numbered years, (starting in fiscal 2015), for Lead to facilitate cooperation with partners and raise awareness; Countries, Divisions, and Healthineers; The inclusion of human rights compliance in the Siemens ComIn even-numbered years, in ”top-risk” countries, as a complepliance System (see the chapter HUMAN RIGHTS in this report); ment to analysis at the Lead Country, Division level and in Improvements in the compliance training program for employHealthineers, with in-depth assessments for selected countries. ees that enhance the risk-based approach and can be further We identify these countries in advance based on an analysis tailored to meet specific legal or business concerns. of external and internal compliance risks. Compliance Training and Accordingly, in fiscal 2017, CRA has been performed for Lead Compliance Performance Countries, Divisions, and Healthineers. Last year, in addition to All managers and employees who hold positions with a particular the core topics for analysis established in 2015 (anti-corruption, risk profile must attend compliance training sessions. In accorantitrust, data protection and anti-money laundering), we also dance with a binding company-wide definition of ”sensitive funccovered human rights compliance risk exposure. tions,” Compliance Officers of the relevant company units identify managers and employees who must participate and ensure CRA results are incorporated in the group-level compliance risk that they attend the training sessions. They monitor and confirm analysis. The latter aims to identify systematic and globally recurthe fulfillment of these requirements at regular intervals. ring compliance risks as quickly as possible. The group-level analysis considers additional factors, such as insights from compliOur company-wide compliance training program consists of inance controls and investigations into specific cases. The corporate person and web-based training programs. Our annual Integrity compliance risks are derived from the consolidated results, which Dialogue aims to maintain integrity and compliance as top-ofare shared with the company’s business units. Relevant risks are mind subjects at Siemens. The company-wide initiative provides reported to the company ’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). a forum to help managers discuss recent compliance matters with Risk-reduction measures are drawn up and implemented. their teams. In fiscal 2017, we added the option of short ”Integrity Moments” that can be shared during regular meetings. The identification of compliance risks in individual Siemens entities worldwide (CRA) and the Group-level compliance risk analysis The goal is continued awareness of compliance. It starts with the are complemented by an interdisciplinary exchange during Comorientation received by new hires, and moves to advanced trainpliance Risk Radar meetings, and the yearly Corporate Compliance ing and refresher courses, followed by continuous reinforceRisk Workshop in which several stakeholders analyze systematic ment of the culture of integrity by managers. Starting in fiscal and re-occurring compliance risks. 2017, Lead Country and Division Compliance Officers (in close collaboration with management) are required to establish and implement two-year compliance training roadmaps that cover all training activities relevant to their units. Responsible Business Practices 39 Business Partners and Suppliers Our employees make regular use of these channels. In fiscal 2017, Cooperation with third parties such as sales agents, customs 667 compliance cases requiring further inquiries or investigations clearing agents, consultants, distributors and resellers is part of came through them. We believe that the decrease from the 675 doing business, but the company may be liable for actions taken in fiscal 2016 lies within the normal range of variation. The total by these third parties. We have a mandatory process and tool for number of disciplinary sanctions for c­ ompliance violations in fisbusiness partner compliance due diligence. It is designed to help cal 2017 was 217, compared to 233 the year before. Numbers for Siemens entities conduct risk-based integrity checks of business disciplinary sanctions in a fiscal year do not necessarily correspond partners. Decisions about business partner relationships are to cases reported during that p ­ eriod: sanctions are frequently not transparent and take a risk-based approach, using high-quality implemented in the same year as the case was reported. This is compliance due diligence procedures. Depending on the risk because of an often lengthy period of investigation and due prolevel, they may include audits of the business partners conducted cess. In addition, a single case may result in multiple sanctions, or by Siemens internal auditors or external professionals. none at all. Each Siemens unit is responsible for its own business partners. We believe that, once again, the evidence demonstrates that our They must be carefully selected and appropriately monitored Compliance System is well-designed and being implemented and managed throughout the course of the relationships. As ­effectively. Based on the nature of our businesses, the environpreviously reported, we have a common, contractual code of ments in which we work, and the myriad of different geographiconduct for suppliers and business partners. Business partners cal regions, we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual. and suppliers receive training in compliance and integrity along with background information about the requirements. External Review of Siemens Compliance As previously reported, the law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP Compliance Indicators (”Gibson Dunn”) conducted an independent review in fiscal 2015. The review was not designed to be a comprehensive review of all Compliance indicators 1 business lines, all business activities or all markets. It was rather Fiscal year focused on a limited number of projects, Divisions and countries, 2017 2016 selected using a risk-based approach as well as Company HeadCompliance cases reported 667 675 quarters. Gibson Dunn summarized the scope, methodology Disciplinary sanctions 217 233 and results of its review in a report, which concluded with the therein warnings 120 112 statement that the Siemens Compliance System is adequately therein dismissals 79 96 designed and implemented to prevent, detect and respond to therein other 2 18 25 violations within Siemens of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) of the United States and other applicable anti-corruption 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. laws and it is effective in its implementation. 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and suspension. Collective Action and Siemens Integrity Initiative Whistleblowing If substantial progress is to be made in combating corruption and The ”Tell us” whistleblowing system and the company ombudsfostering fair competition, large numbers of stakeholders must man offer two secure reporting channels for employees and act collectively. The global Siemens Integrity Initiative earmarks ­external stakeholders to report violations of external and internal more than US$ 100 million to support organizations and projects rules. Reports made through these channels are forwarded to our that combat corruption and fraud through Collective Action, eduCompliance Organization. Possible misconduct may also be recation and training. The initiative focuses on supporting projects ported directly via the Managing Board or supervisors to the that have a clear impact on the business environment, can demCompliance Organization and, in particular, to the Compliance onstrate objective and measurable results, and have the potential Officers in our individual company units. to be scaled up and replicated. Through to the end of fiscal 2017, we have committed more than US$ 70 million to some 55 projects around the world. These are summarized in our Siemens Integrity Initiative Annual Reports. 40 Responsible Business Practices The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes one element of a 2009 7. 2 Supply Chain Management settlement between Siemens and the World Bank and another 2013 settlement between Siemens and the European Investment Siemens strives to play an integral role in all of the economies and Bank (EIB). societies where we operate. The principal goal of supply chain management (SCM) at Siemens is to provide a substantial and sustainFiscal 2018 able value contribution for the success of our businesses. The four Our compliance priorities described above will further guide our elements of this value contribution include: Productivity, Quality, work and will be specified by focus areas for fiscal 2018. MeaAvailability and Innovation. The roots of our network of suppliers sures planned for fiscal 2018 include the integration of export run deep. Our firm works with some 90,000 suppliers in about 150 control topics into the Compliance System and organization to countries. In fiscal 2017, the company purchased approximately better support our business through a single specialized depart€42 billion worth of goods and services. That figure is equal to ment with a strong team of experts. We will continue to improve about half of our total revenue. our business partner due diligence and explore the possibilities of digitalization and data analytics for better risk assessment. We Based on the priorities of the Siemens Divisions, the Siemens will also continue to develop web-based compliance training ­Procurement Council defined several key levers to achieve the courses for employees. These will focus on specific topics while SCM value contribution in alignment with Vision 2020. Since the reinforcing the emphasis on general topics. A new web-based reorganization of the SCM function concluded in 2015, a stronrefresher course will cover the Business Conduct Guidelines with ger focus belies on the ratio output-to-input, i. e. the financial emphasis on conflict of interest. It will be repeated every two contribution of the SCM functions vs. its cost of organization. years as a way to reinforce the importance of this topic. Finally, we plan to launch the Third Funding Round of Siemens Integrity All purchasing activities are being executed within the boundaries Initiative in fiscal 2018. This will be announced to the general of our Sustainability principles. They are the guiding principles for public through a press release and on our dedicated website. our supply chain management and an integral part of all relevant WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INTEGRIT Y-INITIATIVE supplier management processes – such as supplier selection, supplier qualification and evaluation, and supplier development. Responsible supply chain management can contribute to progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in a myriad of ways. A­ ccording to the UN Global Compact, the ”supply chain can make a significant impact in promoting human rights, fair labor practices, environmental progress and anti-corruption policies”. Some of the biggest contributions can be made on SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Economic Growth”, which among other things addresses labor issues, and SDG 12 ”Responsible Consumption and Production”. SDG 12 specifically calls on companies to work to adopt sustainable practices and increase reporting on their progress too. Efforts can be made to address poor working conditions ranging from minimum wage violations to extreme occupational hazards, and eradicate all forms of forced labor and child labor. Unhealthy workplaces can be cleaned up. Improved waste management and waste reduction are essential. Circular consumption can help cut down the use of natural resources. We require that all suppliers follow our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries (the Code). Established a decade ago, it draws on the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments to implement universal sustainability principles and to take steps to support UN goals, and the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO). It also relies upon the Siemens Business ­Conduct Guidelines, which establish the fundamental principles of sustainability throughout the organization. Responsible Business Practices 41 According to our Sustainability principles, all suppliers must adhere to the Code. Among other things, they agree to respect the basic Sustainability Self-Assessments 1 rights of employees, institute strong health and safety and enviFiscal year ronmental protection standards, and establish zero-tolerance (Number) 2017 2016 policies for corruption and bribery. During fiscal 2015, the Code Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 833 1,157 was updated to address issues such as fair competition, anti-trust, Americas 351 684 intellectual property rights, and conflicts of interest. The revision Asia, Australia 1,243 2,377 included a clause about avoiding the purchase of ”conflict Total 2,427 4,218 ­minerals”, meaning minerals that are extracted in certain countries and bring benefits to particular armed groups in those Fiscal year places. For fiscal 2018, we are checking the necessity of further (Results) 2017 2016 updating our Code to ensure the highest standards of human Category ”green” (no deviations) 1,402 2,974 rights in our supply chain. Category ”yellow” (minor deviations) 3 – 686 Category ”red” The Siemens Supplier Management Process provides a full range (suspicion of serious deviations) 3 683 558 of interrelated procedures and tools to ensure transparency and Total4 2,427 4,218 awareness with regard to spending, suppliers, and risks and opportunities in the supply chain. It helps managers fully leverage 1 To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume > € 50,000 p. a. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review. the potential of our network of suppliers. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. 3 Clarification of the situation by the designated buyer, agreement on corrective measures Key aspects of the process include the application of rigorous within a defined period of time, or conduct of an external sustainability audit. criteria for supplier selection and qualification. The criteria in4 Total contains 342 self-assessments of SGRE without further breakdown per category. clude elements that are central to general risk management, such as financial stability, quality and availability – along with overall Sustainability Self-Assessments are part of the Siemens Supplier sustainability. They also spotlight potential opportunities by helpQualification Process, which is regularly reviewed and, if necesing to identify the best-performing and most-qualified suppliers. sary, updated to incorporate new norms and regulations. New potential suppliers go through the qualification process while With such a large and geographically dispersed supplier network, existing ones are reevaluated every three years. Due to the impleSiemens cannot maintain the same level of oversight for every mentation of the new Siemens-wide SCM platform and the necessupplier. For example, it would be impossible to perform site sary adaptation of systems and processes, we conducted less ­audits everywhere. Sustainability Self-Assessments in fiscal 2017. Necessary additional Self-Assessments will therefore be conducted in fiscal 2018. Instead we have established risk analysis procedures to systematically identify potential hazards in our supply chain. The main factors are: Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questions Fiscal year Risk identification and categorization for commodities; (Number) 2017 2016 the establishment of risk levels for individual countries. These Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East 372 470 are determined by sustainability indicators for key areas such Americas 186 224 as legal compliance, corruption and bribery, workplace human Asia, Australia 383 254 rights, child labor, etc. Information for the indicators is culled Total 941 948 from respected international organizations; various individual strategic initiatives, such as special prepara1 Commonwealth of Independent States. tion for projects with large local procurement volumes. Supplier quality audits include questions about sustainability This risk-based analysis includes data obtained from supplier that cover all aspects and requirements of the Code. In fiscal self-assessments, risk evaluations conducted by our purchasing 2017, we conducted 941 on-site audits worldwide and almost departments, supplier quality audits by internal quality auditors, reached our performance from last year. and sustainability audits by external auditors. 42 Responsible Business Practices In fiscal 2015, we updated our ”central warning message” system External sustainability audits to ensure faster and more efficient responses to breaches of the Fiscal year requirements of the Code. Local removals are reported to execu(Number) 2017 2016 tives who are in charge of the corporate supply chain manageEurope, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East 108 68 ment system. If necessary, the offending suppliers are blocked Americas 53 50 globally. Asia, Australia 241 202 Total 402 320 A new contractor selection process was established in December 2016. It was developed through the joint efforts of supply chain Fiscal year managers and environmental, health and safety (EHS) experts. EHS experts need to approve the health and safety responses on (Agreed improvement measures) 2 2017 2016 specialized questionnaires by potential contractors before they Legal compliance / prohibition of corruption and bribery 1,373 1,063 are included in our supplier base and utilized for business. Respect for the basic human rights of employees 3,032 2,371 Moving forward on our Sustainability in the Supply Chain proProhibition of child labor 215 185 gram, target areas will include human rights, carbon emissions, Health and safety of employees 3,605 2,679 and workplace health and safety. We are analyzing the possibility Environmental protection 411 422 of using a human rights risk identification tool to help in this Supply chain 403 316 realm. Total3 9,054 7,036 Siemens collects and publishes data on its greenhouse gas emis1 Commonwealth of Independent States. sions as part of our CO2-neutral Program and our reporting for 2 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers or to structural improvements to management the CDP, a system that helps private and public organizations systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. measure and manage their environmental impacts. Starting in 3 Total contains 15 agreed improvement measures from Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy external sustainability audits without further breakdown per agreed improvement measures. fiscal 2016, we began disclosing upstream Scope 3 emissions ­(indirect emissions from entities or activities not owned or controlled by the reporting entity). We have begun to evaluate our Our strongest detection module, the External Sustainability CO2 emissions more seriously as they relate to key commodities ­Audit, has proven especially effective. Such audits are conducted and specific suppliers; this will help us choose suppliers who can by one of our external audit partners, and are used as control help us decrease CO2 emissions. mechanisms for high-risk suppliers. In fiscal 2017, we increased the number of conducted external sustainability audits from 320 Conflict Minerals Policy to 402 – a 26 % increase. ”Conflict minerals” are defined as those extracted in certain countries and that bring benefits to particular armed groups in The rising number of External Sustainability Audits has accompathose places. Siemens has developed a Conflict Mineral Policy nied the growth of our Global Value Sourcing initiative. It aims to and integrated it into our procurement process. It provides a unistrengthen the local presence in our supply chain and to increase form and enterprise-wide standard for supply chain manageprocurement volumes in emerging markets from the current ment in this realm. Our approach is aligned with the risk-based 27 % to 35 % by 2020. requirements of the Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Monitoring may include re-audits or follow-up audits by our exterAreas of the Organization of Economic Co-operation and Develnal audit partners. It is also possible that the relevant Siemens opment (OECD). To determine the use, sources and origin of procurement units will agree upon a series of remedial steps with conflict minerals in our supply chains, we seek to identify the the suppliers. smelters that operate along them. Siemens is an active member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (former Conflict Free Throughout the process, we remain committed to our partnerSourcing Initiative), an industry group that provides audits. ships with our suppliers and to helping them improve. However, Siemens encourages smelters to take part in its programs and if problems persist and/or they are unwilling to implement necpursue certification. essary measures, we exclude them from our list of suppliers. Responsible Business Practices 43 7.3 Human rights Policies and Commitments Siemens adds value to society in nearly every country in the world Business Conduct Guidelines through our products and solutions, sustainable and responsible Our commitment to respect human rights is anchored in the business practices, thought leadership and strategic partnership Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs). ”We respect the activities, and targeted community initiatives. Our activities personal dignity, privacy, and personal rights of every individual,” ­directly and indirectly affect huge numbers of people. In this they state. Binding for all managers and employees worldwide, context, we recognize our responsibility to respect and promote the BCGs add that Siemens is committed to working with indihuman rights. This stands as a central pillar of our ”Business to viduals of various ethnic backgrounds, cultures, religions, ages, Society” concept (see the chapter SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF disabilities, races, sexual identities, worldviews, and genders. SOCIETIES of this report). Global Agreements Siemens is committed to pursuing the objectives of the leading Siemens has been an active participant in the United Nations international initiatives designed to promote human rights and Global Compact since 2003. The Compact is a voluntary initiative sustainable development, including the United Nations Global based on CEO commitments to implement universal sustainabilCompact and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, both ity principles and to undertake partnerships in support of UN internally and along our value chains. goals. Siemens has committed to other international standards, including some laid out by the International Labor Organization The issue of human rights is anchored in almost all the SDGs. The (ILO), a specialized UN agency. United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, set the tone for how companies can promote human rights, and, in turn, sustainable development. This is even more salient in As stated in the appendix of our ­Business ­Conduct ­Guidelines: light of recent evidence that corruption and bribery are strongly we regard the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Comlinked to human rights abuses. pact (as well as the rules laid down in the framework agreement of the International Metalworkers’ Federation) as binding for SDG 8 ”Decent Work and Economic Growth” condemms forced the entire company and therefore, expect our employees, labor, slavery, human trafficking and abusive child labor and suppliers and business partners, worldwide to recognize and ­addresses labor rights and working conditions; SDG 12 encourapply the following conventions, along with others that may ages companies to adopt sustainable practices and integrate be relevant: sustainable information into their reporting cycles. International Bill of Human Rights consisting of: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning ­Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work (especially regarding the following issues: elimination of child labor, abolition of forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association and right to collective bargaining), and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (having ­adopted the key elements of the United Nations Guiding ­Principles on Business and Human Rights in 2011). 44 Responsible Business Practices Siemens is committed to implement the UN Guiding Principles External Stakeholder Dialog and Engagement as the global standard for preventing and addressing the risk of Human rights issues can be challenging to identify and complex adverse human rights impacts linked to the company ’s business to mitigate. Open and constructive dialog with peer-group comactivities within our value chain. panies help us discuss progress, challenges and solutions and identify potential for joined action. We believe this will enable us International agreement on f­ undamental employee rights to go faster than we could go alone. In fiscal 2017, we joined the Siemens reaffirmed its commitment to fundamental employee Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI), a non-profit led rights in an international framework agreement signed with emby a core group of 18 major corporations around the globe. The ployee representatives and trade unions in 2012. It includes clauses GBI aims ”to advance human rights in a business context through on the elimination of forced labor, the prohibition of discriminacross-industry peer learning, outreach and capacity building, and tion, the right to equal treatment, the abolition of child labor and by informing policy”. the definition of a minimum age for employment, the right to collective bargaining, and freedom of association. Other business coalitions we work with in the area of business and human rights are the World Business Council for Sustainable Code of Conduct for suppliers and Development, a global, CEO-led organi­zation of over 200 leading ­third-party ­intermediaries businesses, as well as econsense, a ­Forum for Sustainable DevelRelevant business partners must adhere to the Siemens Code of opment of German Business, and the UN Global Compact. Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries. It is based primarily on the principles of the UN Global Compact and Governance and management structures the ILO, but contains further requirements. Specifically, in terms for human rights of human rights, it addresses respect for the fundamental human Our commitment to respect human rights and to implement the rights of employees, including fair remuneration, freedom of UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights is led from ­assembly, health and safety standards, and prohibition on disthe top. Our work in Human Rights is overseen by Siemens’ Mancrimination, forced labor, and child labor. agement Board, the Siemens Sustainability Board, as well as by the Heads of our Divisions and countries. Additional Supervisory Conflict Minerals Policy Board-level oversight is provided by our Chief Compliance Officer. Siemens has developed a Conflict Minerals Policy and integrated it into our procurement process. (For details, see the chapter In October 2016, the Siemens Sustainability Board directed the SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT of this report). sustainability and compliance departments to work together to formally organize corporate leadership on the topic of Human Human rights awareness and training Rights and to strengthen the human rights component throughThe annual Corporate Compliance Risk Workshop brings together out the company and around the world. several stakeholders to analyze systematic and recurring compliance risks. This workshop helps to identify areas that may need additional analysis or training. In fiscal 2017, human rights emerged as an ”awareness topic”. In fiscal 2017, a module of business and human rights has been included in the Integrity Dialogue program that involves discussions throughout the company about important compliance ­issues (see the chapter COMPLIANCE of this report). There are specific training programs for health and safety, suppliers and certain business partners. We also conduct sessions on our BCGs. Grievance Mechanism Siemens offers reliable channels for individuals, both internally and externally, to report alleged grievances. These are outlined in the COMPLIANCE chapter of this report. Responsible Business Practices 45 Human rights areas of most severe impact The findings of both the internal and externally enriched assessLarge infrastructure companies, such as Siemens, operating with ment of human rights areas of most severe impact have been diverse business models and global value chains in countries with discussed in the SSB and strategic direction has been set as to weak social and environmental governance or political instability where to start. Throughout the next fiscal year, Siemens is comare likely to face numerous human rights challenges. mitted to embed proactive and systematic community impact related risk identification for its project business (downstream In order to better embrace our corporate responsibility to respect activities) as well as for its supply chain. Systematic due diligence human rights and to proactively identify and mitigate human will include affiliated companies and relevant Siemens joint-­ rights risks that we are impacting – be it by causing negative ventures. impact, contributing towards it or by being linked to it via a business partner – we have undergone a company-wide internal huOverall, Siemens intends to systemize its regular human rights man rights risk assessment as part of our Compliance Risk Assessrisk assessment process. Involvement of external stakeholders, ment (CRA). CEOs and Senior Management representatives of our such as other peer-group companies, NGOs, investment research company units together with the respective Compliance Officers firms and specialized journalists is on the plan in order to facilihave discussed and assessed Siemens’ human rights risk areas as tate open dialogues on the effectiveness of the company ’s risk part of dedicated CRA workshops. management, mitigation and remedy processes and discuss pathways to move toward a sector alliance aiming at increasing the The essence of this internal risk assessment exercise was then leverage potential. enriched with granular human rights risk-related country data on the basis of external database findings. We then invited external human rights practitioners, such as twentyfifty, to review all gathered findings so far and help us facilitate discussions around identifying human rights areas of most severe impact across our entire value chain – from upstream via own ­operations to downstream. This helped Siemens understand a) the scope of human rights areas with potential negative impact, b) the likelihood Siemens may become involved in a negative impact and c) the severity of impact on the basis of how grave and widespread could the impact be, and how hard remediation would be. 46 Responsible Business Practices Human rights areas of most severe impact Product safety Health and Safety Community impact ( throughout lifecycle ) ( projects, supply chain ) ( projects ) Human trafficking / Child Labour Human trafficking / forced labour / child labour ( projects / supply chain ) forced labour ( own operations ) ( projects / supply chain ) Severity of impact Community Security Labour practices Labour practices How grave and impact ( own operations ) ( projects ) ( projects ) ( supply chain ) ­widespread could Social exclusion / the impact be, Product misuse Cyber attacks access to employment and how hard would remediation be? Health and Safety Labor practices Misuse of ( own operations ) ( own operations ) stored data ( Third Parties ) Likelihood How likely will Siemens become involved in such human rights issues ( via causing OR contributing through business ­activities OR being linked to via a business relationship )? high medium significant low Responsible Business Practices 47 Annex P. 49 – 63 Annex Reporting method DATA COLLECTION Given Siemens’ size and global spread, gathering data poses a Sustainability is a fundamental principle for us, guiding our very major logistical challenge. Moreover, our companies throughout actions. Our ”Sustainability Information 2017” supplements our the world are required to comply with local regulations concernfinancial reporting in fiscal 2017. The reporting method described ing the compilation and definition of performance figures, which below, provides details of the underlying key elements on which means that the data generated is not always comparable. Where our sustainability reporting is based. applicable, we point out any significant limitations in the information presented in the Report. As a rule, no company-wide REPORTING APPROACH standards exist for the information published in the Report. This The ”Sustainability Information 2017” (”the Report”) describes the ­applies in particular to specific financial figures, including, for strategy, organization, initiatives, programs, management systems example, the revenue attributable to the Environmental Port­ and goals for ensuring sustainability. It supplements our financial folio. As a result, these figures may not be comparable with the reporting in the Annual Report, following on from last year ’s data published under the same or similar designations by other reporting. It also serves as our annual progress report on implecompanies. menting the United Nations CEO Water Mandate and sums up our performance with regards to the 10 principles of the United The data published in this Report is collected through various Nations Global Compact. internal reporting systems which, for the most part, are different from those applicable for the financial information presented in Furthermore, this report has been prepared in accordance with our Consolidated Financial Statements. In particular, the stanthe GRI Standards: Comprehensive option and the recommendadards and controls applied and the computer systems used durtions of the Global Compact and Transparency International ing the preparation of the data may be less compre­hensive in ­regarding anticorruption reporting. We are using the UN Guiding comparison. We reserve the right to change our internal guidePrinciples (UN GP) Reporting Framework and its narrative guidlines regarding the inclusion of data in the Report without prior ance as an orientation when reporting on our human rights announcement. Due to rounding, numbers presented through­­ ­activities. All key performance indicators of the Environmental out this Report may not add up precisely to the totals provided Portfolio are reported according to the ”Environment Portfolio and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. Reporting Principles” included in this Annex. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REVIEW REVIEW PERIOD AND REPORT BOUNDARIES We prepared our Report to high quality standards. Consequently, This Report is based on activities carried out during Siemens’ as in previous years, we again commissioned an independent ­fiscal 2017 (October 1, 2016 – September 30, 2017). Any excepaccounting firm to conduct a limited assurance of the chapters tions are indicated as such. In general, our fully consolidated in the SUSTAINABILITY AT SIEMENS section of this Report. You companies are all covered by the Report. Here, too, possible can find the results of the assurance by Ernst & Young GmbH ­exceptions regarding the pool of data used are indicated. MinorWirt­schaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the Annex. ity equity investments are not included in our reporting. The indicators and information reported below relate to the Company’s continuing operations, unless indicated otherwise. In order to ensure comparability of the details, those for the previous year were adjusted accordingly with any exceptions duly indicated. Annex 49 Environmental Portfolio installed in the current reporting period (see above) plus those ­reporting principles elements installed since the beginning of fiscal 2002 that are still in use at the customer. If elements installed in previous reporting ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO ­GUIDELINE periods are no longer in use, they are no longer taken into conAs there are currently no accepted international standards sideration when calculating the accumulated annual customer ­addressing the identification and reporting of so-called ”green reductions of carbon dioxide emissions in the respective reportproducts”, we report the revenue from our Environmental Porting period. folio and the accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions generated by it in accordance with internal For the Environmental Portfolio elements installed in a given regulations defined in our Environmental Portfolio Guideline. ­reporting period, we consider the reductions of carbon dioxide emissions for the entire reporting period, irrespective of the acThis Guideline sets out criteria and processes for the qualification tual date of installation during the year of first time recognition. of elements for the Environmental Portfolio, defines roles and responsibilities as well as processes to account for annual cusGOVERNANCE – PROCESSES AND ­D EFINITIONS tomer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and refers to finanThe qualification of our Environmental Portfolio elements as well cial reporting guidelines for recognition of revenue. It is based on as the respective reporting is based on clearly defined processes the Reporting Principles set forth in ”A Corporate Accounting and and criteria. Reporting Standard – Revised Edition” and ”GHG Protocol for Project Accounting” issued by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. In principle, products, systems, solutions and services of operatThese principles are relevance, completeness, consistency, transing units (Divisions and Strategic Units, Healthcare and Siemens parency, accuracy and conservativeness. Revenue generated by Gamesa Renewable Energy) may qualify for the Environmental the Environmental Portfolio is recognized in accordance with Portfolio. The entire Siemens business portfolio is reviewed on revenue recognition policies as described in NOTE 2 in B.6 an annual basis to ensure the appropriate qualification of EnviNOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN THE ANNUAL REronmental Portfolio elements based on the criteria described PORT OF THE SIEMENS GROUP (”SIEMENS”) AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2017 . hereafter. This covers the inclusion of newly developed elements as well as the integration of additionally qualified elements SCOPE OF REPORTING where evidence of fulfillment of the qualification criteria was To date, the Environmental Portfolio-related key performance not available in prior reporting periods. For additionally qualified indicators are revenue and customer reductions of carbon dioxide Environmental Portfolio elements, we report their prior-year revemissions generated by elements from the Siemens Environmenenue and prior-year contribution to the accumulated annual tal Portfolio. customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions on a comparable basis. Elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria Carbon dioxide emission reductions at our customers are calcuare excluded from our Environmental Portfolio; prior periods are lated based on comparing the Environmental Portfolio element not adjusted. (e.g., a combined cycle power plant and the related carbon dioxide emissions per kilowatt hour) with a reference solution (e.g., Prior to inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, potential new a global average grid factor for power production). The annual Environmental Portfolio elements have to undergo a multilevel reduction of carbon dioxide in the reporting year is calculated internal evaluation process which includes reviews in the respecbased on technical parameters (e.g., the installed capacity in tive Siemens Divisions as well as a review in the Sustainability gigawatts in the reporting year or load hours). For all Environdepartment. mental Portfolio elements sold in a reporting year, the annual reductions are added up to calculate the annual carbon dioxide Within this process, Siemens verifies the completeness of docuemissions reductions at our customers at the end of that year. mentation supporting the fulfillment of the qualification criteria. Furthermore, Siemens considers whether or not significant Our Environmental Portfolio elements are typically long-lasting ­”adverse effects” exist. Adverse effects describe the situation products (e.g., motors) or infrastructure elements (e.g. power that a potential Environmental Portfolio element, despite fulfillplants, trains) that contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide ing the qualification criteria, might cause considerably higher emissions not only in the reporting year but for many years. We environmental effects elsewhere in the element’s lifecycle. If therefore also calculate the accumulated annual customer reducmaterial adverse effects are known, the element is not included tions of carbon dioxide emissions. The accumulated annual emisin the Environmental Portfolio. sion reductions are calculated as customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions generated by Environmental Portfolio elements 50 Annex If the revenue related to an Environmental Portfolio element canEnergy efficiency not be accurately separated from our total revenue, the respecThe criterion for energy efficiency is an improvement in energy tive revenue will not be accounted for nor reported due to the efficiency of 20 % or more during the customer use phase comprinciple of conservativeness. pared to the applicable baseline, or a reduction of at least 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents per reporting The Siemens Sustainability Board, chaired by Siemens Managing period in the customer use phase compared to the applicable Board member and Chief Sustainability Officer Roland Busch, baseline. If an energy efficiency increase can only be reasonably ­annually acknowledges changes in the composition of the Envidefined as reduction of dissipation losses (e. g., as defined by the ronmental Portfolio. Another task of the Sustainability Board is International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards for to discuss potential concerns of stakeholders with regard to the energy efficiency classification of motors), a 20 % reduction of inclusion or deletion of certain technologies in the Environmendissipation loss would also qualify products for our Environmental Portfolio. tal Portfolio. CRITERIA FOR INCLUDING ELEMENTS IN THE Examples of products and systems meeting the above mentioned ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO energy efficiency criterion are combined cycle power plants, An Environmental Portfolio element can be a product, a system, ­intelligent building technology systems (both reduce carbon a solution or a service, as defined above. ­dioxide emissions by at least 100,000 metric tons per reporting period) or ELFA Hybrid Drives for buses (20 % efficiency improveIf all products, systems, solutions or services of a Siemens’ orgament). nizational unit meet one of the selection criteria, this unit may be considered as an Environmental Portfolio element as a whole. Renewable energy This criterion covers technologies in the field of renewable enFurthermore, a core component of a system or solution may ergy sources or smart grid1 applications and their respective core qualify as an Environmental Portfolio element if the component components. The scope of the renewable energy criterion is power provided by Siemens is key to enabling environmental benefits generation and heat generation from, for example, wind power resulting from the system’s or solution’s overall application. This (onshore and offshore), hydroelectricity or biomass. means that the environmental functionality of the overall system or solution cannot be achieved without the component provided Examples of the respective Environmental Portfolio elements are by Siemens. Examples of core components qualifying as elements wind turbines as well as core components such as gearboxes for of the Siemens Environmental Portfolio are gear boxes for wind wind turbines. turbines or thyristor valves for high-voltage direct current (HVDC) power transmission systems. DETERMINING THE REFERENCE SOLUTION – BASELINE METHODS Service types are differentiated between ”product-related service” Energy efficiency and annual customer reduction of carbon dioxand ”value-add service”. In cases in which a Siemens product, ide are all assessed by carrying out a comparison with a reference system or solution qualifies as an Environmental Portfolio elesolution (baseline). There are three different options for the refment, the revenue, and if applicable, the annual customer reducerence solution: before-and-after comparison, direct comparison tion of carbon dioxide emissions of the ”product-related service”, with a reference technology or comparison with an installed base. shall generally be accounted for and reported on in line with the The final decision as to which baseline is used is taken by the rerelated Environmental Portfolio element. In cases of ”value-add spective Division within Siemens based on the following options: services” the revenue and, if applicable, the annual customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, shall be accounted for Before-and-after comparison and reported on only if the service itself qualifies as an EnvironA before-and-after comparison refers to the difference between mental Portfolio element by meeting one of the selection critean initial situation at the customer and the situation after instalria as defined below. lation of a Siemens product, system, solution or service. A before-and-after comparison implies the presence of a preexisting To qualify for inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, an eleproduct, system, solution or service at the customer, the characment must meet one of the following selection criteria. Prodteristics of which are improved or substituted by the employment ucts, systems, solutions, and services with planned application of a Siemens product, system, solution or service. This compariin military use or nuclear power are not included in the Environson may be applied, for example, in cases in which a Siemens mental Portfolio. product, system, solution or service modernizes a power plant or optimizes the energy consumption of a building. 1 A ccording to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) – Smart Grid Interoperability Standards Project (USA), the term smart grid, ”refers to a modernization of the electricity delivery systems so it monitors, protects and automatically optimizes the operation of its interconnected elements – from the central and distributed generation through the high-voltage transmission network and the distribution system, to industrial users and building automation systems, to energy storage installations and to end-use consumers and their thermostats, electric vehicles, appliances and other household devices.” 51 Direct comparison with a reference technology When calculating emission reductions compared to the baseline, Direct comparison with a reference technology refers to the we consider either direct savings (e.g., by power plants or efficient ­difference between the Siemens product, system, solution or motors) or the indirect effects that occur when different products ­service and either an appropriate single other technology or a in a system interact and create emission reductions (e.g., compopredecessor. Direct comparison with a reference technology nents for building automation). If Siemens only delivers core comimplies the existence of one alternative or predecessor product, ponents but not the entire system, annual customer reduction of system, solution or service in the market which is employed for carbon dioxide emissions will only be calculated for these parts. the same or a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, for example, by using low-loss high-voltage direct current (HVDC) The baselines are reviewed annually and, if necessary adjusted, power transmission in comparison to conventional alternating such as when statistical data on the installed base is updated current power transmission. because of technical innovations or regulatory changes. Comparison with an installed base The calculation of the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions is Comparison with an installed base refers to the difference bebased on a specific comparison for every relevant Environmental tween the Siemens product, system, solution or service and an Portfolio element with a baseline. For this calculation, we focus average of several installations employed for the same or a similar on those elements that have a material impact on the overall purpose. Comparison with an installed base implies the existence carbon dioxide emissions reduction. of global or regional average data on several installed products, systems, solutions or services employed for the same or a similar EMISSION FACTORS FOR CALCULATING purpose. This comparison may be applied, for example, to comTHE ANNUAL REDUCTION OF bined cycle power plants (CCPP) by drawing a comparison with CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS the average global greenhouse gas emissions factor for electricity For some emission reduction calculations, the baseline reference generation. for the installed base is determined using known global emission factors such as those for power production. The baselines used for our calculations are mainly based on data from the International Energy Agency (IEA) for gross power production and for grid losses, on data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) for fuel-based emission factors, and our own ­assessments of power production efficiency. The most relevant emission factors applied in 2017 are: Emission factors for CO2 abatement calculation Emission factor Category (g CO2/kWh) Basis for comparison of Environmental ­Portfolio ­elements Global power generation all primary energy carriers 567 Power ­generation Global power generation fossil energy carriers 849 Renewables Utilization of electricity (including transmission losses) 614 All types of utilization of electricity apart from trains Source: IEA (IEA World Energy Outlook 2016) 1, own calculations 1 Emission factors were updated to IEA World Energy Outlook 2016 (prior year: IEA World Energy Outlook 2015). 52 Annex For consistency reasons, we generally apply global emission facAccordingly, revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the tors for calculating emission reductions unless specific condireduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions tions of a solution require application of local emission factors. may not be comparable with similar information reported by For the calculation of annual customer reductions of carbon other companies. We report the annual carbon dioxide emissions ­dioxide emissions e. g., for wind turbines, we apply the emission reduction in the period of installation of the Environmental Portfactor 849 g / kWh of global fossil power production as the basefolio element. The period of installation will be determined by line. milestones or based on estimated construction periods. This may differ from the timing of revenue recognition. Generally, our approach includes all greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol. However, for power production and electriFurthermore, we subject revenue from our Environmental Portcal applications, we consider the only relevant greenhouse gas to folio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide be carbon dioxide. If other greenhouse gases occur in technical emissions to internal documentation and review requirements applications, they are included in our calculations. which are less sophisticated than those applicable for our financial information. We may change our policies for recognizing For some Environmental Portfolio elements, we do not know the revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of detailed parameters of use at our customers. We therefore apply our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future internal and external expert estimates for these, following the without prior notice. principle of conservativeness. REPORTING ESTIMATES To date, there is no applicable international standard that applies across companies for qualifying products, systems, solutions, and services for environmental and climate protection, or for compiling and calculating the respective revenue and the quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions attributable to such products, systems, solutions, and services. Thus, the inclusion of elements in the Environmental Portfolio is based on criteria, methodologies and assumptions that other companies and other stakeholders may view differently. Factors that may cause differences, among others, are: choice of applicable baseline methodology, application of global emission factors that may be different from local conditions, use patterns at customers that may be different from standard use patterns used for carbon dioxide emission reduction calculations, assessment of the life span of the Environmental Portfolio elements, internal assessments of our own power production efficiency factors, share of a core component and expert estimates if no other data is available. Annex 53 GRI Standards – key topics and boundaries Siemens principles, key topics and boundaries Internal External No 1. Profit ­Boundaries ­Boundaries GRI Standards 1.1 We contribute to our customCustomers GRI Standard 201 ers’ ­competitiveness with Economic Performance our products, s­ olutions and GRI Standard 202 services. Market Presence 1.2 We partner with our customers own ­operations Customers GRI Standard 201 to identify and develop Economic Performance ­sustainability related business opportunities. 1.3 We operate an efficient & own ­operations Suppliers GRI Standard 204 ­resilient supply chain through Procurement Practices ­supplier code of conduct, GRI Standard 308 risk management, and capacity Supplier Environmental ­Assessment building. GRI Standard 408 Child Labour GRI Standard 414 Supplier Social Assessment 1.4 We proactively engage with our own ­operations Customers, GRI Standard 201 stakeholders to ­manage project Suppliers, Economic performance and reputational risks and ­Society ­identify business relevant trends. 1.5 We adhere to the highest compliown ­operations Customers, GRI Standard 205 ance & anti-­corruption standards Suppliers, Anti Corruption and promote integrity via ­Society GRI Standard 206 the Siemens Integrity Initiative. Anti-Competitive Behavior GRI Standard 307 Environmental Compliance GRI Standard 408 Child Labour GRI Standard 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI Standard 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 2. Planet 2.1. We enable our customers to own ­operations Customers GRI Standard 302 ­increase ­energy efficiency, Energy save resources and r­ educe GRI Standard 305 ­carbon emissions. Emissions 2.2 We develop our products, own ­operations Customers GRI Standard 301 ­solutions and services based Materials on a life cycle perspective and sound eco-­design standards. 2.3 We minimize the environmental own ­operations Society GRI Standard 301 impacts of our own operations Materials by applying e ­ nvironmental GRI Standard 302 ­management programs. Energy GRI Standard 303 Water GRI Standard 305 Emissions GRI Standard 306 Effluents and Waste 54 Annex Siemens principles, key topics and boundaries Internal External No 3. People ­Boundaries ­Boundaries GRI Standards 3.1 We contribute to the sustainable Society GRI Standard 203 development of ­societies with Indirect Economic Impacts our portfolio, local operations, GRI Standard 413 and thought leadership. Local Communities 3.2 We foster long-term relationown ­operations Society GRI Standard 203 ships with l­ocal societies through Indirect Economic Impacts Corporate Citizenship projects GRI Standard 413 jointly with partners. Local Communities 3.3 We live a zero-harm culture own ­operations Suppliers GRI Standard 403 and promote the health of our Occupational Health and Safety employees. 3.4 We live a culture of leadership own ­operations GRI Standard 401 based on common v­ alues, Employment ­innovation mindset, ­people GRI Standard 404 ­orientation and diversity. Training and Education GRI Standard 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI Standard 406 Non Discrimination GRI Standard 408 Child Labour The detailed GRI Standard Index – Comprehensive Option is ­available on our Sustainabiltiy website. Annex 55 United Nations Global Compact Siemens has been member of the UN Global Compact since 2003 and is committed to upholding the Compact’s ten principles. Our ”Sustainability Information 2017”, our online Communication on Progress at the UN Global Compact webpage and the following report index, describes the progress we have made during ­fiscal 2017. Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 1 Our Siemens Business Conduct Our Code of Conduct (CoC) In the year under review, the number Support of Guidelines (BCG) provide the for Siemens suppliers and third of sustainability self-assessments human rights ethical and legal framework within party intermediaries includes ­added up to 2,427. We conducted 941 we ­conduct our b ­ usiness activities. besides other: supplier quality audits with integrated Principle 2 They contain our ­basic principles respect for basic rights of employees, sustainability questions and 402 Exclusion of human rights and rules for our conduct internally strong ”health and safety”, ­external sustainability audits. In the abuses and externally, for example on environmental protection, external sustainability audits, we human rights core labor standards. zero tolerance on bribery and ­identified a total of 9,054 potential Principle 3 The BCG are mandatory for all ­anti-corruption. improvements. Assurance of Siemens entities worldwide. freedom With our Code of Conduct (CoC) SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Human rights is a continuous awareof association for Siemens suppliers we ensure THIS REPORT, PAGE 41 ness topic. In fiscal 2017, a module of Principle 4 that these basic rights and principles ­business and human rights has been HUMAN RIGHTS Elimination of are also observed in our supply chain. inclu­ded in the Integrity Dialogue THIS REPORT, PAGE 44 all forms ­program that involves discussions of forced labor We have undergone a company-wide throughout the company about internal human rights risk assessment ­important compliance issues. Further, Principle 5 as part of our Compliance Risk we joined the Global Business InitiaAbolition of ­Assessment (CRA). tive on Human Rights, which aims child labor to advance human rights in a SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ­busi­ness context. OF ­SOCIETIES THIS REPORT PAGE 6 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT THIS REPORT, PAGE 41 THIS REPORT, PAGE 41 HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS THIS REPORT, PAGE 44 THIS REPORT, PAGE 44 Principle 6 We do not tolerate discrimination Our global diversity networks proInternationality of our workforce Elimination of and have anchored that in the mote and discuss diversity topics is reflected in about 170 different discrimination ­Siemens Business Conduct Guideacross the Company. These groups ­national working at Siemens. lines. We actively foster diversity and programs include the Global within the Company by creating a Leadership Organization of Women Further, we are implementing an working environment that is open (GLOW), ­Diversity Ambassador and ­Unconscious Bias training program to all people, independent of their GENE, our generation’s network and have joined the Chefsache cultural background, heritage, to foster cross-generation exchange. ­Initiative, a multi-stakeholder net­ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender The success of all measures is work that fosters gender balance identity and individual gender ­assessed annually in the diversity as a top management priority. ­expressions. We are amongst scorecard. ­signatories of the ”Charta der WORKING AT SIEMENS ­Vielfalt”. Diversity focus areas are: THIS REPORT, PAGE 19 Consciously addressing WORKING AT SIEMENS ­unconscious bias, THIS REPORT, PAGE 19 promoting gender balance, fostering the value of globality, encouraging diversity & ­inclusiveness. WORKING AT SIEMENS THIS REPORT, PAGE 19 56 Annex Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Women In 2016, we commited to the UNGC We encourage the use of the Women In the year under review, women Empowerment Women's Empowerment Principles Empowerment Principles as guide ­accounted for 23 % of our total workand signed the Diversity Charter, an posts for actions that advance and force. The proportion of female ­initiative by the German government. empower women in the workplace, ­employees in management positions marketplace and community, and at Siemens has risen continuously SUSTAINABILIT Y MANAGEMENT communicate progress through the in recent years and is now 16 %. THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 use of sex-disaggregated data and In ­fiscal 2017 women hired amounted other benchmarks. 26 % of all new hires. WORKING AT SIEMENS WORKING AT SIEMENS THIS REPORT, PAGE 19 THIS REPORT, PAGE 19 Principle 7 Siemens has an EHS management Our programs ”Serve the Environment” In fiscal 2017, reduced our CO2 emisPrecautionary ­system in place to manage its environ­ (StE), ”CO2 neutral Siemens” and sions by 600,000 tons CO2 compared approach to mental performance. All relevant ”Product Eco Excellence” address all to the baseline in fiscal 2014 and environmental production and office sites are obliged our material environmental ­impacts thus we are well on track to achieve protection to implement an environmental for industrial environmental protecour interim goal of 50 % reduction by management s­ ystem which fulfills tion and product-related environmen2020. We gradually integrated the the requirements of the internationtal protection respectively. new requirements of ISO 14001:2015 ally recognized ISO 14001 standard into our processes, where at least as well as our own internal standard We report direct greenhouse gas 93 % are already certified under the ”Specifications on environmentally emissions (Scope 1), indirect greennew regime. compatible ­product and system house gas emissions (Scope2) and ­design”. since fiscal 2016, we also report For Scope 1 and 2 combined we Scope 3 from supply chain, such as reached a reduction in emissions of DECARBONIZATION business travel, capital goods, fuel 207 kt CO2e. THIS REPORT, PAGE 29 and energy related activities and transportation. SUSTAINABILIT Y MANAGEMENT THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 SUSTAINABILIT Y MANAGEMENT DECARBONIZATION THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 THIS REPORT, PAGE 29 DECARBONIZATION THIS REPORT, PAGE 29 Principle 8 Raising our employees’ awareness of Siemens maintains a global environIn the year under review, we donated Specific initiatives environmental and climate protection mental communications network € 23 million for corporate citizenship to promote is an element of both our environto ensure that knowledge about activities, of which € 15.2 million environmental mental strategy and our social com­environmental management, went to education and science protection mitment. With internal communi­ ­methods, solutions and experiences and € 0.2 million to environmental cations measures and our corporate is communicated across locations, activities. Siemens took part at the citizenship focus on ”environmental,” ­businesses and national borders. ­Con­ference of Parties (COP 22) in we help create a greater sense of Morocco in November 2016, ­responsibility for ecological issues. For years, we are an engaged ­where we gave insights how re­ ­member of One Young World, the newable ­energy can contribute to SUSTAINABILIT Y MANAGEMENT World Business Council for Sustainthe decarbonization of the industry. THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 able ­Development (WBCSD) and the In September 2017, we also attented World Economic Forum. the UN New York ­Climate Week. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP THIS REPORT, PAGE 26 SUSTAINABILIT Y MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILIT Y MANAGEMENT THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP THIS REPORT, PAGE 26 Annex 57 Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 9 As part of our Environmental PortfoWe continuously review our portfolio In the year under review, our Environ­ Development and lio, we develop and market products, with regards to newly developed mental Portfolio helped our customdiffusion of solutions and services that enable or acquired portfolio elements that ers and partners throughout the environmentally our customers to reduce their CO2 qualify as Environmental Portfolio world reduce their CO2 emissions by friendly technologies emissions, lower lifecycle costs and ­elements or exclude elements that 59 million metric tons. protect the environment. no longer fulfill our qualifications ­criteria. For fiscal 2017, our Environmental ENVIRONMENTAL ­P ORTFOLIO Portfolio accounted for almost half of THIS REPORT, PAGE 30 ENVIRONMENTAL ­P ORTFOLIO our revenue from continuing operaTHIS REPORT, PAGE 30 tions. Three-quarters of the revenue from our Environmental Portfolio was generated from products and solutions for energy efficiency. SUSTAINABILIT Y MANAGEMENT THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 ENVIRONMENTAL ­P ORTFOLIO THIS REPORT, PAGE 30 Principle 10 The Siemens Business Conduct Our compliance priorities are: Achievements in fiscal 2017: Measures against Guidelines (BCG) provide the ethical Foster Integrity, Continuous use of big data and corruption and legal framework within which Manage Risk and Assurance, data mining, through Business we conduct our business activities. Effective Processes, Partner dashboards together with Our compliance system aims to enExcellent Compliance Team, related analytics for better support sure that all our worldwide business Committed to Business. of related risk management and practices remain within this framemonitoring of business partners; work as well as in compliance with These guide our activities and are A new process for compliance in applicable laws. We have zero tolersupplemented by focus areas and project execution has ­enhanced ance for corruption and violations ­activities for each fiscal year. the collaboration between our of the principles of fair competition – project managers and Compliance and where these do occur, we rigorWe actively support the enactment officers, to create structured ously respond. Our compliance of the UN Convention against Corrup­compliance risk assessments ­system has three pillars: Prevent, tion and the OECD Convention on and identify mitigation measures ­Detect, Respond. Combating Bribery. Our Chief Compliat various points in the project ance Officer has been appointed ­execution phase; COMPLIANCE Chairman of the B20 Cross-­thematic Improvements in the compliance THIS REPORT, PAGE 37 Group on Responsible Business Contraining program for employees duct and Anti-Corruption during that enhance the risk-based the German G20 presidency 2017. ­approach to meet specific legal Activities in the World Economic or business concerns. ­Forum include the Company’s ­participation in the Partnering COMPLIANCE Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). THIS REPORT PAGE 37 COMPLIANCE THIS REPORT PAGE 37 58 Annex United Nations Water Mandate Water re-use in United Kingdom During the repair of a leaking drain at the site in Sudbury, a PROGRESS REPORT Siemens worker noticed that the wastewater looked remarkably Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO Water clean. Therefore, they implemented the water treatment process Mandate in 2008. Our continuing support for the CEO Water Manto use the ”concentrated tap water” again for toilet flushing. date reflects our commitment on two fronts: Firstly, managing water efficiently in our own facilities. Secondly, providing soluWater recycling in India tions that help our customers and societies handle water and At the location of the Siemens works in Kalwa, India, a waste­ wastewater more economically. water treatment system has been installed that will, for the most part, regulate itself. OUR OWN ACTIVITIES For more information about the resource conservation and water Our Business Units offer solutions for drive technologies, energy consumption at Siemens locations, see the section ENVIRONdistribution and automation for water and wastewater treatment MENT in this report on page 28. We are pursuing a new ­approach plants and water transport. to water resources management that was developed in 2012. At locations where there are increased water-related risks – for exOUR SUPPLIERS ample, as a result of aridity, high wastewater loads, or poorly The environmental requirements that our suppliers must fulfill developed technical infrastructures – we define goals that are are defined in our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. The matched to local circumstances. This enables us to effectively responsible use of water forms an integral part of this code. For reduce risks and negative impacts on the environment. With the more information on these requirements and on SUPPLY CHAIN Siemens Water Strategy, we aim to reduce the local negative imMANAGEMENT . pact of our water use, taking water stress and other risks into account, such as water pollution or flooding of environmentally COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT relevant areas. As a member of various international organizations, we’re involved in numerous initiatives and programs, including the ­Action 2020 We use all our resources carefully and avoid waste of resources Water Project of the World Business Council for Sustainable Dewherever it is possible. Amongst others, through Leadership in velopment. We initiate and implement projects in various regions Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for all our that promote efficient use of water. new buildings including our new global headquarters in Munich, where efficient use of water is a key element of building design In addition, the Siemens Stiftung drives an entrepreneurial criteria. Through collection and usage of rainwater, the water ­approach to supply clean drinking water to communities. Projconsumption of the new headquarters lies 50% below guide values ect example include: of new buildings. Further examples are: Safe Water Enterprises Optimized wells in Germany With Safe Water Enterprises, Siemens Stiftung is committed to The intelligent merging of several wells on the premises of the a sustainable supply of safe drinking water in rural regions in Siemens Duisburg site has succeeded in saving 40,000 cubic Kenya. In Kisumu, the two Safe Water Enterprises were officially ­meters of fresh water annually. This reduces water costs by handed over to the communities and both are providing safe € 138,000. drinking water to an average of 2,000 people each. It was built in cooperation with our partners SOS Children’s Villages and SkyJuice Foundation. For more information with regards to the projects of the Siemens Foundation, please refer to: WWW.SIEMENS-STIFTUNG.ORG/EN/PROJECTS Annex 59 Independent auditor’s limited AUDITOR'S STATEMENT REGARDING ­assurance ­report ­regarding INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY We are independent from the Company in compliance with the ­sustainability information German statutory and professional requirements, and have ­complied with other professional requirements. The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young (EY) ­relates exclusively to the German PDF-version of the section The quality assurance system of Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschafts­”Sustainability at Siemens” of the report ”Sustainability Infor­ prüfungsgesellschaft is based on the national statutory regulamation 2017”. The following text is a translation of the original tions and professional pronouncements including, but not German Independent Assurance Report. ­limited to the Professional Charter for German Public Auditors and German Sworn Auditors and the standard ”Requirements to TO SIEMENS AG, BERLIN AND MUNICH ­quality control for audit firms” (IDW QS 1) issued by the Institute We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engageof Public Auditors, which are in accordance with the International ment on the section ”Sustainability at Siemens” in the report Standards on Quality Control issued by the International Auditing ”Sustainability information 2017” of Siemens AG for the reporting and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). period from October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2017 (hereafter the report). AUDITOR'S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the information Our engagement is exclusively limited to the German PDF-­version in the section ”Sustainability at Siemens” in the report based on of the section ”Sustainability at Siemens” in the report. Our our work performed. ­engagement did not include any prospective statements and links to other web pages. The report is published as a PDF-version We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INVESTOR/EN International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): ”Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY of Historical Financial Information” published by the IAASB. This The legal representatives of Siemens AG are responsible for the standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance preparation of the report in accordance with the reporting crite­engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance whether any ria and for the selection of the information to be assessed. As matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that reporting criteria, the Company applies the Sustainability Reportthe section ”Sustainability at Siemens” in the report for the ing Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and, for the ­reporting period from October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2017 has key performance indicators of the Environmental Portfolio, the not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with reporting principles as outlined in the Annex ”Environmental the aforementioned reporting criteria. In a limited assurance Portfolio Reporting Principles” and the underlying criteria set ­engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited forth in ”A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore ­Revised Edition” and ”GHG Protocol for Project Accounting” issued ­significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. ­assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the ­auditor's judgment. This responsibility includes the selection and application of ­ appropriate methods to prepare the report and the use of Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the ­assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclofollowing procedures: sures that are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, the legal representatives are responsible for internal controls that Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability strategy, they deem necessary for the preparation of a report that is free sustainability principles and sustainability management from – intended or unintended – material misstatements. ­including the stakeholder dialog of Siemens AG; Inquiries of employees responsible in the central Corporate Development Sustainability department for the preparation of the sustainability reporting in order to assess the sustainability reporting system, the data capture and compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the limited assurance engagement; 60 Annex Inquiries of employees responsible in the Corporate departCONCLUSION ments for the topics customers, research and development, Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come employees, occupational health and safety, corporate citizento our attention that causes us to believe that the information in ship, environment, environmental portfolio, compliance, the section ”Sustainability at Siemens” of the report ”Sustainabil­supply chain management and human rights to assess the ity Information 2017” for the reporting period from October 1, data capture and compilation methods as well as internal 2016 to September 30, 2017 has not been prepared, in all material ­controls to the extent relevant for the limited assurance respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. ­engagement; Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and INTENDED USE OF THE REPORT processes for compiling, analyzing, and aggregating sustainWe issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreement ability data in the reporting period and testing such documenwith Siemens AG. The limited assurance engagement has been pertation on a sample of basis; formed for the purposes of Siemens AG and is solely intended to Analytical measures at Group level, on the level of Divisions and inform Siemens AG about the results of the assurance engagement. the Strategic Units Healthineers and Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy regarding the quality of the reported data; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relatThe report is not intended to be used as a basis for (financial) deing to the collection and reporting of the sustainability data cision-making by third parties of any kind. We have responsibility from the topics environmental protection and occupational towards Siemens AG only. We do not assume any responsibility safety partly during site visits towards third parties. – at the locations Charlotte (USA) and Lincoln (UK) of the ­Division Power and Gas, Munich, November 27, 2017 – at the location Regensburg of the Division Energy ­Management, – at the locations Bocholt and Mohelnice (Czech Republic) of Ernst & Young GmbH the Division Process Industries and Drives, Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft – as well as at the Divisions Power and Gas, Digital Factory, Process Industries and Drives and Energy Management; Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relating to the collection and reporting of the key performance indicators of the Environmental Portfolio including the procedures for determining the qualification of products, solutions Spannagl Johne and services for the Environmental Portfolio during site visits Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin at the Divisions Power and Gas, Energy Management and the (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) Strategic Unit Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy; Inquiries of employees from selected departments at the Group’s headquarters, Corporate departments, Divisions and the Strategic Units Healthineers and Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy and at the sites visited on material qualitative statements in the section ”Sustainability at Siemens” as well as the inspection of selected underlying documents; Review of material qualitative statements in the section ­”Sustainability at Siemens” for plausibility and consistency.  Annex 61 Notes and forward-looking Such statements are based on the current expectations and cer­statements tain assumptions of Siemens’ management, of which many are beyond Siemens’ control. These are subject to a number of risks, There is no standard system that applies across companies for uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited to those qualifying products and solutions for environmental and climate ­described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter Risks in this protection, or for compiling and calculating the respective reveAnnual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainnues and the quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions atties materialize, or should underlying expectations not occur or tributable to such products and solutions. Accordingly, revenues assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance or from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our cusachieve­ments of Siemens may (negatively or positively) vary tomers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be comparable materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relwith similar information reported by other companies. Revenues evant forward-looking statement. Siemens neither intends, nor from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our cusassumes any obligation, to update or revise these forward-looktomers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions are derived from variing statements in light of developments which differ from those ous internal reporting systems that are generally different from anticipated. those applicable to the financial information presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are, in particular, subject This document includes – in the applicable financial reporting to less sophisticated internal documentation as well as preparaframework not clearly defined – supplemental financial measures tion and review requirements, including the IT systems in use and that are or may be alternative performance measures (non-GAAP the general internal control environment. We may change our measures). These supplemental financial measures should not be policies for recognizing revenues from our Environmental Portfoviewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of Siemens’ net lio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide assets and financial positions or results of operations as p ­ resented emissions in the future without previous notice. in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Other companies that This document contains statements related to our future business report or describe similarly titled alternative performance meaand financial performance and future events or developments insures may calculate them differently. volving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as ”expect,” Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other ”look forward to,” ”anticipate” ”intend,” ”plan,” ”believe,” ”seek,” documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and ”estimate,” ”will,” ”project” or words of similar meaning. We may percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. also make forward-looking statements in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders and in press releases. This document is an English language translation of the German In addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral document. In case of discrepancies, the German language docuforward-looking statements. ment is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 62 Annex Further information and ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ­information resources The Siemens Annual Report 2017 is available online at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUAL-REPORT FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE CONTENTS FURTHER SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE FROM: Further information on our commitment to sustainability and Address Siemens AG additional sustainability-related indicators are available at: Werner-von-Siemens-Str. 1 WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y 80333 München Germany Further information on research, development and innovation at Siemens is available at: Phone + 49 (0) 89 636 33443 (Media Relations) WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INNOVATION + 49 (0) 89 636 32474 (Investor Relations) Fax + 49 (0) 89 636 30085 (Media Relations) + 49 (0) 89 636 1332474 (Investor Relations) © 2017 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich Email press@siemens.com investorrelations@siemens.com sustainability@siemens.com siemens.com
