BALDHA GROUP Communication on Progress YEAR 2017 • About the company • Message of the CEO • PRINCIPLE 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • PRINCIPLE 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • PRINCIPLE 4 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • PRINCIPLE 5 LABOUR STANDARDS the effective abolition of child labor • PRINCIPLE 6 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery About Baldha Group Baldha is an Italian Word; it means ‘The Best and the self-confident’. In the memory of The Baldha Garden which is located in the old part of city of Dhaka, Bangladesh (1909); the Company started its Journey in January 1st 2010. Empowering the strategy followed by integrity and efficiency the company has been growing very successful businesses in sectors ranging from garments to agriculture, Telecom, media, publication and Properties.Each successive venture demonstrates our devotion to pick the right market and the right opportunity.Our companies are part of a family rather than a hierarchy. We want to make our dream into solution which is the growth and development of businesses for mankind. Mission We want to support mankind through our innovation, strategy and business platform. Vision We want to be known around the world for our values and extraordinary creation. From the CEO This was challenging year not only for Baldha group but also for other business entities around the world due to the climate change,humanitarian issues and the political factors ,specially when it comes to the local business it is not an easy task . Implementing the SGD goals in our in business structures helped us to survive through all these barriers and challenges . The main aim of SDG is to • End poverty • Fight injustice and inequality • Combat Climate change As Baldha Group we believe it is important to take responsibility for how people , the environment and society are affected by our operations and , ultimately the operations of our clients .We actively strive to reduce our own impact on the environment and society are affected by our operations and ultimately the operations of our client ..Within the SDG with the new business platform we are facing new challenges in terms of security , transparency , resource and employment . The SDG agenda gives us the opportunity and enormous boosts to make business a force for good . I am pleased to confirm that Baldha Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption.Global Compact’s ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication . Sincerely Farah M Saddha CEO Baldha Group We support UN Global Compact Human Rights Baldha Group should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights And make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMPANY POLICY Baldha Group follows the local and international legislation regarding the aspect of human rights. The values we support are concern for our customers, employees, partners and shareholder. Our aim is to influence our employees, all our business partners and stake holders to understand and respect the fundamentals of Human rights.We wanted to make sure that all the employees of our organisation are treated equally and they do not become the victims of their race, nationality, ethnic background, language, religion, social status, sexual orientation. These procedures are periodically updated by the members of the managerial team and by the team in the Quality Assurance department. Our employees have the right to equal salary for equal work, to an equitable and satisfying remuneration, right to medical care, to social security and to social services. Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the human rights. In the relations among employees, we encourage integrity and honesty. Through the educational projects developed in partnership with our nonprofit organisation NGO ANDRA we share fundamental moral values and we make sure that all our business serves the man kind. ACTIONS TAKEN in this year from Baldha group of companies for Human rights SDG 5.Gender Equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Our online news portal kalerjatra.com has continued to thrive on the women’s rights and gender equality by publishing articles and news to create awareness for the greater mass. About kalerjatra.com kalerjatra.com, a new-generation multimedia global news portal disseminates round-the-clock news from a highly interactive platform. A concern of the Baldha Group Ltd. (www.baldha.com), kalerjatra.com is a most dynamic platform that brings news fast and accurate. For people across the globe, it is also a haunt for refreshing entertainment.! About kalerjatra.com Our Vision With new ideas, cutting-edge outlook and futuristic vision, we live up to with the most credible information. Why are we In the fast-moving 24 x 7 global news environment, global dwellers cannot look on to what is going around them and what may affect them as global citizens. Our real-time news coverage and interactive platform allow people to have their say, as news in the making affects them, too. Actions Taken places • This year in our Monthly meeting we not only have discussion about human rights among the team but also we have developed a policy and staff training for each of our employees about human rights . • We have performed impact assessments and discussion with our stake holders About human rights . • Humanity is just not a vocabulary , nobility , old age and new age , road to honesty these articles are all associated with human rights , women’s rights and gender equality to encourage the mass media about human rights . Here are the links for some of the articles http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=8428 http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=8065 • We have increased the share of women on company board and on senior roles . • We have given the opportunity to other authors and journalist to publish articles on gender equality and human rights • Our news chief news reporter is a female and she has done excellent job for us . • we have introduced a column ‘women’ to encourage the women empowerment . • Journalism is great media to protect and aware human rights and through kalerjatra.com we have successfully embedded human rights in our business practice . Tarar Porne Production house limited Tarar porne means the house of stars which is an attribute to our CEO’S grandparent house ‘Tarar Porne’ located in Borisal, Bangladesh.Tarar Porne Production House is a full-service Documentary, film, video and multimedia company; managing the production process from script to screen. As a reliable resource for everything from crews to location scouting, grip and electric packages to high def and standard def post production and duplication, we offer solutions and resources to assist in your project be it film or TVAs the company bears a solid grasp on a highly targeted vertical market, advertising sales has become an important part of the company's business. The Tarar Porne brand is heavily based on the content that it procures. The staff of the company is constantly seeking cutting-edge films, ads and documentaries that the audience would enjoy.We believe truth is beauty and beauty is truth, Creativity comes from truth and beauty, it brings divine blessings .Along with this blessing we want to expand our horizon towards the eternity …forever and ever Actions Taken place this year • We have continued to produce documentaries and short film to aware mass about gender equality and human rights The golden boat show , Beautiful Bangladesh • https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sw1iA0eaVGQ • Our team members , board of directors and stake holders holders have participated in the awareness meetings and we have shared them the policy hand out ! • With the co operation of our non profit organisation ANDRA we have developed community based work shops to enhance the human rights practice . SDG 4. Quality education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all •Our Educational articles like Agony for Education created the platform for Quality education and the importance of education . Read the article on http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=8433 • We have celebrated International mother language day by distributing books and pencil among the children to emphasise the importance of education and to promote the opportunity for all and published this news on our portalhttp:// www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=8215see t • The video link : https://youtu.be/z3W_VFg6sCc RESULTS There was no reported case of human rights abuse Environment • PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Company policy Baldha Group supports the UNGC principles on the Environment. The principles have been included in our CSR policies and our Code of Conduct. As leader on the media, our company assumes responsibility towards the environment, by promoting good practices in environmental issues and cultivating these values through its policies of partnerships, through involvement in programs developed by organisations from the business environment and our nongovernmental sector Andra. ! About Baldha Agro Limited The main purpose of the corporation is to develop and market chemical free fruits , vegetables and ALOE VERA gel . In Bangladesh its very difficult to find chemical free vegetables and fruits .These chemicals are very dangerous for human body ..We produce directly these products in our land and sale them to the public .The main reason of popularity of the Aloe Vera derivatives is the perception of natural ingredients is used in the finished product. Aloe powder, gel, vitamin tablets, shampoo and other Aloe cosmetics are being produced from the plant and no other chemicals are being used as ingredients, except some preservatives and artificial perfume. ! ! SDG 3. Good health and well being Ensure healthy lives and promote well being at all ages Actions taken places ! • Our products are not only targeted for profit, introduction of such natural products to the consumers will enhance health consciousness as a whole • We have established sustainable production and consumption programme • we have identified the environmental threat • created a managerial committee to oversees the company application of precaution • we have stablished two way communication with our stake holders • We have adopted voluntary charters and code of conduct • our marketing team has produced the awareness videos for healthy life style • with the collaboration of our non profit organisation and media house we have targeted to our community to spread out the message ‘ Good health and well being ‘ ! link :https://youtu.be/z3W_VFg6sCc http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=8228 ! SDG 15. Life on Land TargetProtect restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems , sustainable manage forests , combat desertification and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Action • We have taken the initiation to protect nature • camping the slogan to save the nature:Nature does not need us we need nature • Plant more trees •Encourage our stake holders and employees to go paper less •Motivate and aware stake holders on the climate issues ! Baldha Apparel Ltd About Baldha Apparel Ltd Baldha apparel Ltd Baldha Apparel Ltd is a marketer, manufacturer, and distributor of high quality branded knit, woven and sweater apparel. Company specialises in selling a variety of wear tops and bottoms, for the ever-changing apparel market.Baldha Apparel mission is to become a recognised manufacturer, importer and distributor of high quality apparel and textile products to the USA Canada and Europe at the lowest possible price and with delivery times superior to any in the industry. It is equally committed to always exceeding the customer expectations and shareholder value. • This year one of our prime suppliers is Delta composite mill . The Delta Composite Knitting Industries Ltd. has occupied a pivotal Place. It has been possible because of its multi-dimensional and epoch-making activities since its inception in 1998.The Delta is a composite unit, having knitting, dyeing, finishing and sewing units under a single roof. Beside, They have their own printing, embroidery and washing units on the same premises. All these unit work as an integrated whole to meet the buyer's stipulated time and need based demands. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Actions Taken Place ! • To ensure a pollution free environment in their industrial park they have installed a sophisticated high tech biological effluent treatment plant . ( ETP) • this has established sustainable production and consumption programme • Working with this supplier has improved environmental performance extending responsibility through the product chain and down the supply chain • adopted voluntary charters , code of conduct , sectorial and industrial initiatives . • Made this information available to stake holders • This has ensured best available technology • Brand and reputation benefit for business • Check the link for the video https:// www.youtube.com/watch?v=4FxakqL5nM4 NEWS http://www.kalerjatra.com/ cat_view.php?news_id=8350 Result 0 Environment risk has been reported ! Labour Rights • PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • PRINCIPLE 4 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • PRINCIPLE 5 LABOUR STANDARDS the effective abolition of child labor • PRINCIPLE 6 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Company Policy Our company encourages equal opportunities. Neither employee is subject to any form of discrimination based on gender, race or physical abilities, or religion. Any form of physical or verbal harassment is strictly forbidden. . All employees are free to be part of any association or nongovernmental foundation. ! Every employee has the right to negotiate his/her salary Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the Labour rights. In the relations among employees, we encourage integrity and honesty. Baldha apparel Ltd Baldha Apparel Ltd is a marketer, manufacturer, and distributor of high quality branded knit, woven and sweater apparel. Company specialises in selling a variety of wear tops and bottoms, for the ever-changing apparel market.Baldha Apparel mission is to become a recognised manufacturer, importer and distributor of high quality apparel and textile products to the USA Canada and Europe at the lowest possible price and with delivery times superior to any in the industry. It is equally committed to always exceeding the customer expectations and shareholder value. SDG 8 Decent work and Economic Growth Promote sustained , inclusive and sustainable economic growth , full and productive employment and decent work for all Action Taken • When we place any order to the factories we make sure that factory is complaint with the international labor rights.We make sure our employees have decent work environment to be productive . ! • During the manufacturing Process we always make sure that the workers are paid for over time, receive the sick leave and treated with respect. • We promote high standards of health and safety in our manufacturing facilities • We invest in technologies that reduces the risk of human error and accidents in production . • We always arrange monthly team meetings to share our employees about their expectations,contributions and ideas for the future road maps of the organisation • All employees have benefitted from private medical insurances and annual medical check up • At the company’s premises have been arranged facilities necessary to disabled persons • We prioritise the eradication of modern day slavery and child labour in production supply chains . ! • We provide targeted internships for young people from disadvantage back ground in order to promote social mobility .which also enhancing company performance through increased work force diversity . Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries Actions taken place • One of our suppliers is Delta group and this a leading composing knitting factory in Bangladesh . In our recent visit to the factory we have observed that workers are paid equally • They have suitable working environment for the female employees . •provided day care service for their female employees . •no child labour •Trained and educated the employees about equal rights . Result No conflict or discrimination report has been submitted PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMPANY POLICY Baldha Group fights against any forms of corruption including bribery, political influence, external pressure or extortion. SDG 16 Peace , Justice and Strong institutes Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development , provide access to justice for all and build effective , accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels . ACTIONS TAKEN • We have developed and updated the company’s anti-corruption manual; every employee is trained and audited for knowing and applying it. •The possibility for signalling any corruption or bribing act was made available to all employees • We have arranged anti corruption seminar on a local restaurant .The news http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php? news_id=8437 , ! http://businessnews24bd.com/seminar-on-zero-corruption-held/ Video https:// youtu.be/8l8aYr7w_Hg • We have promoted among our partners, customers, and public to aware about corruption and held seminars on ‘zero corruption’. • We have designed and implemented a robust anti bribery and corruption compliance program . • We have demonstrated ethical leadership by publishing a statement on human rights consistent with the UN guiding principles on business and human rights and shared with our stake holders and employees . RESULTS No employee has been involved in corruption actions . ! • Participated in Local Network :Ring the Bell for Gender Equality : A Seminar was held for the addressing the gender issue from the local net work in Bangladesh . This convention also held to celebrate the international women's day and the human rights principles of United Nations Global compact on March 8th 2017 . News at Kaler jatra.com http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=8267 The International women’s day is celebrated around the world to encourage woman about their rights and to celebrate the social , economic , cultural and political achievements of women . ! • Participated in the COP Training organised by CSR • Facilated the team work and it was an excellent training . How will we publicise this information? The 10 Principles will be made available to employees, suppliers, shareholders, mass media, as well as to the large audience on our website www.baldha.com Contact person Farah Mazid Saddha CEO Baldha Group +8801729860251 ceo@baldha.com ! The End Thank you .
