Sustainability Report 2015 Delivering impactful solutions In the first sustainability report for the new AECOM, we bring together the best work of our former companies from around the world. In this report we showcase our passion for corporate social responsibility, keen focus on supporting the communities where our employees live and work, and the ambitions we have for sustainability for the future. Sustainability is at the core of what we do. We approach every project’s sustainability challenges by leveraging our expertise to make a lasting and positive impact on society and the environment. As a global company, our unique ability to integrate leading industry insights with sustainability tools and resources is what helps us manage our clients’ investments and The U.K.’s greenest civic centre −− Expected to use 65 percent less energy and 45 percent less water Above: Brent Civic Centre, London, England. AECOM’s deliver a better world. role: town planning, engineering Incorporating a host of energyand than a conventional building design, environmental and water-saving fixtures, sensors and sustainability services. gardens, the Brent Civic Centre in −− Consolidates functions from Cover image: NASA Ames London is the first public building in 14 buildings, saving £2.5 million Research Center, Moffett the U.K. to receive an Outstanding (US$3.7 million) in annual operating Field, California, United States. BREEAM rating for sustainability. costs AECOM’s role: architect of record, engineer of record and landscape The combined office building and architect of record. community space features a concrete −− Cooling, heating and power run on façade and lightweight roof that 11 different fuels, primarily waste harness natural light and warmth, but fish oil, one of the least carbonlimit excess heat and glare, while open intensive biofuels windows and ventilators provide fresh −− Sustainable Project of the Year, air and natural cooling nearly year2014 Building Awards round. AECOM delivered an array of planning, design and sustainability services for the project. 2 3 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Delivering the future Contents AECOM is a company with a vision to build a better world. Sustainability is also at the core of how we run our company. We take our responsibilities seriously, and “The greatest positive impact we can have globally is in the 06 22 Our projects transform communities, continue to deliver improvements transformational Projects Community improve lives and power growth by in our environmental performance outcomes we deliver.” Our involvement in these projects Our efforts to make a positive designing, building, financing and across key performance indicators showcase how innovation, passion, difference are led by many. This operating infrastructure assets including greenhouse gas emissions around the world. and our global reach can help commitment to enriching local (GHGs), water, waste and energy and preparedness for the impacts deliver a better world. communities touches the lives of AECOM’s 2015 sustainability report of climate change. This year, we millions. is our first since we completed the committed to reducing AECOM largest combination of firms in our 14 26 greenhouse gas emissions by the industry’s history. Within it, you’ll year 2020, as further detailed ahead find work ranging from building in this report. energy efficient sports stadiums to piloting a food warehousing system Our company is built around the Environmental impact People that supports food production power of connected expertise and This year, we follow the lead of our The power of our people drives and revenues for small farmers in collaboration to reimagine and create biggest clients to take an important transformational outcome. Mozambique and Zambia, as well new potential for built and natural as public-private partnerships to step forward on the path to environments. Together, we strive to 30 develop sustainable urban living make a lasting and positive impact greening our operations. solutions and provide disaster on society and the environment 18 response and resilience planning. that will make a difference for future These stories highlight our common generations. About this report purpose: to positively impact lives, The steps we took in 2015 to transform communities and make Best Regards, Partnerships continually improve and expand our the world a better place. The world was not short on commitment to sustainability The greatest positive impact challenges in 2015. Our collaboration reporting. we make globally is in the to develop solutions through transformational outcomes we Mike Burke deliver. Our employees are unrivaled Chairman and CEO innovation is needed now more in solving complex challenges and than ever. pursuing innovative solutions for the greatest benefits. We find ways to help clients use less energy and water, make the most of natural resources, recycle materials where feasible, streamline systems, improve delivery and enhance products and services, all with an unwavering attention to safety. 4 5 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Innovative solutions. Positive impacts. Projects At AECOM, we connect expertise across services, markets and geographies to deliver transformative and sustainable outcomes. Worldwide, we design, build, finance, operate and manage projects and programs that unlock opportunities, protect our environment and improve people’s lives. Here we highlight several exemplary projects and their sustainability features delivered for our clients around the world. A greener shade of gold Golden 1 Center, Sacramento, California, United States. Golden 1 Center, home of the NBA’s energy to power a 120,000-squareSacramento Kings, is on target to foot office building. Through native achieve a minimum of LEED Gold. and drought-resistant plants, The arena is designed to revitalize water-sensitive landscape design, downtown Sacramento and offers a high-efficiency cooling equipment unique indoor-outdoor environment and low-flow plumbing fixtures, the with hangar doors that open to building will save 700,000 gallons of welcome fans and allow breezes water annually. that naturally cool the building. AECOM provided a combination of −− Sourcing 90 percent of food and urban planning, architecture, sports beverages from within 150 miles architecture, landscape architecture will help reduce the building’s and building engineering services. carbon footprint by 2,000 tons annually. One hundred percent of the arena’s electricity will come from solar energy, −− Thirty-six percent of materials for allowing it to serve over 200 events the building come from recycled a year at net-zero energy. Through sources, including fans’ old athletic LED lighting, lighting controls, heat shoes, which are recycled in the recovery and a “Fan First” ventilation court’s foam layer. system, the building saves enough 6 7 AECOM Sustainability report Los Angeles International Airport 2015 Central Utility Plant, California, United States. Gateway WA Perth Airport and Freight Access Project, Western Australia, Australia. Sky high improvements On the road to sustainability Ambitions to improve energy efficiency −− CUP is expected to save the airport Electric vehicles, recycled materials −− Project site staff drove electric and environmental performance at Los an estimated US$7 million annually and energy-efficient lighting all vehicles for their inspections. Angeles International Airport have in electrical and natural gas costs, formed part of the approach to produced impressive results. Replacing with an additional delivering a safer and more efficient −− Constructors have used more a 50-year old facility, the airport’s new US$2 million in savings from drive around Perth Airport in Australia. than 907,000 metric tons (1 million Central Utility Plant (CUP) is 25 percent municipal utility rebates as a result Main Roads Western Australia tons) of recycled material and more energy efficient than its of the plant’s ability to generate wanted its Gateway WA highway and repurposed 1.6 million metric tons predecessor. For example, upgrading electricity through its operations. interchange upgrade project to be (1.8 million tons) from cut-waste to variable-flow pumping technology designed, delivered and operated recycled materials to date. for the plant’s chilled-water systems −− The energy efficient operations are in a socially and environmentally reducing carbon dioxide emissions −− Substitution of materials resulted saves almost 1.6 million kilowatt-hours responsible manner. AECOM by 4,890 tons per annum. in an approximate 10 percent annually. In addition, improvements developed the project’s sustainability reduction in total asphalt quantity include a new heat-reflective roof, program, which has helped Gateway for the project overall. drought-tolerant landscaping and WA win the distinction of becoming automatically controlled lighting and the first road project in Australia to air-conditioning systems that have earn an Excellent rating for design been designed to achieve a LEED Gold from the Infrastructure Sustainability rating. We supported the program with Council of Australia. construction management services. 8 9 AECOM Sustainability report Warehouse Receipts System 2015 project, Zambia and Mozambique. Breaking down the barriers We are implementing a USAID −− WRS offers smallholder farmers program, the Southern Africa the opportunity to store produce Trading Hub, which aims to increase rather than sell it at harvest time intra-regional trade, food security when prices are at their lowest. and international competitiveness for farmers. One of the program’s −− Storage facilities use a webinitiatives was recognized with a based application that integrates 2015 Oracle Sustainability Innovation commodity receipting systems Award. For decades, smallholder with the payment of the supplier. farmers have lacked adequate storage −− A recordkeeping application facilities for their harvested produce analyzes data and enables and suffered up to 30 percent losses. financiers to pay the supplier The warehouse receipts system accurately and on time for goods (WRS) provided a solution with Oracle delivered. technology. Denver Union Station, Colorado, From steam engine to United States. economic engine 2014 Project of the Supporting Denver’s work to achieve −− This project supports Denver’s Improving impact and the Year, Design-Build its 2020 Sustainability Goals, AECOM efforts to achieve its 2020 bottom line Institute of America helped transform an underused Sustainability Goals, which include neighborhood into a new transit hub. reducing the number of singleThe Union Transit Station project in occupant vehicle commuting trips. −− The twin target of reducing its carbon −− The measures identified potential Denver, Colorado converted almost footprint while also saving money was savings across the five sites 20 acres of an abandoned rail yard −− The Union Station Bus Concourse the challenge set by global acrylics of over US$20 million and more into a mixed-use development that has a LEED Gold rating for its use of manufacturer Lucite International. than 140,000 metric tons of combines bus, light rail and passenger recycled materials in construction Its goal was to achieve 20-percent carbon dioxide. rail facilities with 1.35 million square and the incorporation of skylights savings in energy costs and reduce feet of office, retail and residential in its design to provide natural light, Energy audits for Lucite −− Many of the measures focused International, North America, carbon below 2010 levels by 2020. property development and public among many other sustainability on improvements at the Sulphuric Europe and Asia. AECOM performed audits on five of space. AECOM coordinated all features in its design and Acid Recovery unit (SAR) which Lucite’s global sites, including those aspects of transportation planning operation. consumes more than 60 percent of in the United Kingdom, United States, and acted as lead designer for the China and Taiwan. Beating Lucite’s the energy at each plant. −− 2014 Project of the Year, Designdesign-build team that delivered the targets, our team of engineering and Build Institute of America. −− Opportunities for on-site power US$489 million transit component of sustainability professionals identified this public-private partnership. generation were also identified, energy efficiency measures that with some sites having the could reduce 30 percent of total potential to become self-sufficient carbon emissions and 20 percent of in power, significantly reducing total energy consumption at these costs and also improving business facilities. resilience to external factors such as unplanned outages. 10 11 AECOM Sustainability report Images courtesy of BAS and 2015 James Morris Halley VI, Brunt Ice Shelf, Caird Coast, Antarctica. Building more resilient Operation energy savings cities Against a backdrop of increasing The U.S. Navy’s Space and Naval globalization, climate change and Warfare Systems Command urbanization, 100 Resilient Cities — (SPAWAR) Systems Center Pacific, pioneered by The Rockefeller in San Diego, California, is a state-ofFoundation — (100RC) was established the-art research, development and to help cities build resilience to social, testing facility for command, control, environmental and economic shocks intelligence and communication and stresses. The program aims to systems and ocean surveillance help cities to become more resilient to operations. AECOM delivered an the wide range of complex and innovative and comprehensive interrelated physical, social and energy savings performance contract economic challenges facing them. that dramatically improved energy conservation across the facility’s AECOM is a strategy partner for 224 buildings with a combined 100RC, working alongside chief workspace of 3,032,000 square feet. resilience officers in 16 cities helping to assess the city’s baseline resilience −− AECOM’s Sustainable Systems and developing strategies to improve Integration Model for Energy™ tool the resilience to everything from generated and evaluated multiple homeless and affordable housing, to energy conservation measures A research station for the sea level rise and drought, to cyber and options in a live “game-boarding” world’s toughest climate energy security. As key partner to environment. 100RC, AECOM is also helping to −− The project achieved a net energy The world’s first-ever permanently (31.7 gallons) per person per day at aerospace industry that offer high develop and refine tools, share lessons reduction of 37 percent, driving manned, fully relocatable polar Halley V to just 20 liters (5 gallons) per levels of thermal insulation and learned and scale best practices for US$383,000 in annual utility cost research station, Halley VI, is a person per day. light transmittance. 100RC. AECOM was supporting the savings. record breaker in many ways. It was following cities (by the end of 2015): −− Sewage is first treated in a bioreactor −− The modular design and large created for the British Antarctic San Francisco, Dallas, Berkeley, before being incinerated. This means steel skis on each foot enable the −− As a result, the facility reached Survey (BAS) with AECOM as Oakland (United States), San Juan when the station moves, nothing is station to be relocated, adapting to its mandated energy goals two multidisciplinary engineer and lead (Puerto Rico), Montreal (Canada), left behind except clean water. changes in the ice shelf upon which years ahead of schedule and consultant and Hugh Broughton Santiago de Los Caballeros it sits. strengthened its future resilience Architects as designer. The project (Dominican Republic), Mexico City, −− Highly energy efficient, Halley VI and mission capability. won the 2015 American Society of Juarez, (Mexico), Quito (Ecuador), uses 7 percent less fuel Civil Engineering’s Outstanding Civil Rotterdam (Netherlands), Melbourne, than the previous BAS station. Engineering Achievement Award. Sydney, (Australia), Bangkok (Thailand), Its cladding incorporates Wellington and Christchurch (New The station’s design was developed polyisocyanurate foam, a highZealand). to minimize environmental impact. A performance insulator, and vacuum drainage system has helped translucent glazing using nanogel to reduce water usage from 120 liters technologies developed in the Top left: 100 Resilient Cities workshop, Bangkok Thailand. Top Right: SPAWAR Systems Center Pacific, San Diego, California, United States. 12 13 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Doing more with less In every aspect of our lives we are aware of the impact we make on our planet. As a global corporation we take our responsibilities seriously and have made great progress in reducing our environmental impacts. We look at all areas of our operations, from reducing our consumption of resources such as paper and water, to reducing our Environmental emissions from fleet vehicles and offices. We know there is always room for improvement and we continue to impact set newer and higher targets for our environmental performance. Smart water saving Chelsea Burkett, local sustainability committee leader at AECOM’s Austin, Texas, office, demonstrates new moisture sensors that are one of several water savings projects on campus. In Austin, Texas, AECOM’s campus than 14.3 million gallons since 2011. consists of five buildings that span 24 To increase savings further, the acres with landscaped areas. Water committee is evaluating additional conservation initiatives, introduced by measures including rainwater the local sustainability committee, harvesting and inclusion of low-waterhave reduced water usage by 32 use plants, known as xeriscaping. percent in 2015 (based on a 2011 baseline). Although the majority of our offices do not have the ability to track water Solutions, such as installing an consumption, several offices in our automated system to prevent Greater China/Southeast Asia region irrigation system leaks and moisture also track their water use, reporting a sensors that adjust the watering 17 percent reduction on a per capita schedule based on rainfall, have basis from FY2014 to FY2015. generated a water savings of more 14 15 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Our carbon footprint 2015 GHG emissions by source Setting targets GHGs reduction target Scope 1 and 2 (metric tons CO2e) Metric tons C02e / $USMillion 129,381 130,014 By 2020 we aim to reduce our GHG We regularly measure and report on the volume of greenhouse gas 67,200 emissions by 20 percent, normalized 2015 by revenue, below the 2015 baseline. Baseline (GHG) emissions resulting from our 18.15 operations. With the acquisition We plan to achieve this target by first of URS Corporation and Hunt focusing on our two largest sources 2020 Construction in 2014, the magnitude of emissions — fleet fuel use and Scope 2 Target office electricity and natural gas 7.19 14.52 and relative mix of AECOM’s GHG emissions have changed significantly. consumption. Specific initiatives As such, we have chosen to use include consolidating our real estate Scope 2 this year’s 2015 GHG inventory, footprint globally, transitioning to 5.86 Office heating Electricity Fleet fuel a leaner and more fuel-efficient which includes all major sources of emissions for the combined company, fleet of vehicles in our Construction Scope 1 Services Business Group, improving 10.96 as our new baseline year for reporting 2015 performance indicators purposes. sustainability training and access Scope 3 (metric tons CO2e) Scope 1 to tools/resources for our project 8.94 Starting with this year, we implemented managers, and developing a global methodology based on the sustainability guidelines for new 11,916 Greenhouse Gas Protocol (developed leases and leasehold improvements. by World Resources Institute and In our commitment to continuous World Business Council on Sustainable 5 improvement of our environmental , 54 Development), to manage the 50 performance, we will assess new transparency, accuracy and emissions reduction opportunities as consistency of the data collection and Rental car fuel Business air travel we collect and analyze improved data calculation processes. Our new global from our global operations. sustainability data management tool, powered by FigBytes, will allow us to 2015 GHG emissions by region more efficiently and effectively Scope 1 and 2 analyze data trends and identify opportunities for continuous improvement. 82% 8% 10% Americas EMIA APAC 16 17 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Stronger together Partnerships We believe that working across sectors and disciplines lead to more sustainable outcomes. In 2015, we developed strategic partnerships with likeminded organizations from the public and private sectors, including non-governmental organizations, to tackle complex sustainability challenges. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Building a living laboratory The Kuala Lumpur Centre for entrepreneurs and innovators to “We hope to open Sustainable Innovation (KLCSI) is a share knowledge and technology. the door for bigger joint venture between AECOM and impactful schemes Malaysia’s Ministry for Federal Initial projects include a bike sharing that AECOM can Territories. It focuses on public and initiative aimed at reducing the city’s deliver by leveraging private sector engagement to develop traffic volume, a community foodon our own innovative innovative and sustainable solutions waste-to-compost recycling network practices worldwide.” for improving the city’s livability. to support urban gardens and a Dr. Thomas Tang, community center to encourage director, KLCSI Launched in 2015, the KLCSI provides intergenerational connectivity a collaborative hub to encourage pilot between the elderly and youth. projects for the built environment, as well as city management, urban mobility, information and communications technology, public safety, waste and water management and clean energy. It provides a space for international experts, local 18 19 Urban SOS: All Systems Go Measuring resilience AECOM’s Urban SOS, sponsored in become self-sufficient in its food “We believe that According to its latest assessment, world to engage local businesses, 2015 by the Van Alen Institute and 100 production. The team received a tomorrow’s cities will the United Nations Office of communities and government Resilient Cities — pioneered by the US$7,500 prize and up to US$25,000 require holistic, International Strategy for Disaster departments to build a quantitative Rockefeller Foundation, is a global of in-kind staff time to support integrated thinking – Risk Reduction (UNISDR) believes the picture of the strengths, weaknesses, student design competition. In the advancing their project. like that advanced by global impact of disasters now costs opportunities and threats upon which award’s sixth installment, university Urban SOS participants up to US$300 billion annually. But to prioritize disaster risk reduction teams were asked to identify risks The runner-up teams were from the in this competition – greater collaboration between cities measures, response planning and facing urban food, energy and water Massachusetts Institute of to prepare for the and businesses is reducing shared recovery. In Bandung, Indonesia, the systems and to offer strategies that Technology, Berkeley City College, challenges ahead and risk and increasing shared value in the scorecard has strengthened the links make these systems more efficient, Louisiana State University and the to prioritize the longface of this challenge. between the public and private equitable and accessible. University of the Aegean, Greece. term projects they stakeholders who can contribute to pursue, develop and A new tool is helping bring together disaster risk reduction. Judges awarded the top prize to a fund.” the private and public sectors in this team of graduate students from the Mike Burke area. AECOM developed the Disaster The scorecard won the 2015 NDUniversity of Pennsylvania who Chairman and CEO Resilience Scorecard in partnership GAIN Corporate Adaptation Prize offered an ambitious new urban with IBM and the UNISDR. It has been from the University of Notre Dame, landscape plan to help Singapore used in dozens of cities around the United States. Meiwan Kartiwa Bandung Mayor Ridwan Kamil. Winners of the 2015 Urban SOS accept their Indonesia’s third largest city is part awards from Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti of the UNISDR Disaster Resilience (second from right) and AECOM Chairman and Scorecard initiative. Chief Executive Mike Burke. Combined efforts are paying off Since 2012, AECOM has partnered combat climate change. More than with CDP’s Global Cities program, 500 cities use CDP’s platform to providing data analysis and report on their climate change-related information design for its annual data every year. CDP and AECOM use global reports. Cities are hubs of this large data set to produce analysis innovation, growth, urbanization and and reports relating to how cities are economic activities, but they also tackling these challenges. consume significant amounts of To learn about CDP’s Global Cities energy and contribute to carbon Report 2015 click here. dioxide emissions. This presents cities with a major opportunity to 20 21 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 AECOM’s Michael Whitworth, senior engineering Building a better world with volunteerism geologist, in Nepal with the Institution of Structural Engineers’ Earthquake Engineering Field Investigation team. Community We believe in the collective energy and effort of our people to benefit society and the environment through financial support, pro-bono work, participation in events and more. We embrace the opportunity to engage with, and contribute to, the communities where we live and work. We foster a professional environment where meaningful community involvement is both encouraged and supported. A global response to the Nepal earthquake In the aftermath of Nepal’s massive Authority, to ensure everyone on the Earthquake Engineering Field earthquake in April 2015, our project was accounted for and safe. Investigation team. Michael and his employees rallied to assist in the team went to Nepal to provide disaster relief and recovery efforts in Their colleagues in our corporate, technical evaluation of Nepal’s one of Asia’s most disadvantaged regional and local offices donated infrastructure and to collect scientific countries. more than US$95,000 to international and engineering facts that will help aid organizations, such as the identify the causes of building failures, AECOM’s Guillaume Prudent-Richard International Red Cross and RedR, in landslides and other issues. and Amit Prothi were on assignment in the months following the event. Kathmandu, Nepal’s capital, when the quake struck. They were there to help AECOM also assisted employees who run a disaster-risk management wanted to provide on-the-ground workshop, but what was only a support in Nepal. One employee, scenario model for the two planning Michael Whitworth, a senior experts suddenly became very real. engineering geologist, participated They worked with the client, in a scientific and engineering Kathmandu Valley Development fact-finding mission with the Institution of Structural Engineers’ 22 23 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Volunteering around Scotland A team of seven from our United Arab Emirates AECOM Unity China Walk for Nature is the the world Edinburgh Tanfield office spent a Sunday carrying out representatives collected cash donations from staff World Wildlife Fund (WWF)-Hong Kong’s repair work on the Bo’ness in response to a powerful largest annual fundraising and Kinneil heritage railway snowstorm that swept event and highlights the — a popular local tourist across Lebanon and need for environmental attraction that relies on the Jordan. The donations conservation by increasing were given to the UAE public awareness and 478 work of volunteers for its operation and maintenance. Red Crescent to help buy appreciation of nature. Using their engineering blankets, winter clothes AECOM was the Sunbird experience, our volunteers and food supplies for Sponsor and a group provided manpower to help people living in refugee of 30 people including prevent persistent flooding. camps. employees, friends Number of charitable and family members organizations participated in the walk. supported globally in 2015 Canada Employees helped raise C$235,877 (US$181,374) for the United Way nonprofit organization by enrolling in the voluntary payroll deduction contribution program and hosting a range of creative fundraising activities including bake sales, Halloween parties, silent auctions, marshmallow towers and eBingo. AECOM in Canada matched 50 percent of all employee donations. United States Uganda India Australia AECOM employees Employees from Salt Lake Several employees The kitchen at social housing with Washington River City, Utah, United States, participated in a twocomplex 100 Hampton Protection Solutions supported an Engineers week trip to Hyderabad in Road in Perth provides (WRPS) helped introduce Without Borders project in support of Pollinate Energy, residents the skills to obtain more than 3,700 local Uganda. The team assisted a not-for-profit organization employment in the food students to the world a sustainable well drilling committed to supporting and hospitality industry. In a of engineering through program that engages local the next generation of social pro-bono partnership with presentations and fun tradesmen and women. entrepreneurs by providing community organizations, interactive games as part access to sustainable and AECOM helped build the of Engineers Week. affordable technologies. thriving community asset. 24 25 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Making amazing happen People are at the heart of everything we do — from our employees, clients People and subcontractors, to our academic partners, investors and suppliers. We thrive on these human connections to drive sustainability in our work, and we know that our success is inextricably linked to respecting each other’s ideas, diversity and cultures. As a global firm operating in more than 150 countries, AECOM has built its reputation on promoting an environment free from discrimination and harassment, and where wellness is a priority. We take pride in our culture of safety, integrity and equal opportunity in all areas of employment, including recruitment, hiring, training and promotion. Our awardwinning Supplier Diversity Program ensures Safety that small and historically underutilized businesses have the maximum opportunity AECOM’s culture of caring sets an our safety performance goal — legacy AECOM operations; 2015 data to succeed. expectation for each employee, coming in at 7.5 percent under our reflects the combined company’s contractor and business partner to targeted corporate recordable operations. take personal responsibility for incident rate. Similarly, our corporate protecting the safety of our colleagues lost workday case rate has reduced “The true mark of our and others associated with our work. by 11 percent*. This number success lies in keeping Whether located on a project site, in represents a significant decrease our employees and the office or at home, we embrace in both the number and severity of the end users of our safety as a lifestyle choice by serious injuries globally. projects safe each day.” maintaining essential safety procedures Andy Peters and behaviors everywhere we go. *To account for AECOM’s integration Senior Vice President, with legacy URS, this percentage is Chief Safety Officer As highlighted in our recently released the average improvement from 2010 2015 safety report, we have exceeded to 2015. 2010 to 2014 data reflects 26 27 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Diversity and Inclusion We embrace the diversity of every We believe in fostering an environment employee through an inclusive and free from discrimination and accountable culture. harassment and in ensuring equal opportunities in all areas of employment, At AECOM, diversity and inclusion are including recruitment, hiring, training embedded in our core values and are and promotion. We want to ensure key drivers of our success. Our that all employment practices are innovation is enhanced by our ability objective and free from bias, are based “Inclusiveness is about to draw from a wealth of different solely on work criteria and individual making the mix of our backgrounds and experiences. Our merit and meet the broader goals and diverse perspectives diversity also enables us to better objectives of the company. work to achieve better understand our clients and the business results.” communities in which we live and work. Liz Sepetjian, Director, Diversity and Inclusion, Talent Management Ethics Supplier diversity “We have succeeded in AECOM’s Ethics & Compliance program Hotline: We maintain a 24-hour, 2015 Small business Supplier diversity is an important part –C hampion of Veteran Enterprise, earning our clients’ is an integral part of our company’s seven-day-per-week hotline with accomplishment summary of the way we do business. We National Veteran Small Business trust by delivering culture. It encompasses the key extensive language capabilities open to Includes US federal government recognize small business concerns to Coalition (NVSBC) outstanding customer elements of ethics and compliance all employees, contractors and third contracts and EIC business group ensure that small, women-owned, best practices, including policies and parties. HUBZone, veteran-owned and –T op Military Friendly Supplier service and fully procedures, training and assurance. service-disabled veteran-owned Diversity Programs, National committing to acting Governance: AECOM’s leadership businesses have the maximum Veteran‐owned Business ethically in all that we Training: AECOM’s mandatory Code of communicates regularly about the practicable opportunity to compete Association (NaVOBA) do. Integrity guides us Conduct online training is available in 15 importance of integrity to all employees. for the procurement of goods and as we conduct our –A merica’s Top Corporations for languages. In addition, employees are Each geography and business line has services. We are committed to an business around the Women’s Business Enterprise, assigned training on evolving areas of an ethics and compliance committee effective supplier diversity program world.” Women’s Business Enterprise compliance on a regular basis. that reports quarterly to the Global that demonstrates measurable AECOM Chairman and National Council (WBENC) Ethics & Compliance Committee. improvement from year to year and is CEO, Mike Burke consistent with recognized industry objectives, applications and contractual expectations of our Professional development clients. This corporate commitment extends to the procurement of all goods and services, whether the Large business Small business purchases support federal, state or 57.73% 42.27% We want our people to reach their full Our career planning program is a US$1,060.4M US$776.3M local governments, commercial potential. To meet these goals we partnership between employees, clients, or in-house needs. provide a supportive professional managers and the company that environment full of opportunity helps both personal goals and — whether it is participating in one of business needs. It allows employees the more than 10,000 courses offered to take ownership and initiative for by AECOM University, being their own careers, supported by recognized in our awards programs, managers who serve as catalysts, taking part in our career planning coaches and supporters. program or working on some of the Lac-Mégantic train derailment world’s most exciting projects. disaster cleanup, Quebec, Canada. 28 29 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 About this report General Standard Disclosures Page number/resource Specific Standard Disclosures Page number/resource This 2015 Sustainability Report reflects Strategy and Analysis Category: Economic the entirety of our new, integrated G4-1 Organizational Profile 4 G4-EC1 G4-EC9 32 29 company following the acquisition of URS G4-3 4 Category: Environmental Corporation and Hunt Construction in 2014. It relates to AECOM’s fiscal year G4-4 32 G4-EN3 16 G4-6 27 G4-EN5 16 G4-7 G4-9 10-k 32 G4-EN15 G4-EN16 16 16 ending September 30, 2015. Our G4-13 31 G4-EN18 16 extensive business reorganization meant G4-15 30 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-EN30 Category: Social 16 that a joint report was not issued in 2014, G4-17 G4-18 10-k 31 G4-LA6 G4-LA10 aecom.com 28 and the 2015 metrics will establish a new G4-19 30 baseline year from which trends in G4-23 Stakeholder Engagement 31 subsequent years will be measured. G4-26 30,31 G4-27 30 Report Profile Guidance on the structure and content of this report has been provided by AECOM’s G4-28 31 G4-29 31 G4-30 G4-31 31 32 Sustainability Report Advisory Board, an G4-32 30 18-member body of sustainability leaders from around the company representing the G4-33 30 Governance G4-34 Ethics and Integrity 31,32,34, aecom.com different business groups, geographies, G4-56 28, aecom.com and functional areas. The input provided by this board throughout the report’s This report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting also a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, and this development process enables the Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting report supplements our 2015 assessment and inclusion of sustainabilityrelated priorities and viewpoints from our Guidelines. References to where Communication on Progress. information related to the Standard Disclosures are provided in the table above. This report has been audited by an independent team of internal subject global operations. matter experts to check that the The GRI G4 sustainability reporting information and facts presented in it framework informs the process by reflect our performance. Various internal and external stakeholder groups were involved in the review of the which the AECOM Sustainability Program team identifies and prioritizes what we include in the sustainability report. AECOM will report to assess sustainability issues continue to improve our alignment material to our operations. in future reports. AECOM is 30 31 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 About AECOM Our clients face tough challenges, 7 continents Our success only comes when we and we work to understand and hold true to our shared purpose and solve them better than anyone else. 92,000 employees core values: We match the complexity of these 150+ countries challenges with the diversity of our People expertise, spanning all phases of the ~US$18B revenue The expertise, passion and thought development life cycle — design, leadership of our talented people build, finance, operate and manage. around the world make our success Fast Facts possible. We respect and encourage This experience delivers innovative solutions that transform communities our people’s ideas, diversity and Global Headquarters: Los Angeles, and improve lives. The result of our cultures. California, United States work is not just a single solution but an Clients outcome in which circumstances are Ranked #1 in Engineering NewsWe are committed to our clients dramatically changed for the better. Record‘s “Top Green Design Firms” and to setting industry standards The revitalization of a neighborhood. Ranked #1 in Engineering Newsfor service and delivery. We take The next generation of a business. Record‘s “Top 500 Design Firms” ownership for solving our clients’ The growth of an economy. The problems and anticipating new stabilization of a country. The health Named one of Fortune magazine’s opportunities. of the planet. This is how we are built “World’s Most Admired Companies” to deliver a better world. Excellence Diversity/Careers Magazine: Best We believe in delivering unequivocal AECOM is publicly listed (New Diversity Company excellence in everything that we do. York Stock Exchange: ACM) and is governed by a 12-member Board of Integrity Directors which ensures the company We must always maintain our maintains its position and reputation commitment to acting ethically and as an ethical leader. with integrity — in all that we do, every day of the year. Safety We are a company that puts safety first. We are all accountable for keeping ourselves and our colleagues AECOM provided construction management safe, and for delivering work safely to for One World Trade Center which is seeking our clients. LEED® Gold certification through the use of renewable energy sources, low-energy Innovation HVAC solutions, high-performance façades, non-ozone-depleting chemicals, sustainable We differentiate our company by materials, and rainwater collection and challenging ourselves to look for recycling systems. new and better ways to deliver our expertise through innovative solutions that enable each client to realize its vision. 32 33 AECOM Sustainability report 2015 Award-winning conservation sustainability awards for innovation and excellence. The award was for the The Lawrence Livermore National lab’s multifaceted approach to water Laboratory, California, United conservation in drought-stricken States, to which AECOM is a California. Through implementation contributing partner with leadership of its water conservation plan, which responsibilities for Facilities, targets water consumption in cooling Infrastructure, and Environmental, towers, domestic use and irrigation, Safety & Health, was recognized the lab cut its water use by more than for its efforts in water conservation Closing Message from the 10 percent of its 240 million gallon by the National Nuclear Security annual total. Sustainability Program Administration (NNSA), which Advisory Board selected the lab for one of its 2015 Throughout this report, we highlight Martin Andrew Mike Hoffman examples of the good work Manager, Quality & Delivery Program Manager, Innovation & AECOM has performed in providing Assurance ANZ Sustainability sustainable solutions to our clients’ needs while taking steps to reduce Claire Bonham-Carter Mike Kostiw our environmental impact, enhance Principal, Director of Sustainable Vice President, Chief Ethics and and support the communities Development Compliance Officer that support us and create a safe, Dr. Jacquelyn Carioscia Dale Sands rewarding and meaningful work Senior Process Engineer Senior Vice President, Operations environment for our employees. Executive, Environment In addition, we hope to challenge Jay Clare ourselves to make progress toward Senior Vice President, Enterprise Josh Sawislak a more sustainable future. The Growth Solutions Global Director of Resilience way forward is to acknowledge our achievements, identify areas for Mike de Bettencourt Dr. Liz Sepetjian improvement and develop strategies Director, Safety, Health and Director, Diversity and Inclusion, to address these opportunities. Environment Training and Talent Management To achieve our goals, we require a Development strong framework for a long-term Ben Smith sustainability culture — a system of Andy Dedman Director of Sustainable Development policies, programs and resources Senior Director, Global Procurement Operations Robert Spencer that guide the company’s sustainable Sustainability End Market Director growth. Leadership by example will Sarah Dunlap inspire our employees to embrace it. Shelia Stark-Bailey Director, Corporate Finance Senior Counsel, Legal For questions about this report, Micheal Fountain please contact Dr. Thomas Tang Manager, Corporate Communications sustainability.support@aecom.com Director, Sustainability & Corporate Kerry Griffiths Initiatives, Asia Technical Director, Sustainability LLNL Sustainability Manager and AECOM employee Michael Cowen (recently retired), standing next to a reverse osmosis unit that recycles water for a lab cooling tower, says the lab’s sensitivity to the state’s drought led to some changes, including cutbacks of more than 10 percent of its normal water use (photo courtesy Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory). 34 35 About AECOM AECOM is built to deliver a better world. We design, build, finance and operate infrastructure assets for governments, businesses and organizations in more than 150 countries. As a fully integrated firm, we connect knowledge and experience across our global network of experts to help clients solve their most complex challenges. From high-performance buildings and infrastructure, to resilient communities and environments, to stable and secure nations, our work is transformative, differentiated and vital. A Fortune 500 firm, AECOM had revenue of approximately US$18 billion during fiscal year 2015. See how we deliver what others can only imagine at aecom.com and @AECOM. Follow us on Twitter: @aecom Printed on recycled paper. aecom.com ©20XX AECOM. All Rights Reserved.
