COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S Orientkaj 4 2151 Nordhavn, Copenhagen T +45 4171 8200 W gottliebpaludan.com CVR number 1835 5949 Illustrations Erik Jarlöv: front page image, 12 Gottlieb Paludan Architects: 2, 14, 15 Hillerød Forsyning: 6 Jens Markus Lindhe: 4, 26, 28 Lars Rolfsted Mortensen: 8, 10, 20 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 ˄ Holmestrand Station, Norway A new station has been built in the coastal town of Holmestrand some 80 km south of Oslo as part of major track improvement works along the west coast of the Oslo Fjord. The railway tracks were moved 150 metres inland, placing the new station deep inside the mountain. Front page Värtaverket Power Plant, Stockholm The façade is wrapped in curved brick slats, which may be regarded as a subtle nod to the fine, old industrial buildings on the site – many of which have major architectural value – and provide the technical facility with a warm, burgundy glow. Statement of continued support Infrastructure is key in the development of sustainable cities and landscapes. Forming physical spaces and infrastructural frameworks for cities is an opportunity to shape life, and influence the size of our environmental footprint. Thus, considering every design aspect in these basic functions of society is crucial as we look ahead. Gottlieb Paludan Architects continues to focus on shaping better cities and societies with architecture of the highest technical and aesthetic quality, designing solutions for green and public transportation and for utility companies, providing water and energy. We take a special interest in creating simple and longlasting architectural solutions that help improve peoples’ daily lives and we engage ourselves from the early planning activities, and maintain the dialogue with clients, politicians and financial partners, in order to develop the solutions that will create the most value for society and the client. Gottlieb Paludan Architects strives to integrate sustainability, social responsibility and environmentally conscious solutions in all projects. We proudly give our continued support to advance the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Copenhagen, July 2017 Kristian Hagemann CEO, Architect MAA Gottlieb Paludan Architects Table of content 1. Introduction 2. How we advance sustainability 3. Projects 4. Professional and organisational development 5. The four Global Compact Core Values 6. Measuring outcomes 2017 7. Our focus in 2017/2018 < Orientkaj 4 Gottlieb Paludan Architects' Head Office ˄ Solrødgård Climate and Environmental Park, Hillerød The overall vision for this unusual park project is to highlight and demonstrate the energy cycles that keep our modern day society running in the context of a wetland landscape, offering a sanctuary for birds and other wildlife. Visitors are invited to explore the park as well as the various utility functions and processes at close range. 7 Introduction In November 2016, Gottlieb Paludan Architects The issue of sustainability runs through our moved into a new domicile located in strategy and informs our choice of projects. In Nordhavn – Copenhagen’s new sustainable our day-to-day work, we tap into a number of neighbourhood. Our new headquarters the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. are situated in a disused warehouse which For example; has undergone total renovation. This is a circumstance that has influenced most of our • Goal #3 Ensure healthy lives and promote activities during the last year and has provided well-being for all at all ages us with new opportunities to develop and • Goal #9 Build resilient infrastructure, strengthen our organisation. The renovation promote inclusive and sustainable has transformed the warehouse into a large, industrialization and foster innovation shared working environment for our employees • Goal #11 Make cities and human settlements who benefit hugely from the improved facilities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable and stimulating space. • Goal #13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. During the last year, Gottlieb Paludan Architects completed a number of significant In this report, we will describe how our infrastructure projects, mainly within initiatives inspire our ambitions to become a the sectors of green energy and public more sustainable company and contribute to transportation. Furthermore, we have been the goals and principles behind the UN Global working on projects focusing on adaptation to Compact. We will describe how we advance climate change. sustainability through our professional and organizational development, and will report on the outcomes of our efforts. 9 How we advance sustainability Central to our strategy is understanding ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY how we can contribute to the advancement • We contribute to promoting and of sustainability in our own projects, in strengthening public transport, cycling collaborations and in our daily, professional solutions and bicycle culture, thereby life at the office. We contribute to all reducing transport-related CO₂ emissions. three aspects of sustainability (social, • We contribute to lowering the environmental and economic), but our environmental impact of building activities affect more directly the social and constructions by proposing building environmental aspects of sustainability. materials that require fewer resources In the following, we will describe how we in production, recycling and disposal, believe that we contribute to advancing and which last longer. In this way, each sustainability through our work with urban construction leaves a smaller carbon footprint throughout its service life. planning and architecture: • The least harmful construction is often the recycled construction, and we specialize in renovation, transformation and refurbishment. With a combination of architectural design, understanding of materials and respect for the construction and its history, we raise renovation and adaptive reuse to a level where it can easily compete with new construction. The focus is not only on improving energy performance but also on rethinking the < purpose of the construction to suit current Carlsberg Station, Copenhagen and future use. Carlsberg Station plays an important part in the development of the entire Carlsberg • We integrate climate adaptation measures City and the station will ensure good and and rainwater management in all relevant sustainable infrastructure in the new projects. district. The new station, which replaced the smaller Enghave Station, is expected to serve 24,000 passengers daily and will be the central transport hub for outer Vesterbro and the new Carlsberg City. ˄ Copenhagen Light Rail The Copenhagen Light Rail will run from Ishøj in the South, to Lundtofte in the North, creating closer connections between Copenhagen’s surrounding municipalities and the existing S-train lines. 11 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY • We contribute to enhancing the public • Gottlieb Paludan Architects prioritizes transport travel experience through projects that have socio-economic impact. improving traffic hub design with regards This may mean designing urban spaces to accessibility, intermodality and that encourage physical activity and integration with the urban realm. exercise, developing public transport which • We contribute to increasing liveability decreases the use of private cars, in turn through the improvement of connectivity decreasing carbon emissions, or making it and public space in cities and towns. easier to commute by bicycle. The outcome of these solutions is a healthier population • We contribute to improving living and lower healthcare costs as well as lower conditions in peripheral regions through CO₂ emissions. the development of provincial towns. • We focus on the overall financial viability of • We contribute to creating social cohesion constructions as we pay special attention to through infrastructure projects which link their entire life cycle and the use and reuse city and countryside, suburb and town of materials. centre, giving more people the opportunity to be employed, get an education and • We focus on designing with high quality participate in society. materials and assembly details resulting in low maintenance requirements. • We focus on creating safe environments – urban areas with good lighting and infrastructure that appeal to vulnerable road users. • We support public transport and public utilities. This has an impact on all three aspects of sustainability. 13 Projects During the year that has passed since our Holmestrand Station: In December 2016, the latest COP report, we have worked on new Holmestrand Station was inaugurated. numerous projects, which have the potential Gottlieb Paludan Architects designed the new to advance sustainability. Many projects station in the coastal town of Holmestrand, deal with more than one of the three aspects some 80 km south of the Norwegian capital, of sustainability. Below, we have listed a Oslo. The new station is part of an initiative selection of significant projects that have to strengthen the connection between Oslo taken shape since last year’s report. and the surrounding rural areas. Thus it was decided to establish a high-speed connection Designing infrastructure between Oslo and Holmestrand; a huge We have extensive expertise in shaping the undertaking as tracks had to be moved and a basic functions of modern society, as we new 12-kilometre tunnel needed to be blasted specialize in designing for reliable supplies of through a mountain. It was a technically power, heating and water, as well as for efficient challenging project in terms of design, building mobility infrastructure. technology, acoustics, ventilation and fire safety, as the station itself was built inside a mountain. Carlsberg Station: In 2016 Carlsberg Station in Copenhagen, Denmark, was completed Värtaverket: Gottlieb Paludan Architects has and replaced Enghave Station as the main designed Sweden’s largest biomass-fuelled station servicing the new neighbourhood combined heat and power plant (CHP), which of ‘Carlsberg City’. The design holds social is an extension of the existing Värtaverket. The dimensions as a legible public space affording plant is unique in its environmental ambitions positive experience to every user. Focus is on and architectural expression. The expanding city accessibility and legibility. had surrounded the plant, which is why the plant needed to reintegrate with its surroundings. As it is situated in an area where it is particularly important to consider the neighbours and the function of the locality as a fauna path, the < design blends naturally into the environment. Värtaverket Power Plant, Stockholm The plant has a curved noise-absorbing façade Värtaverket is surrounded by industrial, commercial clad with terracotta slats, selected to reduce and recreational areas. The extension was required to the visual impact of the very large facility. The show consideration for its neighbours and respect the purpose of building the power plant was to reduce presence of a number of protected oak trees as well as the function of the area as a fauna path between the Stockholm’s ecological footprint significantly, northern and southern parts of Djurgården, an area of while providing safe, reliable power and heating natural beauty that blends into Stockholm proper. for the growing city. ˄˃ Holmestrand Station, Norway The new station is situated inside a mountain and the project required blasting a new, twelvekilometre tunnel. The location of the station provided a number of special challenges in terms of building technology, accessibility and wayfinding, acoustics, ventilation and fire safety. 15 ˄ Amager Power Station, BIO4 unit, Copenhagen To emphasize the changeover from fossil fuels to renewable energy, the CHP unit will be enclosed by a deep façade made up by suspended tree trunks. 17 BIO4: The construction of the new biomassSolrødgård Climate and Environmental Park: fuelled CHP unit, BIO4, at the Amager Power Gottlieb Paludan Architects has developed the Plant in Copenhagen has started. The plant is an combined energy, climate and environmental important element of Copenhagen’s efforts to park in the southwestern part of Hillerød become the world’s first carbon neutral capital north of Copenhagen. The overall vision for by 2025. The forest is a recurrent architectural this unusual park project is to highlight and theme, as the CHP unit is enclosed by a deep demonstrate the energy cycles that keep our façade made up by suspended tree trunks. This modern day society running in the context of exemplifies the visions of Greater Copenhagen a wetland landscape, offering a sanctuary for Utility (HOFOR) and the City of Copenhagen birds and other wildlife. for green energy supplies through powerful Visitors are invited to explore the park as well architecture. as the various utility functions and processes at close range. Adaptation to climate change As a consequence of the changing climate, Rainwater management in Glostrup: Rainwater numerous areas of Denmark suffer from solutions in urban spaces and in green areas floods during severe weather. Gottlieb Paludan may be utilised to provide new recreational Architects works on strategic climate change value for a city. Thus it is relevant to combine adaptation. During the last year, we have the management of excess rainwater with consulted and developed plans for projects an improvement of the physical and visual such as: environment. Gottlieb Paludan Architects has developed a catalogue of solutions for Glostrup Kagså Park: Gottlieb Paludan Architects Local Authority. The purpose of the catalogue is developing a plan combining landscape is to inspire future climate adaptation projects architecture, climate adaptation, biodiversity in the different neighbourhoods of Glostrup. and urban liveability for the area around the The toolkit is a selection of landscape drainage creek Kagså. Kagså Park and the neighbouring methods, such as delay, storage, transportation, areas suffer from floods during heavy rain due cleaning, sewage and evaporation of rainwater. to the flat terrain and the limited capacity of the stream, causing huge financial loss, damaging private households and commercial enterprises alike. The aim of the project is to delay the water in order to prevent flooding. We have designed a solution that combines the use of landscaping and grey infrastructure, involving the integration of flood management into the existing local infrastructure. Regional Lavning Tidligere gangog cykelsti Kagså Rensebassin < 19 Kagså Park The solution for rainwater management in Kagså Park combines landscapeand planting strategies with blue and grey water infrastructure, to create an recreational park with open water surfaces and high levels of biological diversity. Motorring 3 Ny beplantning Professional and organizational development In line with Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ business strategy, we are constantly improving our professional capabilities in order to strengthen the ability to solve the increasingly complex challenges that face our societies. Our employees are offered further training in relevant disciplines, for example DGNB N certification, the Green Building Council’s LCA tool for life cycle analysis, project management and process management courses and seminars. Gottlieb Paludan Architects is organized into six teams: three teams focusing on energy and utilities and three teams focusing on mobility and transport. Each team is headed SIGNATURFORKLARING by a team leader. The team leaders support the Områdeinddeling project managers and undertake the quality Projektområdet VD vejbyggelinje assurance process and secure coordination of Strømrende competences and staff across the office. This Ny beplantning has resulted in a better working environment Eksisterende beplantning for our employees and created a more direct Græsarealer line to the nearest day-to-day managers. We Sø / rensebassin Sti will continue to improve the organizational development within the company, ensuring optimal working conditions for all employees. ˄ Litauens Plads, Copenhagen The vision for the redesign of Litauens Plads was to create a square with close links to the nearby institutions and local urban life. The square supports both formal and informal activities, including community activities in the local neighbourhood. 21 Human Rights Gottlieb Paludan Architects conducts its business in accordance with Danish law, including the Danish Salaried Employees Act (Danish: Funktionærloven) which secures human rights and employment rights. We take care to uphold the general principles of basic human rights for everybody through all our work. Labour Gottlieb Paludan Architects conducts its business in accordance with Danish law, including the Danish Salaried Employees Act (Danish: Funktionærloven) which secures human rights and employment rights, including the prevention of child labour, forced labour and employment discrimination. All employees have the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Environment Anthropogenic climate changes and their impacts on our world require the inclusion of new methods and new ways of thinking in the field of architecture. Our work is driven by our belief in the sound business sense of increased focus on ethics, sustainability and holistic thinking, and our goal is to continue to promote greater environmental responsibility through our work. Anti-corruption Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ main activities are concentrated in Denmark and Scandinavia, The Global Compact which traditionally top Transparency International’s list of least corrupt countries. We Core Values never encounter corruption in our daily work and will continue to oppose any signs of it. ˄ Rainwater management in Glostrup: The solutions-catalogue for Glostrup includes a selection of landscape drainage methods, such as delay, storage, transportation, cleaning, sewage and evaporation of rainwater as well as examples of how to utilise rainwater solutions in urban spaces and in green areas to provide new recreational value for the city. 23 Measuring outcomes 2017 Our own environmental impact As an architectural company, we are reliant on In November 2016, Gottlieb Paludan Architects well-functioning IT equipment that can run the moved to new facilities which have undergone most up-to-date drawing software. For financial total renovation. The renovation of the facilities and environmental reasons, we strive to keep was required to meet the Danish building our equipment for as long as possible. We have regulations (BR15), which means that the installed new powerful servers in the new building is now of the same standard as a new office building with lower power consumption. building. Therefore, our new facilities are Furthermore, we have introduced a new far more energy efficient than our previous printing standard which saves nearly a third of premises. The building has been re-insulated, our consumption of paper. enhancing the acoustics and indoor climate to meet the demands of the Danish Working It is our ambition to inspire all our employees Environment Authority. to cycle to and from the office and business engagements; if this is not possible, we urge them In connection with moving, ranges of initiatives to use public transport and only if absolutely to diminish our environmental impact have necessary the company’s low-emission petrol been made. A new automated lighting system cars. Every year, during the month of May, all our has been installed in the building to ensure that employees are encouraged to participate in the no lights are switched on when not needed. national campaign Vi cykler til arbejde (We cycle to The new lighting consists of LED illuminators work). This year, half of our employees participated, instead of the existing fluorescent tubes which which resulted in a saving of 1394 kg CO₂. contained mercury and would therefore have substantial environmental impact at the end of Investment in professionalism and research their service lives. A central objective in Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ strategy is to create new knowledge. In addition, we have a large kitchen in our new In addition to our two existing internal office building and we have been able to employ networks, we have launched seven new office a chef to prepare lunch for our employees. networks. The aim is to support and expand Our chef plans meals on a weekly basis, which the knowledge inside the company within the means that some of the same food products themes of sustainability, technology, landscape may be used in various ways on multiple days, architecture, transport, etc. and with careful planning, our chef is able to The role of the networks is to stimulate keep food waste to an absolute minimum. knowledge sharing, innovation and new inspiration for our employees. We continue to support a business PhD project such as Columbia University, New York, The that has sustainability implications. The project Association of Danish Landscape Architects “Room for Rain” is driven by our PhD fellow (DL) and the WEFTEC, New Orleans. Anna Aslaug Lund and evaluates existing Her PhD supports our efforts to increase solutions within rainwater handling and SUDS our business focus on the climate change (sustainable urban drainage systems) with adaptation market. As part of her role as PhD particular focus on the architectural quality of fellow at Gottlieb Paludan Architects, Anna these technical solutions. is our in-house expert within the field of rainwater handling and her knowledge is put to As a PhD fellow at Gottlieb Paludan Architects, immediate use in a number of our projects. Anna shares her knowledge through articles and talks at seminars. During the last year, Social responsibility she has presented her studies in various fora, Every third year, we are required by law to < Bicycle Hotel, Norway 25 Bike-Inn is GPA’s response to a Norwegian design competition, with local municipalities in and around Oslo seeking new bike parking designs to help move traffic from cars to bikes. Bike-Inn is a modular, industrial design concept that may be adapted to fit different urban spaces and traffic hubs. Our design goal is the creation of a construction that will be perceived as a positive addition to the urban space and attract people to the concept of cycling. The Danish Ministry of Immigration and Integration runs a programme called ‘integration basic education’ scheme (Danish: integrationsgrunduddannelse – IGU). To assist with this scheme, Gottlieb Paludan Architects has employed Mohammad Fadel Freha, a refugee from Syria. It is a two-year programme which aims to enhance integration by placing refugees in jobs and offering them skills development and education courses. Mohammed is trained within the field of finance, and he works as an assistant in the accountancy department. Being an architectural company with many international collaborations, we find there are times when our partners and employees need conduct a workplace assessment (Danish: to travel often. Therefore we have partnered Arbejdspladsvurdering, APV); it is a survey with Goodwings, a booking company which examining the physical and mental health of collaborates with NGOs in order to support our employees, and the requirement is in place the UN 17 Sustainable Development Goals. For to secure optimal working conditions for all every hotel booked through their website, the employees. Organizing the company into teams company donates money to a good course. We is one example of an initiative which came have chosen to support the WWF programme about on account of our last survey. “Renewable energy helps people out of poverty”. By providing renewable energy to Since January 2017, all employees have been citizens in low and middle-income countries, invited to participate in a weekly workout; the the programme ensures higher standards of object is to help them improve their health and living, while saving large quantities of CO₂ decrease absenteeism due to illness at the office. emissions. ˄˅ Orientkaj 4 Gottlieb Paludan Architects' Head Office 27 Our focus in 2017/2018 During the coming year, we will focus on the following ambitions: • We aim to obtain the certification as a “Bicycle friendly company” (Danish: Cykelvenlig virksomhed) issued by the Danish Cyclists’ Federation. To reach the certification requirements we plan to improve the bicycle parking facilities for employees, and provide tools and facilities for minor repairs. • We are also investigating the possibility of replacing our petrol cars with more sustainable electric cars. • We will continue our focus on further improving our work environment. • As our PhD fellow Anna Aslaug Lund will complete her PhD in August 2017, we are looking for collaborators to invest in a new PhD fellow. • We will continue to invest in professionalising our employees with the newest knowledge within the field of sustainable buildings, in order to enhance sustainability in our projects in an even greater extend.
