CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Contents 3 LETTER FROM THE CEO 76 ENVIRONMENT 77 Environmental stewardship 79 Climate 5 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 82 Resource efficiency 6 Company profile 86 Plant and process safety 8 Governance 88 Biodiversity 9 CR strategy 11 Compliance 14 Human rights 89 SUPPLIERS 16 Stakeholder dialogue 90 Supply chain standards 19 Materiality analysis 93 Mica supply chain 25 PRODUCTS 95 COMMUNITY 26 Innovation and digitalization 96 Community involvement 29 Sustainable product design 97 Health 34 Access to health 100 Culture & education 40 Prices of medicines 41 Health awareness 44 Chemical product safety 102 FACTS & FIGURES 46 Drug safety 103 Report profile 48 Counterfeit products 105 Indicators 50 Transport and warehouse safety 132 Goals 52 Responsible marketing 144 Recognition and rankings 53 Bioethics 146 Sustainable Development Goals 55 Clinical trials 149 GRI content index 58 Animal welfare 169 Global Compact CoP 61 Interactions with health systems 172 Assurance Report 63 EMPLOYEES 175 MAGAZINE 64 Attractive employer 175 Health 67 Diversity 179 Environment 70 Health and safety 183 Culture & education 72 Employee engagement 74 Good leadership 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Letter from the CEO Ladies and Gentlemen, dear Friends of Merck, At Merck, we work each and every day on new technologies that enrich lives and make our customers and partners more successful – and have been doing so for nearly 350 years. Our long history has taught us that sustainable business success is always the result of responsible conduct. We take responsibility – not only for our company, but also for our customers, employees and society. Furthermore, we pursue three spheres of activity, namely health, the environment, and culture & education. In 2016, we achieved a great deal. We continued our efforts to advance access to health for people in lowand middle-income countries. The treatment of schistosomiasis, an insidious parasitic infection, is a prime example. Since 2007, we've been donating praziquantel tablets to the World Health Organization (WHO) to support the fight against this disease. In 2016 we donated the 500 millionth tablet, thus having enabled 100 million patients to be treated for schistosomiasis to date, primarily school children. Non-communicable diseases such as cancer and diabetes also pose a heavy burden to people in developing countries because the health systems there are often unable to cope with these diseases. To improve outcomes, we have joined Stefan Oschmann forces with 21 other pharmaceutical companies, along with Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO the World Bank and the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) to form the Access Accelerated initiative. I believe that through this partnership we can achieve so much At Merck, we develop high-tech products with a focus on more than any one single company or organization could minimizing our adverse impacts on the environment while ever do. also conserving natural resources. Take for instance organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), which not only allow for displays with razor-sharp images and brilliant colors, but Our endeavors to promote health have received a great are also far more energy-efficient than other technologies. deal of recognition. I am very proud that we achieved a Liquid crystal windows are another innovation that enhances superb fourth-place ranking in the ATM Index of the Access energy efficiency. In buildings, for example, they can be used to Medicine Foundation, which assesses the efforts of pharto regulate incoming light, thereby saving up to 40% of the maceutical companies to improve access to health worldenergy needed for building climate control systems. We are wide. We thus moved up two places since the last survey was investing in these two highly promising technologies. Last conducted in 2014. year we opened our new OLED materials production plant in Darmstadt and are currently building a factory for liquid crystal window modules in the Netherlands. 3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 To be successful as a science and technology company, we Taking responsibility will continue to play a crucial role for need creativity and openness to new ideas. Music inspires; us. We are deeply committed to the United Nations Global it overcomes barriers and brings people together, a fact Compact and its principles on human rights, labor standards, demonstrated by the outstanding work of the Deutsche Philenvironmental protection, and anti-corruption. After all, our harmonie Merck. In 2016, we celebrated the 50th annivernearly 350 years of history as a company has taught us that sary of our philharmonic orchestra. Beyond supporting responsible conduct is the key to a successful future. culture, we also feel it important to inspire students across the globe to consider careers in science and technology. In 2016, the SPARK program run by our Life Science business sector hosted interactive events across 36 countries that sought to spark the curiosity of students in the fascinating world of science. Overall, we invested around € 3.2 million in education projects in 2016. Sincerely, Stefan Oschmann Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Strategy & management We take on responsibility every day – and have been doing so for nearly 350 years. We look closer and discover solutions as a foundation for our groundbreaking products and technologies. We think in generations instead of quarters and have made responsibility a pillar of our operations, an approach that underpins our lasting success. We are helping build the future through products and technologies that make a key contribution to solving global challenges. Read More 6 Company profile 14 Human rights 8 Governance 16 Stakeholder dialogue 9 CR strategy 19 Materiality analysis 11 Compliance 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Company profile For nearly 350 years, curious people have been bringing employees in 66 countries generated sales of € 15.0 billion. ideas to life at Merck. A passion for research and discovery is Our 91 production sites are located across 22 countries. our most valuable resource. Founded in 1668, Merck is the world's oldest pharmaceutical We are a leading science and technology company in healthand chemical company. The founding family remains the care, life science and performance materials. Our 50,414 majority owner of the publicly listed corporate group. Merck employees work to further develop technologies that enrich KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany holds the global rights to the lives – from biopharmaceutical therapies to treat cancer Merck name and brand. The only exceptions are the United and multiple sclerosis, cutting-edge systems for scientific States and Canada, where we operate as EMD Serono, Milliresearch and production, to liquid crystals for smartphones poreSigma and EMD Performance Materials. and LCD televisions. In 2016, our 215 subsidiaries with Employees and sales by region Europe Sales €4,735 million North America Employees 24,438 Sales €3,858 million Employees 10,037 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Sales €4,736 million Employees 10,754 Middle East and Africa (MEA) Sales €559 million Latin America Employees 1,045 Sales €1,136 million Employees 4,140 Group structure Health business, we focus on consumer-centric innovation under the umbrellas of several strategic brands such as In line with our strategic direction, our company comprises Neurobion®, Bion®, Seven Seas®, Nasivin®, Femibion®, and three business sectors: Healthcare, Life Science, and PerforDolo-Neurobion®, as well as Vivera®/Floratil®, Sangobion®, mance Materials, which encompass the Group’s six busiVigantoletten®, Apaisyl®, and Kytta®. Our Biosimilars businesses. ness is committed to increasing access to top-quality biologics for patients across the globe. We are in the Our Healthcare business sector consists of four businesses, advanced stages of negotiations to divest the Biosimilars namely Biopharma, Consumer Health, Biosimilars, and Allerbusiness, with the transaction expected to close in fiscal gopharma. Our Biopharma business discovers, develops, 2017. Our allergy business Allergopharma is one of the manufactures, and markets innovative pharmaceutical and leading companies in the field of allergy immunotherapy biological prescription drugs to treat cancer, multiple scle(AIT). rosis (MS), infertility, and growth disorders, as well as certain cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In our Consumer 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Within Life Science, we conduct research for researchers, Our entire specialty chemicals business is combined in our providing scientists with laboratory materials, technologies Performance Materials business sector. The portfolio includes and services to make research and biomanufacturing high-tech chemicals for applications in fields such as simpler, faster and more successful. Life Science is organized consumer electronics, lighting, coatings, printing technology, into three business areas that reflect our customer paints, plastics, and cosmetics. Performance Materials segments. Research Solutions focuses on academia and comprises four business units: Display Materials, Integrated pharmaceutical research institutions; Process Solutions Circuit Materials, Pigments & Functional Materials, and markets products and services for the entire pharmaceutical Advanced Technologies. production value chain, and Applied Solutions serves clinical and diagnostic testing laboratories, as well as the food and environmental industries. Net sales by business sector – 2016 Life Science Performance Materials €5,658 million €2,511 million 38 % 17 % Healthcare €6,855 million 45 % Governance successful. Embodied by values-based, economically sustainable corporate governance, this aspiration has been an inteBased in Darmstadt, Germany, our company operates in the gral pillar of our new brand promise since 2015, guiding the legal form of a corporation with general partners (Kommanstrategic development of the Group. ditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA). The general partner E. Merck KG holds around 70% of the total capital of Merck Over the past decade, we have transformed ourselves from a KGaA (equity interest); the shareholders hold the remainder, conventional supplier of chemicals and pharmaceuticals into which is divided into shares (share capital). Our shares have a global science and technology company. The main driver been included in the DAX® 30, the blue chip index of the was the realignment of our business portfolio, particularly Deutsche Börse, since 2007. In September 2008, our through the divestment of our Generics business (2007) and company was added to the FTSE4Good Index, a sustainthe acquisitions of Serono (2007), Millipore (2010), AZ Elecability index that assesses the social, ecological and ethical tronic Materials (2014), and Sigma-Aldrich (2015). Furtherconduct of companies. more, we focused our businesses on innovation-driven and highly specialized products, extensively revamped our Group strategy internal structures and processes, and expanded our presence in global growth markets. We are a leading science and technology company. Our goal is to enrich lives and make our customers and partners more 7 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Governance Responsibility has been an integral part of our corporate Our Group-wide guidelines identity for nearly 350 years. It is therefore one of our six Values, accompanied by courage, achievement, respect, Our Group-wide guideline system comprises charters and integrity, and transparency. These core values guide us in principles valid for the entire company, as well as specific our daily work and define how we interact with our customers standards and procedures for individual business sectors and and business partners. In all our endeavors, we aim to create sites. added value and help people achieve a better quality of life. Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy, Framework for responsible governance for instance, forms the basis for implementing the Responsible Care® Global Charter. Our EHS Security and Quality Our Group Mission Statement and Values, as well as the Manual guides our product safety, environmental impact external regulations and initiatives to which we are mitigation and occupational safety efforts across the Group, committed, give rise to requirements for responsible goverwhile our Safety Policy for chemical products defines product nance that are integrated in both our Corporate Responsisafety processes as well as the corresponding management bility strategy and our Group-wide guidelines. structures. We support the following initiatives on responsible Standards ensure implementation governance: Derived from the provisions contained in charters, principles The United Nations Global Compact: Since 2005, we and policies, our standards give specific guidance on how to have been a member of the United Nations Global implement our core values to those responsible for operaCompact and are committed to complying with the tional processes. These standards are continually updated by compact’s principles regarding human rights, labor stanthe relevant departments and are available on our Intranet. dards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. Our Our managers implement these standards in their respective annual progress report illustrates how we live our responareas of responsibility. We educate and train our employees sibility in our day-to-day actions. on all guidelines that apply to them. Responsible Care® Global Charter: As a signatory to the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® initiative, we voluntarily do more than is required by law and have Guidelines integral to management systems adopted mandatory standards for product responsibility, We use management systems to steer processes as well environmental impact mitigation, health, and safety. We as define goals, actions and responsibilities. These systems were among the first companies to sign the revised are based on standards such as the internationally recogversion of the Responsible Care® Global Charter in 2014. nized quality management standard ISO 9001, good working Together for Sustainability: In 2014, we joined the practices (GxP) in the pharmaceutical industry, and ISO Together for Sustainability network, an initiative dedicated 14001 for environmental management. We regularly to improving the supply chain with respect to environundergo an ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certification process mental, compliance and social standards. conducted by an independent auditing firm to ensure our “Chemie3”: We are a member of the “Chemie3” initiative, compliance with these standards. We hold Group certificates a collaboration between the German Chemical Industry for both. Association (VCI), the German Employers’ Federation of the Chemical Industry (BAVC) and the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE). This globally unique partnership aims to make sustainability a core part of the chemical industry’s guiding principles and drive the sector's position within the German economy as a key contributor to sustainable development. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management CR strategy Mankind is facing major global challenges such as climate nity. Our Group strategy underpins our corporate responchange, growing resource scarcity, an aging society, and sibility (CR) strategy. All our CR activities fall under the barriers to health – particularly in lowand middle-income heading of “responsible governance”, which for us most countries. To overcome these issues, not only policy makers importantly means looking, listening and doing things better. and civil society but also the private sector must join forces to find solutions. We take responsibility for our products, the environment, and the people around us – especially for our employees Looking, listening and doing things better and the communities in which we operate. Through our products, we seek to meet customers’ current and future We are aware that our business operations impact our envineeds. In doing so, safety and ethics matter just as much ronment and the people around us, which is why we have to us as business success. In our production activities, we made responsible conduct a pillar of our corporate culture. seek to impact the environment as little as possible, which This approach is the cornerstone of our success. Through our requires safe manufacturing techniques, high environmental innovative and top-quality high-tech products for the healthstandards and strict quality management. Furthermore, we care, life science and performance materials sectors, we seek strengthen our company by recruiting, developing and motito help resolve global challenges. vating talented employees. We strive to set an example for ethical conduct and make an active contribution to the Our Group strategy is targeted to business success. communities in which we live. However, we likewise value the interests of our employees, customers and shareholders, as well as those of the commuOur CR strategy onsibility Resp on ti Mi Culture and ct ssi du h alt es Merc Ed He k Code of Con uc a lu CR Strategy a on S tatement and V ar ter Ch UN E n vi t G ron m en ig ht lo ba s R lC om an m pa ct Hu rck Re s ponsible Care Me 9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management We aim to quickly identify new global trends and challenges, Taking on responsibility worldwide allowing us to minimize risk while also leveraging the business opportunities that arise. In our CR efforts, we concenOur corporate responsibility activities align with the United trate our strengths on those areas where we can make the Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Here, we biggest difference, which is why we pursue three strategic focus particularly on the SDGs that apply most closely to our spheres of activity: health, environment, and culture & business ethos. You can find more information on our SDGs education. under Sustainable Development Goals (p. 146). Health Minimizing the adverse effects of our operations An estimated 400 million people have no access to adequate, We work to mitigate the ethical, financial and legal risks of affordable health care. Through our Group-wide Access to our business activities, thereby ensuring our social license to Health strategy, we seek to eliminate access barriers in lowoperate. We adhere to legal, ethical, social, and ecological and middle-income countries in an effort to provide understandards and have put extensive structures and systems in served populations and communities in these countries with place to shore up this approach. Our environmental managebetter, sustainable access to high-quality health solutions. ment activities aim to minimize environmental impacts at our Developments such as rising life expectancy and declining production sites. birth rates are also reflected in our health solutions, such as our cancer research, for instance, or our fertility treatments. Corporate responsibility entwined with governance You can find more information under Access to Health (p. 34). Our CR strategy is approved by our Executive Board, which also makes decisions regarding our CR goals and reporting. Environment Our Group-wide CR Committee oversees the implementation of our CR strategy. This council consists of representatives Many of our innovative chemical and life science products from our business sectors as well as from relevant Group help mitigate our impact on the environment. We strive to functions such as EQ, HR, Compliance, and Procurement. continuously enhance the sustainability footprint of our prodSince June 2016, Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility ucts while also helping our customers achieve their own has been reporting to Belén Garijo, Executive Board member, sustainability goals. CEO Healthcare and chairperson of the CR Committee. As the market and technology leader in the global liquid crysOur CR Committee reviews our CR strategy to ensure that it tals industry, we are driving the creation of state-of-thecovers the issues relevant to our company. In doing so, we art, energy-efficient displays. Furthermore, we are develdraw on input from our stakeholders (p. 16) as well as the oping materials for energy-saving lighting and photovoltaics, results of a materiality assessment (p. 19). This committee one of the ways we're tackling the issue of climate change also defines measures to put our CR strategy into practice. and energy scarcity. You can find more information under The success of these measures is regularly reviewed, and Sustainable product design (p. 29). the committee also ensures that the initiatives of our business sectors, Group functions and subsidiaries align with our Group-wide CR strategy. The measures adopted by the CR Culture & education Committee are implemented by our line managers as well as Culture inspires people and opens their minds to new possiby interdisciplinary project teams. bilities, which is why we promote cultural initiatives worldwide and support education projects. After all, education is The CR Committee meets three times per year. In 2015 and key to making culture accessible. Culture nurtures charac2016, its meetings primarily focused on access to health, teristics that are essential to our business activities as a human rights, environmental and social standards along the high-tech company, such as creativity, enthusiasm for new supply chain, and animal welfare. discoveries, and the courage to transcend boundaries. You can find more information on our cultural activities under Community (p. 100). 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Compliance First and foremost, responsible entrepreneurship means In 2016, our principles regarding antitrust and compelegally compliant conduct. All our activities must adhere to tition law, which were already integral to our Code of laws and regulations worldwide. Failure to comply with these Conduct as well as to various business-specific guidelines, might not only involve legal prosecution, but could also seriwere consolidated Group-wide. This new antitrust and ously compromise our reputation as a business partner and competition law guideline stipulates that all business employer. activities across the entire Group are to be carried out in compliance with applicable competition regulations at all times. We acknowledge the importance of fair competition Our principles and expect the same of contractual partners acting on our Stringent compliance requirements behalf. Compliance is our primary consideration worldwide. Particularly as an international company with operations in develRealigned Compliance organization oping and emerging countries, we have extremely high standards for effective compliance management. Yet for us, there Our Group Compliance Officer and other specialists within is more to compliance than adhering to regulatory proviour Group Compliance function are responsible for defining sions. We consistently aspire to act in accordance with the our compliance program, which is continuously updated to ethical principles defined in our Values and believe that profreflect new requirements, such as those resulting from itability should go hand in hand with the very highest ethical changes in legislation. standards. In 2016, we restructured Group Compliance to align it more Mandatory guidelines closely with the specific compliance needs of our businesses. For each of our business sectors (Healthcare, Life Our guidelines governing entrepreneurial conduct are Science and Performance Materials), we appointed a Complimandatory for all our employees Group-wide: ance Officer who in turn oversees regional teams. Compliance Officers have also been appointed for our Group functions and are responsible for implementing the measures set The Merck Code of Conduct provides our workforce with out in our compliance program in their respective areas. a tool that promotes ethical business practices. A copy is given to all employees, explaining the principles for dealing with business associates, general partners and Furthermore, in 2016 we also improved our internal employees, as well as the communities in which we processes. Guidelines are now sent to relevant managers, operate. Group Compliance and Legal via an online confirmation The Merck Human Rights Charter supplements our Code process. Recipients then confirm not only receipt of the releof Conduct with globally valid principles regarding human vant guidelines, but also that they are being adhered to and rights as well as the core labor standards of the Internaimplemented appropriately at the relevant sites. tional Labour Organization (ILO). Our anti-corruption guideline provides that all business Data Privacy as part of compliance management activities must be conducted in accordance with applicable During the restructuring of our Compliance organization, we anti-corruption standards. All forms of bribery – whether integrated our Data Privacy unit into Group Compliance. As giving or receiving – are strictly prohibited. In 2016, we required by law, this unit will continue to act independently revised our anti-corruption guideline to reflect the tightand will report directly to the Executive Board as well as the ened provisions of the German Criminal Code. Supervisory Board. The Data Privacy team comprises four Our Pharma Code (for prescription medicines) and our employees in Darmstadt and is supported by around 80 data Consumer Health Code (for over-the-counter medicines) privacy officers at our various sites. set out important principles for interactions with our partners in the health industry. Regular reporting Our 85 Compliance Officers worldwide report to the Group Compliance Officer, who informs the Executive Board at least twice a year on the status of our compliance activities, possible risks and serious compliance violations. In turn, the Executive Board updates our supervisory bodies at least twice a year on key compliance issues. 11 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Compliance audits supplier management (p. 90) processes focus on vendor compliance with our standards, our Global Business Partner Our Internal Auditing Group function regularly reviews Risk Management Guideline governs relations with sales matters relating to compliance at our sites. Its audits deterpartners such as distributors and wholesalers. We only mine which compliance guidelines, processes and structures collaborate with partners who comply with all applicable are in place and how effective they are. In addition, Internal laws, reject all forms of bribery, adhere to environmental, Auditing also checks for violations of our Code of Conduct health and safety guidelines, and refuse to tolerate discrimand reviews the workplace requirements set out in our ination. Furthermore, we require our business partners to Human Rights Charter. The topic of corruption is also part demonstrate a commitment to internationally recognized of our standard audit program. Beyond internal audits, we human rights and labor standards, as well as to our own also undergo external audits, such as the external assesscompliance requirements. We monitor adherence to these ment conducted by an auditing firm in early 2015. This led standards even for existing business relationships – usually to the conclusion that the design of the compliance managewhen a contract is being considered for renewal. ment system meets the key baseline requirements of the IDW PS 980 standard, in part even going above and beyond Risk analysis of business partners its requirements. We apply a risk-based approach to selecting sales-related Compliance training business partners. The greater we estimate the risk to be regarding a certain country, region or type of service, the We regularly provide compliance training in the form of classcloser and more carefully we examine the company before room and online courses, which focus on topics related to entering into a business relationship with them. For these our Code of Conduct such as corruption, handling conflicts risk assessments, we use the Corruption Perceptions Index of interest and competition law. These courses are attended (CPI) maintained by Transparency International; we also by employees of all levels as well as independent contractors tap into background information from various databases and and supervised workers (such as temps). We regularly information reported by the business partners themselves on review our training plan, adapting it to new developments. aspects such as their own compliance programs. Central SpeakUp Line If we encounter compliance violations, we decide whether to reject the potential business partner or terminate the All Group employees are called upon to report compliance existing relationship. However, our partners are generally violations to their supervisor, Legal, HR, or other relevant willing to adapt their structures and processes in line with our departments. They can also use the SpeakUp Line, a central strict compliance requirements. Since launching this process reporting system, to report violations by telephone or via a in 2013, we have assessed nearly 2,000 business partners. web-based application, doing so in their respective national language, free of charge and, if desired, anonymously. BusiEFPIA Transparency initiative ness partners can also use our SpeakUp Line to report improper behavior. Since 2016, companies in the EU have been required to publish all contributions to medical professionals and orgaSpeakUp Line reports are reviewed by Group Compliance nizations in the healthcare industry that are not related to before being submitted to the Group Compliance Case research activities, along with the names of the individual Committee, which consists of senior representatives from recipients. This practice is stipulated by the Transparency Internal Auditing, Compliance, Group Security, Data Privacy, initiative of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical and Human Resources. The committee coordinates the Industries and Associations (EFPIA). The EFPIA published processing of reported violations and initiates corrective a revised version of these guidelines in 2016. Moreover, measures if necessary. Disciplinary actions are also taken, in the same year several countries introduced legislation where needed, against employees who have committed a requiring varying degrees of transparency in the pharmaceucompliance violation. These actions may range from a simple tical industry. We will include these amended requirements warning to dismissal of the employee, depending on the in our EFPIA report for 2016. severity of the violation. Alliance for Integrity In addition to the SpeakUp Line, there is also a central hotline to the Group Compliance Office, which employees can In October 2015, we joined the Alliance for Integrity. Estabcall for advice on ethical and compliant conduct. lished by the German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ), the German Global Compact Network (DGCN) and the Federation of German Industries (BDI), this initiative aims to Requirements for suppliers and business partners achieve a corruption-free business world in developing and If it is to be effective, compliance management needs to go emerging countries. Its activities are concentrated in Ghana, beyond our own company – all our business partners worldIndia, Indonesia, Brazil, and Argentina. wide must also follow our compliance principles. While our 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management We are a member of the Alliance for Integrity's Steering in 31 countries. In 2016, 47 such audits were performed in Committee, which leads the decision-making process for 19 countries, including 22 audits at our global headquarters. developing measures in its target countries. Advisory groups No violations were observed. arrange implementation at the country level. Our local Compliance organizations collaborate with these groups The annual audit planning process is risk-based and includes and participate in training that is offered to small and factors such as sales, employee headcount and corruption medium-sized companies. We also help to organize conferrisk, the latter of which is derived from the Corruption ences on fighting corruption, such as the World Conference Perceptions Index published by Transparency International. held by the German Chamber of Commerce in May 2016 in Berlin. The sites of the company AZ Electronic Materials, which we acquired in 2014, have been fully covered by our Internal Uniform data protection management system Audit process since January 2015. Since 2016, this has also applied to the subsidiaries of the U.S.-based life science We operate a data protection management system that has company Sigma-Aldrich, which we acquired in 2015. been harmonized across the Group. Our Policy for Data Protection and Personal Data Privacy defines the standards according to which we process, save, use, and transmit data. Training on Code of Conduct and anti-corruption This approach allows us to achieve a high level of protection guidelines for the data belonging to our employees, contract partners, customers, and suppliers, as well as patients and participants In 2015, we used our e-learning system to train in clinical studies. 8,673 people on the Code of Conduct and increase awareness of the consequences of compliance violations. In 2016, 18,697 people received such training, which also focused on The Group-wide level of data protection is based on European how to prevent compliance violations. and German legislation. At the same time, we also adapt our data security policies to local circumstances, as not all sites are covered by the European standards. We fundamentally We also regularly inform our employees of new compliance respect the rights of those affected. requirements. In 2015, a total of 20,404 people received anti-corruption training, with 29,764 employees having been trained in 2016. In 2015, we had an online course on our Data security measures anti-corruption guideline translated into 15 languages, thus allowing roughly 96% of employees to do the training in their To protect our data against information theft and manipunative language. In 2015, we furthermore created an online lation, we undertake technical and organizational measures course for the pharmaceutical business, which explains the based on ISO 27001, the standard for information security specific regulations relevant to this area. To support the management. Technical measures include precautions for introduction of our new antitrust and competition law guidehardware and software, such as the creation of separate user line, we also provided an online training course in 2016, accounts. Organizational measures cover formal review and which is to be available in 13 languages in 2017. release rules for all data we process, as well as clear access rules at our sites and visitor registration and tracking. Implementation of and compliance with our data security policy is Some seminars on special topics are specifically developed also reviewed by Group Internal Auditing. for managers in certain roles. These include, for example, training courses on competition law, which were updated in 2016 due to the introduction of our new Group-wide guideExternal auditing line. To complement the online courses we offer, numerous classroom courses on compliance are also held for employees Our data privacy management system is reviewed during an Group-wide with a particular focus on local issues. annual audit. In a benchmark survey carried out by Ernst & Young in 2015, our Group was rated as above average. In particular, the maturity of our data privacy culture and Data Reports via the SpeakUp Line Privacy organization scored very well. Both the number of reports of suspected compliance violations and the number of actual compliance cases has Progress remained largely stable in recent years. In 2015, 33 compliance-related reports that led to investigations were Internal audits received via the SpeakUp Line and other channels, with In 2015, 49 internal audits were conducted regarding corrup36 in 2016. In 2015, there were eight confirmed cases of tion, with 55 having been conducted in 2016. violations to the Code of Conduct, with 12 in 2016. The majority of these violations constituted minor, isolated incidents resulting from the misconduct of individual persons; In 2015, 41 of these audits, which focused on the workplace appropriate disciplinary action was taken. requirements of our Human Rights Charter, were conducted 13 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management In the 2015-2016 period, there were two cases of improper these efforts, in mid-2016 we published our first EFPIA report business practices involving managers. These incidents were for all affected subsidiaries on a central website. related to improper incentives for our sales force to increase sales and similar practices in associated parties (distribuCompliance training for business partners tors). Both cases have been addressed with comprehensive action plans and independent review by Compliance and In 2015, we introduced compliance training for the Internal Auditing. There was one case of sexual harassment, employees of our business partners. This training is mandawhich led to the dismissal of the employee. tory for all personnel who come into contact with our company or our products. It is available in eight languages First EFPIA Transparency Report published and focuses on general compliance, preventing corruption and competition law. By the end of 2016, 3,875 employees In 2015, our work focused on making our partners in the from our partner companies had received this training, with health industry understand just how important the EFPIA’s 3,026 having been trained in 2015. Transparency initiative is to us. We furthermore took measures to ensure data quality and security. Based on Human rights First and foremost, states have a duty to establish a reguthe necessary due diligence, which includes identifying and latory framework to protect human rights. Particularly for managing risks. enterprises with global operations, it is important for this framework to be implemented across all countries so as to We took the first step towards implementing the UNGPs in create uniform competitive conditions. As a company, we in 2012, when we conducted an extensive, Group-wide human turn also have a duty to uphold human rights, taking steps to rights risk assessment aimed at identifying the human rights ensure that they are not compromised by our business activrisks arising from our activities. Based on the results of ities. this assessment, we adopted a Group-wide Human Rights Charter in 2013 that affirms our commitment to respecting Our principles and protecting human rights while also defining the requirements for our company. This charter unites and compleCommitment to preserving human rights ments existing policies and guidelines on human rights, such as our Code of Conduct, our Corporate Environment, Health We are committed to upholding human rights within our and Safety Policy and our Charter on Access to Medicines in sphere of influence and welcome the Guiding Principles for Developing Countries. Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) adopted by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011. The UNGPs codify the duty of Stakeholder dialogue on our Human Rights Charter states to protect human rights as well as the responsibility of companies to respect human rights, providing a framework Our Human Rights Charter was developed after diligent for how states and businesses should do so. consideration of input from external stakeholders regarding our human rights stance. Among these stakeholders were At the end of 2016, the German federal government adopted business and human rights experts from various countries, a national action plan for implementing these principles. trade unions, and business federations, as well as experts on Through our current efforts and initiatives, we are on the specific aspects covered in the planned charter. right track to fulfilling these requirements. Human rights due diligence In the United Kingdom, we are required by the UK Modern Slavery Act to report on the steps we are taking to counter We seek to better understand the potential impact of our forced labor and human trafficking. Our company intends to business activities and relationships on human rights and are issue our first such report in 2017. examining our processes to identify the measures already in place at our sites that fulfill the function of human rights due diligence. This knowledge will help us adapt our Group-wide Our Human Rights Charter human rights due diligence efforts to better meet local needs The UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and to develop approaches to overcome particular chalencourage companies to continuously assess the actual and lenges. At the same time, we view the positive impacts of potential impact they have on human rights, acting with our operations as an opportunity. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Within the German Global Compact Network (DGCN), we are for industry there. As a result of this HRIA, we joined the a member of the Business & Human Rights Peer Learning Alliance for Integrity, a multi-stakeholder initiative seeking Group, a working group in which we engage with other to offer practical solutions for countering corruption (p. 12) companies to share lessons learned as well as successes in in emerging economies. implementing human rights due diligence. Subsidiary self-assessments Progress In line with our Human Rights Charter as well as the UN Training employees on our Human Rights Charter Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we started the process of conducting human rights self-assessments for In the 2015-2016 period, we used a variety of channels our subsidiaries in 2016. This aims to help us better underto educate our employees on our Human Rights Charter, stand how our subsidiaries perceive human rights risks and including specific Intranet sites on human rights and videos manage them locally, while also raising human rights awarefeaturing employees explaining how their work affects ness and creating a foundation for systematic support. human rights. Our subsidiaries took part in an online survey we developed Human rights impact assessment in India ourselves, providing us with detailed information. We will continue to evaluate this data in the course of 2017, working A human rights impact assessment (HRIA) evaluates the with the respective departments to identify opportunities to actual consequences of a company's operations in an effort improve Group-wide processes and their local implementato promptly identify any problem areas. At the end of 2014, tion. Taking into account the requirements of the UK Modern we conducted our first HRIA in India, which showed that we Slavery Act, our efforts will focus on issues such as forced already have good internal systems and capacities in place labor and human trafficking, as well as labor rights in local for managing human rights risks. However, we intend to supply chains. expand these structures in order to set a positive example 15 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Stakeholder dialogue Our business activities converge with the interests of many Our principles people, which is why engaging with our stakeholders is particularly important to us. We aim to unite divergent interDialogue at various levels ests as far as possible, as well as build and sustain trust. Through this dialogue, we communicate our decisions and Our most important stakeholders include our employees, actions transparently in an effort to ensure social license to customers and business partners, patients, the Merck family, operate. and our suppliers. We maintain continuous contact with them through a variety of channels, including stakeholder questionnaires, issue-specific dialogues, round table discussions, and information forums. We also engage stakeholders through our advocacy work and industry coalitions. Our stakeholders Regulatory Sales & agencies business Employees partners Media Patients Merck Employee family representatives Shareholders Scientists Suppliers Community Federations Healthcare & policy systems makers NGOs Competitors Customers 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Regular stakeholder surveys future technologies. In 2016, specialists from a range of industries convened at our global headquarters in Darmstadt We regularly conduct surveys among our employees, to discuss the future of mobility. You can find more informacustomers and business partners, as well as other relevant tion under Sustainable product design (p. 29). stakeholder groups. We want to know which issues they consider to be of importance to Merck now and in the future, Round tables and information forums and how they rate our performance in addressing these issues. We also want to understand their expectations of us We have set up round table discussions and forums for local as a responsible company. Our CR Report reflects the results residents at our major sites. In Darmstadt, we have been of these surveys and the actions we’ve taken in response. holding an annual public planning forum since 1994 at which we discuss the development of our site with members of In November 2016, we conducted a Group-wide employee the city council, local authorities and the community. In the survey in 23 languages. Around 42,500 employees took part, 2015-2016 period, the main focus of the forum was on the representing an 83% response rate. changes resulting from our ONE Global Headquarters initiative (p. 72), particularly the new sewer system being laid by the City of Darmstadt and the future design of Frankfurter Issue-specific dialogues Strasse. Our business operations in the areas of healthcare, life science and performance materials intersect the interests In expanding our biotech production facilities in Corsierof various social groups, whom we engage via questionsur-Vevey, Switzerland, we initiated a dialogue with NGOs naires, workshops and seminars, or even round tables held and local authorities to maximize the project’s transparency. at major conferences. Our departments organize such forms These annual meetings will continue to be held even after of exchange – at the local, national or international level, completion of the construction work. In 2016, key topics of depending on the topic and degree of importance. Beyond discussion were the mobility plan and our wastewater treatthis, we are also involved in industry networks and particment system, which was first tested in the same year. ipate in symposia. In the 2015-2016 period, we intensified our efforts in the following areas: Advocacy groups and industry coalitions Access to health: As part of our aim to improve access We actively participate in the political process and advocate to health in lowand middle-income countries, we engage our views by engaging policy makers in a direct dialogue various stakeholders in a continuous dialogue. With our as well as through our work with industry coalitions. Below Access Dialogue Series, we have created a platform from are several examples of major national and international which public and private sector stakeholders can exchange industry associations in which we are members and also hold important information and share best practices. Key issues positions: in the 2015-2016 period were managing intellectual property and challenges in local supply chains. Furthermore, we deepGerman Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI) ened our exchange with important stakeholders and experts European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) on schistosomiasis and malaria. Further information on these stakeholder dialogues can be found under Access to Health German Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical (p. 34). Manufacturers e.V. (vfa) European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Mica sourcing: In February 2016, we attended the Mica Associations (EFPIA) Summit in Delhi, India, hosted by the Natural Resources International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Stewardship Circle (NRSC). The main topics discussed at & Associations (IFPMA) the summit were transparency in the mica supply chain and improving the living conditions of the communities in the mining regions. As a follow-up to this dialogue, we are now Examples of positions held by members of our Executive involved in the NRSC’s Responsible Mica program. You can Board include: find more information under Suppliers (p. 93). Stefan Oschmann, Chairman of the Executive Board New technologies: We seek to engage with pioneers who and CEO: look far into the future and bring cutting-edge technologies to market. To this end, we established the annual Displaying European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Futures symposium, which was held for the sixth time in Associations (EFPIA), Vice President 2015 and the seventh time in 2016. At the 2015 symposium, German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), Board experts of various disciplines from all corners of the world of Directors met in San Francisco, CA (USA) to discuss how innovative high-tech materials could be integrated into groundbreaking Deutsche Welle, Business Advisory Board 17 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Udit Batra, member of the Executive Board and CEO Belén Garijo, member of the Executive Board and CEO Life Science: Healthcare: Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce, board member Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Massachusetts High Technology Council (MHTC), board (PhRMA), board member member University of Delaware College of Engineering, Advisory Council member Involvement in initiatives We collaborate with numerous civically engaged organizations, such as the Goethe-Institut, the Remembrance, Kai Beckmann, member of the Executive Board and Responsibility and Future Foundation and the World EnvironChief Administration Officer: ment Center (WEC). Furthermore, we are also involved in initiatives and projects (p. 8) that share our interpretation of Federal Employers' Association for the German Chemical responsible entrepreneurial conduct. That is why we support, Industry e.V. (BAVC), Vice Chairman for instance, the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business Employers' Association for the Chemical and Related and are members of the Chemie3 and Responsible Care® Industries in the State of Hesse e.V. (HessenChemie), initiatives. board member Darmstadt Rhein Main Neckar Chamber of Industry and Political donations Commerce (IHK), Vice President We do not make financial contributions to holders of or candiFraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics Research dates for political office, political parties or related organiza(IGD), Chairman of the Advisory Board tions. This is stipulated in our Code of Conduct. In the United States, Political Action Committees (PACs) have been set up through which our employees can donate money to support Walter Galinat, member of the Executive Board and political candidates and organizations. These donations are CEO Performance Materials: not made by the company, but by the employees. The contributions donated are reported to the U.S. Federal Election German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), Commission and published. Chairman of the Hessian Chapter Trade Policy Committee of the German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), member Board of Trustees of the Chemical Industry Fund (FCI) within the German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), board member 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Materiality assessment Which issues – in terms of our corporate responsibility – are the relevance of these issues through an online survey. In of particular significance to our long-term business success? addition, we conducted five interviews with select experts And what expectations do stakeholders have of our whose responses were key in determining the final ranking company? In an effort to answer these questions, we reguof our main CR topics. larly conduct materiality assessments that aim to rate sustainability topics according to their importance to our We weighted the results of the materiality assessment company and external stakeholders. This method allows us according to the importance of the stakeholder groups to to align our business activities with the requirements of our company and their influence on the five value drivers of our stakeholders. In applying this approach, we fulfill the sales, reputation, employee satisfaction, cost reduction, and requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 innovation. guidelines. In 2016, we refined our materiality analysis to further enhance the quality of the results. Results: Product responsibility most important Selecting topics The process and results of the materiality assessment were We first determined whether the CR issues of relevance to reviewed by internal specialists as well as our CR Committee. us had changed at all, basing our assessment on a compreOur stakeholders continue to rate issues regarding product hensive document analysis that included inquiries from responsibility as most important, above all product quality, investors, (sustainability) ratings, social media, and press the safety of chemical products, innovation, and research releases. From the results, we identified 43 issues, 38 of & development. Topics rated as material form the focus of which were covered by the materiality assessment in 2014. this CR Report. Since our stakeholders also expect inforNew topics included issues such as health awareness (p. mation and transparency from us regarding less significant 41) and digitalization (p. 26). issues, we also report on these, albeit in less detail. Ranking and weighting the issues These 43 topics were evaluated by our most important stakeholders. This involved a total of 300 employees, scientists, customers, sales associates, and business partners ranking 19 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Material topics Supply chain standards Ethical Conduct Product safety and quality Supply chain standards Bioethics Safety of chemical products Clinical trials Drug safety Animal welfare Counterfeit products Transport and storage safety Labeling of chemicals and other products Health for everyone Good Business Practice Pharmaceutical and chemical residues in the environment Access to health Compliance Nanotechnology Prices of medicines Responsible marketing Medicals to combat rare and Community involvement neglected diseases Interactions with health systems Health awareness Governance Advocacy Sustainable products Resource efficiency Data security Sustainable product design Waste and recycling Re-use and recycling of Water management our customers’ waste Human rights Climate Change Attractive employer Human rights Energy efficiency and Diversity and equal opportunity renewable energy Attracting, recruiting and Greenhouse gas emissions retaining employees Employee development Good leadership Employee engagement Technology Environmental stewardship Safety and health Innovation and R&D Process and plant safety Work life balance Digitalization Biodiversity Compensation Digitalization of the workplace Other emissions Very high importance High importance Medium importance 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Material issues in our value chain The following table shows where our main issues fall within the value chain: upstream in our supply chain, in the course of our own activities, or downstream with customers and patients. Moreover, we have listed the issues to show the breakdown of materiality by Merck business sector and stakeholder group. These topics are linked to the respective chapters in this report. Upstream Performance Downstream Healthcare Life Science activities Materials activities Product safety and quality Chemical product safety 0 X X X X Material for: Customers, Merck family Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Commercial and business associates Drug safety 0 X 0 0 X Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Health systems, Patients Counterfeit products 0 X 0 0 X Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Transport and warehouse safety X 0 X X X Material for: Customers, Government agencies, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Communities Labeling of chemicals and other 0 X X X X products Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Communities, Competitors Pharmaceutical and chemical 0 X X X X residues in the environment Material for: Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Communities Ethical conduct Bioethics 0 X X 0 X Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Scientists Clinical trials X X 0 0 X Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists, Patients Animal welfare X X X X 0 Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists 21 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Good business practice Compliance X X X X X Material for: Employees, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Competitors Responsible marketing 0 X X X X Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Community involvement 0 X X X X Material for: Merck family, NGOs, Media, Communities Interactions with health systems 0 X 0 0 X Material for: Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Health systems, Patients Governance 0 X X X 0 Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies Health for everyone Access to health X X X 0 X Material for: NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Prices of medicines 0 X 0 0 X Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Medicines to combat rare and 0 X X 0 X neglected diseases Material for: NGOs, Scientists, Health systems, Patients Health awareness 0 X 0 0 X Material for: NGOs, Media, Scientists, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients, Communities, Competitors Supply chain standards Supply chain standards X X X X X Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Competitors 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Human rights Human rights X X X X X Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Communities Sustainable products Sustainable product design 0 0 X X X Material for: Customers, Scientists Re-use and recycling of our 0 0 X 0 X customers’ waste Material for: Customers Attractive employer Diversity and equal opportunity 0 X X X 0 Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Media Attracting, recruiting and 0 X X X 0 retaining employees Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Shareholders, Competitors Employee development 0 X X X 0 Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Good leadership 0 X X X 0 Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Employee engagement 0 X X X 0 Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Health and safety 0 X X X 0 Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Government agencies 23 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Strategy & management Technology Innovation and R&D 0 X X X 0 Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Scientists, Health systems, Patients Resource efficiency Waste and recycling 0 X X X X Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Communities Water management 0 X X X X Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Communities Climate change Energy efficiency and renewable 0 X X X 0 energy Material for: Federations and policy makers, NGOs Greenhouse gas emissions X X X X X Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Products We offer top-quality products that enrich people's lives. When it comes to safety, environmental sustainability and ethical practices, we have extremely high expectations and standards. Whether prescription medicines or over-the-counter products, the work of our Healthcare business sector makes a difference to millions of lives around the world. Through our Life Science products, we are dedicated to making research and biotech production simpler, faster and more successful. We continuously work to improve the sustainability footprint of our products. In our Performance Materials business sector, we develop specialty chemicals for particularly demanding applications, such as liquid crystals for energy-efficient displays. Read More 26 Innovation and digitalization 48 Counterfeit products 29 Sustainable product design 50 Transport and warehouse safety 34 Access to health 52 Responsible marketing 40 Prices of medicines 53 Bioethics 41 Health awareness 55 Clinical trials 44 Chemical product safety 58 Animal welfare 46 Drug safety 61 Interactions with health systems 25 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Innovation and digitalization Research and innovation are the basis of our success. In Our principles 2016, we spent around € 2.0 billion on research and development (R&D). We develop technologies that enrich people’s Innovation strategy and organization lives and are constantly on the lookout for groundbreaking developments and trends that can be translated into new Our Group function Strategy & Transformation is in the products and pioneering business models. In particular, new process of developing a Group-wide innovation strategy. We technologies and the advance of digitalization are enabling us are analyzing current megatrends, determining the influence to create innovative products, services and business models they have on our business models, and defining the areas in that can positively impact lives. We intend to maximize this which we see potential for new business ideas. In doing so, opportunity. we are thinking far beyond our core business. To find novel approaches, we enter into strategic alliances with organizations that embody different perspectives. Many such potential partners are based in Silicon Valley, CA (USA), one of the key regions in the global high-tech industry. Here, we too are expanding our presence as a science and technology company. Research and development costs by business sector – 2016 Life Science Performance Materials €260 million €213 million 13 % 11 % Healthcare €1,496 million 76 % We are investing in forward-looking ideas. Our Merck forces in January 2017. We hope to bolster patient outcomes Ventures Fund provides up to € 300 million for investments by using their sophisticated data analysis capabilities to in start-ups that will advance or complement our business improve and accelerate the development, commercialization models. and distribution of drugs. To maximally leverage the opportunities of digitalization, You can find more information on our strategic approach we form strategic partnerships with companies such as the under Research and Development in our Annual Report for California-based Palantir Technologies, with whom we joined 2016. 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Innovation Center – Making room for ideas We also collaborate with various schools in the vicinity of our global headquarters in Darmstadt. For example, we provide At our Innovation Center in Darmstadt, we offer our STEM subject teachers with educational materials and orgaemployees and external partners space and support to cultinize annual events devoted to STEM teachers such as Merck vate their ideas. We teach them innovative methods and Science Days, where they learn how to incorporate new techprovide the necessary infrastructure to advance pioneering nologies into their science classes. We regularly invite groups projects. of students to Merck to explore our research activities, or to our Children’s University in an attempt to stimulate their Our work focuses on four strategic projects: thirst for knowledge. Moreover, for over 30 years we have been hosting the “Jugend forscht” student competition. Accelerator: Numerous start-ups around the world are working on innovative business models for our business You can find more information on our educational initiatives fields. Our global Accelerator program supports such under Community (p. 95) and in our Fostering talent (p. start-ups in the early stages of their development. In 183) story. return, we gain insight into the highly innovative start-up community and can identify market trends early on. Digitalization as a driver of innovation Internal innovation projects: We want to better harness the great innovation power within our company. Digitalization is revolutionizing markets and business We therefore offer our employees from all over the world models. This technological change is also an important driver the opportunity to work at our Innovation Center on select of innovation and is changing the pace at which new ideas projects for up to a year. As well as receiving financial are entering the market. We are constantly exploring new support for their projects, employees have access to ways to leverage this potential and currently expect select experts who provide input across all stages, from advances in the following areas: the seed of the idea to product development. Innovation Think Tank: In our Innovation Think Tank, Research and development: Digital technologies we work with internal and external experts, research instienable us to access large quantities of data and quickly tutes and other companies to analyze current trends and analyze it. We can use this information to accelerate our technologies. research and development activities. Particularly in our Healthcare business sector, we hope to accelerate the Innovator Academy: The Merck Innovator Academy development of new drugs so as to provide patients with aims to bolster our company’s capacity for innovation by faster access to medicine with increased efficacy. organizing needs-based training courses and workshops with internal project teams, think tank participants and Supply chain management: Digital technologies help start-ups. us enhance our supply chain management process. By collecting all data pertaining to our supply chain centrally, we have access to crucial real-time information. This allows us to predict and respond quickly to issues such Innospire – Mobilizing employees as supply bottlenecks worldwide, ensuring a more reliable The goal of our innovation initiative Innospire (a combination supply of medicines. of innovation and inspiration) is to mobilize the innovative Customer interaction: Thanks to modern data collection potential of our people. Every two years, we call upon them and analysis techniques, we can make more efficient use to submit ideas for new products and develop business plans of customer-relevant data to more fully understand our during a multi-stage process. You can find more information customers. Furthermore, digital platforms offer us new under Employees (p. 72). ways to interact with our clientele. By better understanding their needs, we can adapt our products and services accordingly. Fostering young talent – An investment in the future Digital product innovations: Digitalization is enabling Well-trained talent is the best foundation for future innovaus to expand our existing products and develop new prodtions, which is why we endeavor to spark young people’s ucts, services and business models. For instance, we are interest in science. Students who are curious about chemenhancing existing products with new digital services such istry and biology can use our Junior Lab and livfe BioLab as Baby Wish (p. 28). This platform educates couples to conduct their own research and experiments. We run on fertility issues and provides healthcare professionals both laboratories together with the Technical University (TU) with scientific information. Moreover, we are working to of Darmstadt. Furthermore, in supporting TU Darmstadt’s raise health awareness and improve patient treatment HIGHEST 1877 start-up program, we are promoting the innothrough e-health programs such as the Diabetes Online vative ideas of local start-ups. Risk Assessment (DORA) (p. 28). 27 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Vocational training and continuing education features information on infertility and treatment options. In July 2016, we launched a different platform that provides Innovation culture and digitalization are new topics at our healthcare professionals with access to the latest digital Merck University for managers. In early 2017, we entered scientific information on infertility. Through this medium, we into a partnership with the Stanford Graduate School of Busiare helping providers offer the best care for couples seeking ness, which will be teaching classes on these topics for us. advice. Furthermore, under the banner of “Work 4.0”, we are integrating new digital technologies into our vocational training First Merck hackathon in Africa programs and offering our employees a modern, innovative working environment. You can find more information under As part of our Accelerator program, we support and organize Employees (p. 64). hackathons in which young entrepreneurs from various sectors collaborate to quickly develop solutions to specific Data protection issues. In 2016, we hosted a hackathon in Accra, Ghana that was attended by approximately 150 social entrepreData protection is essential to implementing digitalization in neurs from western Africa. At this gathering, dubbed Health a responsible manner, which is why we strictly adhere to Hack Accra, 29 teams of biomedical engineers, scientists, all data protection guidelines, monitor the various regulatory programmers, and university students had 48 hours to frameworks, and respond immediately to changes. You can create solutions and business models to tackle Africa's find more information on data protection under Strategy & toughest health challenges. With a focus on reproductive management (p. 11). and maternal health, access to health, non-communicable diseases, and infectious diseases, this hackathon led to the development of 28 innovative solutions. Our Innovation Progress Center is supporting the top three solutions in partnership Intelligent packaging processes and drug information with the Impact Hub in Accra: in real time CrowdAfrica: A crowdfunding platform for healthcare. Our Smart Packaging project allows us to make our drug Peach Technologies: An electronic patient file. packaging processes more efficient and flexible. By dynaMix: An awareness platform for reproductive health connecting our packaging machines via an Internet of that also aims to increase the availability of contraceptives Things, we can improve their accuracy and reliability while in rural regions. also increasing their output. Additionally, our new predictive maintenance capabilities will reduce machine breakdowns. By connecting systems across the entire organization and using advanced analytics, we will be able to decrease packOnline campaign for diabetes aging waste and lead times when changes have to be made In Africa, approximately 62% of diabetes cases go undiagto the product information. This also means that, when new nosed. To improve early diagnosis and promote awareness information about a product is discovered, we can inform our for diabetes, we joined forces with various partners in March customers more quickly. We are also exploring options for 2015 to launch a digital initiative known as DORA (Diabetes active packaging that will allow patients to look up the latest Online Risk Assessment). People in South Africa, Namibia, information in real time on their smartphones. Kenya, Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria, Mozambique, and Mauritius can use their smartphones or computers to take an online In good hands: the Baby Wish digital platform test. In just a few clicks, they can ascertain whether they are at risk of developing diabetes. Since its launch, the DORA Through our fertility medicines, technologies and services, website has received more than 401,500 hits, with 74,294 we are providing the support clinics need to help couples coming from people who took the assessment. conceive. We also offer more direct aid to impacted individuals. Launched in April 2017, our Baby Wish digital platform 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Sustainable product design Respect for the environment and natural resources is at the largest power consumer. Thanks to PS-VA technology, heart of sustainable conduct. We too see this as our duty. devices consume significantly less energy than precursors. Our Performance Materials business sector produces materials that our customers can use to develop more sustainSelf-aligned vertical alignment (SA-VA) is the nextable products. Take for example liquid crystals that increase generation liquid crystal technology in development, with the display efficiency, or materials that continuously improve first SA-VA products expected on the market in 2017. SA-VA solar cells and organic photovoltaics. helps conserve resources and is environmentally sustainable because less energy and solvent are required to manufacture Our Life Science business sector develops technologies and the displays. Moreover, it is more efficient as fewer process solutions to make research and biotech production simpler, steps are necessary. Since SA-VA technology can be used at faster and more successful. Here, too, we take sustainability lower temperatures, it is also suitable for sensitive materials into account at the very start of product development. such as those in premium products or pioneering applications such as flexible displays. Our principles Mobile device displays have increasingly high resolutions but Performance Materials are still expected to be as energy-efficient as possible. This is exactly where our liquid crystals for touchscreen applications Our Performance Materials business sector manufactures come in. Based on Ultra-Brightness FFS technology (UBnumerous products that help our customers develop sustainFFS), these liquid crystals provide displays with 15% more able and environmentally compatible products. Our requirelight transmission. This can reduce the energy consumpments are set out in the following guidelines: tion of smartphones and tablets by around 30%, thereby prolonging battery life. UB-FFS furthermore enhances picture Our Product Safety Chemicals Policy: This specifies our resolution. We are currently working to advance this techGroup-wide product safety requirements. nology so that it can also be used in applications such as LCD televisions. Our Green Product Policy: This ensures that we adhere to all national and international laws and statutes (e.g. REACH and the European Union RoHS Directive) as well Switchable windows as industry and customer-specific requirements. FurtherWindows that darken in a matter of seconds are now a more, this policy forbids the use of acutely toxic, mutareality thanks to our liquid crystal window (LCW) technology. genic or otherwise hazardous substances that remain in Because they also reduce heat input from sunlight, initial the end product. estimates show that these windows can lower the energy For Display Materials products as well as Pigments & Funcconsumed by building climate control systems by up to 40%. tional Materials products, we adhere to our customers' Commercialized under our licrivision™ brand, this technology Halogen-free Policy. thus renders conventional sun shading redundant. We are currently investing € 15 million in the construction of a production facility for liquid crystal window modules in the Across all our manufacturing facilities, our raw materials Netherlands. The manufacture of these switchable glass for the cosmetics industry fulfill the high standards of the modules is scheduled to begin there at the end of 2017. More Cosmetics Directive, for example Good Manufacturing Pracinformation can be found in our story Exploring the future tices (EFfCI GMP). (p. 179) . Best practice examples to improve sustainability OLEDs Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) likewise increase the Our Performance Materials products help boost sustainability energy efficiency of displays. They furthermore provide brilin a variety of different ways: liant colors and razor-sharp images. Over the past several years, we’ve been researching innovative printing processes Energy-efficient displays to efficiently produce large-screen OLED displays. To this Liquid crystals (LCs) ensure high picture quality in computer end, we’ve been partnering closely with printer manufacmonitors and televisions, reducing their energy requireturers. In September 2016, we opened a new production ments. This is because our PS-VA technology (polymerplant for OLED materials at our site in Darmstadt. Costing stabilized vertical alignment) arranges the liquid crystals so around € 30 million, this plant represents one of the largest as to better utilize the backlighting, which is a display’s single investments we have made at the Darmstadt site in recent years. 29 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Innovations in photovoltaics Quality, Procurement, and other departments are in constant We supply the photovoltaics industry with materials for the contact. production of highly efficient solar cells. These materials enable the realization of innovative applications for photoThrough our DfS process, we have improved the product voltaics such as flexible, semi-transparent and lightweight properties across 32% of our BioMonitoring product develsolar cells that can be used in buildings, on curved or straight opments and product updates in at least three of our selfsurfaces or even in clothing. defined sustainability criteria. We will be incorporating our suppliers into our Design for Sustainability program as well. Phasing out plastic microbeads In 2016, we launched a pilot project to define the relevant requirements for our suppliers. We manufacture mineral-based pigments and functional fillers used by the cosmetics industry in formulations for In addition to following this design process, our Life Science various purposes. Our RonaFlair® functional fillers range research teams are developing innovative solutions in line provides an alternative to plastic microbeads contained in with the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry formulated by skin care products. chemists Paul T. Anastas and John C. Warner. These aim to make research as environmentally compatible as possible Through their use in cosmetics and other products, plastic and to minimize negative impacts on human health. Under microbeads end up in marine and terrestrial ecosystems, and the green chemistry approach, researchers look for alterare facing public criticism because they are not biodegradnative, ecologically sustainable reaction media with higher able. Through our alternative mineral products, we are reaction rates and lower reaction temperatures to make supporting, for example, the declaration of Cosmetics production more energy efficient. In total, we offer more Europe, which advocates a phase-out of microplastics in than 700 products that align with the Principles of Green rinse-off products by 2020. Chemistry, making them a “greener” alternative to conventional products. Increase in natural cosmetics An ever-growing number of consumers place importance A wide range of solutions on natural cosmetics. Together with our customers in the cosmetics industry, we are responding to this rising demand Our Life Science portfolio comprises a broad array of prodby developing cosmetic formulations that meet strict criteria. ucts, each with different properties that are taken into The majority of our cosmetic raw materials meet the criteria consideration when applying our DfS approach and the Prinof Ecocert’s Cosmos standard for organic and natural ciples of Green Chemistry. The following examples illustrate cosmetics. the results. Life Science More environmentally compatible laboratory filters Using our DfS approach, we have significantly reduced the We endeavor to reduce the environmental and health environmental footprint of our EZ-Fit™ Manifold laboratory impacts of our Life Science products. This applies to their filter. In comparison with its predecessor, the Hydrosol Manientire life cycle, from manufacture and use to end of life. At fold, we require 47% less raw material for the EZ-Fit™ Manithe same time, we want to make our products more efficient fold. Its packaging consists of 100% recyclable cardboard and user-friendly. That is why, right at the beginning of the and, overall, 95% of its parts are recyclable. Because the product development phase, we ask ourselves how to best heads can be easily removed for cleaning, it is no longer reconcile these requirements. necessary to clean the whole device, which saves energy and results in a 91% reduction in the carbon dioxide emisWith our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program, we have sions produced during cleaning. In 2016, we furthermore developed a comprehensive approach. The DfS program expanded our range to include a disposable filtration device, provides our product developers with a range of tools, which is used to determine the microbial count in liquid enabling them to analyze the impact of the product on the samples. Thanks to our DfS approach, we have particularly following areas: materials, energy and emissions, waste, improved the packaging of this product. water, packaging, usability, and innovation. For each of these areas, we have developed several sustainability criteria Greener chemistry that are noted on a score card. When developing a new product, our aim is to improve on as many of these criteria In comparison with conventional alternatives, our greener as possible. To understand the potential impacts on the solvents are based on natural resources such as corn cobs environment within different product life cycle stages, we and sugar cane bagasse. They are more ecologically sustainconduct product life cycle analyses. The results of these able, easier to recycle and more biodegradable. Take for analyses show us how we can improve our products and are example the solvent Cyrene™, which we launched onto the incorporated into subsequent development stages. During market in 2016. It is bioderived from waste cellulose and is this process, experts from R&D, Product Management, used as an alternative to dimethylformamide (formic acid), which has been the subject of increasing criticism in recent 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products years due to its mutagenic effects. With CyreneTM, we are why we instituted the annual Displaying Futures Symposium, helping our customers in the pharmaceutical and agrochemwhich was held in 2016 for the seventh time. ical industries make their production processes safer and more environmentally sustainable. In September 2016, the symposium centered on the theme “Driving Forces – Inspired by Performance Materials”. At Instruments for biofuels our Group headquarters in Darmstadt, experts from various Our Guava® HT series of flow cytometers is helping to drive fields discussed the future of mobility, from cars that biofuel research and development. For example, our communicate with one another to self-driving vehicles. customers are using the Guava instruments to find an algae species that is suitable for diesel production. Our flow In 2015, we hosted two events with differing focuses. In cytometers are also being used to produce ethanol from October, we met with architects and designers in Chicago, sugar; they test which bacteria digest sugars and thus IL (USA) to discuss materials that would transform architecproduce gases that can be refined into ethanol. ture. We also took the opportunity to introduce our liquid crystal window technology to a large audience. In November, Energy-efficient sterility tests international experts from fields such as displays and electronics gathered together in San Francisco, CA (USA) under Using the DfS approach, we have reduced the energy the banner “The Future is HOW? Inspired by Performance consumption of our Steritest™ Symbio pumps for sterility Materials”. Attendees discussed how materials and high-tech tests by 15% to 30% compared with its predecessor. chemicals could be used in future applications. Tool to assess the sustainability performance of chemAward-winning programs icals In 2016, we introduced a tool called Dozn™ to assess the In 2015, we were granted the German Innovation Award in green alternatives of various chemicals, thereby creating recognition of our UB-FFS technology (p. 29), which lowers transparency for our customers. Based on the 12 Principles the power consumed by mobile device displays. of Green Chemistry, we evaluate how our products score in three main categories, namely improved resource allocation, Three of our Life Science products, Titripac®, EZFit™ Maniefficient energy use, and minimized risk to humans and the fold and SNAP i.d.® 2.0, were honored in 2016 with the environment. One point is given for each of the 12 principles, Green Good Design Award for sustainable product design. allowing an easy comparison of the products. The results of This award was also given in honor of our Design for Sustainthe evaluation are verified by an independent body. To date, ability program, which enabled us to improve these products. we have used the matrix to assess and improve more than 40 products. In recognition of close collaboration across company boundaries, we received the Enterprise Innovation Award from the Progress Technical University of Darmstadt in June 2016. In a joint project with Siemens, we developed high-performance mateDisplaying Futures: Annual conference on the future rials for energy-efficient generators. These innovative mateof display technology rials not only make the generators more efficient and more powerful, but also allow the construction of buildings that Pioneering advances such as our efficient UB-FFS display help conserve resources. technology are only possible through close collaboration with our partners. We seek to engage trailblazers who look to the future and conceive groundbreaking technologies. This is 31 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Packaging Packaging protects our products from external influences and breaking during transport. While EPS, also known as Styroensures that they reach the customer undamaged. It also foam®, is an excellent cushioning material, it is manufacprevents materials from leaking. Our packaging must theretured from non-renewable petrochemicals. It is also difficult fore remain intact across the product's entire life cycle – from to recycle and takes up a lot of storage room. By contrast, transport to storage, and from usage to end of life. molded pulp components can be easily recycled with other paper materials and compacted together for storage and Beyond safety, we also strive to design packaging that uses transport. We have a substitution program in place that is as few natural resources as possible. We are therefore working on solutions to replace EPS with molded components working to reduce the amount of material required and are made of cellulose and recycled paper pulp. increasingly utilizing environmentally sustainable materials where possible. In the process, we ensure that the quality When shipping items from our major distribution centers and safety of the packaging is not adversely affected. in the United States and Germany, a large portion of our reagent bottles are secured using molded pulp components. In 2015 and 2016, we conducted numerous safety tests on Our principles various molded pulp part designs to pad 4X4 liter bottles Sustainable packaging strategy in shipping boxes. In 2017, we plan to start using pulp components for this package size, which will replace approxiWe aim to deliver our products in packaging that is safe and mately 350,000 molded EPS parts per year. We are currently easy for our customers to handle, as well as sustainable. conducting safety tests on various pulp designs for shipping individual bottles of various sizes. The more than 300,000 products of our Life Science business sector – ranging from biochemicals to lab chemicals, from More cardboard instead of plastic filter materials and systems to instruments – pose a wide The analytical technique of titration is utilized in laboratories range of challenges when it comes to packaging. We strive to assure the quality of various products by verifying the to improve the sustainability of their packaging through purity of the raw materials. Although the necessary solvents measures such as reusable packaging systems, or by are conventionally packaged in plastic bottles, we use avoiding the use of polystyrene. Our sustainable packaging Titripac® because it offers a more environmentally compatstrategy for our Life Science business sector stipulates the ible alternative for supplying solvents to our Life Science framework for this approach. A variety of guidelines help our customers. By employing a cardboard carton and plastic liner experts to consider sustainable packaging alternatives and with an integrated withdrawal tap, we made the packaging implement them during the product development stage. more recyclable while also cutting down the weight by more than half. As a result, the greenhouse gas emissions arising We also work to enhance the sustainability of our packaging across the entire life cycle of the product are 61% lower design for our Performance Materials products such as liquid than for plastic bottles. Because the withdrawal tap protects crystals and pigments (p. 32). the product against contamination, the contents can be used to the very last drop, thereby reducing chemical waste. In 2016, Titripac® was recognized with the Green Good Design Certified cardboard boxes Award for sustainable product design. The majority of the corrugated cardboard boxes we use worldwide are certified to the standards governing sustainReusing EPS boxes able forestry. These include the Sustainable Forestry InitiaMany of our Life Science products must be kept cool during tive (SFI), the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the shipping and are therefore packed in special Styrofoam® Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification boxes. To mitigate waste, we offer our U.S. customers the Schemes (PEFC). option of sending us back these boxes. If they are fully functional, we reuse them, which, at more than 20,000 boxes per A variety of solutions for an extensive product portfolio year, reduces waste. We are in the process of expanding this program to serve customers outside of the United States as Our initiatives for sustainable packaging systems are as well. varied as our product portfolio. Here are several examples: Reusing liquid crystal canisters Cellulose instead of polystyrene In Korea and Taiwan, our Performance Materials liquid crystal In the past, we secured glass reagent bottles using expanded mixtures are delivered to display manufacturers in stainless polystyrene (EPS) molded foam to prevent them from steel canisters. Our customers utilize these standardized 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products canisters directly on their production lines without decanting. containers are shipped without additional packaging, we are The empty containers are then sent back to us and cleaned. also saving a lot of the packaging material normally needed Within this closed system, these canisters can be reused over to ship glass bottles, which must be packed in boxes and several years. cushioned by molded components. Steel instead of glass In Europe, we also deliver solvents required in bulk quanThanks to our EMD ReCycler® bulk product delivery system, tities for preparative chromatography in reusable stainless our solvents are delivered to our U.S.-based Life Science steel barrels and drums. Our customers send the empty customers in special reusable steel containers. They can containers back to us, where they are properly cleaned and return the empty containers to us for refilling. Through this then reused. Approximately 20,000 of our stainless steel program, we are significantly reducing the consumption of barrels and 20,000 stainless steel drums are currently in primary packaging materials. Because the stainless steel circulation across Europe. The rate of return is 90% for the barrels and around 50% for the drums. Reuse and recycling Through our recycling programs, we help our customers In cooperation with Triumvirate Environmental, a waste dispose of our products and packaging. management company based in Massachusetts (USA), we launched a recycling program at the beginning of 2015 to serve our Life Science customers in the United States. Under Our principles this initiative, product waste from their research labs and Design for Sustainability biopharmaceutical manufacturing operations is collected and recycled in its entirety. This program has thus replaced our Our Design for Sustainability (DFS) program encourages our previous individual initiatives, which included our Biopharma Life Science research & development teams to design prodProduct Recycling Program as well as our Ech2o™ Collection ucts with reduced life cycle impacts. This process focuses on and Recycling Program for water filter cartridges. These utilizing recyclable or reusable materials that can be easily processes were not efficient because the various materials recovered or separated. Through DfS, we are continuously had to be separated before recycling. working to reduce the ecological footprint of our products and make disposal as easy as possible for our customers. Our partner company Triumvirate Environmental has developed an innovative process for recycling challenging waste Progress streams. This method recycles 100% of the product without needing to first decontaminate or separate the materials. Recycling program updated Triumvirate Environmental then takes the recycled mass and manufactures plastic materials that are used in the construcMany of the products we supply to our Life Science tion industry for items such as speed bumps. Since launching customers are used once and then discarded. This is necesthe program, we've recycled approximately 450 metric tons sary to minimize the risk of contamination and is common of waste generated from the use of our products. Six of our practice within the industry. Moreover, this approach helps customers are already participating in the program. reduce costs because our customers don't have to clean disposable products, thereby saving time and natural We are currently investigating how we can expand this initiaresources such as energy and water. Recycling the plastic in tive beyond the United States to markets in Europe and Asia. these products is not easy, primarily due to inadequate recycling options, challenging material properties, and stringent regulatory requirements. 33 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Access to Health Across the globe, approximately 400 million people lack pharmaceutical companies to announce Access Accelerated, access to effective and affordable healthcare, especially in a global initiative that seeks to improve both treatment lowto middle-income countries. However, according to the and prevention of non-communicable diseases in lowand World Health Organization (WHO), these regions bear middle-income countries. approximately 90% of the world’s disease burden. In cooperation with strong partners, we’re working to tackle this To improve access to health solutions, we're leveraging the complex challenge by researching innovative solutions, expertise from all our businesses. We’re aware that indideveloping new approaches and improving existing programs vidual companies and organizations can only do so much to to help people at the point of care. To achieve this, health improve access to health, which is why we closely collaborate solutions must be affordable and accessible (p. 40). Beyond with a wide range of partners. these efforts, we’re also raising awareness (p. 41) for diseases and teaching people how to manage them. The Our A2H strategy focuses on the 4 As: Access to Medicine Index has recognized the progress we’ve made on improving access to health (A2H). In 2016, we were ranked fourth, moving us two places higher than 2014. Availability: We research, develop and refine health solutions that address unmet needs and are tailored to local environments. Our principles Accessibility: We promote initiatives that strengthen Our strategic approach supply chains (p. 39) and develop localized health solutions in order to deliver and reach out efficiently at the We endeavor to improve access to high-quality health solupoint of care. tions for underserved populations and communities in lowAffordability: We seek to provide assistance to those to middle-income countries. This goal forms the heart of our who are unable to pay for the health solutions they need. A2H approach. Indeed, Stefan Oschmann, Executive Board Further information can be found under Prices of mediChairman and CEO, focused on accelerating access to health cines (p. 40) and Community (p. 96). in such regions during his presidency of the International Awareness: We contribute to raising awareness (p. 41) Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations by empowering health workers, communities and patients (IFPMA) from 2014 to the end of 2016. so that they can make informed decisions. At the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland in January 2017, we joined forces with 21 other leading The 4 As 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Our A2H Charter defines our guidelines for the following Responsible treatment of intellectual property does not pose topics: a barrier to health. It guarantees safety and high quality for patients worldwide. Most medicines that address the highest Our approach burden of disease in developing countries are not protected by patents. For example, 95% of the 2013 WHO Essential Pharmaceutical product donations and philanthropic activList of Medicines are off-patent. ities Fake medicines R&D for neglected tropical diseases and priority communiFAST FACT cable diseases Pharmaceutical product pricing Intellectual property rights ESSENTIAL MEDICINES We provide 45 medicines that are listed on the WHO Essential Medicines List and/or classified as In the 2015-2016 period, we aligned our A2H strategy and first-line treatments, such as bisoprolol/ goals (p. 132) with the Sustainable Development Goals (p. amlodipine, metformin (Glucophage®), and praz146) of the United Nations. These efforts were recognized in iquantel. the 2016 Access to Medicine Index (p. 36). Effectively managing our A2H programs Our Access to Health (A2H) unit investigates the factors that Our approach to intellectual property is set out in our Charter make it more difficult for underserved populations to receive on Access to Health in Developing Countries – Rights to Intelhealthcare, working with various partners to develop ways to lectual Property. lower these barriers. Our A2H team is backed by a steering committee featuring representatives from our Healthcare In most developing countries, Merck neither files nor and Life Science business sectors as well as representatives enforces patents. In markets where we do register product from our subsidiaries. In this way, we ensure that our patents, we are committed to sharing data with researchers programs support our business strategy, can be impleand to improving public access to clinical study data. We mented locally and have the desired effect. provide transparent information on our patents and patent applications via publicly accessible databases. We furtherWe are currently developing quantitative and qualitative more approve voluntary licensing agreements of all kinds, performance indicators to evaluate the efficacy of our including non-exclusive voluntary licenses and legally binding programs. Using these indicators, we will assess our non-assertion covenants or clauses that aim to improve strengths and identify areas where we need to improve. access to health. We also support TRIPS, an international agreement administered by the World Trade Organization (WTO) that addresses trade-related aspects of intellectual Beyond these efforts, we are also involved in industry-wide property rights, as well TRIPS addenda such as the 2001 initiatives and are working with other companies to develop Doha Declaration (Special Declaration on the TRIPS Agreenew approaches to assessing the efficacy of our A2H activment and Public Health). The Doha Declaration extends the ities. For instance, in 2016 we endorsed the Business for deadline for least-developed countries to apply TRIPS proviSocial Responsibility's (BSR) Guiding Principles on Access to sions on pharmaceutical patents until at least 2033 as per a Healthcare. As a member of the BSR Healthcare Working decision taken by the WTO’s council on November 6, 2015. Group, we contributed to and led the development of the We were in favor of extending this deadline until 2033 and working paper entitled Advancing Access to Healthcare therefore supported this move. Moreover, we support the Metrics, which aims to help pharmaceutical and medical concept of patent pools. However, we believe that these device companies improve their performance measurement should be structured to improve access to medicines and and reporting on access to healthcare. should therefore prevent anticompetitive effects as well as geographic limitations. We consider joining patent pools Sharing and protecting intellectual property when they are relevant to our portfolio and meet our efficacy, quality and safety requirements. A great deal of time and money is required to develop new drugs, without a guarantee of success. It can take 10 We share our knowledge and intellectual property and accelto 15 years for an effective health solution to be marketerate early discovery for infectious diseases. We are one ready. Pharmaceutical companies therefore need a solid, of over 100 members of the WIPO Re:Search open innovatransparent and reliable legal framework to protect their tion platform, which is sponsored by the World Intellectual intellectual property rights and enforce their patents, which Property Foundation (WIPO). In 2015, we initiated our first provide a sufficient period of time to compensate for R&D partnership as part of this platform, collaborating with the costs. University of Buea in Cameroon. Our common goal is to 35 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products repurpose compounds from our library to develop a treatThe many years we've devoted to detecting counterfeit ment for onchocerciasis, a disease also known as river blindmedicines using the GPHF Minilab® (p. 99). ness. In early 2016, the collaboration received the Pathfinder The expansion of our Su-Swastha program (p. 42) in rural Award, a grant from the UK-based Wellcome Trust to fund India, aimed at supplying high-quality health products at research on this condition. affordable prices and establishing the required infrastructure. Our transparent approach to intellectual property was also Our support for the network of vaccine manufacturers in recognized in the 2016 Access to Medicine Index (p. 36). developing countries (p. 39). Our Virtual Plant Team platform (p. 39), which we're using Engaging stakeholders to ensure globally harmonized quality standards in local production facilities. Partnerships and dialogue are key instruments to improving Our continuous and holistic efforts in the fight against access to health. Our partners include multilateral organischistosomiasis, including our Praziquantel Donation zations, government agencies, and NGOs, as well as acadProgram (p. 97) in partnership with WHO. emic institutions, health industry associations, companies, and experts from the private sector. Discourse to improve healthcare Through our Access Dialogues, we have created a platform that allows publicand private-sector stakeholders to Our Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO, Stefan exchange information and share best practices. This platform Oschmann, took part in various events in the 2015-2016 provides a way for participants to collaborate on improving period. For instance, at an event hosted in September 2015 access to health. These dialogues are part of our A2H efforts to mark the 70th General Assembly of the United Nations, and commitments around awareness and aim to help stakehe gave a speech on the role of private industry in global holders make well-informed health decisions. healthcare. Oschmann also spoke on this topic in May 2015 at an event held on the occasion of the 68th World Health In this vein, we hosted the Innovative Intellectual Property Assembly (WHA) of WHO. Moreover, in March 2015 he and Access Dialogue in 2015. At this event, we joined forces attended the Independent Expert Group (IEG) on Emergency with leading experts on intellectual property and global Preparedness as an industry representative. This gathering health to discuss challenges and potential developments for was convened by Bill Gates at the request of Angela Merkel, our intellectual property strategy. Chancellor of Germany and G7 President. In addition to this gathering, dialogues on challenges in the Discussions at a global level local supply chain were held in 2015 and 2016 in conjunction In the 2015-2016 period, we also participated in numerous with the Accessibility Platform, a multi-stakeholder initiaother events, including the following: tive seeking to ensure that medicines are delivered safely, quickly and efficiently. Further information on the AccessiBuilding the Path to Universal Health Coverage: Innovability Platform can be found under Supply chain (p. 39). tive Financing in Access to Medicines, a round table hosted in September 2015 by UNITAID, Norwegian Church Aid Progress and the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) in Oslo, Norway. Munich Security Conference on global security and foreign High ranking in the Access to Medicine Index policy, held in February 2016: forum on current crises and Every two years, the Dutch Access to Medicine Foundation future challenges to international health security. assesses the performance and achievements of pharmaceuGeneva Health Forum (GHF) in April 2016: Event sponsor tical companies in terms of their efforts to improve access and organizer of the round table on “Empowerment: to medicine in developing countries. The foundation then Providing tools to make informed health decisions for ranks these companies in their Access to Medicine Index. In chronic diseases aligned with the WHO 2030 Health Work2016, we came in fourth place. The foundation recognized force Strategy”. us in particular for aligning our strategy and objectives more Supply Chain Conference hosted by the German Assoclosely with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The ciation for Supply Chain Management, Procurement and following initiatives were singled out as best practices: Logistics (BME) in February 2016; the topic was: “Accessibility Platform: Uniting Stakeholders for Optimal Global Our transparent approach to intellectual property (p. 35) Health Impact”. and sharing of intellectual property through research partEvent on the occasion of the 69th WHO World Health nerships. Assembly in May 2016; the topic was “Strengthening local Our leading role in raising health awareness, such as our supply chains through multi-stakeholder initiatives to thyroid disorder campaigns (p. 175) in Indonesia and the eliminate barriers to access”. Philippines. 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Activities at the local level Together against malnutrition: We are supporting the In 2015 and 2016, we also engaged stakeholders at a local Beyond Zero initiative of the Kenyan government. Our aim level. Below are several examples: is to improve healthcare for mothers and their children. Various activities in China: Raising awareness for thyroid Continuation of our three-year Indonesia Free Anemia disorders through education programs, continuing educacampaign: Raising awareness for the causes and treattion for physicians, and research projects. Collaboration ment of anemia through social media. with the National Health & Family Planning Commission as well as medical institutions such as the Chinese Medical Association. Infectious diseases Many infectious diseases that are endemic to developing In implementing our programs, we synergize competencies countries are barely known in industrialized from our business sectors while also partnering with leading nations. Referred to as neglected tropical diseases, these global health institutions and organizations in both developed infections consequently attract little public attention and and developing countries. Consider, for instance, the Pediresearch funding. One poignant example is schistosomiasis, atric Praziquantel Consortium, a public-private partnership an insidious parasitic disease that still lacks a treatment suit(PPP) that is developing a pediatric formulation to treat able for children under six. schistosomiasis. Malaria also continues to pose a threat to public health. Under the Global Health platform, we are also sponsoring According to estimates by WHO, nearly half of the world’s education programs and initiatives targeted to health population is at risk of malaria. In 2015, roughly 212 million workers in African countries. malaria cases worldwide and an estimated 429,000 malaria deaths were recorded. Approximately 92% of these deaths Progress occur in Africa, with 70% in children under five years of age. Although a large range of approved products and investigaTreating schistosomiasis in children under six tional compounds are available to treat malaria, the number of resistant pathogens is on the rise. New treatments are Around 10% of the approximately 220 million people worldtherefore urgently needed together with solutions to effecwide with schistosomiasis are younger than six years old. tively control malaria. These children cannot be treated with praziquantel, the standard therapy for the parasitic disease. This is something we Our principles intend to change. Since July 2012, we have been working with partners from industry and research institutes on the Global Health innovation platform development of a pediatric formulation of praziquantel. As part of these efforts, in 2015 we successfully completed two The experts of our Global Health innovation platform are Phase I bioavailability studies in healthy subjects in South working on novel health solutions for vulnerable populations Africa, as well as a taste study in children in Tanzania. in developing countries, especially children and mothers. They promote and implement Group-wide initiatives and In 2016, the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium initiated a programs to address key unmet medical needs related to Phase II study in Ivory Coast; the trial aims to assess the infectious diseases, with a focus on schistosomiasis and efficacy and safety of two different formulations for orodismalaria (including co-infections). The team is applying an persible tablets in schistosomiasis-infected children under integrated strategy by concentrating not only on treatment the age of six. At the same time, we are preparing the Phase (drugs) but also on detection, transmission and control. III study. We are focusing our work on three flagship programs: In recognition of all these efforts, the consortium was awarded a prestigious research grant from the Japanese 1. Development of a pediatric formulation to treat schistoGlobal Health Innovation Technology Fund in both 2015 and somiasis (p. 37) 2016, which followed the one awarded in 2014. 2. Development of a diagnostic kit for malaria (p. 38) 3. Development of a new active ingredient for the treatment and prevention of malaria in children under six (p. 38) 37 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Accurately diagnosing malaria clinical aspects including clinical trial practices and clinical management, these research fellows are given the opportuIn many African countries such as Zimbabwe and Uganda, nity to work for a period of up to 24 months in leading pharthe rate of co-infection with HIV and malaria is very high. maceutical companies (including our company). On returning In HIV-infected patients who develop a fever, it is therefore to their home countries and academic institutions, they then very important to establish whether they also have malaria. have the key resources needed to lead and implement their Current systems, however, are not accurate enough, which research in line with international regulatory requirements often leads to other febrile illnesses being wrongly diagnosed and standards. as malaria. Deepening the dialogue on malaria and schistosomiIn 2015, we started expanding our Muse® Auto CD4/CD4% asis diagnostic kit, which until then had been used for monitoring the treatment of HIV patients in Sub-Saharan Africa and In 2015 and 2016, we stepped up the dialogue on infectious other developing regions. With this system, medical profesdiseases with important stakeholders and experts. Among sionals can obtain information on the course of an HIV infecother achievements, we gained a new partner for the Pedition. The advantage is that blood samples no longer need be atric Praziquantel Consortium, namely the Schistosomiasis sent to clinics in the cities. The new Muse® malaria diagnostic Control Initiative (SCI), which is part of Imperial College kit can measure the presence and type of malaria parasite as London in the United Kingdom. SCI works closely with health well as co-infection with HIV. The system is expected to be ministries in African countries and supports the consortium launched in 2019. in efforts such as developing the access and delivery plan for our new pediatric drug for children under six. Promising antimalarial compound Furthermore, in November 2015, we joined forces with the In developing antimalarial compounds, we are collaborating University of Cape Town (South Africa) to co-develop R&D with Medicines for Malaria Ventures (MMV). Since current platforms for identifying new lead programs for the treattreatments are increasingly succumbing to drug resistance, ment of malaria, with the potential for expansion to other MMV is focusing on the development of new compounds. tropical diseases. As part of the collaboration, research has been conducted using Merck’s compound library. In March 2015, we obtained the rights to an investigational antimalarial compound from MMV. The compound potentially Moreover, we took part in the following international conferrepresents a novel mechanism of action and is intended to be ences and events: developed for both the treatment and prevention of malaria in young children. This R&D project completed its preclinical Workshop entitled “Schistosomiasis in women and its impact phase in 2016 and is preparing for Phase I to start in 2017. on HIV” in Magaliesburg, South Africa in January 2015 The International Schistosomiasis Conference on schistosoBuilding capacities in health systems miasis elimination strategies in San Salvador, Brazil in August 2015 In addition to financing fellowships in Zimbabwe and Kenya, in 2016 we launched a partnership with the University of The 9th European Congress on Tropical Medicine and InterNamibia that is sponsoring two PhD fellows in their research. national Health held in Basel, Switzerland in September 2015 In support of Governmental Malaria Control Programs, these The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene scientists are studying an extremely widespread malaria (ASTMH) conferences in 2015 and 2016 in the United States pathogen found in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia and are The Better Medicines for Children Conference hosted by the also working to characterize parasite subtypes in the populaEuropean Medicines Agency (EMA) in London (UK) in October tions in these African countries. 2016 The African Society for Laboratory Medicines (ASLM) conferMoreover, we also co-sponsor several international fellowence held in Cape Town, South Africa in December 2016 ship programs for postdoctoral researchers from developing and emerging countries. In addition to receiving training on 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Supply chain We want patients in lowand middle-income countries to (GDP). This also applies to contract manufacturers. Our have fast, safe and affordable access to medicines. Efficient uniform quality assurance system ensures that our quality supply chain management is key to accomplishing this, as is standard is adhered to everywhere. It comprises training support for local manufacturing in line with our high stancourses tailored to each site, quality control monitoring, and dards. technology transfer. Our Global Response Team publishes the results of all audits conducted by health authorities across the Merck Group, allowing the respective units to Our principles share lessons learned and benefit from one another’s Efficient supply chain management improvements. Efficient supply chains ensure that patients can be treated Through our Virtual Plant Teams, we provide our contract quickly and safely. Moreover, they incur lower costs. Our manufacturers with the support they need to comply with policies and procedures help to ensure that appropriate our quality standards. In Africa, Asia and Latin America, quantities of our products are delivered in the right condition, our external partners are each assigned a Merck production at the right place, and on time. expert to act as a virtual site leader and provide guidance. Our Virtual Plant Teams were recognized as a best practice Together with our partners, we endeavor to improve supply in the 2016 Access to Medicine Index (p. 36). chains in developing countries: Progress We are a member of the Neglected Tropical Diseases Supply Chain Forum. This public-private partnership Developing a cross-company database for medicinal works to ensure a good end-to-end supply chain, which in products turn will guarantee that the medicines reach the people who need them. Forum members include the World Health To make medicines for neglected diseases reliably available Organization (WHO), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, in developing and emerging countries, we are working to the logistics firm DHL, and six leading pharmaceutical improve supply chain management. In 2015 and 2016, we companies which run donation programs: Merck, MSD, therefore collaborated with our partners in the Neglected GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Eisai. Tropical Diseases Supply Chain Forum to develop a database In the Rx-360 consortium, we are pursuing similar goals: to help achieve this goal. All forum members contribute inforto share best practices with other companies and partners mation, which is used to assess the potential need for medion efficient, end-to-end secure supply chains. cines in the relevant countries. We discuss, for example, which medicines have been ordered by WHO and which prodWe are a founding member of the Accessibility Platform. ucts have been supplied to which countries. This provides This is an informal effort spearheaded by the private us with a comprehensive overview of the current distribution sector which aims to raise awareness of supply chain of medicines, thus allowing them to more quickly reach the issues as part of the access to health challenge. It also areas where they are needed most. seeks to increase knowledge sharing and information exchange through open, multi-stakeholder dialogue and identify opportunities for collective action. Supporting regional vaccine manufacturers We support vaccine manufacturers in developing and emerging countries. Together with the Developing Countries Supporting local manufacturing Vaccine Manufacturers Network (DCVMN), we sponsor educational programs and pass on our knowledge to ensure In our manufacturing plants in India and Indonesia, we the safe and high-quality production of vaccines. Since 2014, produce various medicines for patients with diabetes, heart we have conducted more than 12 training sessions as well conditions and diseases of the lower respiratory tract. This as a number of technical workshops in Asia-Pacific and Latin allows us to supply medicines to local markets faster, as well America, with eight seminars taking place in 2015 and 2016. as to neighboring countries such as Sri Lanka and Myanmar. Moreover, we can offer these drugs at considerably lower prices than in Europe. For this initiative, we were honored in the 2016 Access to Medicine Index (p. 36). Our pharmaceutical production plants operate to the same high standard of quality worldwide. We fully comply with the internationally harmonized guidelines set out in Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and Good Distribution Practice 39 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Testing software for supply chain management to our e-shop to quickly and easily order medicines that have been approved by the respective regulatory authorities. The In the 2015-2016 period, we developed a software-based system makes demand more transparent while reducing lead solution for northwestern Africa to ensure the continuous time and miscommunication. After successfully testing the eavailability of our drugs, which has improved our inventory shop in Sudan and Ethiopia, we launched the platform in all and order management. At any time, our customers can go northwestern African countries in 2015. Prices of medicines Merck is committed to ensuring that patients have access to We have developed several productand market-specific the best possible medicines. This requires optimal pricing, alternative reimbursement and contracting models (ACMs) reimbursement, and access conditions for all of our in-line with payers such as health insurance companies to provide and future pipeline products. Across the world, the healththe right patients with prompt access to our innovations. care industry is undergoing a unique transformation: Examples of such ACMs include outcome-based and budget National and regional institutions and authorities, which capitation agreements for Erbitux® as well as adherencedecide on price-dependent market access and reimbursebased payment agreements for Rebif® and Saizen® in its ment in many markets, hold a growing role as key stakeeasypodTM injection device. holders, together with healthcare professionals, politicians, regulators, patients, and distributors. We are fully deterWe also regularly participate in government tenders for prodmined to continue succeeding in this changing environment. ucts used in public hospitals serving low-income patients. Beyond this, we have established second “lower-price” We believe that the prices of our medicines should reflect brands of existing products. In South Africa, for example, their overall value, to include benefits to patients, healthcare second brands of Concor® and Ziak® (antihypertensive systems and payers alike. Value reflects both individual clinagents) are available at discounted prices. ical outcomes as well as impact on overall treatment, health system delivery and patient adherence. Lowand middle-income countries Our principles We recognize the importance of affordable access to medicines in low-and middle-income countries. As a result, we To meet the needs of patients, our health solutions must be are committed to pricing our products responsibly and take affordable and accessible. In terms of organizational setup, part in innovative equitable pricing schemes in partnership our Group Market Access and Pricing unit reports directly to with governments and other key stakeholders. In developing the Chief Marketing and Strategy Officer of our Healthcare countries, we also regularly participate in government business sector and sets initial prices in collaboration with tenders. In this way, we’re already supplying products to Merck’s individual businesses. Our subsidiaries are respongovernments at reduced prices in Africa, Latin America, the sible for adapting and managing prices at the local level. Middle East, and Asia. Innovative pricing models Different kinds of patient support enable us to offer products at a more affordable cost. Our Erbitux® China Patients Aid We recognize the importance of fairly priced medicines and Program (p. 41) is a prime example of such an initiative. Our the fact that individual countries have varying abilities to Patient Support Program Policy describes our uniform stanpay for health solutions. Within a country, too, there are dards for such efforts. often significant regional and/or socioeconomic differences. We therefore partner with governments and other key stakeProgress holders to develop individual pricing and contracting models. In addition, we continuously monitor the dynamic healthcare Operational pricing and strategic price decisions environments, pricing & reimbursement systems, guidelines, and policies, adjusting our prices as necessary. In 2016 we implemented a new Group-wide price management system. This global platform enables us to drive We support product donations, flexible pricing, differential strategic price and reimbursement decisions and contains pricing, and post-patent competition between reference all information needed to set, modify and approve countryproducts and generics. We conduct yearly reviews of our specific prices. It also serves as an analysis tool that enables pricing strategies to identify ways to continually expand us to make informed strategic pricing decisions. access to health by aligning prices with affordability. 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Improved access to the oncology drug Erbitux® launch in 2011 to the end of October 2016, 6,800 patients had already benefited from ECPAP. In China, we are working with the China Charity Federation (CCF) to expand access to our oncology drug Erbitux®, which We also run similar programs in other countries such as is used to treat conditions such as colorectal cancer. For India, where we likewise offer Erbitux® for the treatment of patients with a good prognosis, the Erbitux China Patients colorectal and head & neck cancer at reduced prices. Since Aid Program (ECPAP) will cover the majority of the costs 2014, this initiative has helped 1,725 patients. In South for Erbitux® treatment. In addition to helping with costs, Africa, we support the Savanti Patient Access Program, which we also offer free services such as providing information on enables patients to be treated with Erbitux at a lower cothis disease, or ensuring that the medicine remains proppayment. erly refrigerated until reaching patients. From the program’s Health awareness Many people are sick without realizing it. The result? Vocational training and continuing education for Although effective medicines and therapies may be available, health workers these individuals do not receive treatment, or don’t receive it in time. To prevent such an outcome, we conduct global In developing countries, we empower private and public campaigns to raise awareness and improve knowledge of sector health workers to make decisions on the prevention, diseases, their symptoms and treatment options. As part of diagnosis and treatment of diseases based on the latest our strategy to increase access to health (p. 34) in develmedical knowledge. One of our key initiatives is our fiveoping countries, we help create awareness by empowering year Capacity Advancement Program (CAP (p. 43)). Among healthcare professionals, communities and patients with other goals, CAP aims to improve medical training for doctors appropriate tools, knowledge, information, and skills so that in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East. Further they can make high-quality, informed decisions. activities include continuing education for medical professionals in India through our Su-Swastha program (p. 42) and Our principles vocational training for pharmacy technicians in Tanzania (p. 42). You can find an overview of all our projects here. Global awareness campaigns These efforts form part of our commitment to improving We regularly conduct global campaigns to raise awareness access to health (p. 34) worldwide. for various diseases. Our efforts concentrate on those conditions in which we have in-depth expertise stemming from our core business. These primarily include cancer (specifically Progress colorectal as well as head and neck cancer), thyroid disorSocial media campaign on head and neck cancer ders, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis (MS). In our awareness activities, we frequently collaborate with patient advoEvery year, we support the Make Sense campaign, an initiacacy groups. In the 2015-2016 period, we conducted and/or tive of the European Head & Neck Society. Its objective is participated in 17 campaigns, enabling us to reach millions of to raise public awareness of head and neck cancer and its people. Of particular success in 2016 was the thyroid awaresymptoms in an effort to drive earlier presentation, diagness campaign we spearhead every year during International nosis and referral, as well as improve outcomes. Moreover, Thyroid Awareness Week (p. 42), as were the Make Sense we hope to dispel the misconception that head and neck campaign held during Head & Neck Cancer Awareness Week cancer primarily impacts older smokers and people with alcoand our World MS Day 2016 campaign. holism, as young adults can also develop this disease. In September 2016, as part of our “Letting our tongues do the In addition to these global efforts, we also lead special talking” campaign, we called on our employees to send us awareness initiatives to address specific local needs, such pictures of themselves sticking out their tongues. We subseas anemia in Indonesia and malnutrition in Kenya. For such quently received more than 200 pictures from across 22 programs, we generally cooperate closely with national countries. Through this effort, we reached around 122,000 governments as well as other political actors. You can find people worldwide via our social media channels, thereby more information under Access to health (p. 36). raising awareness for head and neck cancer. 41 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Twitter marathon for multiple sclerosis this public-private partnership (PPP) in 2014. Comprising members from the public and private sectors as well as nonWe endeavor to support people with multiple sclerosis (MS) governmental organizations, HWHE has developed a policy and regularly work to raise public awareness of this disease. toolkit with political measures aimed at eliminating labor For instance, in May 2016 we joined forces with the MS market barriers that women face due to health issues. In International Federation (MSIF) and local MS patient advoSeptember 2015, the toolkit was rolled out at the APEC cacy groups to participate in World MS Day. The theme for Women in Economy Forum. 2016 was “Independence”. With help from our worldwide MS patient ambassadors, we produced two movies entitled In a joint effort with the Philippine government, we have “MS – a silent disease” and “MS Does Not Stop Me”. These launched the first HWHE public-private partnership films illustrate how people with MS preserve their indeaddressing thyroid health, a problem that disproportionately pendence, refusing to let their disease defeat them. The affects women. In Jordan, we collaborated with the NGO heart of the 2016 campaign was a 24-hour tweetathon held Royal Health Awareness Society to roll out a similar program across 24 countries. Using a variety of hashtags such as that likewise aims to bolster awareness for thyroid disorders #strongerthanMS and #msday24, our employees and among women. various stakeholders across the globe tweeted brief messages on multiple sclerosis. Through this campaign, we Since 2016, we've also been partnering with the American also highlighted the efforts of our sites worldwide to support Cancer Society (ACS) to raise awareness of women's MS sufferers, from fund raising to support local patient advocancers. In November 2016, we released a report entitled cacy groups to rock concerts. The tweetathon generated a “The Global Burden of Cancer in Women”, which documents total of 2.7 million responses. the mortality and incidence rate of cancers that affect women and the burden worldwide. Thyroid health: Focusing on mothers In 2016, we supported the International Thyroid Awareness Su-Swastha: Healthcare for rural India Week hosted by Thyroid Federation International (TFI), the In India, around 700 million people reside in rural areas and eighth time we have done so. A survey we commissioned have no access to effective, affordable healthcare. This is in 2016 revealed that 84% of mothers worldwide could not because medical facilities are concentrated in India's urban correctly identify the most common symptoms of thyroid areas, which account for 80% of the country’s healthcare disorders in their children. Our campaign therefore aimed to professionals and 70% of its hospital beds. Through our Suhelp parents recognize the signs. To this end, we partnered Swastha project, we are working to improve healthcare in with TFI to develop a film, a children's book and additional rural India. Our goal is to provide inexpensive medicines educational material. These tools utilize two butterfly cartoon while also educating local patients and physicians on characters called “Hypo” and “Hyper” to explain the sympeveryday health issues and their treatment. Healthcare toms of hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. The campaign professionals hold weekly community meetings on topics reached around 20 million people across 34 countries. More such as coughs, childhood ailments and prevention. Morethan 14,500 people additionally received a thyroid check-up over, the program also provides patients with free checkand, if irregularities were identified, were advised to see a ups and offers continuing medical education to help doctors general practitioner for further testing. You can find more advance their medical capacities. In 2016, 1,238 community details in our story Enriching lives (p. 175) . meetings were held, reaching a total of 26,129 people. Promoting women's health worldwide For these efforts, we were recognized in the 2016 Access to Women in the workforce can have a profound impact on Medicine Index (p. 36). a country's productivity and prosperity, but only if they are healthy. In many countries, health issues often prevent Vocational training for pharmacy technicians in women from obtaining and keeping a job, or hinder them Tanzania from progressing in their career. This poses a challenge for both national economies as well as companies. A study The healthcare systems in numerous developing countries has shown that economic success is predicated not only on are struggling with a shortage of pharmaceutical profesincreasing women’s participation in the labor market, but sionals. For instance, Tanzania only has around 3,000 pharalso on creating gender parity. According to the report by macists, pharmacy assistants and pharmacy technicians to management consultant company McKinsey, these changes meet the needs of the country’s more than 40 million inhabcould add US$ 28 trillion to global annual GDP by 2025. itants. This imbalance makes it especially hard for people in rural areas to access medicines. Healthy Women, Healthy Economies (HWHE) has taken up this challenge. Under the auspices of the Asia-Pacific To help relieve this situation, we supported a three-year Economic Cooperation (APEC), we collaborated with repreprogram to expand vocational training facilities for pharmacy sentatives of the United States and other countries to initiate technicians. Under this initiative, which ran from 2014 until 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products 2016, we partnered with the German Society for InternaOur Merck Africa Embryology Training Program, which seeks tional Cooperation (GIZ) and the faith-based Kilimanjaro to improve access to fertility care, offers a three-month School of Pharmacy, as well as the companies Boehringer hands-on course that has already benefited ten African Ingelheim and Bayer HealthCare. We worked together to embryologists from Sub-Saharan Africa. revise existing curricula into a new modular curriculum for a oneto three-year pharmaceutical training program. As a Furthermore, the 2016 Merck Africa Luminary provided 460 model school, the Kilimanjaro School of Pharmacy furtherAfrican healthcare providers, policy makers and researchers more has been furnished with a laboratory and library and with development sessions to improve disease management, is additionally receiving financial support. The Global Pharma early detection and prevention of NCDs. Health Fund donated four Minilabs (p. 97) and taught tutors from eight Tanzanian training centers how to use them to In 2015, we also launched an awareness campaign for properly detect counterfeit medicines. diabetes, hypertension and cancer that has reached over 175,000 people in Kenya. By 2018, we hope to have reached Expanding our Capacity Advancement Program 200,000 people to provide them with services such as diabetes screening. Through our Capacity Advancement Program (CAP), launched in 2012, we are collaborating with academic instiThrough Merck More than a Patient, we empower women tutions to train medical professionals in the fields of research cancer survivors by educating them and helping them start and development, clinical research, and drug safety to build their own small business so as to lead independent lives. capacity as well as to raise public awareness of nonSimilarly, through Merck More than a Mother, we provide communicable diseases (NCD) such as diabetes, hyperteninformation, education, and healthcare while also working to sion, cancer, and infertility. Across the globe, CAP covers a change the mindset and culture that stigmatizes infertility wide array of initiatives with differing focuses. and infertile women. Through the Empowering Berna Project, we help women in such circumstances to start a business By the end of 2016, the Merck Universities Program had and achieve independence. More than 1,000 infertile women reached 17,000 students from universities in Kenya, Uganda, from Ghana, Central African Republic, Ivory Coast, Uganda, Tanzania, Mozambique, Namibia, Ghana, Ethiopia, Angola, Kenya, and Nigeria were enrolled in the project in 2016. India, and the United Arab Emirates, providing them with European-accredited clinical diabetes and hypertension The 2016 UNESCO-Merck Africa Research Summit sought to management training. Our goal is to reach more than 25,000 empower women in the fields of healthcare and research, students through this program by the end of 2018. In 2015 where they are currently underrepresented in Africa. At the and 2016, we presented the first-ever Merck Diabetes Award summit, we also launched the Best African Woman Research and Merck Hypertension Award to 20 promising medical Awards in an effort to promote women’s contribution to students from universities in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Ghana, Nigeria, the United Arab Emirates, Indonesia, and India, in an effort to drive research and awareness in these fields. 43 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Chemical product safety Many of our chemicals are classified as hazardous informational material for all our chemical products that substances. However, they must not pose any risk to people contains instructions for use and handling to prevent them or the environment. In developing these substances, product from posing a danger to people and the environment. Our safety is our primary consideration. We fulfill all statutory goal is to give our customers product safety information that requirements, often exceeding them, and provide our has been standardized worldwide. customers with extensive information so that they understand our products and can use them safely. We issue all chemicals classified as hazardous with safety data sheets that contain information on the physicochemical, Our principles toxicological and ecotoxicological properties of the agent. Our safety data sheets reflect the latest local regulatory Statutory regulations and Group-wide guidelines requirements and are available in 37 languages as well as 61 language-country combinations. Although not legally Numerous national and international regulatory requirerequired, our non-hazardous substances also come with ments have been put in place to ensure that chemical prodsafety data sheets. In total, we make roughly 22 million ucts do not pose any danger to humans or the environment. safety data sheets available to our customers. Since all these We have implemented Group-wide guidelines that guarantee documents must be kept up to date and consistent, in 2015 compliance with these regulations at all times when it comes and 2016, we automated the majority of our Group-wide to the import, production, commercialization, handling, recyhazard communication processes and are now harmonizing cling, and disposal of our chemical products. We have also the systems of our business sectors and sites. signed general voluntary commitments of the chemical industry such as the Responsible Care® Global Charter. FAST FACT To meet the product safety regulations relevant to our company, our Product Safety Chemicals policy details our Group-wide processes for managing and implementing product safety, including the necessary management strucKEEPING CUSTOMERS INFORMED tures. These include the Globally Harmonised System of All information on the safe use of our products is Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) and its implealso available on our website, where customers mentation in regional legislation (such as the CLP regulation can additionally access the ScIDeEx® program. in the European Union and HazCom 2012 in the United This tool allows them to check whether they can States), the EU chemicals regulation REACH, the U.S. Toxic use a chemical agent safely in line with the EU Substances Control Act (TSCA), and the German federal chemicals regulation REACH. law on protection from hazardous substances (ChemG). Our Group-wide policy also incorporates legal norms concerning the transport of hazardous chemicals, biocides and cosmetics, as well as the chemicals used in food and animal Transcending laws feed. In an effort that transcends statutory requirements, we Safety analysis during product development support the goals of the Global Product Strategy, an international initiative of the chemical industry. In this vein, we At Merck, product safety starts during the development publish product safety summaries for all lead substances stage. By conducting hazard, exposure and risk assesswe've registered under REACH on the website of the Internaments, we seek to ensure that our chemical products can tional Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). be safely used later down the road. All our product innovations undergo a formal EHS analysis, which examines aspects Organizational structure for product safety such as impact on human health and the environment. In conducting these safety assessments, Regulatory Affairs In response to the acquisition of Sigma-Aldrich, a U.S.-based provides advice and support to employees in our Life Science life science company, we adapted our organizational strucand Performance Materials business sectors. tures for product safety in the 2015-2016 period. Our Life Science and Performance Materials business sectors each Standardized product safety information have their own product safety units. Working in close collaboration, these units are responsible for all product safety As part of our efforts to communicate the potential dangers activities such as risk assessment, hazard communication in of our products, we provide our customers with in-depth 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products the form of safety data sheets and safety labels, as well as In the manufacture and processing of our products, we the registration of chemical products. adhere strictly to all statutory regulations and other applicable standards, such as the guidelines of the German Federal Our Group Product Safety Committee (GPSC) monitors reguInstitute for Occupational Safety and Health (BAuA) as well latory requirements worldwide to check for relevant changes, as the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). We initiating and reviewing the measures needed to integrate also provide our customers with information on the proper these changes into our processes. handling of nanomaterials across their life cycle, including transport, processing, storage, and disposal. Our Group Corporate Governance unit ensures that critical gaps in regulatory compliance are independently addressed. We are continuously engaged in a discourse on the opporThis unit reports directly to the head of the Group function tunities and risks of nanotechnology. Our internal nanoCorporate Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality. coordination group consists of analysts, researchers, toxiAny necessary corrective or preventive action is carried out cologists, safety experts, and other professionals from releby the operating units within each business sector. vant areas of our company. To guide our decisions and actions, we participate in committees and working groups that include other companies, associations and regulatory Take for instance the U.S.-based GHS Compliance Program. agencies. Examples of such groups include the nanoSince we had acquired several product portfolios in the coordination group of the VCI's Technology and Environment United States that lacked safety information, in 2012 we committee as well as Responsible Production and Use of initiated a multinational program to push regulatory Nanomaterials, a joint technology working group of coverage and bring the portfolios up to our stringent stanDECHEMA (Society for Chemical Engineering and Biotechdards. Our objective was not only to close existing safety nology) and the VCI. gaps, but also to be the front runner in implementing the new GHS requirements under HazCom 2012 in the United States, which took effect in June 2015. We fully achieved this Training and awareness goal while also meeting the deadline. We aim to increase awareness of, as well as provide best practice advice and information on, the safe use of hazardous Safe nanotechnology chemicals. To this end, we regularly conduct seminars worldwide that teach basic lab safety rules such as the handling Nanotechnology is a highly innovative field of development of flammable solvents and the storage of chemicals in safety that researches and uses structures 50,000 times thinner cabinets and warehouses. than a human hair. This technology makes it possible to produce materials with completely new properties and functions for a myriad of applications. Progress REACH registration on schedule Nanotechnology opens up many opportunities for our Group. In our Life Science and Performance Materials business We are working to register all our chemical substances under sectors, we can use nanoscale materials to develop products REACH. We successfully completed registration phase 1 in with new functions and properties – thus, for instance, 2010 and registration phase 2 in 2013. The next step, part helping use resources and energy more efficiently. In our of phase 3, is for us to evaluate and register all substances Healthcare business sector, we partner with external compaproduced or imported in quantities ranging from one to 100 nies to explore the use of nanomaterials to improve therametric tons annually by June 2018. This process now also pies. Under the auspices of European research partnerships, includes substances from Sigma-Aldrich and is on schedule. we are also investigating the suitability of nanoparticles as vehicles for active pharmaceutical ingredients. In line with the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM), a global policy framework overHowever, the special structure of nanoparticles can also seen by the United Nations, the Act on the Registration and entail risks. We assess these risks and furthermore only Evaluation of Chemicals (AREC) took effect in Korea in early utilize the new technology with the greatest care. In doing 2015. The requirements of AREC are very similar to those so, we consider Group-wide requirements for safety as well of REACH, so much so that AREC is often referred to as “Kas environmental and health protection, employing our REACH”. Thanks to our experience in implementing REACH, existing processes and systems for product safety. We abide we are well prepared for such a procedure and have already by the precautionary principle and take nanomaterial safety initiated the registration process for select substances. issues very seriously. Our Group-wide Policy for Use and Handling of Nanomaterials governs the handling of nanomaterials, whether used in pharmaceutical and chemical laboratories, production plants, filling plants or warehouses. 45 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Drug safety Our pharmaceutical products must be safe. We consistently authorities. Global Drug Safety analyzes all data and, as monitor risks and adverse effects as they arise and take required, uses this to reassess the risk-benefit profile. We the necessary action to minimize them. Through rigorous then inform the regulatory authorities, physicians and benefit-risk assessments, we ensure that the benefits of our patients about potential risks and changes in the risk-benefit drugs always outweigh the risks for patients. balance. Our principles We always adhere to all statutory pharmacovigilance regulations in force in those countries where we market our Benefit versus risk products and continuously work to incorporate requirement changes in our Group-wide standards and processes. Our pharmaceutical products need to be effective in treating the respective disease while also posing as little risk as Regulatory authorities also conduct regular inspections to possible to patients. To ensure their safety, every new mediverify that we are complying with statutory requirements and cine passes a series of precisely defined development stages. our own internal drug safety standards. Prior to using a drug in humans, we first conduct extensive preclinical testing both in vitro and in vivo. Through toxicological testing, we determine whether an active pharmaceuFurthermore, we perform our own audits to ensure that all tical ingredient is toxic to living organisms and, if so, at what our departments, subsidiaries, vendors, and licensing partdose. This also helps us determine the dose that humans can ners involved in pharmacovigilance are meeting all requiresafely tolerate. Only once this is complete do we perform ments across the globe at all times. clinical studies (p. 55) to investigate the safety and efficacy of the drug when used in humans. During clinical developMedical Safety and Ethics Board ment, we diligently use all collected data to continuously evaluate the drug's risk-benefit profile. Only if the medicine Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) oversees the has a positive risk-benefit profile do we submit an application safety and risk-benefit evaluations of our drugs throughout for marketing authorization to the regulatory authorities. clinical development and commercialization. As required, it will initiate appropriate measures to minimize risk, such as package insert updates. Our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is After market launch, the number of patients being treated the chairman of the MSEB, which also consists of senior with the drug increases significantly. In certain circumphysicians, scientists and experts from Merck. Throughout a stances, rare adverse effects may occur that went undedrug's entire life cycle, the MSEB reviews and assesses all tected during clinical development, which is why we continrelevant medical, ethical and safety issues. Furthermore, its ually monitor and update the risk-benefit profiles even after tasks include the release of new investigational products for market launch. first-in-human use after conducting a thorough risk-benefit analysis based on all preclinical examination results. Continual monitoring We always provide physicians and patients with the latest Product labeling information on the safety of our drugs. This applies to the The package insert informs physicians and patients how entire life cycle of a product, ranging from development, to properly use the respective drug. In accordance with market launch and commercialization to expiration of the the statutory regulations, the insert contains all relevant marketing authorization. information such as ingredients and dosage, storage, mode of action, instructions for use, warnings, precautions, and Pharmacovigilance is the process of continuously monitoring adverse effects. Should the medicine contain ingredients that a drug to detect, assess and understand adverse effects in impact the environment, the package insert may also contain an effort to take appropriate action to minimize risk. information on the proper disposal of the product. Our Global Drug Safety unit is responsible for pharmacovigAs necessary, we review and update all package inserts, ilance; it continually collects current safety data from a ensuring that they contain the latest information about our wide variety of sources across the globe, to include clinical drugs. The leaflets also reflect changes initiated by the studies, spontaneous reports on adverse effects, and articles MSEB, such as new warnings. published in medical and scientific journals. Our experts ensure that all information on the potential risks and adverse effects of our medicines is properly documented, tracked and, if necessary, reported to the respective regulatory 46 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products In accordance with statutory requirements, all modifications IMI project teams, in which we have taken on a leading role, to the inserts are submitted to the respective regulatory have established a framework to help accomplish the initiaauthorities for approval. tive's mission. Building on this, we have introduced a BenefitRisk Guide to our Drug Safety unit and have been using this guide as a source of improvement since 2015. We last made Strict quality assurance use of its recommendations when compiling the documentaIn producing pharmaceuticals, quality assurance is a key tion for marketing authorization for our cladribine tablets. aspect. The Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) regulations ensure that pharmaceuticals meet the standards No critical observations in pharmacovigilance inspecset for identity, purity, potency, and safety. Compliance with tions these regulations is mandatory for pharmaceutical companies and is closely monitored by the health authorities. As a In Germany, there are two pharmaceutical regulatory agenpharmaceutical manufacturer, we have appropriately trained cies: the German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical employees, as well as suitable facilities, processes and Devices (BfArM) and the Paul Ehrlich Institute (the German procedures in order to meet all requirements. Federal Institute for Vaccines and Biomedicines). Both agencies conducted pharmacovigilance inspections on our Reliable distribution processes company in February 2015 on behalf of the European Medicines Agency. We want our pharmaceutical products to be readily available to physicians and patients and always arrive on time. ThereFurthermore, pharmacovigilance inspections were conducted fore, our distribution process must function reliably all over by the respective national authorities in Australia, Austria, the world. By continually auditing our distribution network, Colombia, Ghana, Japan, Spain, Croatia, and the United we ensure that both our subsidiaries as well as our partners States in 2015 and 2016. and contractors adhere to our quality and safety requirements. All distribution activities must comply fully with Good All inspections have continually confirmed the proper funcDistribution Practices (GDP). tioning of our Pharmacovigilance system. Employee training Sharing expertise with other countries All employees involved in the safety and quality of pharmaWe also pass on our drug safety expertise to other countries, ceutical products, or in planning, conducting and monitoring especially those in which health workers (such as health clinical studies, are trained according to our global training agencies, physicians and nurses) still lack the necessary standards. These standards stipulate how we conduct and knowledge regarding pharmacovigilance. In 2016, for document training at all our sites. We verify compliance with instance, we supported training events and conferences in these requirements by performing regular audits. Peru, China and Ivory Coast. In this way, employees are kept up-to-date at all times. This At the third Merck Africa Luminary conference, held in Ivory includes their professional expertise as well as adherence to Coast in October 2016, government representatives from GCP, GDP, internal standard operating procedures, and other Liberia, Uganda, the Central African Republic, Nigeria, and relevant requirements. We provide our training via a global Kenya came together with more than 250 medical profese-learning platform on our intranet. sionals as well as experts from Merck. The theme of the conference was “Unlocking the Pharmacovigilance Power in Progress Africa”. Here, we provided information (p. 41) on monitoring the safety of drugs for cardiovascular diseases, thyroid disorJoint recommendations for improved risk-benefit ders, diabetes, and infertility. profiles In China, too, we shared our knowledge. In partnership To optimize the risk-benefit balance of our pharmaceutical with the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA), we products, we work closely with other companies and publicconducted several training seminars for pharmacovigilance sector organizations such as health authorities and academic experts from the local Chinese pharmaceutical industry. At institutions. We are involved in PROTECT, a research project these seminars, we not only informed participants of the run by the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), which is a local drug safety requirements, but also about key global joint undertaking between the European Union and the Euroregulations and recommendations. Moreover, in Peru we pean Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associaparticipated in workshops on collaboration between pharmations (EFPIA). PROTECT aims to further develop tools and ceutical manufacturers and health authorities. methods used in evaluating the risks and benefits of drugs. 47 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Counterfeit products According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a considerable Fighting product crime proportion of the medicines in developing countries are illegal, counterfeit or substandard. In industrialized nations, however, Our Group-wide Merck Anti-Counterfeiting Operational Network such products are also becoming increasing available on the (MACON) is responsible for globally monitoring and implementing market through unlicensed internet pharmacies and underground all anti-counterfeiting measures for our products. As well as coorbusiness-to-business (B2B) platforms, posing a risk to public dinating preventive measures and the development of security health. systems, it is also responsible for investigations. Discourse between the members of the network creates synergies and bolsters our Our company develops and manufactures products of the efforts to fight product-related crime. Comprised of experts from utmost quality. In order to protect customers and patients, various units such as Legal/Trademarks, Product Security, Export we are deeply committed to fighting product-related crime. Control, Supply Chain, and Quality Assurance, MACON is coordiFor instance, we collaborate with law enforcement agencies nated by our Corporate Security unit. In 2015, we expanded the and take steps to secure our products against counterfeiting. network to include representatives from Global Drug Safety as well Our guidelines, standards and processes apply to all our as various subsidiaries. All MACON activities are now overseen by business sectors and markets worldwide, thus protecting our the new Global Anti Product Crime unit, created in 2016. reputation as a supplier of quality products. In all relevant cases, MACON collaborates with the appropriate law enforcement agencies and regulatory authorities, allowing us Our principles to detect more cases of counterfeiting and take decisive action in pursuing existing cases, especially in high-risk countries. The Organization and guidelines network reviews and handles up to 100 cases of product-related Our Group function Corporate Security coordinates all our crime per year, including inquiries from authorities that arise anti-counterfeiting activities, basing its actions on our “Crime during backtracking investigations. In 2015, we uncovered several relating to products of the Merck Group” guideline, which underground laboratories that were counterfeiting several of our describes our goals and strategies for combatting this issue. products. All such activities are carried out under the supervision of the Chief Security Officer and the Head of Environment, Health, Moreover, in 2016 we launched a new, Group-wide internal Safety, Security, Quality (EQ). reporting system with which all incidents can be better analyzed and documented. This provides us with a more Furthermore, all our sites have a Product Crime Officer who complete picture of the security situation, better equipping investigates potential cases of counterfeiting, acting as the interus to prevent such incidents in the future. face between local regulatory and law enforcement authorities, national associations, Group functions, and our sites. Moreover, our Group Product Crime Investigation Standard has been in place since September 2016. It defines binding guidelines, harmonizes knowledge within the company and provides a more solid legal footing when dealing with illegal products. 48 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products FAST FACT Supporting customers and patients We believe that patients should be able to determine the identity and authenticity of a pharmaceutical product themDEFINING PRODUCT CRIME selves, which is why we implement the requirements of the 1. Product counterfeiting: In line with the TradeEU Falsified Medicines Directive, for instance by applying Related Aspect of Intellectual Property Rights Agreea unique serial number to our pharmaceutical packaging. ment (TRIPS) and WHO standards, we define a In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration counterfeit product as: “A product that is deliberately (FDA) requires all drug packages to be labeled with a unique and fraudulently produced and/or mislabeled with product identifier by the end of 2017, which we are currently respect to its identity and/or source to make it working to implement. appear to be a genuine product”. This includes products: In parallel to meeting these international provisions, we also with incorrect active ingredients or concentrations pursue our own initiatives: thereof without any active ingredients On all our products, we apply Security-M, a security label with dangerous impurities containing our color travel pigments. This label enables users to easily verify the authenticity of our products and with modified/altered packaging and/or incorrect brand is considerably harder to counterfeit than the holograms names that are commonly used. with an authentic active agent, but not one produced With our Track and Trace shipment tracking system, under GXP conditions patients can trace the supplier of the medicine to verify that have expired its authenticity. We have already implemented this system that were removed from the legal supply chain (e.g. for all our pharmaceutical products in the United States through theft) and China, and are currently considering expansion to 2. Illegal diversion of products: This term refers other markets. to the diversion of either chemical or pharmaceutical Our free Check My Meds app for smartphones allows products from within the legitimate supply chain for patients in the United States to scan the serial number illegal export, for use in the production of illegal drugs, of their medicines and quickly verify their authenticity. weapons or explosives, or for any other illegal In 2015, the trade journal PharmaVOICE listed the app purposes. among its top innovative health-focused apps and 3. Black market crimes: This refers to the sale of websites. counterfeit and/or diverted products via illegal chanIn our Mobile Anti-Counterfeiting System (MAS) project nels (e.g. the Internet), or for illegal purposes. in Nigeria, we are working closely with our suppliers on 4. Misappropriation of products: This refers to theft a text message-based identification system. Patients from production sites and warehouses, or while in scratch off a barcode that is printed on the product packtransit. aging. They then send this code via text message to an assigned number, which immediately sends them back a response telling them whether their code is authentic. We sponsor the non-profit Global Pharma Health Fund Tracking system for chemical substances (GPHF), which supplies GPHF Minilabs® to test the quality of 85 different active ingredients. With this compact test We have established an internal system to monitor and track kit, counterfeit medicines can be detected quickly, easily chemicals that could be misused to produce illegal weapons, and inexpensively in developing and emerging countries. explosives or narcotics. Our tracking system flags suspicious Further information on this project can be found under orders and/or orders of sensitive products, which are only Community (p. 97). released once we have confirmed the existence of a (veriWe offer our customers in the pharmaceutical industry fied) end-user declaration. Moreover, we collaborate closely Candurin® pearl effect pigments, which feature unique with regulatory authorities and law enforcement. color properties that make tablets and capsules more difficult to counterfeit. In addition to our duties stipulated by statutory provisions on export control, we also report suspicious orders, inquiries and requests to the competent authorities. Through these Educating our employees and business partners efforts, we are fulfilling our commitment to the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) and to the Guideline for We endeavor to raise awareness of product-related crime Operators published by the European Commission. among our employees and business partners, training our employees worldwide on this subject. In the countries where 49 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products we don’t have our own subsidiaries, we offer training for our Furthermore, we are also a member of Rx-360, a consortium business partners. of global pharmaceutical manufacturers and suppliers that aims to prevent counterfeit products through the introduction of global quality assurance systems and audit programs. Conducting security audits We regularly check whether our distributors and contract When cases of product crime are identified, we collaborate manufacturers are complying with GMP and GDP (Good with the relevant law enforcement agencies and customs Manufacturing Practice/Good Distribution Practice). In doing authorities in the respective countries. We furthermore work so, we also ascertain the extent to which our security with Interpol, the World Customs Organization, health requirements are being implemented, conducting correauthorities, and our peer industry. sponding security audits if significant deviations are identified. This auditing system is based on the EMA ICH Q10 pharReviewing our efforts maceutical quality assurance standard. In 2015 and 2016, we conducted 37 security audits of our partners worldwide We evaluate the effectiveness of our measures according and subsequently provided them with the results of these to the number of reported, investigated and solved cases, audits so that the necessary corrective action could be taken. as well as their severity. Furthermore, in 2015 and 2016, we scrutinized our existing communication and information Industry-wide exchange and collaboration with management processes to identify potential improvements, authorities and are now making the necessary changes to optimize these processes. We have joined forces with organizations such as EFPIA, IFPMA and VFA in an effort to fight product crime. We also Progress support industry-wide initiatives and collaborate closely with regulatory authorities and law enforcement at the regional, New training program developed national and international level. We work particularly closely with the Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI). This nonIn the 2015-2016 period, we devised a training program profit organization is dedicated to protecting public health for all our employees in Security roles, such as Product by sharing information on pharmaceutical counterfeiting and Crime Officers. Via e-learning modules, the program aims initiating enforcement actions through the appropriate to enhance their competencies and promote best practice authorities. In May 2015, we hosted a meeting of the PSI for sharing. In 2015 and 2016, we held ten training courses at the first time, at which we engaged in discussions on current various sites. Moreover, participants shared lessons learned trends and holistic approaches to fighting product-related during the MACON summit in Darmstadt in June 2016, which crime. In 2016, our Chief Security Officer was appointed Vice was attended by 25 Product Crime Officers from key counChair of the PSI Board of Directors. tries. Transport and warehouse safety We transport and store products and materials worldwide governing environmental protection and public safety, which such as chemicals, pharmaceuticals, raw materials, intermelocal site directors are responsible for implementing. diates and waste, as well as technical materials and packaging, all of which could pose a hazard if handled incorrectly. Our sites worldwide generally have a dangerous goods In doing so, we adhere to extremely strict safety regulations manager who advises the site director on issues regarding Group-wide to prevent danger to people and the environthe safe transport of dangerous goods while also monitoring ment. compliance with regulatory requirements. This position reflects the EU regulations requiring the appointment of a Our principles dangerous goods safety advisor. Organization and standards In 2014, we acquired the company AZ Electronic Materials and in 2015, Sigma-Aldrich, a U.S.-based life science Environment, Health Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) (see company. We have since aligned their transport and storage Environmental stewardship (p. 77)), the Group function in systems with our Group-wide standards and updated them charge of transport and storage safety, sets Group-wide where necessary. standards and guidelines. In addition, our individual sites are also subject to various national and international regulations 50 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Warehouse safety We regularly perform audits to ensure that our own sites as well as our freight forwarders are complying with transOur global safety concepts and standards ensure the safe port safety regulations. In 2015 and 2016, no incidents that storage of hazardous substances. The Warehouse Safety would have had a significant impact on the environment or standard, for instance, defines measures to prevent community were recorded, nor were there any infringements substances from leaking or igniting. According to this stanof international regulations. dard, risk evaluations must be conducted on all stored substances. Special rules of conduct apply to all warehouse In Germany, we transport the majority of our hazardous employees. In 2015 and 2016, we audited more than 20 of waste ourselves, but do sometimes also enlist the services of our warehouses and, based on the results, identified areas other companies if necessary. for improvement. Furthermore, we participate in the German Transport AcciTo ensure third-party warehouses also adhere to our strict dent Information and Emergency Response System (TUIS) safety requirements, our Group standard Warehouse operated by the German Chemical Industry Association requirements for third-party warehouses defines specific (VCI). Within this system, we exchange expertise and best structural and organizational requirements for a facility. practices on chemical transport with experts from other Before we sign contracts, warehouse providers must submit chemical companies and also provide hands-on assistance in a statement detailing how they plan to meet our stringent the event of a chemical transportation accident. safety standards. Our EHS managers regularly visit thirdparty warehouses. In 2015 and 2016, we audited ten of these warehouses and developed corrective action plans to Continuously improving safety concepts address the identified shortcomings. Our local EHS and dangerous goods managers regularly review and evaluate our transport and storage activities, In Germany, the “Technical Rules for Hazardous Substances” informing site directors of shortcomings and opportunities for (TRGS) stipulate the storage of hazardous substances in improvement. Moreover, our sites are audited by EQ every non-stationary containers. In 2016, we decided to introduce five years. these rules for storage at all our warehouse and distribution centers worldwide. Based on a strength and weakness analysis of each site, we calculate key performance indicators on transport and We comply with the current requirements of the Globally storage safety, which help us determine where to institute Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemadditional improvements. In 2016, for instance, we develicals (GHS) at all our sites with the exception of India, oped an e-learning concept for basic management courses where the GHS system has not yet been fully integrated into on the transport of dangerous goods and launched a subsenational regulations. quent pilot program. Ensuring transport safety worldwide Employee training and internal best practice sharing We seek for all shipments to reach our customers and sites We regularly train warehouse workers and all employees safely, undamaged and with the required safety information. involved in the transport of goods on our standards and Several substances that we transport are classified as procedures, as well as on changes to international requirehazardous materials. Hazardous goods transport – whether ments and incident management. by road, rail, plane, or ship – is governed across the globe by extensive regulations such as the “European Agreement Furthermore, our EHS managers meet regularly at the EHS concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by conference in Darmstadt, Germany, where they have the Road” (ADR). opportunity to share experiences and best practices, as well as participate in transport and storage safety training. These Our Group Transport Safety standard defines the safety topics are also covered in the three-day orientation seminar levels for our sites and is based on the United Nations that is mandatory for all new EHS managers. Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. This is especially important for sites in those countries with no local regulations on the transport of hazardous materials. Progress We update our Group standard to reflect current requirements every two years and support our local site directors Award for truck improvements in implementing the relevant changes. On January 1, 2017, The safe transport of dangerous goods necessitates safe we introduced the amended IATA regulations on the transvehicles, another area we pursue. In 2015, we won the port of dangerous goods by air and the RID/ADR regulations VCI Hesse’s Responsible Care competition for our continuous on transport by rail and road. improvements to our SafeServer truck body technology. In this design, the aluminum panels integrated into the side 51 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products walls of the truck render the walls extremely stable, making In 2016, we won first prize in the Transport Safety category it largely unnecessary to secure cargo. Over the past several of the Germany-wide Responsible Care competition in recogyears, our transport employees have worked to continuously nition of our “TUIS, Messkonzept Südhessen” project. When hone this system, collaborating with our truck body manua transport or warehouse accident occurs, this system can facturers to implement the design changes. quickly calculate the rate at which hazardous substances are spilling and spreading. Responsible marketing Pharmaceutical marketing is regulated by legislation worldHigh global standards for advertising materials wide. For instance, manufacturers in Germany are only permitted to advertise prescription drugs to medical profesThrough our Principles of Review and Approval of Promosionals such as physicians and pharmacists. In doing so, they tional Materials and Other External Communications, we must always disclose the active ingredients, side effects, and ensure that all advertising materials meet our rigorous stancontraindications of the advertised drug. dards. In 2016, we updated these principles and rolled out a Group-wide review and approval system that meets the Our company commercializes both prescription medicines as latest technical requirements. This system helps us check well as over-the-counter products. In marketing our prodwhether all advertising materials meet our standards. All ucts, we voluntarily commit to various standards that exceed employees involved in creating advertising materials worldstatutory regulations. Because patients deserve effective, wide have been trained on the updated principles as well as high-quality treatment, they are always our primary considthis new system. eration. Direct marketing only permitted in certain countries Our principles Direct-to-consumer advertising (DTC) for prescription drugs is allowed in some jurisdictions such as the United States Guidelines and organization and New Zealand. We only pursue DTC campaigns in these We adhere strictly to all regulations on pharmaceutical countries. Through direct advertising, we hope to increase marketing. Our Group-wide Pharma Code for Conducting people’s awareness of certain diseases as well as available Pharmaceutical Business and Pharmaceutical Operations therapies, empowering consumers and patients to make defines the relevant standards for ethical marketing pracinformed decisions about their treatment. tices. This code also governs our interactions with physicians, medical institutions and patient advocacy groups. We Compliance violations furthermore comply with the codes of conduct of national and international industry organizations such as the Code The industry associations in which we are members have put of Practice and Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices in place various reporting channels for people to report any published by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical wrongdoing with regard to marketing practices. Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA). Our pharmaceutical activities in the United States are governed by yet another Furthermore, we have also established a SpeakUp Line, guideline, entitled Pharmaceutical Operations of Merck KGaA which allows our employees to anonymously report potential and Merck Serono S.A. in the United States. compliance violations. If our marketing or advertising rules of conduct are violated, we have a committee in place to take All guidelines pertaining to marketing and advertising are immediate corrective and, if need be, punitive action. part of our Group-wide compliance program, which stipulates that we always conduct business in compliance with the law Voluntary self-regulation and according to the highest ethical standards. We regularly review all guidelines, adapting them to new developments. We are a member of the German Association of Voluntary Self-Regulation for the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), which We have defined processes for all international, national and has defined its own code of conduct for collaboration regional sales and marketing activities, and have appointed between physicians and the industry. When violations of the individuals responsible at each of these levels. We furtherFSA code are suspected, members and third parties can file more conduct regular audits of our sales and marketing complaints directly with an arbitration board. In 2015, we activities. were involved in proceedings that resulted in a fine. 52 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Regular employee training expertise and furthermore provide them with detailed information on the safe handling and use of our products. We Individuals responsible for our pharmaceutical advertising, have an extensive safety and security network in place to as well as employees working in sales, marketing and regulaprevent the misuse of dual-use products. This network tory positions, receive regular training on our current guidefeatures standardized export control guidelines for these lines. Furthermore, via our Intranet the responsible products, which are monitored by our central Export Control employees also have access to our compliance guidelines on & Customs Regulations unit, as well as by trade and export the marketing and promotion of pharmaceuticals. control officers at our local subsidiaries. If we suspect misuse, we terminate our business relationship with that Marketing chemicals customer. We approach the marketing of our chemical products with the deepest sense of responsibility. For instance, we only supply our chemicals to commercial customers with proven Bioethics Bioethics are foundational to guiding how humans use the Clinical studies rapidly advancing power of life sciences and technology responsibly and ethically to the ultimate benefit of mankind, We discover and develop innovative medicines that meet animals, plants and all living beings. In the course of our patient needs. In doing so, we adhere to all relevant statuHealthcare and Life Science activities, we are faced with tory and regulatory requirements, as well as scientific and various bioethical issues, including stem cell use, animal ethical standards. For clinical studies, these standards partictesting, the use of genetically modified microorganisms, the ularly include the Declaration of Helsinki, in which the World potential impact of new gene editing techniques such as Medical Association has formulated ethical principles for CRISPR/Cas, and our own clinical research. Beyond complimedical research involving human subjects, and the Good ance with the relevant regulations and laws, we have a Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines of the International Council strong commitment to conducting research in an ethical for Harmonization (ICH). More details can be found under manner, which is why we continuously evaluate all manner Clinical studies (p. 55). of positions on controversial topics in order to make informed decisions. In treating patients with our drugs and interacting Stem cell research with participants in our clinical studies, their wellbeing is always of utmost importance. We do not participate in clinical programs that utilize human embryonic stem cells or cloned human cells for the treatment Our principles of diseases, nor do we pursue such approaches ourselves. However, we do make use of stem cells in our research. Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel In addition, we offer our customers several select stem cell lines. Our Stem Cells and Human Cloning Principles As a global company, it is important for us to promptly idenensure compliance with our ethical approach. Furthermore, tify and address all international developments concerning our Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (SCROC), bioethical issues. This approach is what enables us to define which was established in 2016, reviews our business strateour own stance, as does the advice of external experts. gies as well as all internal human stem cell research proposals to verify compliance with our ethical and legal To this end, the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP) guidelines. This also includes collaboration with external convenes once a year to advise the company. Consisting partners. The mandate of the SCROC is based on the recomof renowned international experts in the fields of bioethics, mendations of the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel. theology, science, and law, the MBAP is jointly headed by our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and our Head of Global Health. Infertility treatment research The MBAP provides clear guidance on bioethical questions, which we take as a basis for our entrepreneurial conduct. For We develop treatments to improve the success rate of in the benefit of our employees, we publish summaries from vitro fertilization and are currently revising our Fertility MBAP meetings on our Intranet. Research Policy based on recommendations from the MBAP. You can find more information under Progress (p. 54). 53 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Biotechnology and genetic engineering MBAP has emphasized that it is crucial to form partnerships with organizations whose values align with ours. Our values We utilize genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in our are described in guidelines such as our Code of Conduct, our research and development work and have been manufacHuman Rights Charter and the Merck Responsible Sourcing turing biotech products using GMOs since the 1980s. Without Principles. this technology, the major medical advances of past years would not have been possible. 2. Biosampling & biobanking A biobank is a repository that stores tissue samples and body Our most important research centers for medical biotechfluids, as well as coded patient and specimen data. Although nology are in Darmstadt, Boston (MA, USA), Beijing (China), these are extremely important to our research, their storage and Tokyo (Japan). Major biotech production sites are and use for research require adherence to stringent ethical located in Aubonne and Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland, the standards, not only in terms of specimen collection, including latter of which is one of the largest biopharmaceutical those for genetic analyses, but also for biobank operation. production facilities in Europe. For this reason, we explain to all study participants the purposes for which we are using their samples. The particWe manufacture our biotech products according to the ipants then sign an informed consent form to confirm that highest standards. All our biotech activities are subject to they understand and that they authorize the use of their strict statutory regulations worldwide. Compliance with these specimens. regulations is monitored by our biological safety officers. We continuously track regulatory changes pertaining to biotech Because we might want to use patient samples at a later products and adapt our processes accordingly, thus ensuring date in other studies, the MBAP has recommended that we we adhere to all statutory requirements. include this possibility in the Informed Consent form for our study participants. Furthermore, in 2017 we will be adopting Off-label use a policy on patient specimen handling and establishing a committee to advise our researchers on the use of these We endeavor to drive scientific and medical progress, often samples. doing so in close collaboration with medical professionals. We regularly receive inquiries about the off-label use of our 3. Fertility and the German Embryo Protection Act products, i.e. indications for which the drug was not originally approved. While each medicine is authorized for specific Because we develop therapies to treat infertility, we are indications, cases do arise in which a physician wishes to frequently confronted with various bioethical issues relating prescribe a drug to treat a disease for which it is not to such treatments. For instance, may embryos resulting approved. Such new applications can benefit patients. from artificial insemination be screened for genetic disorders However, to use a drug in this way, solid evidence must and then selected on this basis? The German Embryo Protecexist showing that it can be effective in the treatment of the tion Act provides guidance on such questions. The MBAP has specific disease. discussed the various issues thoroughly, and, based on these deliberations, we are currently revising our Fertility Research Policy. In 2016, we instituted a new Group-wide policy that sets out our principles for disseminating information regarding offlabel use. In particular, we only market our medicines within 4. Use of genome editing systems the scope of the drug’s marketing approval. We never share We are a leading supplier of gene-editing technologies such information on off-label use for commercial ends and only as CRISPR/Cas9, which can be used to target and modify provide such information upon direct request to healthcare specific genes. CRISPR/Cas9 opens up new possibilities in professionals for medical purposes. The information must be genetic engineering research that could bring about major backed by scientific evidence and factually balanced. Our advances in the treatment of serious diseases or in “green employees are not permitted to make any sort of treatment genetic engineering”, the use of genetic editing techniques recommendations for individual patients. in plant cultivation. Statutes in different countries allow for a varying degree of latitude in applying this technique, which is Progress why the MBAP has thoroughly discussed the possibilities and ethical boundaries of genome editing systems. The results Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel discussions of this discourse are being incorporated into our new Gene Editing Policy, which is under development. Moreover, in In 2015 and 2016, the MBAP discussed the following issues: response to guidance from the MBAP, we are currently working to establish the Genome Editing Consortium, whose 1. Selecting partnerships according to ethical stantasks shall include determining the responsibility and bioethdards ical role of gene editing tool providers. We collaborate with numerous partners in research and development, production, and marketing and sales. The 54 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Clinical trials Our company develops medicines that help people with The “Joint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical Trial Inforserious diseases. Before obtaining regulatory approval, we mation via Clinical Trial Registries and Databases” and conduct clinical studies with patients and, if necessary, the “Joint Position on the Publication of Clinical Trial healthy subjects to test the safety and efficacy of these prodResults in the Scientific Literature”, published by the ucts. Prior to doing so, extensive preclinical testing must International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers first be performed to demonstrate that the drug poses no & Associations (IFPMA), the European Federation of Pharunacceptable risks. This preclinical test phase may include maceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the procedures such as animal testing. We only test medicines Japanese Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association in patients if the compounds show great therapeutic promise (JPMA), and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers and have a positive risk-benefit ratio. of America (PhRMA) The “Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing” Our principles published by the EFPIA and PhRMA Adhering to the highest standards Clinical research governance We conduct high-caliber clinical research that always complies with applicable laws and regulations. When Our Head of Global Research and Development bears overall performing clinical studies, we adhere to the highest ethical responsibility for pharmaceutical development as well as the and scientific standards worldwide. related governance process. Two committees support this individual in overseeing our clinical studies. The Integrated We only conduct clinical studies to investigate issues that are Clinical Study Committee (ICSC) is responsible for studies in relevant to patients, healthcare professionals and society as pharmaceuticals that are under clinical development, while a whole. In addition to this prerequisite, a sound, established the Global Medical Affairs Decision Board is responsible for scientific methodology must be available to investigate these studies involving approved medicines. Both bodies consist of scientific or medical questions. We only enroll the number medical scientific experts and executives with long-standing of participants required to answer the respective scientific experience in clinical research. Each committee meets reguquestions. larly to conduct a comprehensive review of the proposed clinical study concepts to verify that our studies are scientifically sound, have a legitimate scientific purpose, and are Our Clinical Research policy provides the framework for performed according to the latest standards and best pracconducting clinical studies and ensures that we adhere to all tices. Furthermore, in 2015 we also established therapeutic legal, ethical and scientific standards. In addition to the relearea review boards, which assess proposed study concepts vant national laws and regulations, these standards include: and use their expertise in the various therapeutic areas to advise the ICSC. The Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines of the International Council on Harmonisation (ICH) of Technical Before administering a new drug in human subjects for the Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for first time, we conduct extensive preclinical testing to demonHuman Use strate that the medicine has the potential to offer clinical The Declaration of Helsinki published by the World Medical benefits, is sufficiently safe for use in humans, and has a Association positive risk-benefit profile. Potential risks for subjects are The Belmont Report carefully and continuously analyzed before and during the Good Pharmacovigiliance/Laboratory/Manufacturing/ clinical study. Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) Distribution Practices (GVP/GLP/GMP/GDP) oversees the safety of subjects participating in our clinical studies and, as necessary, also reviews the risk-benefit The International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical profiles of the investigational drugs. You can find further Research Involving Human Subjects published by the information on the MSEB under Drug safety (p. 46) and Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences Bioethics (p. 53). (CIOMS) Our clinical study procedures are regularly audited by health authorities to ensure compliance with the applicable laws and guidelines. We also conduct our own internal quality assurance audits. In both cases, we respond immediately to any issues found by adapting our processes accordingly. 55 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Conducting clinical studies responsibly patients from vulnerable populations if there is no other way to achieve conclusive results in other, less vulnerable study Protecting the safety, wellbeing, dignity, and rights of the participants. When performing such studies, especially when volunteers and patients participating in our clinical studies is informing subjects and obtaining their consent, we comply of utmost importance to us. We do not intentionally expose with all statutory regulations throughout the entire process. study subjects to undue risk or irreversible harm. Personal data privacy is extremely important, and the confidentiality More information can be found on our website and under of all data and information collected is ensured in compliance Infectious diseases (p. 37). with statutory regulations. Clinical study collaboration Prior to enrolling subjects, every clinical trial must be assessed and approved by a qualified independent ethics To provide a broad, in-depth basis for the development committee. Furthermore, all regulatory authorizations of new medicines, we frequently conduct clinical studies required in the respective country must be obtained. In in collaboration with external partners in academia and accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines (ICH-GCP), industry, as well as with medical scientific advisory boards, all subjects must give their informed consent before enrolling service providers and vendors. We expect all our partners – in a clinical study. We fully inform subjects about all aspects especially contract research organizations (CROs) performing of the clinical trial in a language that they understand; this studies on our behalf – to abide by the same set of high stanincludes the potential risks and benefits from participating in dards when conducting clinical studies. the study. All participants are given ample time and opportunity to inquire about details before deciding whether to To verify their compliance with Good Clinical Practices participate. All questions posed by potential participants are (ICH-GCP), our CROs, partners and other vendors are answered by the clinical investigator or another qualified subjected to regular audits as part of our quality assurance healthcare professional familiar with the study. As far as efforts. We also arrange for audits of study centers involved possible, non-interventional studies (observational studies) in our clinical studies. are also assessed by an ethics committee, and subjects are provided with thorough information. In the 2015-2016 period, these audits did not show any indication of studies that were failing to comply with ICH-GCP Once started, every study follows precisely defined procestandards or the Declaration of Helsinki. dures. This ensures that the study is conducted to the highest quality standards in line with good working practices for the development and manufacture of drugs (GxP), the Close dialogue with patients and advocacy groups ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki, and other international guidelines. This approach also ensures that the We want to ensure that patients’ voices and needs are data are accurately generated, documented and reported adequately taken into consideration when planning and in line with all applicable requirements. In the 2015-2016 carrying out clinical studies. To this end, we established period, we received no significant complaints regarding this patient advisory boards for clinical studies in 2014. During clinical study procedure from third parties or regulatory advisory board meetings, caregivers and representatives agencies. from patient advocacy groups are invited to provide feedback on clinical study issues. Cumulatively, we use this information to render clinical development and clinical studies more We continuously collect and communicate safety data for our patient centric. investigational drugs and promptly provide clinical investigators with important new findings relevant to the safety of subjects. In this way, we ensure the safe use of our pharFurthermore, we are involved in the European Patients’ maceuticals. Potential adverse effects and risks are taken Academy on Therapeutic Innovation (EUPATI), a five-year into consideration in an effort to evaluate the risk-benefit public-private partnership within the Innovative Medicines ratio of our products and manage risk. Product information, Initiative (IMI) launched in 2012. EUPATI is a pan-European including the Investigator’s Brochure and Subject Informaproject led by the European Patients Forum (EPF); it features tion, is updated accordingly. You can find more information partners from patient advocacy groups, universities and notunder Drug safety (p. 46). for-profit organizations, along with a number of pharmaceutical companies. This project focuses on helping patients better understand pharmaceutical research and development Conducting clinical trials in vulnerable populations while also offering them a way to incorporate their needs into the development of clinical studies. EUPATI furthermore aims When a drug is intended for use in vulnerable populations, to improve the availability of objective and reliable informawe must sometimes conduct clinical studies in populations tion for the public. such as children or underprivileged individuals. Their wellbeing is one of our top priorities as, in general, these groups are relatively (or absolutely) incapable of protecting their own interests. We therefore only conduct studies with 56 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Responsible data sharing only do so in an environment in which the principles of Good Clinical Practice can be upheld; in particular, where We support scientific circles and academic institutes in ethics committees and well-trained Clinical Investigators advancing medical and scientific knowledge. To this end, are present. we provide them with data from our clinical studies to use only investigate diseases and innovative medicines that in their own research. When disclosing data from clinical are relevant to the local population. studies, the privacy of our patients is always safeguarded; only conduct clinical studies in countries where there is national legal systems are always respected, and incentives a reasonable expectation that the drug tested will be are always provided for investments in biomedical research. submitted for marketing authorization and be made available to patients after we have proved its efficacy and To ensure responsible clinical study data sharing, we also safety. collaborate with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical assure that no subject enrolling in a clinical study is Industries and Associations (EFPIA) as well as the Pharmadiscriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, gender ceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). In or socio-economic status. accordance with their voluntary commitments, we provide qualified researchers from medicine and science with study protocols, anonymized patient data, study data, and clinical Under our Praziquantel Donation Program, we are partnering study reports. with the World Health Organization to combat the parasitic disease schistosomiasis in African school children. However, Publication of clinical studies in their currently available form, praziquantel tablets are only suitable for adults and children older than six. For children We are obliged to disclose information from our clinical younger than six, it is currently not possible to properly treat studies. We communicate this information publicly in a the disease. Within a public-private partnership (PPP), we are complete, accurate, balanced, transparent, and timely researching a new formulation of praziquantel that is also manner. We publish clinical study designs and results in suitable for infants and toddlers. As part of this research, the international database ClinicalTrials.gov run by the U.S. we are currently conducting clinical studies with children in National Institutes of Health (NIH), which can also be Africa. Further details can be found under Infectious diseases accessed via the World Health Organization’s International (p. 37). Clinical Trials Registry Platform. Furthermore, in accordance with EU regulations, we publish results of our clinical studies in the European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Progress Trials (EudraCT) database, which is run by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Immuno-oncology: Strategic alliance with Pfizer Immuno-oncology investigates the extent to which the We make sure that results from our clinical studies are body’s immune system can be activated or strengthened published in medical journals in line with applicable laws and to mount an immune response against cancer. As part of industry codes. In doing so, we adhere in particular to the a strategic alliance with the U.S. pharmaceutical company current version of the Good Publication Practice (GPP3) and Pfizer, we are studying the antibody avelumab as a potential follow the recommendations of the International Committee treatment for various tumor types. In 2015, we thus of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE). Our Medical Publications launched JAVELIN, our expansive international clinical study Policy ensures compliance with all relevant standards. program in which we are investigating the potential therapeutic benefit of avelumab in multiple tumor types. By Clinical studies in developing countries October 2016, more than 3,000 patients had been evaluated as part of this program, which is investigating avelumab in We conduct all our clinical studies in accordance with local more than 15 tumor types. laws and regulations, irrespective of the region or country. In addition, we adhere to all relevant international scientific and In 2016, we achieved important milestones in the indication ethical standards at all times. We are intentionally expanding of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (mMCC), a rare and our medicinal product development to more diverse markets aggressive form of skin cancer. We submitted the Biological in order to address the healthcare needs in various regions License Application (BLA) for mMCC to the U.S. Food and and countries and support the development of their healthDrug Administration (FDA) in the third quarter, and the FDA care systems. accepted it for Priority Review in November. In October, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) validated for review In performing clinical studies in developing countries, we our Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for mMCC. To apply the same principles that apply when conducting such date, there is no approved therapy available for this kind of studies in industrialized countries. When we perform studies tumor. in developing countries, we also: 57 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Enabling early access to new medicines Coming to terms with the past Not all patients can take part in a clinical study and so In the 1950s and 1960s, drugs from various manufacturers must wait for a new pharmaceutical product to be approved. were tested on orphans in Germany. The majority of such Through our Early Access Program, we are, under specific clinical studies were performed in collaboration with (univercircumstances, enabling patients to gain early access to new, sity) hospitals and general practitioners. By making available potentially life-saving medicines. The offer is aimed at people files in our historical archives at Group headquarters in with serious conditions who have already used all available Darmstadt, we are now supporting efforts to understand and therapies without success. It allows them to obtain medicines come to terms with this episode in the history of science. In that have already been clinically tested but not yet obtained 2015, we granted a historian access to the files in our corpomarketing approval. Here too we meet the most stringent rate archives so that she could do in-depth research for her statutory, ethical and scientific standards. By performing a dissertation. Her scholarly endeavor will ultimately help us thorough assessment of all available data, we ensure that all to navigate this complex issue. We guarantee full transthe potential benefits outweigh the potential risks for our parency and will do everything necessary to help the affected patients. We published a position paper on this topic in 2015. institutions come to terms with the past. Animal welfare From an ethical and scientific perspective, animal research is Reduction using the minimum number of required indispensable and is furthermore mandated by law. Through animals animal studies, we test both the safety of our chemical and Refinement minimizing distress or discomfort before, medicinal products, as well as the efficacy of our pharmaduring and after testing ceuticals. We enforce stringent animal welfare standards that Replacement replacing animal studies with non-animal exceed applicable laws and expect our suppliers, contract systems research organizations and other partners to do likewise. The majority of our animal testing is conducted in our HealthWe promote the 3Rs outside our company as well. For care business sector as part of the official drug approval instance, under the International Consortium for Innovation process. However, animal welfare has also become a more and Quality in Pharmaceutical Development (IQ Consortium), prominent issue for our Life Science business sector. The we have joined forces with other companies to support the acquisition of the U.S.-based life science company SigmaGlobal 3Rs Awards Program. In partnership with the AssociAldrich in autumn 2015 has increased the number of prodation for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal ucts of animal origin in our Life Science portfolio. For Care International (AAALAC International), this initiative instance, certain animals are kept so that their blood can be recognizes innovative contributions toward the 3Rs of animal used to produce antibodies. Before the acquisition, Sigmaresearch to advance ethical science in academia and Aldrich also conducted animal studies as part of contract industry. In 2016, one of the Global 3R Awards went to research work for third parties, a line of business we are Madhav Paranjpe, a scientist from our Life Science business continuing to pursue. sector. He was recognized for publishing a study showing how the number of mice used to evaluate the carcinogenicity Our principles of a new drug can be reduced by 25%. The 3Rs of animal welfare Legal requirements In the housing, care and feeding of our lab animals, we are Animal research is only permitted if there are no recognized committed to consistently applying the most stringent ethical alternative methods available. However, in many fields, standards and are continuously working to improve upon animal studies are indispensable and legally mandated by them. When conducting research, we adhere to established the ICH guidelines or REACH. The safety of humans is our methodology and endeavor to use animal alternatives whernumber one priority. Laws and regulations govern all aspects ever possible and permissible by law. of animal research, such as the housing conditions of research animals, the conduct and approval of studies, and We therefore subscribe to the internationally recognized 3Rs the reliability and expertise required of all involved individfor animal-based research: uals. 58 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Group-wide methodology and guidelines Board of Trustees, where he ensures adherence to European standards. Moreover, at the end of 2016 he was appointed to Through our Group-wide Use, Care and Welfare of Laboratory the Executive Committee of AAALAC International for a term Animals policy, we make a commitment to global animal of three years. welfare principles and the highest possible ethical standards in animal research. Collaborating with partners and suppliers This policy further sets out principles on the housing, care We perform the majority of animal studies ourselves and and feeding of laboratory animals. We strive to provide our for the most part procure our lab animals from specialized animals with high-quality living conditions and consistently animal breeders. Sometimes, however, we also hire contract seek ways to make improvements. This ethos applies equally research organizations (CROs) to conduct animal research to the contract animal research services we’ve been offering on our behalf. Furthermore, we work with both the private third parties since acquiring Sigma-Aldrich. sector and academic institutions. When collaborating with such organizations, we expect them to adhere to the same In addition to our policy, our Group-wide Animal Science high standards as we do, as set out in our Use, Care and and Welfare manual describes the requirements for impleWelfare of Laboratory Animals policy. We review compliance menting, maintaining and improving animal welfare pracwith this policy by performing regular audits. tices. The suppliers gained from the Sigma-Aldrich acquisition are also subject to our strict animal welfare requirements. Since Organizational structures 2016, we have been working on harmonizing our standards Merck’s Corporate Animal Science and Welfare (EQ-A) unit is and developing a suitable audit concept. headed by the Chief Animal Welfare Officer, who is responsible for creating uniform animal welfare standards. The Employee training Chief Animal Welfare Officer also initiates audits, sometimes performing these themselves, and consistently works to We regularly provide training to all employees working with drive improvements in our own animal welfare practices laboratory animals at Merck, thereby ensuring that animal as well as those of our partners. Moreover, all our animal studies are conducted according to the latest scientific stanscience and welfare experts meet on a regular basis through dards and that animals receive the best care possible. The our global laboratory animal science network, which monitors nature and scope of this training is based on national and the animal welfare units at our sites and supports all projects international legislation, as well as local requirements. The and processes related to animal science and welfare. respective regulatory authorities monitor our activities to ensure they are in compliance. In addition to this training, In 2016, we furthermore established the Group Animal our employees regularly participate in external continuing Welfare Council, which convenes several times a year. education programs such as accredited laboratory animal Comprising representatives from all our business sectors, science courses offered by the Federation of European Labothis council monitors policy developments, updating our ratory Animal Science Associations, the American Association Animal Welfare Strategy where necessary. for Laboratory Animal Science, the Society of Laboratory Animal Science, the Laboratory Animal Science Association, and the Interessengemeinschaft Tierpfleger (Community of Our sites are generally subject to additional national reguAnimal Caregivers). lations. In order to assess the quality of animal husbandry practices and ensure compliance with our standards as well as all statutory requirements, we appoint animal welfare offiProgress cers and establish animal welfare councils across our Group, even when not required by law. The majority of laboratory animals are rodents Roughly 96% of the laboratory animals we use are rodents Work with committees and associations (mice and rats). Other animal species are only used if specified by statutory regulations or if deemed necessary for As part of our efforts to improve animal welfare, we are scientific reasons. For example, regulatory agencies someinvolved in several organizations such as the European times require investigational drugs to also be safety tested Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations on a non-rodent species such as monkeys, dogs or pigs. (EFPIA), the German Association of Research-based PharGuidelines such as REACH also require testing on nonmaceutical Companies (vfa) and Interpharma, a federation rodents under certain circumstances. This allows researchers of research-based pharmaceutical companies in Switzerland. to identify potential side effects with the necessary accuracy Our Chief Animal Welfare Officer has an active role in and include them in the risk assessment of a substance. various committees to advocate our position on animal In performing tests on non-rodents, researchers must meet welfare. In 2015, for instance, he chaired the IQ Consortium additional requirements pertaining to animal care and study and currently represents EFPIA on the AAALAC International design. 59 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Animal types 3% 1% Guinea pigs Other: Hamsters, rabbits, goats, dogs, nonhuman primates, pigs, chicken, sheep 96 % Rodents Auditing our animal research facilities Developing alternative testing methods We perform regular audits on our animal research facilities to We actively support the development of alternative testing ensure adherence to our animal welfare standards. In 2016, methods and their official recognition at an international for instance, our Corporate Animal Science and Welfare unit level. There is a serious need for action here because animal conducted three internal audits at our sites in the United research can only be truly reduced if a new methodology States, the United Kingdom and Israel. These audits idenis internationally accepted. Without this global acceptance, tified the need for better environmental enrichment to both animal studies and alternative testing would have to promote species-typical behavior. They also suggested be conducted in parallel when developing pharmaceuticals improvements relating to occupational safety, veterinary intended for worldwide distribution. care and organizational issues. Corrective actions have since been taken. To help rectify this situation, we support the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA). It goes without saying that we adhere to the highest interThis collaboration between the European Commission, Euronational animal welfare standards at all times. Since early pean trade associations and companies from various sectors 2016, all our Healthcare laboratory animal facilities have seeks to pool knowledge and resources to accelerate the been certified to the standards of the Association for Assessdevelopment of alternative approaches to animal use in ment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care Internaregulatory testing. tional (AAALAC International). One facility in our Life Science business sector is also AAALAC-accredited. Through our membership in the German Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical Companies (vfa), we also Conducting audits of partners support the set Foundation, which seeks to reduce and replace animal testing. To achieve this objective, the founWe perform regular audits on our animal breeders and dation funds projects that conduct research into alternative contract research organizations to ensure compliance with methods. The Merck Chief Animal Welfare Officer is currently our animal welfare standards. As part of our work with InterVice Chairman of the set Board of Trustees. pharma, we have developed a cross-company audit concept that concentrates on those partners we feel to harbor potenOur own scientists are also working on developing alternative tial risks. In the 2015-2016 period, a total of three audits methods and have received numerous accolades for their were conducted in European countries excluding Germany. efforts. The audit results are shared among Interpharma member companies and treated confidentially. 60 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Awards for developing alternative testing methods 2007: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for 2014: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Testing Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Testing 2006: The German Animal Welfare Research Prize 2010: The IUTox Bo Holmstedt Scientists Award for Alterawarded by the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and native Test Strategies according to the 3Rs Consumer Protection (BMELV) for alternative methods to replace or reduce animal studies 2009: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists Award 2005: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists Award 2008: The Eurotox Bo Holmstedt Young Scientists Award for Alternative Test Strategies according to the 3Rs Interactions with health systems We want all patients to receive the best possible medical of the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), as well as the codes treatment. To achieve this, it is essential that research instiof conduct of the pharmaceutical associations in the member tutes, physicians, patient organizations, and other key actors states of the EFPIA. We update the disclosed information on in health systems have access to detailed and current inforan annual basis. mation on diseases and treatments. We help facilitate this access by sponsoring independent initiatives and medical Furthermore, we sponsor research and continuing medical capacity advancement programs, and by donating money education around the world in order to contribute to medical and supplies. In addition, we promote outstanding research advances that will benefit patients. Through our Grants for projects. Since transparency is always our number one Innovation, we support research projects in fertility, multiple priority, we provide detailed reports on donations and sclerosis, oncology, and growth disorders. Through our activity sponsorship. Furthermore, we are committed to Global Medical Education unit, we also provide grants to various voluntary requirements within our industry. continuing medical education providers, enabling them to develop and deliver advanced medical training for scientists, Our principles physicians, nurses, pharmacists, and other healthcare professionals. We conduct these efforts in a transparent Statutory and voluntary requirements fashion. All direct and indirect financial aid aligns with the principles of the EFPIA. We explicitly endeavor to exert no influence over financial or non-financial contributions, nor over the information commuPartnering with patient advocacy groups nicated to key actors in healthcare systems. Consequently, we have committed ourselves to providing transparency. In Patient advocacy groups support patients, family members all transfers of value, we comply with the principles set forth and care givers, providing them with information on disease by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and management. Just like these organizations, we have set Associations (EFPIA) in its “Code on disclosure of transfers of ourselves the goal of improving patient quality of life, which value from pharmaceutical companies to healthcare profesis why we endeavor to support their crucial work. We explicsionals and healthcare organizations”. We also adhere to itly strive to exert no influence or control over the informastatutory transparency requirements worldwide, such as the tion that the organizations communicate to their members. stipulations of the Sunshine Laws in the United States, or the We provide the highest level of transparency on our donaLoi Bertrand in France. tions by publishing the details of contributions to European patient organizations on our website. This information is Transparently promoting research and education updated annually, which enables us to fulfill the commitment we made through our membership in the European FederaTo support health systems, we make monetary contributions tion of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). and donate supplies to institutions such as professional In 2016, we published a new Group-wide guideline entitled medical associations, hospitals and university clinics. These “Good Practice and Process Guidance: Engagement with contributions are expressly not intended to influence deciPatients, Patient Opinion Leaders and Patient Organizations”. sions regarding treatment, prescriptions or purchasing. On This document governs our interactions with patients and our website, we publish all relevant payments to partners in patient advocacy groups worldwide except in the United the health industry as well as our R&D spending in the releStates, where a separate regulation applies. It furthermore vant countries. This practice aligns with the code of conduct ensures that patient wellbeing is considered. of the German Association for the Voluntary Self-Regulation 61 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Products Progress transfer. In 2015, our work focused on informing our partners in the health industry just how important the transFirst report in line with transparency initiative parency initiative is to us. We also took steps to ensure data requirements quality and data privacy in all affected countries. At the end of 2016, we reported for the first time in line with the new Since 2016, companies in the EU have been required to requirements. Currently, we are involved in new legislative publish all financial and non-financial contributions to initiatives launched in several European countries as part of medical professionals and organizations in the healthcare the transparency initiative, which will impact our reporting industry not related to research activities. As set out in process as of 2017. We will ensure that we fulfill all requirethe transparency initiative of the EFPIA, the information ments. provided must include the name and address of the individual recipient as well as the purpose and amount of the 62 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees Employees The people working for us are crucial to our success, playing a central role in our business endeavors. In accordance with our Values, we live a culture of inclusion and respect, seeking to hire, foster and motivate the best-suited individuals. Moreover, we are strongly committed to a diverse workforce and take pains to safeguard the health of all. Read More 64 Attractive employer 72 Employee engagement 67 Diversity 74 Good leadership 70 Health and safety 63 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees Attractive employer We recognize that our employees are crucial to our business Group-wide with a Global Grade of ten or higher, and in success. To secure our future viability, we seek to attract Germany for all non-exempt employees as well. employees who have the potential for greater future roles. Demographic change is heating up the competition for the Supervisors and subordinates work together to define best employees, especially in Europe, the United States and personalized objectives that reflect current strategic prioriparts of Asia. By contrast, filling management positions is ties as well as each employee’s core tasks. In a separate one of the greatest challenges we face in several emerging process, they also draw up a detailed development plan. In countries. creating their development plan, all employees can make use of the Development Advisor. Building on Merck’s compeOwing to the ever-faster pace of technological progress, tencies, this online tool provides a selection of development professional requirements are also increasing, which makes measures that employees can tailor to their own needs. it crucial for us to cultivate our employees and continuously strengthen their skills. In doing so, we as an employer must Our Group-wide advanced training and continuing education also meet the growing expectations for work-life balance. program ensures that our employees develop the skills needed to help us realize our company strategy and continue Our principles down the path of success. Our employees can use the My Learning online tool to sign up for suitable activities such as Recruiting and retaining talent seminars and online training courses. Our goal is to attract qualified employees and retain Finding promising talent, securing succession them over the long term. We want to give each and every one the opportunity to develop professionally and personally, We seek to identify promising individuals within the company ultimately realizing their full potential. Skilled professionals as early as possible and put them on the path to advanceexpect competitive compensation and a healthy work-life ment. As part of our Succession Management Process, we balance. We seek and advance promising individuals within systematically prepare candidates for management roles, our company so that we can quickly fill open positions. which allows us to fill vacant positions quickly and efficiently. HR Global Talent and Development works on strategies to Attracting qualified university graduates advance and promote our employees, coordinating the necessary measures. At our sites around the world, our We work to attract the best university graduates. As part HR staff implements these measures in collaboration with of our efforts, we partner with organizations such as the senior managers from the business sectors. In doing so, they German online network “careerloft”. Furthermore, we regucomply with global HR guidelines and requirements, which larly attend job fairs to reach out to potential applicants, we monitor by means of internal audits. informing them about job opportunities and career tracks within our company. In countries outside of Germany such Digitally steering HR processes as the United States or China, we likewise use career fairs as a way of making personal contact with university graduates. To make our HR processes more consistent around the world, in 2012 we introduced HR Suite, an online platform accesIn addition to recruitment, we also provide financial assissible to all employees. This platform is used to manage tance to talented students. That’s why we collaborate with all key HR functions, such as development and succession organizations such as the German National Academic Founplanning, recruitment, continuing education, and employee dation and the Foundation of German Business, and furtherperformance assessments. Moreover, it helps calculate more support the Deutschlandstipendium (German national compensation and bonus payments. scholarship program). Providing feedback and supporting development University graduates can apply for a position at Merck directly or complete one of our trainee programs. Our We regularly provide our employees feedback on their trainees acquire international experience in various areas of performance. The Performance and Potential Management the company and take part in tailored advanced training Process ensures that, in addition to providing regular feedcourses. back on employee performance, a meeting is held once a year to evaluate employees’ overall performance. Since 2015, this process has been applicable to all employees 64 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees The foundation: Vocational training Progress For us, vocational training is one of the most important ways Assessing performance and identifying development to meet the current and future need for qualified profesopportunities sionals. In Germany, we offer numerous apprenticeship positions for various professions, as well as dual vocational In 2016, approximately 49,000 employees took part in the training programs. We are continuously investing in new Performance and Potential Management process that supertechnologies and integrating these into our vocational visors use to evaluate the performance of their staff. Every training. three years, employees can opt to be additionally assessed by select peers and external consultants. Known as We also give young adults the opportunity to complete their 360-degree feedback, this approach helps to identify vocational training on a part-time basis. If, after completing personal strengths and development opportunities. In 2016, their apprenticeship, they wish to continue studying while we updated our Development Advisor, which is used to working, we will cover up to 100% of the costs and also create employee development plans, adapting it to our new allow them to take special leave. Furthermore, apprentices Competency Model. can take part in community outreach projects. We offer our employees around the world classroom training Performance-based pay courses. In 2015, these courses were attended by over 4,000 participants, with 5,700 people having attended in 2016. In We endeavor to reward the performance of all our employees addition, our employees can also take a wide range of online and maintain a competitive edge in attracting qualified courses and language training. professionals, which necessitates commensurate compensation. At our company, compensation is based on the requireGood standing in employer rankings ments of each position, as well as employee performance. In addition to competitive remuneration, we also offer attracUnder the slogan “Make great things happen”, we are positive fringe and social benefits. Our benefits4me package tioning ourselves in the global job market as an attractive encompasses three pillars, namely company-funded benefits employer. This campaign highlights our strengths: we offer including our company pension, health & well-being, and diverse opportunities to contribute to the development and services. To meet the various needs of our workforce worldcommercialization of innovative products, as well as wide, we offer a variety of benefit packages designed using numerous career options in an international, motivating and established steering mechanisms. state-of-the-art work environment. Through the “Make great things happen” campaign, we are also communicating our To ensure a competitive compensation structure, we regustrong sense of social responsibility and commitment to larly review our compensation policy. In doing so, we take work-life balance. internal factors and market requirements equally into account. In making adjustments to this policy, we involve The success of our efforts is confirmed by our ranking among relevant stakeholders such as employee representatives (p. the 100 top employers for students and experienced scien73) in the early stages of the process. Current analyses show tists in Germany. This index is published annually by the that there are no gender-based compensation differences research and consulting firm Universum and involves a within the Group. survey of more than 5,000 people. In 2016, our Group ranked sixth in the student survey and seventh among expeFinding work-life balance rienced professionals. We recognize how important work-life balance is for a Since 2015, we have been working on a new global employer productive and motivated workforce, which is why in many brand for the Merck Group. Our goal is to better distinguish countries we allow our employees the flexibility to organize ourselves from our competitors and sharpen our profile as an their own work schedule. Our workers make use of more attractive employer in the field of science and technology. than 30 different part-time models. Sparking student and graduate interest in Merck In Germany and the United States, where 44% of our workforce is based, we offer parental leave conditions that go In 2016, we employed around 50 trainees, primarily in beyond the statutory minimum requirements. Moreover, in Inhouse Consulting, Finance and Production. In 2017, we Darmstadt we hold special seminars and offer referral plan to launch further trainee programs in Marketing, Sales services for employees who provide care for family members. and Research & Development, which will have room for 25 new trainees per year. Moreover, in the United States 12 additional trainees are expected to start their careers in Inhouse Consulting. 65 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees We offer internships to high school and college students. thinking. You can find more information under Innovation Through our Keeping Ties to Students program, we stay in and digitalization (p. 26). touch with talented individuals who demonstrate especially good performance during their internship. Furthermore, Our EVA platform is another example of an innovative, every year we invite students from German and Swiss cutting-edge environment. EVA stands for “Expertise everyuniversities to come to Merck, where we tell them about where, Virtual teams, Access to information” and has been career tracks and job opportunities at our company. bringing Merck employees together from across the globe since 2015. It allows virtual teams to collaborate and Impressive hiring rate and new dual vocational communicate across departmental boundaries and national training programs borders. Approximately 50,000 people in total have access to the platform, which has won a number of international In 2016, a total of 576 young people were enrolled in vocaawards. tional training programs at our sites in Germany. In 2015, 156 young people began their apprenticeship at Merck, with Expanding flexible working models 163 having started in 2016. In total, we offer apprenticeships across 23 occupations, primarily in production, laboratory We offer our employees in Germany and the United States work and office administration. Furthermore, 14 young various flexible and innovative working models. The adults in 2015 and 16 young adults in 2016 embarked on mywork@merck program, initially implemented in 2013 for dual vocational training programs in the fields of business all exempt employees at the Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites administration, business IT, process engineering (chemical in Germany, aims to strengthen the culture of performance engineering), and mechanical engineering. Since 2014, we and trust within the company. In agreement with their teams have been offering permanent employment contracts to all and supervisors, employees can freely choose when and apprentices and graduates of dual vocational training where they work. Since October 2014, non-exempt programs working in occupations for which we have longemployees at these sites with positions suitable for this term demand. In 2015 and 2016, the hiring rate for graduworking model have also been eligible. We furthermore introates of these programs – taking voluntary terminations into duced mywork@merck at Merck Accounting Solutions & account – was over 90%. Services Europe GmbH, Merck Export GmbH, Merck Schuchardt OHG, Merck Selbstmedikation GmbH, Merck Early career training Versicherungsvermittlung GmbH, and Merck Chemicals GmbH. Employees and their respective line managers can In Darmstadt, our “Start in die Ausbildung” program helps best decide for themselves when and how often fixed physyoung people who have a high school diploma but have been ical presence in the office is necessary for all team members. searching for an apprenticeship for at least one year without Working hours are no longer logged or monitored. At the end success. We offer them the opportunity to complete a oneof December 2016, a total of 4,507 employees were making year program at Merck, giving them insight into professional use of this model. life and improving their chances of gaining an apprenticeship. In the 2015-2016 period, this initiative helped a total of 42 In 2016, 4.7% of our employees worldwide worked partparticipants aged 16 to 25 get the qualifications they needed time, 10.6% of whom were men. We believe that with these to apply for an apprenticeship. Since its launch in 2006, 167 flexible working models, we are on the right track to not only young people have taken part in the program; 89 of them more efficient processes, but – most importantly – to greater have successfully completed an apprenticeship while 55 are employee satisfaction and employer appeal. still undergoing training. Supporting parents In October 2016, we established a similar program for refugees forced to flee their home countries. The “InteWe endeavor to make it easier for our employees to return grating refugees through training” initiative is preparing 12 to work following parental leave, which is why in 2016 we young people for vocational training, thereby opening the launched the Parents@Merck program in Darmstadt and door to the German labor market. The project comprises Gernsheim. It gives mothers and fathers on parental leave linguistic, technical, cultural, and career-related training. the opportunity to talk and share lessons learned while also helping them keep in touch with the company. Moreover, Leveraging the opportunities of digitalization they can make use of the various training and networking offerings. Our work is becoming increasingly digital and flexible, a development described by the term “Work 4.0”. This trend In the United States, we offer the female employees in our is impacting our vocational training and continuing education Life Science and Healthcare business sectors eight weeks programs as well; we are continually integrating new techof paid maternity leave. In Life Science, fathers are eligible nologies such as 3D printing into our curricula and trying for two weeks of paid paternity leave, which also applies out novel learning and innovation methods such as design when adopting a child, while Healthcare staff are given five 66 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees weeks of paid paternity or adoption leave. By contrast, the Our Darmstadt site also offers provisional daycare services to statutory minimum only provides for 12 weeks of unpaid cover times when an employee's regular childcare becomes parental leave per year. Furthermore, we also reimburse up unavailable. During school breaks in the German Federal to US$ 5,000 in adoption fees. State of Hesse, we host a variety of vacation camps focused on sports, art, research, and nature. In 2016, we increased At Darmstadt and Gernsheim, our largest sites in Germany the capacity of our vacation camp program to approximately (around 20.9% of our total workforce), 480 employees were 450 children. on parental leave as of the end of December 2016, 37% of which were fathers. In other key countries, we go beyond the Since June 2016, we have additionally been providing tempolegal requirements to offer other kinds of new parent support rary care for sick children. For up to two days, parents such as extended time in the United States and Brazil, and throughout Germany can engage the services of a profesnursing care allowances in Taiwan. sional educator free of charge to care for their children at home. Daycare center expanded Family and elder care: Better informed For 49 years, our headquarters in Darmstadt has featured a daycare center for children aged 1-12. This facility is funded In 2016, we revised the way in which we provide employees by the Merck family (Merck’scher Kindertagesstätten-Verein with information on career and family care in Germany. e.V.) and offers 150 slots. Since 2013, we’ve been providing Twice a year, we offer our workforce family care seminars year-round care from 6:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. For the children that focus on various topics. An external associate provides of our employees in Gernsheim, five slots are available at a advice on all issues relating to family care and guides people public daycare center. in their search for suitable options. In Darmstadt, our company health insurance fund also puts people in contact with nurses. Diversity and equal opportunity We are an international company, with employees who Diversity: A pillar of the company represent a varied cross-section of nationalities, cultures, religions, and age groups, as well as different gender idenOur Chief Diversity Officer is responsible for overseeing our tities and sexual orientations. We believe that a diverse Group’s diversity strategy and reports directly to Kai Beckworkforce – paired with an inclusive corporate culture – mann, the Executive Board member whose responsibilities strengthens the innovative power of our Group and include Group Human Resources. Our Diversity Council contributes significantly to our business success. With this in consists of executives from all our business sectors and mind, we work hard to foster a culture of diversity and incluselect Group functions, and performs four key functions: sion. 1. It is responsible for implementing our strategy for greater Our principles diversity. 2. It evaluates and refines proposals to increase diversity Increasing diversity, providing opportunities submitted by our business sectors. 3. The council members inform their own business sectors Our goal is to further drive diversity across our workforce and about the work of the council and are responsible for offer all our employees equal opportunities for advancement. overseeing the respective issues in their areas. In particular, we endeavor to promote women in leadership positions, cultivate an international working environment and 4. The members are direct points of contact for the form teams with a balanced age structure. We offer our employees in their business sector. employees global development opportunities. Moreover, we are working to increase the percentage of executives from international growth markets across the Group to leverage In order to further enhance diversity within the company, their knowledge of local markets. Group Human Resources (HR) has implemented a number of programs and processes. Our strategic competencies, which guide our employees and managers in their tasks, are set out in our Competency Model. The Competency Model is a fundamental element of HR processes such as recruitment, feed67 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees back processes and training for managers. In 2016, we rolled and measures at departmental level to help us move female out software that analyzes our personnel data quickly and candidates into positions in different areas and hierarchies. reliably. This was the first time we have implemented such a tool, which also provides anonymized information. Select In addition to working towards our own goals, the German data (p. 110) are presented in this report. Law on Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership Positions in the Public and Private Sector has been in effect Creating an inclusive work environment that promotes in Germany since September 30, 2015. Owing to our legal mutual respect is a particular focus of our human resources form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), this law work. We support specific employee networks in order to also applies in part to us. Detailed information can be found foster exchange among like-minded individuals. In addition on our website. to our internal women’s networks in various countries, we also partner with networks outside the company that are Progress committed to ensuring women’s advancement in the workplace. Global Diversity Days Taking action against discrimination We seek to raise awareness among our workforce for diversity and inclusion. In 2015, for instance, we expanded our As stipulated in our Code of Conduct, we do not tolerate Diversity Day from one day a year to a whole month. Every discrimination within our company. If an employee feels they year in September, we now place diversity center stage. In have been discriminated against, they can report the issue September 2016, we organized a range of activities around via various channels. Their first point of contact is their the world under the banner of “The Power of WE – The Power supervisor, but they can also contact Human Resources, of Diversity”. Overall, employees from 17 countries across Legal or Compliance. Alternatively, employees can call our six continents took part in a number of events. The members SpeakUp Line anonymously from anywhere Group-wide. of the Diversity Council also supported the campaign by Alleged cases fall under the purview of Group Compliance holding online events that saw participation from more than and are handled by the Compliance Committee. In confirmed 580 employees Group-wide. cases of discrimination, a subcommittee provides a recommendation for disciplinary action that is implemented by our Networks to bolster diversity management team. In this way, we ensure that similar cases are dealt with consistently worldwide. Our company is a corporate partner of the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (HBA), a non-profit organization Supporting industry-wide initiatives committed to furthering the advancement and impact of women in the healthcare industry. We encourage our female In an effort to promote further diversity, we also support employees to get involved because it gives them the opporindustry-wide initiatives. By adopting the German “Charta tunity to attend various seminars and conferences in Darmder Vielfalt” (Diversity Charter) in 2013 and signing the Equal stadt (Germany), Lyon (France) or Boston, MA (USA), as well Opportunity Charter of the German Mining, Chemical and as to take part in mentoring programs. In autumn 2016, Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE) in 2015, we underscored some of our employees participated in the HBA’s European our commitment to fairness and tolerance in the workplace, conference in Leiden (Netherlands) as well as its annual promising to do everything in our power to achieve gender conference in St. Louis, MO (USA). Furthermore, two of our equality within the company. In 2011, we joined other DAX® female employees are board members of HBA Europe. 30 companies in signing a declaration committing to advance women in leadership roles. Through our Rainbow Network for homosexual, bisexual and transsexual employees, we supported Christopher Street Day Women in leadership roles: Requirements and objec2016 in Frankfurt and Darmstadt, Germany. As well as taking part, we were the official corporate sponsor of the event in tives Darmstadt. In 2016, the Rainbow Network was also launched In 2011, we set the strategic goal of increasing the in the United States. percentage of management positions held by women to 25%-30%, a target we reached in 2016. Group-wide, women The U.S.-based Black Leadership Network is dedicated to currently occupy 28.8% of leadership roles. The figures are advancing and developing African American employees, steadily increasing across the company as a whole, but not offering its members advanced training and continuing consistently across business units, Group functions and hiereducation programs, tailored career advice and networking archical levels. Our target for 2021 is to maintain a 30% opportunities. representation of women on the managerial level, and we working to further increase the percentage in senior manageOwing to the acquisitions we have made in recent years, ment positions and business units where women are still there has been a steady increase in the number of our underrepresented. To achieve this objective, we plan to form employee networks. Going forward, we intend to better special teams that will be responsible for developing goals 68 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees leverage the potential of these networks for our business numbered 16% on the first management level and 24% on activities. Networks with similar objectives are to be merged the second, which means the target defined for the first and expanded internationally. Moreover, we want to help management level was not met. Here, the lower representaestablish leadership structures within these networks and tion of women was mainly attributable to personnel changes define their goals. To this end, in 2016 we held the first made to the Executive Board itself and the resulting changes round of workshops with network representatives. to the first management level. Organizational changes (transfer of two female executives abroad) and fluctuation (one female executive employee left the company) also had Successful international collaboration an impact on the number and percentage of women at Our company is becoming increasingly international. We this management level. By contrast, owing to the successful currently employ people from a total of 129 nations, 23.1% recruitment and promotion of women employees, we of whom are German citizens. Our managerial staff (Global exceeded our target of 21% for the second management Grade 14+) includes representatives of 70 nationalities. In level by reaching 24% female representation. This develthe 2015-2016 period, 65% of management positions were opment creates a strong basis for future appointments to held by non-German employees. At the end of 2016, 17% of the first management level. Our new targets for these two our employees were working outside their home countries, management levels are to increase the ratio of women on the versus 6% in 2014. first level to 21% and on the second level to 26% by the end of 2021. To best facilitate this international collaboration, we offer intercultural seminars for all employees and are also Addressing demographic change increasing the availability of company documents in English. We support employees posted to other countries through Another issue we’re addressing is demographic change. We language courses and international networks to help them expect the average age of our workforce to continue rising settle more quickly into their new country. For instance, in the coming years. In Germany, we are responding to this around 200 expatriate employees are members of the Intertrend with various initiatives including our health managenational Community, which gets together regularly in Darmment program (p. 70). Within this program, for instance, stadt. we are adapting workplaces to the needs of older people. In 2015 we developed new shift models and introduced preventive health measures for shift workers. Moreover, at our site No cases of discrimination in Darmstadt we offer special courses for employees over the age of 40, such as the seminar “Staying on the ball – In 2015 and 2016, no suspected cases of discrimination were Learning at 40+”. In 2015, we took another step toward reported via the SpeakUp Line or other channels. sensitizing our employees to the limits of their own physical and mental resources by participating in a research project On the path to equality focusing on mindfulness jointly run by the Kalapa Leadership Academy and Coburg University of Applied Sciences. Consisting of 37.5% women (6 out of 16 members), our Supervisory Board already meets the stipulations of the new Using our new personnel data evaluation software, we intend German legislation on the women’s quota. Owing to our legal to analyze the age structure of our workforce in the United form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), we are States and Asia and subsequently adapt our local initiatives not required to set targets for our Executive Board. For the to address demographic change. two management levels below the Executive Board, in 2015 we set an initial goal of maintaining the then figure of 21% at both levels until the end of 2016. In late 2016, women 69 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees Health and safety We take responsibility for the health and safety of our Health management: A pillar of our corporate culture employees, doing everything in our power to safeguard them against work-related illnesses and accidents. In the world of Our Group Health Policy defines how we ensure workplace office work, issues such as stress prevention, nutrition and safety for our employees while also promoting their health mobility are especially commonplace. We focus our efforts and welfare. This document details our Group-wide approach on prevention to help our employees mitigate temporary or to safety and health management as well as our comprehenlong-term health problems. sive behavioral modification program to prevent workplace accidents and occupational diseases. One component of the policy is our Global Wellbeing and Health Promotion FrameOur principles work, which describes the differing requirements in various countries. Our individual sites are responsible for performing Preventing accidents and promoting health local workplace risk assessments and hazard analyses. We seek to promote the health of our employees and maintain their ability to perform over the long run, which requires In addition to this policy, our health management system a safe workplace. One of our Group-wide objectives is to step in Germany also helps weave health awareness into our up our safety culture. Our goal for 2020 is to keep our lost corporate culture. Strategy, focal areas and initiatives are time injury rate (LTIR) under 1.5. Furthermore, we aim to developed by an interdisciplinary steering committee. Topics make health management a greater part of our corporate include health fundamentals, good leadership and tailored culture and leadership. health programs such as health prevention for shift workers. Occupational health and safety: An organizational Defining bylaws cornerstone At our sites in Germany, we work in partnership with Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy details our employee representatives to craft bylaws on occupational approach to occupational health and safety. This policy is health and safety. These bylaws define processes such as an integral part of our Environment, Health, Safety (EHS) health counseling, which helps our managers promptly idenmanagement system, which is aligned with standards such tify health risks and psychological stress in their employees. as OHSAS 18001. Since 2015, we've been undergoing an external certification process for OHSAS 18001. Progress Our Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) Safety certification expanded, accident rates reduced Group function is responsible for our EHS management system. EQ reports to Kai Beckmann, Executive Board By the end of 2016, all Performance Materials production member and Chief Administration Officer, setting objectives, sites had been certified to the international standard OHSAS overseeing global initiatives and conducting internal audits. 18001. The certification process helps us pinpoint weak Local EHS managers ensure that each individual site adheres areas, identify opportunities for improvement, and impleto occupational safety laws and regulations. ment suitable measures. The lost time injury rate (LTIR) is the indicator used to assess Systematic data collection and clear rules of conduct the success of our efforts. This figure measures the acciWe collect workplace accident data from our sites on a dents resulting in at least one day of missed work per one monthly basis. Every facility is required to immediately million man-hours. We track the LTIR for both employees report relevant accidents to EQ, where the cases are invesand temporary workers. In 2010, we set the goal of reducing tigated and assessed. If necessary, we implement additional our lost time injury rate to 2.5 by 2015 – in 2015 we far safety measures at our sites. surpassed this objective by achieving an LTIR of 1.5. But this is not enough for us. In our view, nothing is worth an accident. We therefore made our next goal even more ambitious: Experience shows that most workplace accidents can be to sustainably lower our LTIR even further by 2020. By 2016, prevented by proper conduct. Through our “BeSafe!” safety we’d already reached this objective with an LTIR of 1.3. The culture initiative, we are working to raise employee awaremajority of incidents resulting in lost time were slips, trips ness of dangers in the workplace and provide them with rules and falls, accidents involving the operation of machinery, and of conduct that help keep them safe. car accidents on business trips. 70 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees Despite our efforts, there were unfortunately two workhosted the fifth and sixth EHS Best Practice Sharing Meetings related accidents resulting in fatalities in 2015. In the United in Bari (Italy), which were attended by representatives from States, one employee died in a car accident, while in business, industrial associations and academic institutions. Germany, one worker was fatally injured during a mishap Moreover, in 2015 and 2016, we conducted safety training involving a forklift. There were no fatal incidents in 2016. in Darmstadt and Gernsheim for 53 managers from 19 countries. BeSafe! program rolled out worldwide Expanding health management Through our BeSafe! program, we are working to raise employee awareness of occupational safety. We have now As part of our EHS management activities, we implemented incorporated all production and warehouse sites into the two new Group-wide processes in 2015. Our Travel Health program. Since the completion of the acquisition, Sigma& Medical Advisory Service assists employees who spend a Aldrich facilities have also started implementing BeSafe!. In lot of time abroad on Merck business, providing them with October 2016, we successfully held events at four sites in advice on vaccinations and hygiene risks. Our Physical Ability the United States, the first time for our operations in that Test and Health Preservation ensure that all employees meet country. the health requirements for their particular tasks. This test helps us implement targeted intervention as necessary. In 2016, we conducted initiatives, campaigns, and awareness efforts across the Group as part of the BeSafe! program. At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health ManageFor instance, several subsidiaries in Latin America held safety ment unit conducts numerous campaigns and programs to competitions. To underscore the importance of safety, we promote the health of our workforce. In summer 2016, 3,682 launched the Safety Excellence Award in 2010, which is employees took part in the Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) presented annually to all production sites that have no workhosted by the employee engagement firm Virgin Pulse. place accidents on record for the year. In total, 61 out of Seven-person teams used pedometers to track their step 91 facilities received this award in 2016, with 41 out of 61 count over a period of 100 days. The result? Altogether, production sites having received it in 2015. On January 29, participants walked the equivalent of 67 times around the 2016, the workforce at our U.S. site in Branchburg, New world. By the end of the GCC, 84% of participants were Jersey achieved a major milestone of one million man-hours walking 10,000 steps or more per day, versus 29% before worked without a single reportable accident. the challenge. Besides being motivated to exercise more than usual, everyone furthermore benefited from practical tips on nutrition and stress management. We also offer our Solvent for production purification processes replaced employees services such as our Fit@Merck fitness program, In 2015, we replaced tetrahydrofuran (THF) with nonwhich provides them with up to € 195 per year towards hazardous substances for most of the purification processes health prevention classes. We furthermore offer a company at our organic production plants in Darmstadt. THF is a athletics program that currently features 25 different sports. solvent suspected to be carcinogenic. Through this measure, we save nearly € 700,000 per year. We analyze the ergonomics of individual workstations and then implement relevant occupational health measures. In Increasing safety through global best practice sharing our liquid crystal production facilities, for instance, we have made technical improvements such as drum lifters. Our Our EHS managers attend regional and international conferworkers have also received training on ergonomics in the ences in an effort to share best practices and lessons workplace. Our Life Science employees in the United States learned. In 2015, our Group-wide conference took place in have access to the Early Symptom Intervention and PrevenDarmstadt and was attended by 70 employees. In 2016, we tion Program (ESI), which provides training and teaches also held forums in Taoyuan (Taiwan), with 35 participants, about workplace ergonomics. and in Cork (Ireland), with 41 participants. These meetings focused on safe logistics, waste treatment and the integration of Sigma-Aldrich sites. In autumn 2015 and 2016 we 71 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees Employee engagement As a science and technology company, we are always looking Making room for ideas for new solutions and working to evolve. Engaged, curious employees are key to our ability to innovate, and therefore Over the last several years, Merck has undergone a major also to our success. We need a corporate culture that evolution and grown through acquisitions. We are transbroadens the knowledge base of our employees, one that forming our site in Darmstadt into a global headquarters that creates exciting opportunities and motivates them to take will bolster our ability to innovate, enabling us to respond a proactive role in shaping our company processes. Candid flexibly to growth while also reflecting our corporate identity. feedback from our employees helps show us where we have To this end, we launched our strategic ONE Global Headquarroom for further improvement. ters initiative in 2013. Our principles The heart of our redesigned global headquarters is our new Innovation Center (p. 27), scheduled for completion in 2017. Engaging employees In 2015, we opened a modular Innovation Center to give our employees room to explore their creativity by joining interWe strive to create a work environment that empowers our disciplinary teams and collaborating on pioneering projects. employees to think outside the box and seek new solutions, opening the door to creative ideas and the discovery of new Keeping employees informed and encouraging market opportunities. To bolster employee engagement, we have set clear goals and defined the steps necessary to discourse accomplishing them. We keep our employees up to date and encourage discourse through a number of formats tailored to specific target Rewarding innovative ideas groups. Take, for instance, our international collaboration platform EVA and our international employee magazine We seek to inspire our employees to think creatively. At “pro”. This magazine is published in seven languages and is our Darmstadt site, all workers are encouraged to submit available in a digital format as well as via an app. Through suggestions for improvements within the company. We “pro”, we reach more than 90% of our approximately 50,000 reward any ideas that are successfully implemented by employees worldwide in their local language. Several offering employees a bonus based on how much the suggessubsidiaries also publish local editions of “pro”, for example tion improves our processes or cuts down our costs. in Germany, Korea, the Netherlands, and Russia. In addition to these formats, a variety of newsletters are also published In addition to rewarding good suggestions, we also regularly by our businesses. Moreover, we publish articles on EVA and hold a Group-wide innovation competition called Innospire host various events to raise employee awareness of corpothat allows employees to submit ideas for new business rate responsibility issues. models. In contrast to our conventional idea management process, Innospire specifies the topic on which employee Understanding our workforce proposals should focus. Furthermore, we annually present the Merck Awards in recognition of outstanding ideas, teamWe seek to understand the needs of the people who work work and projects. for us and therefore regularly conduct employee surveys. Engagement and Inclusion, a unit within our HR organization, Innovating with young scientists creates and oversees these questionnaires. The results show us ways we can improve. After each survey, we plan Our Merck Biopharma Innovation Cup is targeted to recent improvements that are managed by the relevant units. graduates from around the world in an effort to spark the interest of young talent in our company, while also offering At the beginning of 2016, we revised our approach to a forum for new ideas. We select 30 participants from a employee surveys and had implemented the changes by the pool of applicants spanning the globe. During a one-week end of the year. To give us a better sense of the situation summer camp, they learn first-hand how research and develwithin the company as a whole and to better benchmark opment works in the pharmaceutical industry, collaborating against our competitors, we will be conducting all future with retired Merck employees to create new, innovative surveys across the entire Merck Group. concepts. The team with the best concept receives a prize of € 20,000. 72 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees Guaranteeing co-determination worldwide. The resulting exchange of ideas and best practices benefits not only the startups, but also our own teams. We regularly include employee representatives in our decisionmaking processes. Within Germany, 14 of our subsidiaries have The Innovation Center regularly conducts events, workshops, employee representation. Local works councils as well as an seminars, and webinars. Through these channels, we introduce overall Group works council represent the interests of our workour employees to new innovation methods such as design force, discussing topics such as compensation, working hours, thinking. There is already a great deal of interest in this initiative. and organizational realignment. The Senior Executives Committee We also hope to accelerate the exchange of innovative ideas represents the interests of senior management, while the Merck within the company and build a Group-wide network of innovaEuroforum represents our employees at the European level, tion ambassadors. Furthermore, we plan to expand the scope of focusing on the economic situation, employment rates and signifour Accelerator program, with a focus on locations with a thriving icant changes within our company. or burgeoning start-up culture. The first offshoot of this program took root in 2015 in Nairobi (Kenya). Progress Testing new forms of collaboration Rewarding employee ideas In 2015, we launched our new collaboration platform EVA, which In 2016, our employees used our idea management program to encompasses our global intranet for all subsidiaries and business submit approximately 2,300 suggestions for improvement, with sectors and furthermore consolidates numerous collaboration 3,200 having been submitted in 2015. These ideas led to savings applications in one central location. According to an employee of approximately € 3.4 million in 2016 and approximately survey, EVA ranks as one of the most important internal commu€ 1.7 million in 2015. In recognition of their contributions, our nication media – second only to e-mail – receiving approximately employees received bonuses totaling € 0.7 million in each year. 1.3 million hits from across 64 countries per month. In the 2015-2016 period, we reached out to our employees Globally harmonized employee engagement survey through our Innospire innovation program and asked them for proposals on new materials, systems and business Between December 2013 and June 2015, we conducted an models across 12 categories. This resulted in the submission Organizational Health Index (OHI) survey in all business units of 680 proposals, more than twice as many as in 2014. Eight and Group functions, using the results to identify strategic focus suggestions were transformed into actual business plans, topics and devise initiatives. In 2016 we continued our efforts four of which are currently being implemented. to embed these topics more deeply into the organization. In November 2016, we conducted a global employee survey in 23 Recognizing innovation languages. Approximately 42,500 employees (83%) took part. A measure of employee engagement, our company-wide score The team that won the 2016 Merck Biopharma Innovation was 60%, a level comparable to other companies in the chemCup proposed an innovative approach to controlling the transmisical and pharmaceutical industries. As of early 2017, we will be sion of schistosomiasis. Overall, more than 900 scientists from working with the results across the company. across 53 countries competed for this renowned honor. Sparking young interest in science Presented every year, the Merck Awards recognize outstanding employee ideas. In 2016, prizes were presented Launched in 2016, the SPARK Global Volunteer Program (p. in the categories of Innovation, Change, Customer Focus, 100) offers our Life Science employees an opportunity to and Employee Development. In total, 55 teams and individmake a difference in the community by igniting a passion for uals competed for the awards. The project “Fertility technoloscience in the next generation. gies” won in the Innovation category. Through our efforts to promote scientific education and Turning ideas into innovations research, we hope to have a positive impact on the local community. Beyond school programs, we are also supporting In 2015, the first group of project teams took up residence causes such as the San Diego Festival of Science & Engiin our modular Innovation Center in Darmstadt, which is neering in San Diego, CA (USA) and the Royal Society of serving as a prototype for the future Innovation Center. Chemistry in Bangalore (India). Within the facility's walls, ten internal project teams are currently developing their ideas. We have also invited In the vicinity of our global headquarters in Darmstadt, we support numerous external startups to take advantage of the center a wide array of educational initiatives such as “Jugend forscht”, as part of the Merck Accelerator program, an initiative that a state-level science competition for students that we host every supports fledgling enterprises. The startup teams move into year. the Innovation Center for three months at a time and receive financial assistance, training and access to Merck experts 73 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees Good leadership Within our company, teams collaborate across sites and now more clearly defines the leadership culture through international boundaries. Team members bring a variety of which we will grow our business. Our six core competencies skills, strengths and experience to the table, creating great are purposeful, future-oriented, innovative, results-driven, potential that can be leveraged by management. Our collaborative, and empowering. In our day-to-day work, management processes fundamentally follow an internathese core competencies play an important role in our tional approach. Global collaboration is also playing an success. Our competency model provides the foundation for increasingly important role in the development of our next all development activities within our HR work – for generation of managers. employees, but also for our managers, who act as role models and are therefore key to building employee buy-in for the competency model. Our principles Strategic competency model Our strategic competency model describes core competencies on which employees of all levels should base their conduct. Our competency model was revised in 2015 and Our competency model Be purposeful our Be empowering Be future-oriented competencies Be collaborative Be innovative Be results-driven onsibility Resp Mi t ssi on S duc tatement and V Merc k Code of Con 74 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employees Management program managers have taken part. Since the 1990s, our up-andcoming managers have also had the opportunity to complete We have instituted three programs to enhance the leadership the International Management Program, where participants skills of our managers. Our goal is for at least 50% of our work on an interdisciplinary project over a period of six senior managers and promising Global Grade 14+ employees months. The results are presented to the Executive Board. to have participated in one of the programs by the end of Moreover, we also partner with universities across the globe 2018. We always adapt the programs to the particular needs in an effort to help our employees obtain qualifications such of various countries. as an executive MBA. We use our Performance and Potential Management Process Leveraging growth-market potential (p. 64) to gauge the impact of these development initiatives. Furthermore, our employees also take surveys (p. 72) to rate In the training of our managers, we also offer opportunities the quality of leadership within Merck. for employees in growth markets. In 2015, for instance, we launched our Growth Markets Management Program for local managers in India and Latin America. Over a period of up to Progress two years, this training covers business administration topics We have three programs in place to develop our managers. such as marketing and financial analysis, along with content The Managerial Foundation and Advanced Management specific to our business such as our strategy and corporate programs were both launched in 2013, while the Global culture. We launched similar programs in China in 2013, and Leadership program was established in 2016 based on the in the Middle East, Latin America and Asia-Pacific in 2016. To results of an evaluation of our leadership and business date, 235 managers have taken part. model. The Global Leadership Program teaches our managers how to think and act with a global focus so as Furthermore, in 2015-2016 three of our employees successto ensure successful international collaboration. Within two fully completed “Afrika kommt!”, a one-year scholarship years, we intend for all top 400 managers (Global Grade program offered by the German Society for International 16+) to have completed this program. Since the introduction Cooperation (GIZ). This program aims to help specialists of these initiatives, approximately 2,400 managers have and managers from Sub-Saharan Africa obtain qualifications, taken part in total. thereby building a pool of regional partners for German industry. Five former scholarship recipients now work for us, Expanding talent development Group-wide two of them in their home countries of Ghana and Nigeria and the remaining three still in Darmstadt. In 2016, eight Since 1999, we've been working in partnership with top new candidates were chosen for the fifth round of “Afrika international universities to offer Merck University, a multikommt!” regional and modular program. Over a period of ten months, participants complete classes on management techniques and unique features of growth markets. To date, 373 senior 75 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment Environment We are dedicated to environmental stewardship, working to conserve resources such as energy, water and raw materials while also reducing emissions and waste. Climate impact mitigation and resource scarcity are key challenges facing society, ones for which we naturally accept our share of the responsibility. Through certified environmental management systems and targeted environmental measures, we work to minimize the environmental impacts of our activities. Read More 77 Environmental stewardship 86 Plant and process safety 79 Climate 88 Biodiversity 82 Resource efficiency 76 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment Environmental stewardship Mi t ssi As a science and technology company with manufacturing energy and water both sparingly and efficiently while also es duc operations, we utilize resources and materials that could cutting emissions and waste. M e rc have a potentially negative impact on the environment if not alu k Code of Con handled properly. To mitigate this effect, all our sites meet a Clearly assigned responsibilities strict set of environmental requirements. on S tatement and V Ultimate responsibility for environmental stewardship is A holistic approach is needed to minimize negative impacts borne by Kai Beckmann, Executive Board member and Chief on the environment and sustainably preserve resources in Administration Officer. The Group function Environment, the long run. Intelligent environmental stewardship reduces Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) is in charge of steering resource use and lowers costs. Ch all environmental measures Group-wide. At our individual ar ter sites, each site director is responsible for environmental UN stewardship as well as occupational health and safety at Our principles ig ht G the operational level. At larger facilities, the site directors s ba lo R l We continuously seek to reduce our environmental footprint, receive day-to-day nsupport and advice from Environment, Co a m which requires us to utilize resources such asp raw materials, Health and Safety u m (EHS) managers, with EHS coordinators ac H t performingerck role at smaller facilities. this Re s ponsible Care M Our Group function EQ (Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality) Executive Board Kai Beckmann Group Governance and Service Unit Local operating units Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) Competencies in local sites: Develop and maintain Group EQ strategy Wastewater treatment Performance of environmental and Waste management safety audits Environmental analysis Compliance audits to review Plant safety adherence to standards Occupational health and safety Implementation of EQ management systems Fire protection/risk prevention Conducting EQ improvement Approval procedures programs Consulting for investments, process development and acquisitions Conducting training programs 77 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment Fundamental strategy for environmental sustainability certified environmental management system. New sites must incrementally establish a corresponding environmental Our approach to environmental stewardship is built on our management system and obtain ISO 14001 certification. Corporate Environment, Health and Safety Policy, which we Every year, we contract a third party to perform a certifiupdated in 2016. This policy is now aligned more closely with cation audit. Furthermore, we conduct internal surveillance the stipulations of the chemical industry's Responsible Care audits to ensure compliance with our requirements. ® Charter, as well as environmental management standard ISO 14001, and it emphasizes our management's responsiProgress bility toward environmental stewardship, health and safety (p. 70). Moreover, it addresses our suppliers (p. 89), encourISO 14001 certification expanded aging them to adopt similarly high standards for environmental sustainability and safety. In doing so, our Corporate In 2015 and 2016, we passed all ISO 14001 surveillance Environment, Health and Safety Policy complements the audits. Seven Sigma-Aldrich sites already had ISO Responsible Sourcing Principles of our Group Procurement 14001-certified environmental management systems, which function. were transferred to our Group certificate in 2016. Our certificate now covers 57 sites worldwide. In 2017 and 2018, we The principles of our EHS policy are implemented through intend to integrate 30 additional Sigma-Aldrich sites into the internal guidelines, standards and operating manuals. For certificate. instance, our Group EHS, Security and Quality Manual describes how environmental stewardship and occupational All manufacturing facilities of AZ Electronic Materials, a safety are organized across the company. We ensure complicompany we acquired in 2014, have been ISO 14001 certiance with all requirements through internal and external fied and integrated into our Group certificate since early audits. Additionally, employees have the option of reporting 2015. Moreover, we have also incorporated all AZ sites into compliance violations to Group Compliance (p. 11). In the our internal audit program. Corrective measures have been 2015-2016 period, no significant violations of environmental taken to remedy any defects found. laws or regulations were recorded within the company. Switch to ISO 14001:2015 We regularly review and update our internal guidelines, standards and operating manuals. Following the 2015 acquisition In September 2015, the International Organization for Stanof the U.S.-based life science company Sigma-Aldrich, all dardization (ISO) introduced ISO 14001:2015, an updated their existing EHS standards were reviewed and aligned with version of this standard. Among other changes, ISO ours. 14001:2015 more strongly emphasizes a supply chain approach. We have to adapt our environmental management ISO 14001 Group certificate system to reflect the new version by 2018. In 2015, we conducted internal audits to determine the extent to which We manage our environmental sustainability efforts via an we were already meeting the new requirements. In 2016, ISO 14001:2004 certified management system. Since 2009, we then analyzed our individual sites in detail to see where our company has had a corresponding Group certificate, changes still needed to be made. We expect the results in which means that all production sites with more than 50 early 2017 and will use them to adapt our approach to enviemployees must implement the requirements of the certifironmental management. cate. Smaller sites are not obligated to implement an ISO78 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment Climate Climate change is one of the most pressing challenges of the With the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change now in 21st century. Thus far, it has only directly impacted us to a place and phase four (2021-2030) of the EU emissions minor extent. Nevertheless, because our operations generate trading program due to start soon, we expect to see a tightgreenhouse gas emissions, we intend to do our part to mitiening of greenhouse gas emission regulations. Going forward gate our impact on the climate. In view of burgeoning reguin phase four, we foresee having to purchase the emissions lations and rising energy costs, climate impact mitigation is allowances that we're still mostly obtaining for free during also becoming an increasingly smart investment. phase three (2013-2020). Our principles Strategic approach to climate impact mitigation Doing our part In 2009, we launched our strategic Edison program to consolidate all our initiatives for improving energy efficiency We are taking action to mitigate our impact on the climate. and reducing process-related greenhouse gas emissions. Our goal for 2020 is to reduce our direct greenhouse gas Under Edison, our Group function EQ collaborates with a emissions (Scope 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2) by working group comprising representatives from all business 20% relative to the 2006 baseline. Scope 1 covers emissions sectors. Any site can propose a project. The working group that we produce ourselves, for instance by burning fossil assesses the proposals according to three criteria: 1.) the fuels to generate power, while scope 2 pertains to emissions total absolute CO₂ savings, 2.) the potential cost savings, from the consumption of purchased energy, such as elecand 3.) the ratio of CO₂ savings to required spend. tricity or district heating. Across the globe, 37 of our sites account for roughly 80% of our greenhouse gas emissions, Internal standards and external certification which is why we are focusing our efforts here. Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) stanEnergy conservation represents an important component of dards on energy management and emissions from coolant our climate impact mitigation activities. By adapting and ensure that energy and process-related emissions are modernizing our technology, we are improving the energy managed consistently across the Group. In 2016, these stanefficiency of our R&D operations, our production processes dards were also implemented for Sigma-Aldrich sites. Site and our buildings. management conducts local audits at random to verify compliance with all EHS standards. We are further lowering greenhouse gases by increasing our use of renewable energies. Moreover, we are also reducing Efficient energy management plays a particularly important emissions that stem directly from energy generation and role in climate impact mitigation and is also increasingly manufacturing operations. important to our customers. With this and other reasons in mind, 13 of our sites decided to obtain ISO 50001 certificaOur Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, tion, the international standard for energy management, by Quality (EQ) is responsible for globally overseeing all climate the end of 2016. Further facilities are currently preparing for impact mitigation measures (see Environmental stewardship this certification process. (p. 77)). At our individual sites, operating units are responsible for implementing the actions and initiatives stipulated Educating employees on climate impact mitigation by EQ. We encourage our employees to do their part to preserve the climate. We regularly report on our Group-wide climate Regulatory framework for climate impact mitigation impact mitigation activities in our employee magazine “pro” We are subject to a wide array of national and international (p. 72) and in our employee newsletter, while also providing energy and emissions regulations, such as the German helpful information and tips on our Intranet. Moreover, we Energy Conservation Act, the German Renewable Energy support employees who prefer greener modes of transport. Sources Act and the European Union emissions trading For instance, we are constantly updating our pool of leased system. For instance, EU Directive 2012/27/EU stipulates vehicles with more efficient models to reduce the average that we must establish energy management systems and CO₂ emissions of our business car fleet by 30% by 2020, regularly audit our energy consumption. The sites subject to relative to 2013. We also provide further incentives in the these requirements are responsible for implementing them form of the Jobticket (p. 81) for public transport and attracand furthermore undergo audits conducted by internal or tive deals for leased bicycles (p. 81). external experts. 79 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment Switching to sea freight acquisitions, we set an interim goal for the sites of our Life Science business sector of lowering the greenhouse gas In an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting emissions of our former Merck Millipore business by 10% by from the transport of our products, we utilize sea rather than 2015, relative to 2006. By the end of 2015, we had even air freight whenever possible. However, this is only an option managed to surpass this target by achieving a reduction of for products that are not damaged by protracted transport 11%. times. At the same time, we cannot allow the quality of customer service to suffer due to extended transport times. Hundreds of climate projects initiated Transparency for CO2 emissions and energy consumpThrough the approximately 270 Edison projects initiated tion since 2012, we aim to annually save around 94 metric kilotons of CO₂ in the medium term. Since the program's launch, Since 2008, we've been reporting in detail on our climate these efforts have conserved around 82,000 MWh of energy impact mitigation efforts as stipulated by the CDP (previously in total. At nearly 64,000 MWh, electricity use accounted for Carbon Disclosure Project). We track our greenhouse gas the greatest savings. For 2017, 81 new projects have been emissions in line with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, approved, in the hopes of achieving additional savings of an internationally recognized standard, reporting on scopes around 34,000 metric tons of CO₂ annually. 1 and 2, as well as parts of scope 3. Scope 3 includes other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production In 2015 and 2016, we carried out projects such as: of purchased materials, transport-related activities, waste disposal, and employee travel. Tracking scope 3 emissions is Our site in Onahama, Japan is one of the highest energy a rather complex undertaking. We track emissions from busiconsumers within our Group, requiring large quantities ness trips and employee commuting, from waste manageof steam for pigment production. In 2015, we therefore ment, and from the manufacture and transport of fuel. switched process steam generation for production from kerosene to natural gas combustion. In addition, our Besides emissions, we also measure energy consumption at pigment kilns are now fired with natural gas instead of our sites. This does not, however, include energy use outside liquefied gas. These changes will reduce CO₂ emissions by our field of activity, such as the production of our raw mateapproximately 3,200 metric tons per year. In 2016, we rials, as we do not have sufficient data available to perform successfully replicated this change at other facilities. At these complex calculations. our Shizuoka site, for instance, we switched from heavy oil to natural gas for steam generation while also revamping Progress the boiler and conduit system. In doing so, this site cut back its CO₂ emissions from the manufacture of highSlight drop in energy consumption tech chemicals for the microchip and display industry by approximately 850 metric tons per year. In total, we used 2,253 gigawatt hours of energy in 2016, Our production sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim, versus 2,256 gigawatt hours in 2015. Our energy intensity Germany account for approximately 29% of our global relative to sales totaled 0.150 kWh/€ in 2016. energy consumption, which led us to invest roughly € 27 million in the construction of two state-of-the-art Emissions lowered despite growth energy stations, one of which went online in 2014 and the other at the end of 2015. These energy stations provide Despite growth in our operating business, we managed to our pharmaceutical production operations, pharmaceutical reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 10% relative to the research facilities, chemical plants, and chemical labs with 2006 baseline. In 2016, we emitted 715,000 metric tons of electricity, heating and cooling. The new installations will CO₂ equivalents, with 729,000 metric tons in 2015. reduce our CO₂ emissions by around 2,500 metric tons per year. Between 2006 and 2016, we more than doubled our sales, In Shanghai, China, we commissioned a new photovoltaic which means that, relative to sales, our emissions have plant in 2015 that is lowering this site's CO₂ emissions by dropped significantly. Due to the previously mentioned roughly 280 metric tons annually. 80 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment Total greenhouse gas emissions (metric kilotons)1 (Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) 784 736 729 715 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. SigmaAldrich in 2015) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). Green mobility: Jobtickets, leased bikes and subsidies initiative, we are sponsoring an additional 50 bikes in the city. We offer our workforce in Darmstadt a “Jobticket”, an annual subscription to use local public transportation for which we In the United States, too, we provide our people with financover part of the cost. In 2016, more than 3,800 employees cial incentives to live greener. For instance, they receive made use of this option. Since 2016, our people have also up to US$ 1,000 in subsidies towards the construction of had access to an online tool that helps them organize a private solar power unit and up to US$ 100 towards an carpools. energy consultant for their private home. They are also eligible for as much as US$ 3,500 towards the purchase of a Our Life Science employees in the United States can charge hybrid or electric car, an incentive that has motivated more their electric vehicles for free at special charging stations than 200 employees to switch to one of these types of vehidirectly on site. Our Darmstadt facility introduced such cles. charging stations in 2016. Individual sites in France and Ireland likewise offer this service. Reduction in transport-related CO₂ emissions As of January 2017, we further lowered the CO2 emission In 2016, we switched additional transport routes from air rate for newly registered company cars from 150 g/km to a transport to sea freight. Our Performance Materials business maximum of 135 g/km. At most of our German subsidiaries, sector is now shipping its products between Germany and we offer a subsidy of € 100 towards monthly lease payments Japan, as well as between Japan and Korea, by boat instead to employees who voluntarily choose a greener car model. of plane. Our Life Science business sector has also switched Relative to 2013, we have managed to decrease the CO₂ transport between the United States and Argentina to sea emissions of our company car fleet by 12%, and intend to freight. These changes are cutting our annual CO₂ emissions expand this incentive to include all employees in Germany. by a total of 300 metric tons. Our workforce in Darmstadt and Gernsheim also have the Positive rating from the CDP option of leasing a bike with payments coming out of their pre-tax income (bike4me). In 2017, we intend to offer this In 2016, the CDP reworked its scoring methodology and option to all employees in Germany. now only gives one rating per company. The score incorporates more than just successes in and strategies for reducing Furthermore, our employees can also use the Call a Bike greenhouse gas emissions. The CDP also assesses the ways service throughout Germany at reduced prices to rent a in which companies are working to minimize the risks and bike for short periods of time. Deutsche Bahn, the German consequences of climate change. The rating scale ranges national rail company, is also setting up further rental from A to D-, with A being the top score. stations all around our sites in Darmstadt. In support of this 81 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment According to this new methodology, we received an Ain 2015, when the CDP was still using the old evaluation model, 2016. As a Sector Leader for the DACH Region, we rank our performance scored a C and our reporting was rated 98 among the top 16% of companies in the Healthcare, Pharma out of 100 points, putting us in sixth place in the Healthcare & Biotech category in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. In category in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. Resource efficiency Natural resources are growing ever scarcer, which makes efficiency through a wide array of initiatives. Under our it imperative for us to use raw materials as efficiently as Edison program, for instance, we are investing in measures possible and contribute to waste reduction. By conserving to boost energy efficiency, which form just one part of our energy, water and materials, we are not only mitigating our commitment to the climate (p. 79). impact on the environment, but are also lowering our costs. We use water primarily for cooling, as process water and We work continuously to reduce the environmental footprint for exhaust air purification. Our water management (p. 84) of our products and even help our customers lower their own approach combines water use reduction with wastewater resource use, thus improving our competitive advantage. treatment. Alongside climate impact mitigation, water management is a key focus of our environmental stewardship efforts. Our principles Holistic approach to resource efficiency We primarily use chemical and pharmaceutical raw materials for our manufacturing operations. Additionally, we also Our holistic approach to resource efficiency helps us miniemploy operating supplies and packaging materials such as mize our consumption of energy, water and materials while folding boxes, glass bottles and ampules. Our waste and also maximizing resource reuse. Because we utilize the recycling (p. 82) management approach helps us efficiently majority of resources for the manufacture of our products (p. utilize materials and maximize reusage. 29), resource efficiency is a critical factor in product development and production processes. The measures required to accomplish this are an integral component of our approach Progress to environmental stewardship (p. 77) and are organized by Higher material consumption Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ). We utilized 330.6 metric kilotons of material in 2015 Reducing resource use (excluding Sigma-Aldrich) and 798.1 metric kilotons in 2016 (including Sigma-Aldrich). We only track the weight of mateOur manufacturing operations consume a great deal of rials that are directly used in our pharmaceuticals and chemenergy, but our buildings likewise require energy in the form icals. of electricity and heat. We are working to improve our energy Waste and recycling Waste material contains valuable raw materials that can be means that we first attempt to prevent waste. However, this reused in the production stream, which is why we consider it not always being feasible, we seek to recycle as much of our highly important to prevent or recycle as much of our waste waste as possible. Waste that cannot be recycled is discarded as possible. in an environmentally sustainable manner in line with the most stringent waste disposal standards. Our principles Waste management at Group and site levels Preventing, recycling and disposing waste Waste management is part of our Group-wide ISO 14001We work to minimize the environmental impacts of our waste certified environmental management system. The Group as far as possible and limit the loss of raw materials. This function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ), 82 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment which is in charge of environmental stewardship (p. 77), then multiplied by the percentage that results from dividing bears overall responsibility for waste management. As well the waste quantity of the given disposal method by the waste as undergoing external certification, we also conduct internal quantity. The sum of the scores of each level provides the Corporate Environment, Health and Safety audits to review total Merck Waste Score. our waste management approach and programs. We regularly inform and educate our local EHS managers and site In 2017, we plan on using this system to assess waste directors on various waste disposal issues in an effort to disposal Group-wide. This assessment will help us define a ensure Group-wide compliance with our environmental stantarget for the Merck Waste Score and gauge the progress of dards. our waste management efforts. Our Group-wide EHS standard “Waste Management” Responsibility for entire waste disposal process provides a consistent framework for waste management across all our sites, defining organizational structures and As a generator of waste, we are responsible for the final minimum requirements. In line with this standard, all facildisposal of our waste products and therefore choose our ities document their waste by type and quantity, reporting service providers with the utmost care, contractually stipthis data to EQ. ulating disposal requirements. Each of our vendors must be able to prove that they have properly discarded our The Merck Waste Scoring System waste. We conduct regular audits to ensure that our waste is disposed of in an appropriate fashion, especially in the case At Merck, we use several methods for recycling and disposing of hazardous substances. of waste. In an attempt to better manage our various waste streams, in 2016 we developed the Merck Waste Scoring Progress System, which is based on a five-level waste hierarchy: Decline in waste generated 1. Waste prevention The amount of waste we produced in 2016 dropped 2. Materials recycling to 254 metric kilotons, versus 317 metric kilotons in 2015. 3. Waste-to-energy This sharp decrease is primarily attributable to lower quan4. Thermal disposal tities of construction and demolition waste, which continued 5. Landfill to account for the majority of our total waste – 30% in 2016 and 49% in 2015. In particular, the remodeling of our Group headquarters in Darmstadt has generated large quantities of In terms of the resource footprint of the waste, it progressuch waste material. sively worsens from level one through level five. Waste prevention is the best, most desired form of waste manageEmployees help separate trash ment as it avoids using raw materials and prevents negative environmental impacts. Materials recycling allows raw mateAt our site in Molsheim, France, we implemented a recycling rials contained in the waste to be recovered. Depending on system over five years ago and have been continuously the waste type, this process saves significant quantities of refining it ever since. This facility performs function testing raw materials and energy even though it somewhat reduces and lab tests that regularly produce large quantities of waste. product quality (downcycling). Waste-to-energy is the In response, our local EHS officers have developed a trash conversion of non-recyclable waste materials into usable separation system, conducted training and enhanced the heat, electricity, or fuel through a variety of processes. necessary processes. Today, employees at this site separate Power generation through waste incineration plants, which up to ten different types of waste, allowing more than five reduce the use of fossil fuels, is a perfect example. Waste metric tons of plastic to be recycled per year. for disposal is either incinerated or sent to landfills, making it impossible to recover raw materials. 60% less solvent used Each individual type of waste – plastic, paper, metal, glass, In the 2015-2016 period, our site in Shizuoka, Japan started hazardous waste, etc. – requires individual evaluation. using special plastic liners in our containers for specialty chemicals. This change considerably reduced the required amount of an acetic ester derivative that had previously been Merck Waste Score as a performance indicator utilized as a solvent to clean the containers. As a result, In 2016, we created the Merck Waste Score to help us quanthis facility is saving 70 metric tons of this solvent per year, tify the resource conservation target for our waste streams representing a 60% reduction of the acetic ester derivative and compare the amount of waste our sites are producing. used for washing processes at this site. Under this system, each site's waste is allocated a score for each of the five steps of the waste hierarchy. This score is 83 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment Shizuoka reduces filter waste Recycling process saves on solvent In 2015, we switched the multi-step filter process for At our facility in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, we implemented a recyphotoresists at our Shizuoka site in Japan to a single-step cling process for the solvent diisopentyl ether in 2012, which process. Instead of requiring several filters, the process now we have since worked to continuously improve. Thanks to uses only one, thus decreasing filter waste by 70%. In 2016, this effort, we recycled 88% of the solvent used in 2016. we introduced the single-filter process at our facilities in Within four years, we thus saved approximately 200 metric Hsinchu, Taiwan, and Suzhou, China, where we eliminated tons of solvent waste and more than € 2 million. We have 50% of our filter waste at each site. We are currently invesintroduced a similar recycling process at Kaohsiung for the tigating whether we can implement the new filter process at solvents acetone and pentane. other facilities as well. Water management An increasing number of regions across the globe are facing For our sustainable water management efforts, we use an potable water supply issues. At our sites, we too are depenassessment tool of the European Chemical Industry Council dent on a reliable supply of water that meets certain quality (CEFIC) to evaluate water management practices and standards. We use water in our manufacturing operations progress at our sites. Based on this assessment, our facilities as process water as well as for functions such as cooling draft a list of steps that need to be taken and implement and exhaust air purification, which makes sustainable water them one at a time. management a key focus of our environmental stewardship (p. 77). Because our wastewater may contain traces of heavy But we also encourage efficient water management at facilmetals or pharmaceutical active ingredients, protecting ities in areas of low or moderate water stress, which is water as a resource is one of our primary considerations. why we are continuously expanding our best practice sharing platform for water management projects. Through this Our principles medium, our EHS officers can share ideas and lessons learned. Reducing use, minimizing impacts Reducing water use We seek to lower our water use, especially in those regions where water is growing ever scarcer. At the same time, it is Sites in areas of high water stress must transparently report our responsibility to minimize the impact of our wastewater their water use and identify the process steps that require a across all our sites. particularly high amount. We then define measures to help our individual facilities reduce their water use. The Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ), which is in charge of environmental stewOur production sites in Mexico City (Mexico), Mollet del Vallès ardship, bears overall responsibility for water management. (Spain), Kankakee, IL (USA), and Norwood, OH (USA) are At our individual sites, technicians collaborate closely with located in areas of high water stress and consume more our Environment, Health and Safety managers on implethan 30,000 cubic meters of water per year. Furthermore, menting measures to reduce water use and furthermore our facilities in Savannah, GA (USA), Hsinchu (Taiwan) and receive regular training from EQ. Taoyuan (Taiwan) are at increased risk due to the local groundwater shortage or seasonal water scarcity. At each of Sustainable water management these sites, we aim to reduce water use by 10% by 2020, relative to the 2014 baseline. We systematically analyze our water use data utilizing tools such as the Water Risk Filter of the World Wide Fund For Water Protection standard Nature (WWF) and the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas of the World Resources Institute (WRI). These tools help us deterOur processes and responsibility for clean wastewater are mine whether a site is located in areas of high water stress, defined in our EHS Water Protection standard, which is based meaning regions where water consumption exceeds the on the commitments we've made under Responsible Care®. supply. At the beginning of 2016, we set the goal of impleIn line with this global initiative, all our sites are required to menting a sustainable water management system at sites measure and assess the risks and impacts of the hazardous with high consumption levels by 2020. substances in their wastewater. 84 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment We regularly conduct internal audits to check compliance residue in our wastewater as much as possible. All pharmawith our EHS Water Protection standard. Our Group-wide ISO ceutical manufacturing facilities also have wastewater treat14001-certified environmental management system (p. 77) ment plants in place and regularly measure the composition also covers aspects of water management, with a greater of their wastewater. focus on manufacturing sites than administrative facilities. Progress Minimizing residues Water from our own sources We seek to minimize the residues in our wastewater. In support of this goal, all our sites develop and implement a For the most part, we draw groundwater from our own water pollution response plan. wells and drinking water from local suppliers. We never do anything to compromise sensitive water sources. Our EHS Water Protection standard particularly focuses on trace residues that impact the environment. For instance, In the 2015-2016 period, our water use was broken down as we are optimizing production and purification processes to follows: reduce the amount of pharmaceutical active ingredient Water consumption (millions of m3) 13.6 13.7 7.0 7.2 6.3 5.3 1.2 0.03 0.3 0.01 2015 2016 Rain water and Surface water Drinking water Groundwater other sources (rivers, lakes) (from local suppliers) For the most part, our cooling water for production processes in Savannah, GA (USA) without the use of nitrates. Thanks runs in a circular system. Depending on regulatory stanto this innovation, we no longer utilize hazardous materials dards, we sometimes use fresh water in a once-through such as nitrate and nitric oxide and have reduced water cooling system if it improves our energy footprint. For certain usage by approximately 85%, meaning 21,500 cubic meters applications, we treat production wastewater and reuse it. per year. At our Hsinchu site in Taiwan, we started recycling In 2015, we reused 23.0 million cubic meters of water, with HVAC water condensate in 2015, enabling us to reduce water 22.7 million cubic meters reused in 2016. usage by 5% per year in the 2015-2016 period. In 2016, we thus saved more than 1,300 cubic meters of water. Water stewardship Our facility in Kankakee, IL (USA) also uses a great deal of At the end of 2015, we developed a new process that enables water. In 2015 and 2016, we achieved approximate savings bismuth oxychloride products to be manufactured at our site of 30% by optimizing our own fresh water treatment plant. 85 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment We also implement measures to minimize our negative and approximately 263,000 cubic meters of liquefied gas impacts at sites that are not located in high water stress (around 57% less). regions. Our manufacturing facilities in India abide by a zero discharge policy that requires used water to first be treated Wastewater continuously monitored before being allowed to drain back into the soil. Furthermore, our Goa site collects rain water and lets it seep back into the In 2015 and 2016, our wastewater management activities soil as well, a process that has enabled us to stop the water were continuously monitored and reviewed in line with our level there from sinking further. Water Protection standard. As such, 77 internal EHS audits were conducted, as were 18 external ISO 14001 certification China: Simultaneously reducing energy and water audits. A project at our site in Suzhou, China shows how the In 2016, we generated 12.1 million cubic meters of wasteconsumption of different resources can be interconnected. water, with 11.8 million cubic meters in 2015. The wasteThrough a single measure, we have cut down the water water generated at our Darmstadt site is treated in our and energy used for recycling a solvent mixture by distillastate-of-the-art treatment plants before being fed into tion. We leave a portion of the water in the solvent mixture Schwarzbach-Ried Creek, a tributary of the Rhine River. In that would otherwise have to be discarded as wastewater. 2016, we discharged a volume of water representing approxIn doing so, we have reduced wastewater by nearly 633,000 imately 5% of the average annual discharge of Schwarzbachcubic meters per year, which represents a 66% decrease Ried Creek. We continuously work to meet the increasingly in wastewater. When customers reuse the solvent mixture, stringent quality regulations set forth by law, regularly coorthey need not add more water, creating additional water dinating our efforts with the respective authorities. In the savings. This change furthermore allowed us to save more 2015-2016 period, we did not discharge any other wastethan 390,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity (around 22% less) water into bodies of water. Plant and process safety The safety of our plants and processes is a key element Safety requirements of our environmental sustainability efforts. This approach allows us to ensure the safety of our workforce as well as the All sites are subject to the same requirements for plant and people in the vicinity of our sites. Functional safety systems process safety set out by our Group-wide EHS Plant and also help minimize production errors, which in turn reduces Process Safety standard, which describes the safety rules the risk of economic losses. for all production plants and warehouses. These requirements encompass the entire life cycle of a plant, from cradle to grave. Before we commission a plant, we draft a safety Our principles concept that is continuously updated until the facility is decommissioned. This concept contains an overview of Preventing disruptions potential risks and the corresponding protective measures. We seek to eliminate as many manufacturing hazards as In the 2015-2016 period, we started implementing our Plant possible to prevent workplace accidents, production outages, and Process Safety standard for Sigma-Aldrich sites as well, and chemical leaks. We attempt to detect technical defects with completion expected in the course of 2017. before they have a chance to cause damage. By providing training for our employees, we prevent human errors as Minimizing risk much as possible. Our Group-wide EHS Spillage Control standard governs the handling of hazardous materials and stipulates organizational Group-wide organization measures to prevent toxic substances from spilling or leaking Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, during storage and transport. In addition to this standard, Quality (EQ) is in charge of environmental stewardship and our Risk Management Process guides all our sites in idensafety worldwide, and oversees plant and process safety at tifying and assessing risks. As needed, this process can be Merck. At the operational level, responsibility for plant and used to develop and implement measures to minimize such process safety falls to our individual sites and their EHS risks. In 2016, we conducted our Group Procedure Hazard managers. Our local EHS organizations report to and work and Operability Study, which clearly defined the individual hand in hand with EQ. responsible for identifying potential hazards during a project 86 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment as well as the manner in which risks should be identified and deviations identified during external reviews and audits documented. Training employees The calculation of the EHS Incident Rate includes the number of incidents and the severity of the accident relative to the The safety of our plants and processes is predicated on the number of man-hours worked. The lower the EHS Incident successful interaction between man and machine, which is Rate, the safer the site is. why it's crucial for us to educate our employees and provide them with regular training. Our internal continuing education Learning from incidents across all sites programs for site, production, engineering, and EHS officers also cover plant and process safety. Likewise, newly hired It is important to share best practices and lessons learned, EHS managers are trained in plant and process safety during an approach that enables all our production sites to learn their onboarding. from the incidents at other facilities and thereby implement preventive measures. For instance, once a month, site direcLegislative changes tors and EHS managers participate in safety leadership calls to share new lessons learned. The EU Directive adopted in 2012 on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances (aka Progress Seveso III) was transposed into German law at the end of 2016. In 2017, we will therefore be updating existing Steady decline in accident rate processes and documents on the assessment and communication of potential hazards in production plants and wareOur EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR) indicates that the number houses. of accidents within our company is steadily sinking. In 2015, our EHS IR was 4.3, with 3.4 in 2016. Making safety measurable Spills without significant adverse effects Through our EHS performance indicators, we make it possible to measure safety and thus identify opportunities Across all production, research and storage sites, we for improvement. We track EHS performance indicators at recorded a total of 32 incident-related spills in 2015 and 41 all production and warehouse facilities, as well as at major incident-related spills in 2016, none of which led to signifiresearch sites such as Chilworth (UK) and Billerica, MA cant environmental pollution. (USA). In doing so, we record both accidents and nearaccidents. We investigate each individual incident before Taking countermeasures after a malfunction devising appropriate countermeasures in an effort to prevent such accidents in the future. In February 2015, a filter fire in a pigment production facility in Gernsheim led to damage costing millions of euros. We For instance, since 2013 we have been tracking the EHS Inciinvestigated the incident and, as a preventive measure, dent Rate, an indicator that synthesizes the following four installed a temperature monitoring system for the filter inner categories of data: area of all pigment production lines at the site. We are now better equipped to promptly detect when the production lines the number of workplace accidents involving Merck grow unusually hot. employees and contractors who work at our sites environmentally relevant incidents as defined by the EuroTraining new personnel pean Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) and the German In 2016, 25 new employees, primarily from Sigma-Aldrich, Chemical Industry Association (VCI), for instance product took part in our onboarding process, where they received spills training on many topics, including plant and process safety. the activation of operational safety precautions that do not The U.S.-based EHS managers from Sigma-Aldrich particihave an adverse impact on people and the environment, pated in a separate onboarding process in the United States. such as a preemptive systems shutdown 87 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Environment Biodiversity The increasing loss of biodiversity is a global challenge that up in the ecosystem. Our goal is to increase the percentage impacts our company as well. After all, we depend on ecosysof unsealed surfaces insofar as safety requirements permit. tems for natural resources such as raw materials. A prime example from our Healthcare business sector is comfrey root Environmental risk assessment for acquisitions extract, which is used in our Kytta® pain relief cream. We therefore have a vested interest in preserving and promoting Our production sites are located in established industrial and biodiversity. commercial zones. Our principles Before acquiring a company, we first investigate ecological risks, taking into consideration information from public Holistic approach to conserving biodiversity sources such as neighbors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The results of the investigation influence Our wide array of environmental sustainability efforts, such whether we decide in favor of the acquisition. Most recently, as water management (p. 84) and climate impact mitigation we conducted such risk assessments for the acquisitions of (p. 79), directly contribute to the conservation of biodiverAZ Electronic Materials and Sigma-Aldrich. sity. Representing part of our commitment to environmental stewardship (p. 77), our measures to protect biodiversity are overseen by our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Implementing the Nagoya Protocol Security, Quality (EQ). The Nagoya Protocol is an international supplementary agreement to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity Across all our sites, we take into consideration the unique (CBD). Its aim is to implement one of the three objectives features of the ecosystems in our immediate vicinity with the of the CBD, namely the fair and equitable sharing of benefits goal of minimizing our direct impacts as far as possible. arising from genetic resources, with the other two convention objectives being the conservation of biological diversity (or Designing with biodiversity in mind biodiversity) and the sustainable use of its components. In October 2015, the Nagoya Protocol was transposed into Substances that could compromise biodiversity should not be German law. We are currently reviewing our processes in discharged into the environment, which is why we design and preparation to implement the new legislation within our Life operate our plants in accordance with our Group-wide safety Science business sector. and environmental requirements. For instance, our Corporate Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) standards define Progress the manner in which we manage waste (p. 82) and wastewater (p. 84) treatment as well as improve plant safety (p. Biodiversity conservation at our sites 86). Our Darmstadt site is a prime example of our commitment to In designing new sites and plants, we always include our preserving biodiversity. Since 2016, we've been conducting EHS unit to ensure that ecological aspects are also taken into an assessment of our facilities in both Darmstadt and Gernconsideration. sheim to evaluate their nature conservation efforts. The results will help us develop an action plan for improving the surrounding ecosystem for plants and animals. 30% of Minimizing surface sealing the premises (0.4 square kilometers) have already been Unsealed surfaces represent an important habitat for plants greened. In 1995, we developed a green open space concept and animals. At our facilities, however, we are required to for our Darmstadt site, while a 2008 agreement with the seal certain surfaces to minimize the risk of chemicals ending city of Darmstadt stipulates how nature conservation is to be integrated into the land use of our site. 88 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Suppliers Suppliers We take on responsibility for our supply chain, expecting all our suppliers to adhere to our compliance, environmental and social standards. Our approach to supplier management focuses on more than just quality, delivery reliability and competitive pricing – for us, compliance with fundamental environmental and social standards is also key. To achieve this, we have implemented commensurate strategies, processes and guidelines that we consistently work to improve. Our objective is to prevent violations of our standards in the supply chain. Read More 90 Supply chain standards 93 Mica supply chain 89 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Suppliers Supply chain standards Merck requires numerous raw materials, packaging mateOrganization and responsibilities rials, technical products, components, and services, which we procure from more than 70,000 suppliers across 130 Our Group function Procurement is responsible for intecountries. grating corporate responsibility requirements into each stage of our sourcing and supplier management processes. An office within Group Procurement coordinates all relevant Our principles measures, such as regularly updating our guidelines, revising existing processes and coordinating our participation in Supplier management industrial initiatives. Our Procurement employees in all counOur supplier management aims to maintain fundamental tries receive training on our guidelines and processes. environmental and social standards – as well as high quality, delivery reliability and competitive pricing. To this end, we If the legal framework is modified, we incorporate these have introduced strategies, processes and guidelines that we changes and, if necessary, initiate the appropriate measures. continuously improve to prevent violations of our standards A recent example is the UK Modern Slavery Act (p. 14) 2015, in the supply chain. which requires all companies with a certain turnover in the United Kingdom to produce a statement detailing the steps We assign our vendors a risk category, taking into account they are taking to address slavery and human trafficking in their country risk, product category and the share of their their business. We intend to issue our first such statement in sales that come from Merck. In doing so, we pay particular 2017. attention to suppliers from non-OECD countries as we consider vendors in these countries to be at higher risk of Supplier monitoring: TfS membership disregarding environmental and social standards. In 2014, we joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, which provides extensive supplier assessments via Guidelines establishing supplier requirements its EcoVadis platform. We encourage our vendors to be We expect all our suppliers and service providers to uphold assessed by EcoVadis and now have access to the assessour environmental and social standards, which are primarily ments of more than 670 of our key suppliers – 400 of derived from the core labor standards of the International which we initiated. Suppliers are assessed either on selfLabour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global Compact. reported and publicly accessible information or via audit. Since joining this initiative, 26 Merck-initiated TfS audits have been conducted on our vendors. After first impleAs well as these standards, we also support the Compliance menting the TfS methodology for our raw material suppliers, Initiative of the German Association for Supply Chain we have now expanded it to all our procurement activities, Management, Procurement and Logistics (BME), which is including consultancy services, information technology and committed to promoting compliant procurement practices. logistics services. We are currently developing a method to Moreover, we have signed the BME Code of Conduct, which systematically incorporate TfS results when evaluating and sets out rules for combating corruption, antitrust violations choosing vendors. and child labor, as well as for upholding human rights, protecting the environment and promoting fair working conditions. FAST FACT Our Group Procurement Policy stipulates our expectations of our suppliers and specifies how we monitor compliance with our standards. This policy reflects both internal and external TFS INITIATIVE guidelines, such as the Merck Code of Conduct, the Merck The TfS initiative was launched in 2011 by Human Rights Charter, our EHS Policy (Environment, Health companies in the chemical industry and aims to and Safety Policy), ISO 14001 (an environmental managesystematically assess and improve sustainability ment standard), and the BME Code of Conduct. practices within global supply chains, with a focus on ecological and social aspects. The results of In the Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles, we define what the supplier assessments are shared among we require of our suppliers in terms of corporate responsimember companies in compliance with all restricbility and obligate them to apply these standards to their own tions stipulated by competition law. vendors. The Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles are integrated Group-wide with our general terms and conditions. 90 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Suppliers Conducting our own risk-based audits Giving preference to local suppliers for certain products In addition to the TfS audits, we also conduct our own annual CR audits on select suppliers based on the potential risk We have no internal guidelines stipulating that preference be they pose. To do so, we assign our vendors a risk categiven to local suppliers in allocating contracts. We generally gory based on their country risk, product category and sales. procure our goods and services globally, depending on availWe generally assign higher risk categories to suppliers from ability and price. For instance, the availability of production non-OECD countries. Regardless of their OECD status, we technology across production sites plays a role and means also audit vendors who show evidence of non-compliance that not all products are equally available in each country. with our requirements. However, in some cases local vendors do have an advantage. Any deviations from the Merck Responsible Sourcing PrinciProducts bought locally may be less expensive as additional ples or from national statutory requirements identified during transport costs are eliminated. This is often the case with an audit are classified as critical, major or minor. We provide packaging materials. Country-specific regulations such as suppliers with a report detailing the audit results, and the import duties and licenses also help us decide whether to audit team additionally sets a timeline for follow-up audits. source our goods locally or globally. Furthermore, in some countries statutory provisions require contracts to be When an audit reveals non-conformances, we require the awarded to regional suppliers, which especially applies in the vendor to present a corrective action plan that describes pharmaceutical industry. the steps needed to address these issues. Regarding defects classified as critical or major, we also check whether the Global procurement corresponding corrective action has been taken. If the problems are not sufficiently rectified, we consider terminating All goods and services purchased in 2015 totaled around the business relationship. € 5.2 billion, with € 6.5 billion in 2016 (including SigmaAldrich). Of the goods and services (including R&D services) procured in 2016, we purchased 48% from suppliers based FAST FACT in EU countries and 37% from vendors in OECD countries outside the EU. The share of goods and services sourced from non-OECD countries outside the EU decreased from 15% in 2015 to 14% in 2016. DEFECT CLASSIFICATION Critical defects: Any defect rated as critical must be rectified or mitigated as soon as possible. The supplier must submit a corrective action plan to Merck within one week of receiving the audit report. Major defects: For major defects, the supplier must respond and submit a corrective action plan within one month of receiving the audit report. Minor defects: Minor defects do not require a formal corrective action plan, nor do we monitor implementation of the corresponding corrective actions. 91 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Suppliers Share of overall goods and services purchased 14 % Non-OECD countries outside the EU 37 % 48 % OECD countries EU countries outside the EU Progress fied. We have not yet performed these assessments on new suppliers. Recent audit results Supplier workshops on CR standards In addition to TfS audits, we also conducted four risk-based CR audits in 2015 and three in 2016, in which we assessed We aim to build long-term relationships with our suppliers our suppliers according to environmental and social criteria. and endeavor to support them in adhering to our standards. The non-conformances identified as having an environmental In line with this ethos, in 2016 we ran a workshop for our impact were related to exceeding emissions limits and the vendors in China that covered topics such as quality requiredisposal of waste. In terms of social aspects, in one case ments as well as our CR and EHS standards. Moreover, we there was no clear evidence to prove that minimum wages also take part in local and regional supplier workshops orgahad been paid. To address these findings, we worked with nized by the TfS initiative. One such workshop was held in the relevant suppliers to define a course of action and Brazil in 2015, while another took place in India in 2016. checked whether the corresponding improvements had been made. Owing to the identified defects, we had to sever our relationships with two suppliers. Our audits found no indiGood EcoVadis rating cation of infringements of freedom of association or collecAs a member of the TfS industry initiative, we encourage our tive agreements, nor any form of child, forced or compulsory suppliers to be assessed by the independent rating agency labor. EcoVadis. We too have been evaluated by EcoVadis and in 2016 were awarded a gold medal for our sustainability Supplier assessments performance. At 75 out of 100 points, we are among the top 5% of all companies rated. EcoVadis assesses suppliers In conducting TfS supplier assessments in 2015 and 2016, from 101 countries and 150 sectors across the four catewe focused our efforts on the CR performance of key existing gories of Environment, Labor Practices, Fair Business Pracsuppliers, identifying possible adverse impacts for 45 tices, and Sustainable Procurement. Our holistic environvendors. In 20 cases, the issues pertained to environmental mental management system and clear guidelines on human impacts, in 38 to labor practices and human rights, and in rights earned especially high marks. This excellent score also 14 to impacts on local communities and society as a whole. benefits our business, as customers who value corporate Some suppliers had multiple issues. In 2017 we’re impleresponsibility are increasingly inquiring after such assessmenting measures to address the negative impacts identiments. 92 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Suppliers Mica supply chain We utilize mica as a primary raw material in effect pigment their children. This is a clear violation of our Values and production. These pigments are then used in automotive and the principles of our Human Rights Charter. We do not industrial coatings, as well as in the cosmetics and food tolerate child labor and, as a signatory to the United Nations industries. Mica naturally occurs in many countries around Global Compact, are actively working to end this practice. the world. We mainly procure our mica from India, where it is We require all our suppliers to act accordingly and as such mined in the states of Jharkhand and Bihar. Plagued by politprohibit child labor in our contracts. ical instability and poverty, child labor is widespread in this region, so we’ve taken special measures to ensure compliWe have made a conscious decision to maintain our business ance with our environmental and social standards. relationships in the north of India and are taking on responsibility for this region by safeguarding jobs there. To ensure Our principles that the mica we procure has been mined without the use of child labor, we have completely overhauled our supply chain, Responsibility in the mica supply chain only sourcing this raw material from regulated mines. This formal work environment is the only way to ensure compliDuring a study conducted in 2008, we discovered that people ance with our standards, as we cannot rule out the use of in Jharkhand and Bihar were collecting mica from the tailings child labor for mica collected in publicly accessible areas. of abandoned mines or off the ground – sometimes with Governance of the mica supply chain Process steered by Merck Legal mines that are also certified Processor by Merck We maintain direct contact both with the mine operators and Conducting audits the mica processing plants, which is why we have set up an office in Jharkhand. Through this proximity to our business To ensure that all mines and processing plants comply with partners, we can better educate them on our social and enviour requirements regarding environmental stewardship, ronmental standards as well as monitor adherence to them. safety and labor standards, we monitor the practices of Local mine owners and processing plants help us keep the our business partners. In addition to comprehensive audits mica supply chain free of child labor. announced in advance, surprise checks also take place. Once a month, for instance, the local organization IGEP performs unannounced investigations into the working standards in the mines, monitoring work safety and ensuring compliance 93 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Suppliers with the ban on child labor. Moreover, the international Finding new mica sources in other countries organization Environmental Resources Management (ERM) performs annual audits that review working conditions, as We have found additional sources of mica outside of India well as environmental, health and safety standards. Audit that meet our stringent quality, social and environmental reports are compiled to document any identified issues and standards. Now, for example, part of our mica volume is specify corrective action. Our employees in Jharkhand then supplied by companies in Brazil, and we also have access make sure that the issues have been resolved. to a certified source in the United States. In this way, we are ensuring the availability of this raw material over the long term and avoiding potential supply bottlenecks. FurtherTracking system to guarantee certified origin more, to provide an alternative to pigments based on natural Using a tracking system, we ensure that the mica supplied mica, we also manufacture effect pigments based on to us does not come from unregulated sources, but instead synthetic substrates. exclusively from legally operated mines that have undergone our certification process. All mine owners have a logbook in Progress which they record the daily amount of mica produced in their mines. These records provide the basis for the license fees Business relationship with a supplier ended that they pay to the government. Were they to use mica from an unregulated source, they would also have to pay license The international organization Environmental Resources fees for the additional amounts. Such a practice would be Management (ERM) conducted six audits in early 2016. At uneconomical, as it would cost more than the mica from their the time of the audit, 90% of the necessary corrective own mine. Every month, we crosscheck the amounts of mica measures specified in previous audits had already been taken recorded in the logbooks and delivered to processing units. or were still being implemented. The defects identified were primarily related to occupational safety precautions and gaps in the implementation of management systems. However, we Community outreach in the mica supply chain terminated our business relations with one of our suppliers The states of Jharkhand and Bihar are among the most because they failed to carry out the required corrective impoverished regions in India. In partnership with IGEP, we action in a satisfactory manner. are working to improve the living conditions of the families in the mica mining regions. According to a 2016 study by the In 2015 and 2016, IGEP performed monthly unannounced international organizations Terre des Hommes and Stichting inspections of our mica suppliers. These efforts revealed Onderzoek Multinationale Ondernemingen, the literacy rate improvements in the management processes of our vendors, and the number of children who go to school there are such as occupational safety and regular updating of imporfar below the national average. In an effort to remedy this tant documentation. Our suppliers also provided the situation, we are running three schools in Jharkhand with requested training courses for their employees. Overall, no adjoining nursery schools, as well as two vocational training relevant deviations from our standards were noted. centers for tailoring and carpentry. More than 500 children and young people are now enrolled at these institutions. At Stakeholder dialogue on the mica supply chain a fourth school opened by one of our mica suppliers in 2014, we also provide scholarships for 150 children, with plans to We keep interested customers and other stakeholders reguincrease this number to 200 in 2017. larly informed on our mica sourcing activities. The employees in our Jharkhand office are in contact with our project partIn addition to our education efforts, we are also committed ners and other advocacy groups, as well as local and national to improving access to healthcare. To this end, in 2010 we authorities. In February 2016, we attended the Mica Summit established a health center operated by IGEP to serve the in Delhi, hosted by the Natural Resources Stewardship Circle region’s 20,000 residents. The facility has two doctors and (NRSC). As a partner of this initiative, we also helped to a nurse, who also provide health services at schools. Previorganize the event. Following this summit, we have become ously there was no healthcare of any kind in this region. involved in the Responsible Mica Initiative, also established by the NRSC, which aims to improve the traceability of mica in the supply chain and sustain the natural environments of the communities living in mica mining regions. 94 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Community Community We take on responsibility for the community, focusing our resources primarily on those areas where we can leverage our expertise to achieve the most. We are part of the community, which makes corporate responsibility an integral pillar of our culture. Our efforts focus primarily on health, culture and education. We provide disaster relief in emergency situations, especially in those regions in which we operate. Read More 96 Community involvement 100 Culture & education 97 Health 95 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Community Community involvement We take on responsibility for the community in those areas Progress where we can leverage our expertise to achieve the most. In particular, we support health, culture and education projects Partnership with the German Red Cross in the vicinity of our sites and in the countries where we operate. Moreover, we provide disaster relief in emergency In April 2015, we entered into a three-year partnership with situations. the German Red Cross (DRK) that aims to provide quick and straightforward assistance in the event of a catastrophe. In December 2015, for instance, we donated € 50,000 to run Our principles medical emergency stations in refugee camps in Lebanon in an effort to fight local causes for fleeing and support the Organization and management people in these regions. Our Group function Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility coordinates our Group-wide community involvement Supporting refugees and manages global projects, reporting directly to the Executive Board. In addition, our business sectors and subsidiaries In response to the rapidly increasing numbers of refugees, initiate their own projects, choosing for themselves the we rendered aid at various sites in 2015. Our subsidiary spheres of activity within our CR strategy that they would like in Austria, for example, donated € 19,000 in medicines and to support. medical equipment to relief organizations and emergency accommodation for refugees. Moreover, we also supported The Merck family, too, has long been committed to causes such as hospitals in Lebanon by providing medical addressing social issues. Their activities fall under the expertise, and Iraqi cancer patients by sending free mediumbrella of the Merck Family Foundation. cines. In October 2016 – based on our “Start in die Ausbildung” Framework for our projects program – we launched the “Integrating refugees through Our individual business sectors and subsidiaries align their training” program in Darmstadt to support people forced projects with our Group-wide Responsibility for the Commuto flee their home countries. This initiative is preparing 12 nity Policy, which emphasizes that our activities should have young people for vocational training and thus for the German a positive effect on the community. That is why we mainly labor market. The project comprises linguistic, technical, promote long-term initiatives through which we seek to cultural, and career-related training. strengthen our relationship with our stakeholders and reinforce our social license to operate. Our apprentices, too, have helped out. In November 2015, for instance, 88 of them renovated refugee accommodations in Darmstadt. As part of our Merck Rest Cents campaign, Our community involvement in numbers we also donated € 20,000 to build a playground in front of In 2016, our subsidiaries were involved in 197 projects, while the housing facility, along with € 3,500 to create a mobile in 2015 they were involved in 138. In 2016, we spent a total studio that will be used for art therapy. Moreover, we offered of around € 43 million (€ 100 million in 2015). This figure the use of our gym for the activities of clubs and schools in does not include initiatives that primarily serve to market our Darmstadt that have made their own gymnasiums available products. to accommodate refugees. Employees at our various sites have also organized their own initiatives and in the last two years have continually been collecting donations of supplies and cash for refugees. 96 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Community FAST FACT FAST FACT MERCK REST CENTS PROGRAM RAKS THAI FOUNDATION For 28 years, many of our employees in Germany A local branch of the global humanitarian organihave been donating the cents or euros from their zation CARE International, the Raks Thai Foundapayslips. We double the total amount at the end tion deploys development programs in the most of the year and give the money to charitable impoverished regions of northern and southern organizations in the region. In 2016, we raised Thailand. The aim of these programs is to more than € 90,000 together with our employees. empower people to earn their own income while still safeguarding their natural resources. Award-winning efforts in Thailand China: Award for school water project Our site in Thailand is a shining example of how our subsidiaries take on corporate responsibility in their commuAs part of the School Water Project, our employees in China nities. For ten years, our employees there have been teach children at six primary schools about the environment supporting the reforestation of rain forests through the and clean water, educating around 400 school children per “Together we Grow” project. In 2015, for instance, 300 year. At the same time, we support the schools by providing employees planted around 10,000 trees in just one day. drinking water purification systems. In 2016, this project Moreover, we have been partnering with the Raks Thai Founwon the More than a Market Award from the German dation since 2002. We support several of the foundation’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Shanghai, China. In projects, such as an initiative to teach sustainable rice recognition of our efforts, we also received the EU Chamber farming methods. In 2015, we received the Asia Corporate CSR Award in 2015. Excellence and Sustainability Award (ACES Award) in the sustainability category, in honor of our many years of purposeful commitment in Thailand. Health We support health initiatives around the world. While our We realize that we’re not going to eliminate this insidious efforts are particularly focused on eliminating the neglected disease with tablets alone. That is why we launched the tropical disease schistosomiasis, we are also involved in the Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) at the end of 2014, to fight against counterfeit medicines in developing countries. address the remaining gaps in the fight against schistosomiasis. Its founding members include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Schistosomiasis Control Initiative, the United Our principles States Agency for International Development (USAID), and Fighting schistosomiasis World Vision International. More than 200 million people in Africa suffer from the tropical Within the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, a partnership worm disease schistosomiasis. It is estimated that more than we initiated, we are currently working on the development of 280,000 people die per year as a result of this parasitic infeca pediatric formulation of praziquantel for children under six tion. (p. 37). Moreover, we are supporting educational campaigns at schools in Africa. Using comic booklets and posters, we In the 1970s, we developed the active ingredient praziteach children about the causes of schistosomiasis along with quantel as part of a joint research partnership. It is the ways to prevent the disease. only active ingredient with which all forms of schistosomiasis can be treated. Since 2007, we have been donating praziFighting counterfeit medicines quantel tablets to the World Health Organization (WHO), up to 250 million per year depending on need. Interpol estimates that up to 30% of all medicines in developing countries are illegal, counterfeit or substandard – and thus pose a deadly hazard. 97 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Community The Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), a non-profit initiaHealth projects worldwide tive funded by our company, is dedicated to fighting counterfeit medicines. As part of its efforts, the GPHF has developed Our subsidiaries also support health efforts around the world. the Minilab, a portable, compact laboratory in a tropicsThese projects primarily focus on supporting the developresistant suitcase. This kit can detect counterfeit medicines ment of local healthcare systems, providing vocational quickly, easily and inexpensively, and enables trained training and continuing education for medical professionals, personnel to check medicines for external abnormalities, and raising public health awareness. identity and contents. There is currently no other product like it. The GPHF provides the Minilabs at cost. Progress The majority of Minilabs are deployed in countries in Africa Schistosomiasis: 100 million children treated and Asia. These test kits are primarily utilized by national health agencies – often in partnership with the labs of In 2016, we donated more than 200 million praziquantel governmental drug inspection centers or within multilateral tablets to WHO for distribution across 33 African countries. health initiatives led by various UN organizations (including Since starting the program, we have supplied WHO with WHO, UNOPS, UNICEF), U.S. and German aid organizations more than 500 million tablets free of charge. In total, this (for example USAID, PQM/USP, PFSCM, GIZ), the Global has enabled the treatment of over 100 million patients, Fund (GFATM), and faith-based networks (EPN, Difäm). primarily school children. Alone or in collaboration with international partners, the Global Pharma Health Fund also trains local health workers to correctly perform the tests using the Minilabs. Number of praziquantel tablets donated to WHO (millions) 200 100 75* 50 12 25 25 27 22.5 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * In 2014, Merck produced around 75 million tablets, 72.2 million of which were supplied to 20 African countries by the year's end, a collaborative effort with the World Health Organization. Beyond donating medicine, we are also working on the develGlobal effort to fight schistosomiasis opment of a new formulation of praziquantel (p. 37) so that children under the age of six can also receive treatment, a Since its establishment in 2014, the Global Schistosomiasis currently unmet need. To this end, we launched a Phase II Alliance (GSA) has become the central platform in the fight study in Ivory Coast in 2016. against this parasitic infection. In various working groups, the members of the alliance are developing projects to eliminate the disease in Sub-Saharan Africa. In October 2015, for instance, the GSA held a conference in Cotonou, Benin to step up the dialogue between NTD (neglected tropical 98 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Community diseases) project managers in endemic countries. Moreover, Counterfeit medicines: Expanding Minilab use in collaboration with China’s National Institute of Parasitic Diseases, the GSA Research Group hosted a meeting of interIn 2016, the Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), a non-profit national schistosomiasis experts in June 2016. initiative funded by our company, developed testing methods for five additional active ingredients. As of 2017, the Minilab With its website and social media presence, the GSA has also can now test 85 active ingredients, ranging from antimalardeveloped a successful communication platform. In 2015, ials and antibiotics, to analgesics and antipyretics. for instance, the digital campaign Something in the Water managed to create greater awareness for schistosomiasis Since 1998, the GPHF has supplied 795 Minilabs to 95 counand went on to win six prizes, namely the German Digital tries at cost, 109 of which were provided in 2015 and 2016 Award, the German Brand Award, the Econ Special Award, alone. 80% went to nations in Sub-Saharan Africa. Of the all of which are Germany-based, the European silver People's 109 test kits, the GPHF donated seven and our company nine Lovie Award, the U.S.-based Annual Multimedia Award, and Minilabs to African pharmaceutical regulatory agencies and the U.S.-based W3 Award. health projects in Ghana, Tanzania, Mozambique, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Ivory Coast. Schistosomiasis education program expanded In the 2015-2016 period, we also hosted six Minilab seminars In partnership with WHO, we are providing posters and bookin Tanzania, Angola, Kenya, Zambia, Rwanda, and Mozamlets to African schools that are available in English, French, bique, with well over 100 participants. In 2016, a oneArabic, Portuguese, and Swahili. In 2016, we expanded our day Minilab workshop was also held in Germany as part of education program and donated a total of 340,000 booklets the “Pharmacology in international development and disaster to WHO for distribution in ten countries (Ivory Coast, Mali, relief” course, which was offered by the Pharmaceutical InstiBurundi, Congo, Nigeria, Rwanda, Ghana, Sudan, Guinea tute of the University of Tübingen. Bissau, and Tanzania). New partnership in fight against counterfeit mediStrong partners cines In 2015, the team responsible for our Praziquantel Donation In 2016, the GPHF joined forces with the German Federal Program received an internal Merck Award of € 10,000. Ministry for Cooperation and Development (BMZ) for the first These employees chose to donate the funds to the NALA time ever to collaborate on a project for the six member Foundation to support a WASH (water, sanitation, hygiene) states of the East African Community (EAC). As part of project in Ethiopia that is working to improve the water this effort, the BMZ provided 20 Minilabs in total, with six supply in schools so as to ensure proper sanitation there. The sent to Rwanda, and a further six each for Burundi and WASH project is an example of how the NALA Foundation is Tanzania/Zanzibar. In 2016, the first-ever Central Minilab working to combat the root causes of schistosomiasis. Capacity Building workshop was held in the Rwandan capital of Kigali for participants from the EAC member states of Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania/Zanzibar. FAST FACT This project is being spearheaded by the National Metrology Institute of Germany (PTB). NALA FOUNDATION Projects across the globe The NALA Foundation works toward eliminating In India, we are cooperating with the non-profit organization the root causes of neglected tropical diseases and Narmada Samagra. Their river ambulance transports health other diseases that are often related to poverty. workers and provides healthcare solutions to local populaThrough health education and community tions living in the remote region along the Narmada River. In engagement, the aim is to facilitate behavioral early 2016, we donated a new boat to Narmada Samagra so change. that they can reach even more people. The river ambulance In addition to supporting this initiative, in 2015 serves around 12,000 people along a 200-kilometer stretch we also helped the Uraha Foundation Germany of river. set up a local radio station in the north of Malawi. Called Radio Dinosaur, the station reports on poliWe are working to improve medical care around the world. tics, environmental issues, history, culture, and Every year, our Global Medical Education Department sponhealth in the local languages of Kyangonde and sors a number of continuing education initiatives for healthChiTumbuka. It also broadcasts awareness pieces care professionals. In doing so, we are helping build the on schistosomiasis. capacities of nurses and physicians, increasing their awareness of symptoms and familiarizing them with advanced treatment methods. This enhanced expertise ultimately 99 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Community benefits patients. In 2016, we supported more than 90 We also support a wide variety of other projects. An overview different continuing education programs offered by 25 indeof our efforts is provided on our website. pendent educational institutions in the medical sector with over € 10 million. Via e-learning platforms and continuing education courses, more than 150,000 medical professionals benefited from the courses offered by these institutions. Culture & education Through cultural and educational initiatives, we are striving Progress to increase public acceptance and tolerance of new ideas as well as to bolster creativity and curiosity. We believe that SPARK: Igniting a passion for science in the next music and literature in particular help build bridges between generation cultures. To us, education is essential to people's intellectual and professional development. We therefore support educaIn early 2016, our Life Science business sector launched the tion projects at many of our sites by granting scholarships, SPARK initiative to kindle students’ curiosity, ignite a passion for instance, or sponsoring specific classes. for science, and inspire them to consider a STEM-related career. Curiosity Labs™ are at the center of SPARK. The program is designed to educate and inspire students through Our principles hands-on, interactive science lessons – from DNA and chemiPromoting education worldwide luminescence, flavors and fragrances, to water filtration – typically conducted right in their own classrooms. Our goal is to spark a passion for science in the next generation and pave the way for them to pursue a degree in the The SPARK initiative focuses on skills-based volunteering of STEM subjects. We seek to promote school and university our Life Science employees. In February and March 2016, students with a love of the sciences, which is why we invite 3,465 of them participated in SPARK events across 36 counchildren and adolescents to come to our Junior Lab and tries. Beyond the positive impact SPARK has had on explore their enthusiasm for conducting experiments. In employees, we have motivated young people around the addition to this program, we have also been supporting the world through our Curiosity Lab™ lessons, site tours, career “Jugend forscht” competition for more than 30 years. Since discussions, and other activities. Building on the positive 1996, we've been organizing the state-level competition for feedback from the students, we have begun creating our own the German Federal State of Hesse and have also hosted the SPARK teams at our various Life Science sites. nationals twice. Second Junior Lab opened at TU Darmstadt Music and literature as ambassadors Since 2008, we've been partnering with the Technical UniverWe founded the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck in Darmstadt sity (TU) of Darmstadt to operate a junior laboratory for in 1966. What began as a company ensemble is now a chemistry. In 2016, we upped our efforts by adding a second professional symphony orchestra. Our philharmonic is an lab to the offering. In the “livfe BioLab”, students can now integral part of cultural life in Darmstadt and also regularly also perform biology experiments under guidance from goes on international concert tours. In addition to concerts, college students. This initiative links classroom lessons with we also offer orchestra workshops where children and trending topics and modern methods of biological research. adolescents can experience playing in a professional orchestra. Scholarships for students in India Like music, literature is also an important ambassador In India, many young people cannot attend university as between cultures. We therefore award five literary prizes they do not have the means to finance a degree. The Merck worldwide that particularly recognize authors who distinguish India Charitable Trust (MICT) is therefore supporting themselves by unifying cultures as well as science and literstudents from underprivileged families in Mumbai. In 2016, ature. 89 students received a scholarship that covers five to seven years of tuition fees as well as study materials. 100 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Community Helping medical and pharmacology students in China Worth € 20,000, this prize went to the author Kathrin Passig in 2016. According to the German Academy for Language Since 2011, we've been awarding two-year scholarships to and Poetry, she was chosen for “her highly original texts, talented students in China who come from an economically which address a broad spectrum of topics and expertly span disadvantaged background. We are focusing our support the blog, book and essay formats.” The journalist and writer particularly on medical and pharmacology students at Fudan Gabriele Goettle won this award in 2015. University in Shanghai, which is one of the most renowned academic institutions in China and ranks among the top 100 The Merck Kakehashi Literature Prize in Japan was presented universities worldwide. To date, 600 students have benefited in partnership with the Goethe-Institut Tokyo for the first from our scholarships, with 120 in 2016 alone. Recipients time in 2014. Every two years, it recognizes works by have included PhD fellows and graduates working towards an German authors made accessible for a Japanese readership advanced degree. and comes with prize money totaling € 10,000, split evenly between the author and their translator. In 2016, writer Ilma Moreover, since 2016, our Healthcare business sector has Rakusa and her translator Fuminari Niimoto received the been providing scholarships for MBA students of the National award. School of Development (NSD) at the University of Beijing. The 2016 Merck Tagore Award went to Sudhir Kakar, an India: Making an art of learning Indian psychoanalyst and writer. In numerous landmark works, Kakar has analyzed the society of the subcontinent In 2016, we took part in Art By Children, an event held in from a psychoanalytical perspective, thereby reflecting upon India that motivated 5,000 children across 100 schools to the spiritual soul of India. We present the award every two explore their artistic side. This initiative is part of the Kochi years in partnership with the Goethe-Institut Kolkata. Worth Muziris Biennale, the largest public art event in southern 500,000 Indian rupees (approx. € 7,200), this literary prize Asia. Art By Children seeks to link learning with arts educais granted to authors who have made a significant contribution to develop their inherent capacity for creativity. tion to cultural exchange between Germany and India. 50 years of the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck We have been awarding the Premio Letterario Merck since 2003 in recognition of authors who make science accessible During its second season of 2016, the Deutsche Philharmonie to a broad audience. The prize is worth € 10,000. In 2016, Merck celebrated its 50th anniversary, and the festivities are the Premio Letterario Merck went to Italian physician Alberto continuing in the first season of 2017. The first highlight was Mantovani and British historian Helen Macdonald, who have a the opening concert of the anniversary season, which was special understanding of how to build bridges between literheld in September 2016 in the basilica of Eberbach Abbey in ature and science. In 2015, the award went to American Eltville am Rhein, Germany. Moreover, with its “HipHop trifft science author and writer David Quammen and French writer Klassik” concert in the same month, the Deutsche PhilharMaylis de Kerangal. monie Merck performed its first-ever crossover project. This joint effort with the Munich-based hip hop group Einshoch6 In 2016, we expanded our efforts by launching the Merck was held in the Frankfurter Jahrhunderthalle. Translation Award in Russia. With € 4,000 in prize money, this partnership with the Goethe-Institut Russia recognizes In 2016, approximately 23,000 people attended the concerts the crucial role that translations play in intercultural of the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. In May 2016, our exchange. Presented for the first time in September 2016, symphony orchestra played a concert at an internal Merck the award went to Vladislava Agafonova, Kirill Levinson and event in Madrid (Spain). Alexandra Gorbova for their German-Russian translations. Literary awards for bridge builders In Germany, we've been presenting the Johann Heinrich Merck Award for literary criticism and essays since 1964. 101 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Facts & figures This section presents our CR targets, describes the advances we have made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and details our work to promote the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The GRI Index documents the extent to which we are fulfilling the GRI G4 standard. Last but not least, the “Recognition and rankings” section reports on the various awards and recognition we have received. Read More 103 Report profile 146 Sustainable Development Goals 105 Indicators 149 GRI content index 132 Goals 169 Global Compact CoP 144 Recognition and rankings 172 Assurance Report 102 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Report profile We have a long tradition of corporate responsibility reporting, with this being our eighth Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report. This started in 1993 as a series of environmental reports, but then evolved in 2003 into a full CR Report that has since been published every two years. With transparency as a key goal, we aim to inform our stakeholders of our activities and successes, as well as the challenges we face. Our 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report documents the progress we’ve made in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (Communication on Progress) and meets the criteria of the German Sustainability Code (DNK). Our Statement of Compliance with the DNK is publicly accessible in the DNK database. Reporting framework This CR report covers the 2015 and 2016 fiscal years and pertains to our entire Group including our subsidiaries in 66 countries. The activities of the U.S.-based life science company Sigma-Aldrich, which we acquired in 2015, are also integrated in this report. Any deviations from this reporting framework are indicated on a case-by-case basis. Systems for collecting and consolidating data Since 2005, we’ve been using a Group-wide electronic data acquisition system to collect environmental and occupational health and safety data, which is input locally at our individual sites and approved following review. To maximize the quality of this data, we support the sites in optimizing their collection processes and their corresponding quality assurance measures. Moreover, our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) conducts internal EHS audits that review both the processes and the data provided. We compile environmental performance indicators from all our production sites across the Group, as well as those storage and research sites that are relevant in terms of their environmental impact and employee count. The scope of consolidation therefore covers all Merck Group sites that have relevant impacts on the environment. The data on employees and community outreach pertain to our entire Group. All employee master data is continually updated in an SAP-based database. Additional employee data, for instance on ILO core labor standards, are generated on an annual basis using a special data software. We use community data management software to log data pertaining to our community outreach at subsidiary level. Some employee data is only disclosed for select sites or countries, which is accordingly indicated in the respective text passages. Determining report content We align the content of our CR Report with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the principles of completeness and materiality, as well as input from our stakeholders. The present report was drafted in accordance with the GRI G4 standard and complies with the “Comprehensive” application level of the GRI guidelines. Moreover, we have taken into consideration the requirements of the capital market for assessing companies' sustainability performance. In 2016, we performed a materiality assessment to determine the CR topics of relevance to our Group. As part of this process, we conducted an international online survey as well as interviews with key stakeholders in summer 2016. In autumn, we then held an internal materiality workshop at our site in Darmstadt. We have derived the content of this CR report from the results of the materiality assessment, addressing all issues identified as material. Detailed information on the materiality assessment and the materiality matrix can be found under Materiality assessment (p. 19). Our Executive Board has reviewed and approved this report. 103 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures External audit KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the annual financial statements and management report of the Merck Group for the fiscal year spanning January 1 to December 31, 2016 and issued an unqualified opinion. Furthermore, after undergoing a limited assurance audit, our company has received an independent audit certificate for the following criteria: identifying material aspects and boundaries, and involving stakeholders select management approaches to the material aspects CR performance indicators The additional content provided on the company's websites and external webpages indicated in this report is not part of the information assured by KPMG. Contact: We welcome your feedback and are happy to answer any questions. Merck KGaA Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility Maria Schaad Frankfurter Str. 250 64293 Darmstadt Germany Tel.: +49 6151 72-0 Fax: +49 6151 72-200 Our next CR Report is scheduled for publication in April 2018. 104 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Indicators We use indicators to measure and assess our corporate responsibility performance. The following key figures have undergone a limited assurance by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. Read More 106 Economics 110 Employees 107 Compliance 123 Environment 109 Products 130 Community 105 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Indicators: Economics Net sales, operating result (EBIT) and research and development costs, by business sector Performance 1 € million Healthcare Life Science Materials Group 2015 Net sales 6,934 3,355 2,556 12,845 Operating result (EBIT) 1,097 301 878 1,843 R&D costs 1,310 197 197 1,709 2016 Net sales 6,855 5,658 2,511 15,024 Operating result (EBIT) 1,593 556 823 2,481 R&D costs 1,496 260 213 1,976 1 As a non-operating segment, Corporate and Other is not shown here as a separate item, but rather under Segment Reporting in our 2016 Annual Report. 106 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Indicators: Compliance Internal audits on corruption and Human Rights Charter 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of audits relating to corruption 30 36 49 55 % of audits relating to corruption 64 68 64 68 Number of audits relating to the workplace requirements of our Human Rights Charter 27 32 41 47 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 In 2015, 17% of all subsidiaries (excluding minority holdings, EMD Millipore Corporation, and Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany) were audited for the period between the third quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2014, covering approximately 33% of sales. In 2016, we audited 12% of all legacy Merck subsidiaries (excluding minority holdings, EMD Millipore Corporation, and Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany) for the period between the third quarter of 2014 and the second quarter of 2015, covering approximately 20% of all sales. We also audited 8% of all Sigma-Aldrich sites, a company acquired in 2015. Reported compliance violations 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of reported compliance incidents 22 26 33 36 Number of confirmed cases 9 11 8 12 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 Compliance training 1 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of persons trained on anti3 3 3 corruption guidelines 24,168 7,519 20,404 29,764 % of employees trained on anti-corruption 63 14 43 51 by employee category Number of employees Global Grade 10 or higher trained on anti-corruption 12,390 3,071 12,747 14,379 % of employees Global Grade 10 or higher trained on anti-corruption 69 17 64 84 % of employees Global Grade 9 or lower trained on anti-corruption 51 12 22 34 4 by region (%) Europe – – – 54 North America – – – 57 Asia-Pacific (APAC) – – – 38 Latin America – – – 52 Middle East and Africa (MEA) – – – 66 1 In Q1 – Q3 2014, Group Compliance performed a thorough analysis and review of its Compliance Training Program. No courses were scheduled for these quarters. 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Includes contractors, external supervised workers (e.g. temps) and contract partners working on-site who were trained on anti-corruption guidelines (2015: 3,026, 2016: 3,875). 4 As of 2016, we are also reporting the training rate by region. No such data was tracked for the preceding years. 107 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures In order to address the special responsibility held by management personnel, as well as by staff with HR responsibility, these employees are increasingly receiving training on anti-corruption guidelines. This applies to all employees rated Global Grade (GG) 10 or higher. Our compliance and anti-corruption principles are communicated to all our business partners, who undergo a Business Partner Risk Management (BPRM) process. Legal actions 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 Total number of legal actions pending or completed (for anti-competitive behavior, violations of anti-trust or violations of monopoly legislation) 3 2 2 2 pending 2 2 2 2 completed 1 0 0 0 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 As published in the annual reports, the herein listed total number of legal actions refers to the significant legal risks as per the company’s definition. The significance of legal risks is based on potential negative effects on projected financial objectives as well as on the probability of occurrence. For further information please see our annual reports: Annual Report 2013, pages 132-134 and pages 226-227, no. 48 Annual Report 2014, pages 130-131 and pages 213-215, no. 48 Annual Report 2015, pages 128-129 and pages 212-213, no. 27 Annual Report 2016, pages 135-136 and pages 228-229, no. 26 108 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Indicators: Products 1 Customer privacy 2 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of substantiated complaints received from outside parties 0 0 0 0 Total number of complaints from regulatory bodies 0 1 0 0 Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data 0 0 0 1 1 This data only reflects incidents classified as significant. 2 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 109 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Indicators: Employees We track data on our employees Group-wide. When the legal frameworks are not comparable or no global data is available, the data will then only reflect our employees in Germany (approximately 25% of our workforce). Employee facts & figures worldwide Total number of employees 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of employees 38,154 39,639 49,613 50,414 Men 22,253 23,273 28,997 28,848 Women 15,901 16,366 20,616 21,566 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 110 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Number of employees by hierarchical level 1 2 3 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total employees 38,154 39,639 40,718 50,414 Senior management (Global Grade above 17) 63 63 75 87 Low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 1,949 2,108 2,333 2,800 Other employees (Global Grade below 14) 36,142 37,468 38,310 47,527 % of women (total) 42 41 41 43 thereof in senior management (Global Grade above 17) 10 10 12 15 thereof in low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 498 562 633 817 thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14) 15,393 15,794 16,182 20,734 % of men (total) 58 59 59 57 thereof in senior management (Global Grade above 17) 53 53 63 72 thereof in low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 1,451 1,546 1,700 1,983 thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14) 20,748 21,673 22,128 26,793 by age group Up to 29 years old (%) 15 15 15 15 thereof in senior management (Global Grade above 17) 0 0 0 0 thereof in low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 5 6 5 8 thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14) 5,901 5,884 5,848 7,411 30 to 49 years old (%) 64 64 64 62 thereof in senior management (Global Grade above 17) 27 24 29 35 thereof in low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 1,233 1,340 1,469 1,720 thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14) 23,302 24,082 24,680 29,768 50 years or older (%) 20 21 21 23 thereof in senior management (Global Grade above 17) 36 39 46 52 thereof in low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 711 762 859 1,072 thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14) 6,939 7,502 7,782 10,348 1 Figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company acquired in July 2014, because our Global Grading System had not yet been implemented for them as of December 31, 2014. These employees are included under “thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)”. 2 As of Dec. 31 2015, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired in November 2015. These figures therefore exclude Sigma-Aldrich. 3 From 2016 on, these figures include Sigma-Aldrich, but as of Dec. 31 2016 the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany or for employees of Allergopharma. These employees are included under “thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)”. 111 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Average number of employees by functional area 1 1 2 2 Average number of employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 Group 38,282 38,930 41,511 50,439 Thereof women not recorded 16,110 17,180 21,136 Production 9,985 10,176 11,563 14,829 Thereof women not recorded 3,202 3,642 4,698 Logistics 1,779 2,207 2,581 3,955 Thereof women not recorded 774 913 1459 Marketing and Sales 12,214 12,113 12,871 14,887 Thereof women not recorded 4,814 5,204 6,401 Administration 5,106 6,342 6,763 8,190 Thereof women not recorded 3,557 3,757 4,421 Research and Development 4,433 4,738 5,097 6,249 Thereof women not recorded 2,534 2,674 3,274 Infrastructure and Other 4,765 3,354 2,636 2,329 Thereof women not recorded 1,230 990 883 1 Average headcount (HC) 2014 and 2013 is calculated based on the End HC of the last 5 quarters divided by 5. 2 The average employee headcount for 2015 and 2016 is calculated by adding up all employees at the end of each of the last 13 months, and dividing this total by 13. Employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired in November 2015, are only included in the employee headcount calculations as of November 2015. Number of employees by region 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total 38,154 39,639 49,613 50,414 Employees in Europe 20,013 20,537 23,429 24,438 thereof women 8,755 8,893 10,316 10,884 Employees in North America 4,911 5,092 9,794 10,037 thereof women 2,246 2,272 4,183 4,308 Employees in Asia-Pacific (APAC) 8,862 9,488 11,096 10,754 thereof women 2,947 3,176 3,706 3,981 Employees in Latin America 3,798 3,883 4,352 4,140 thereof women 1,699 1,745 1,986 1,910 Employees in the Middle East and Africa (MEA) 570 639 942 1,045 thereof women 254 280 425 483 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 External contractors are currently not logged in our employee data system, nor do we currently have any plans to integrate them. 112 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Employees by business sector 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 Healthcare employees 17,278 17,757 18,566 18,837 Thereof women 7,909 8,130 8,522 9,090 Thereof women (%) 46 46 46 48 Life Science employees 9,837 9,796 18,611 19,178 Thereof women 4,124 4,134 7,883 7,928 Thereof women (%) 42 42 42 41 Performance Materials employees 4,709 5,995 6,228 5,469 Thereof women 1,210 1,498 1,531 1,427 Thereof women (%) 26 25 25 26 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 Employees by contract type 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total employees 38,154 39,639 49,613 50,414 Number of employees with permanent contracts 36,908 38,410 46,454 46,837 Number of employees with temporary contracts 1,246 1,219 3,159 3,577 % of employees with permanent contracts 97 97 94 93 % of employees with temporary contracts 3 3 6 7 full-time employees 34,911 37,573 47,292 48,056 % full-time 95 98 95 95 thereof women 13,524 14,497 18,557 19,457 thereof women (%) 39 39 39 40 part-time employees 1,994 2,066 2,321 2,358 % part-time 6 5 5 5 thereof women 1,839 1,869 2,059 2,109 thereof women (%) 92 90 89 89 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 113 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures New employees 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of new employee hires 5,007 6,212 5,710 7,085 by age group Up to 29 years old 2,358 2,305 2,088 2,930 30 to 49 years old 2,397 3,361 3,252 3,736 50 or older 252 546 370 419 by gender Women 2,051 2,513 2,450 3,388 Men 2,945 3,689 3,260 3,697 by region Europe 1,757 2,312 2,119 2,689 North America 526 826 730 1,348 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 2,060 2,298 1,913 2,201 Latin America 548 619 780 636 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 116 157 168 211 2 Rate of new employee hires (%) 13 16 14 14 3 by age group Up to 29 years old 47 37 37 41 30 to 49 years old 48 54 57 53 50 or older 5 9 6 6 3 by gender Women 41 41 43 48 Men 59 59 57 52 3 by region Europe 35 37 37 38 North America 11 13 13 19 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 41 37 33 31 Latin America 11 10 14 9 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 2 3 3 3 1 These figures exclude the 8,975 Sigma-Aldrich employees, who are not classified as new hires because they joined Merck as part of the Sigma-Aldrich acquisition. 2 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires: Total number of new employee hires divided by Number of employees at the end of the fiscal year. 3 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires by age/gender/region: New employee hires of the focus group divided by the total number of new employee hires. In consequence of the modified calculation method and the new composition of our regions effective January 1, 2015 corresponding figures for the preceeding years have been retroactively adjusted. 114 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures 1 Staff turnover 2 2 3 3,4 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total turnover rate 14.61 11.01 10.38 12.07 Turnover rate by gender Men 13.98 10.75 10.13 12.87 Women 15.00 11.38 10.73 10.96 Turnover rate by age group Up to 29 years old 21.55 18.71 17.49 19.20 30 to 49 years old 13.44 9.72 9.69 11.37 50 or older 13.01 9.49 8.08 9.19 Turnover rate by region Europe 14.61 7.05 6.22 6.23 North America 10.51 12.45 12.72 11.50 5 Asia-Pacific (APAC) not recorded 17.55 15.95 22.37 5 Latin America not recorded 13.67 15.29 18.85 5 Middle East and Africa (MEA) not recorded 13.62 12.00 10.80 Total number of leavers 5,573 4,364 4,168 6,087 by gender Men 3,110 2,502 2,386 3,771 Women 2,385 1,862 1,782 2,316 by age group Up to 29 years old 1,273 1,102 943 1,464 30 to 49 years old 3,300 2,474 2,505 3,589 50 or older 1,000 788 720 1,034 by region Europe 2,367 1,447 1,290 1,490 North America 516 634 638 1,132 5 Asia-Pacific (APAC) not recorded 1,665 1,540 2,543 5 Latin America not recorded 531 618 814 5 Middle East and Africa (MEA) not recorded 87 82 108 1 The table contains unadjusted turnover rates. The rate excludes employees who depart due to parental leave or a longterm illness, as well as employees who are transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement. 2 Employee turnover for fiscal 2013 and 2014 is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers of the past 12 months multiplied by 100 divided by the employee headcount as of December 31. 3 Employee headcount for fiscal 2015 and 2016 is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers from the past 12 months divided by the average employee headcount (see table “average number of employees by functional area”) multiplied by 100. These figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich, which is still undergoing integration. In consequence of the modified calculation method for turnover rate, it is only possible to make a limited statement concerning interannual trends. 4 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 5 We have no 2013 data for the Asia-Pacific (APAC), Latin America, and Middle East and Africa (MEA) regions, which were realigned in 2015. 115 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 % of full-time employees (standard contract, excluding exempts) with contractually stipulated 2 working hours of maximally 48 hours/week 99 99 100 100 % of full-time employees (standard contract) with at 3 least 15 vacation days/year 98 95 97 95 % of female employees with access to maternity 4 leave programs 100 100 100 100 % of employees with the right to collective 5 bargaining 97 97 98 92 % of employees working at companies where collective agreements apply 68 66 71 54 % of sites that rule out complicity in child labor as described in ILO Convention 138 100 100 100 100 Age of youngest employees, excluding apprentices 16 17 17 17 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 2 ILO: Hours of Work (Commerce and Offices) Convention, 1930 (No. 30) 3 ILO: Holidays with Pay Convention (Revised), 1970 (No. 132) 4 ILO: Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952 (No. 103) 5 ILO: Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) Local minimum wage 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 % of sites that guarantee a salary above the local 2 minimum wage 100 100 100 100 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 2 Minimum wage as stipulated by law, or derived from other provisions such as collective agreements. The Global Rewards Policy applies across all our subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Base pay is oriented on the median base pay, and short-term variable compensation is based on the third quartile of the relevant reference market. All employees within the lowest Grades are paid within this salary band, which corresponds at least to the local minimum wage. 116 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures 1 Work-related accidents 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR=workplace accidents resulting in missed days of work per one million man-hours) 2.2 1.8 1.4 1.3 by region Europe 3.7 2.9 2.6 2.1 North America 0.9 1.0 0.9 1.1 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.4 Latin America 2.1 1.3 0.7 0.4 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 1.8 0.9 0.5 1.6 Number of deaths 0 2 2 0 by region Europe 0 0 1 0 North America 0 0 1 0 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0 1 0 0 Latin America 0 1 0 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0 0 0 0 by gender Women 0 1 1 0 Men 0 1 1 0 1 Including supervised workers 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 Despite our efforts to prevent accidents, we had two fatal workplace accidents in 2015; one employee died in a car accident in the United States, and in Germany one employee suffered a fatal accident involving a forklift. Both Merck employees as well as contractors have been included in the calculation of these indicators. Through the LTIR, we record work-related accidents that involve at least one day of missed work. A work-related accident is an injury that results from the type of work, in the course of doing said work, and that has no internal cause. Work-related accidents are considered relevant if they occur on the premises, on business trips, during goods transport, as a result of external influences (e.g. natural disasters), or due to criminal acts involving personal injury. Commuting accidents and accidents during company sporting activities are not included. First-aid incidents are generally not included in the LTIR since these usually do not result in more than one day of missed work. By 2020, we intend to sustainably lower the LTIR to 1.5. The aim is to permanently stabilize or outperform this challenging number, which we achieved for the first time in 2015. We have defined the LTIR as a key indicator for the Merck Group. Therefore, we do not publish any other indicators such as workplace accidents, lost days or days of absence. The LTIR is not broken down by gender as this differentiation is not relevant to our strategic planning. For the Merck KGaA sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim (about 19% of the employees of the Merck Group), we only report work-related illnesses if these have been diagnosed and verified by a physician. In the 2015-2016 period, no cases of workinduced illness were recorded. Spending on advanced training for employees 1 € 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average continuing education spending per employee 679 718 775 736 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 117 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures We record and report the costs of vocational training and continuing education for our employees. We are not currently tracking the average number of continuing education hours consolidated at Group level, but we are working on a technical solution. Employees who regularly receive a performance and development evaluation 1 2 3 4 2013 2014 2015 2016 % of employees who receive a performance and development evaluation 72 79 88 97 by gender Women 75 84 90 97 Men 71 77 87 97 by employee category 5 Senior management (Global Grade above 17) 100 97 100 100 Low and middle management (Global Grade 5 14–17) 100 96 100 100 5 Other employees (Global Grade below 14) 72 78 88 97 1 The 2013 data is based on a reporting date of March 12, 2014. 2 The 2014 data is based on a reporting date of March 2, 2015. 3 The 2015 data is based on a reporting date of February 29, 2016. 4 From 2016 on, figures include Sigma-Aldrich, but as of Dec. 31 2016, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany and of Allergopharma. 5 The fluctuations in participant numbers by employee category can be explained by the process of Merck’s acquisition of AZ Electronic Materials. Regular feedback and employee performance evaluations are essential to fairly ranking individual performance and to helping all employees follow their own career path at Merck. Our globally uniform Performance and Talent Management Process requires annual feedback meetings and performance assessments for all employees rated Global Grade 10 and up in the position ranking system that was used in 2016. Apart from evaluating employee performance, this helps us to identify individual development opportunities. When it comes to applying this process, our individual subsidiaries can decide for themselves whether to include employees rated below Global Grade 10. In Germany, all permanent employees have been participating in the Performance and Talent Management Process since 2013. In 2016, a total of 49,000 employees worldwide were involved in the process. The Performance and Talent Management Process is coordinated via our HR Suite IT system. Internationality of employees 1 2 3 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of nationalities 114 122 122 129 Number of nationalities in management positions (Global Grade 14 or above) 64 67 64 70 % of non-Germans in management positions (Global Grade 14 or above) 60 60 61 65 1 These figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company that was acquired in July 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented there. 2 These figures do not include the employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company that was acquired in November 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented there. 3 From 2016 on, figures include Sigma-Aldrich. However, as of Dec. 31 2016, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany or for employees of Allergopharma. 118 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Employee age by region As of Dec. 31 Europe Middle East Number of North (including Asia-Pacific Latin and Africa employees Worldwide America Germany) Germany (APAC) America (MEA) 1 2015 Up to 29 years old 7,565 1,314 2,912 1,624 2,496 666 177 thereof women 3,233 522 1,378 649 898 367 68 30 to 49 years old 31,047 5,117 14,589 6,775 7,651 3,092 598 thereof women 13,242 2,285 6,673 2,674 2,576 1,434 274 50 or older 11,001 3,363 5,928 3,539 949 594 167 thereof women 4,141 1,376 2,265 1,241 232 185 83 Average age 41.2 44.2 42.4 43.0 36.7 39.5 39.5 Total employees 49,613 9,794 23,429 11,938 11,096 4,352 942 2016 Up to 29 years old 7,419 1,319 3,087 1,757 2,260 562 191 thereof women 3,331 548 1,470 695 922 312 79 30 to 49 years old 31,523 5,224 15,023 6,938 7,625 2,972 679 thereof women 13,849 2,327 6,985 2,780 2,817 1,405 315 50 or older 11,472 3,494 6,328 3,755 869 606 175 thereof women 4,386 1,433 2,429 1,333 242 193 89 Average age 41.3 44.3 42.4 42.9 36.7 39.9 39.3 Total employees 50,414 10,037 24,438 12,450 10,754 4,140 1,045 1 Figures include Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 Global voluntary insurance benefits (voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed) 1 1 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 % of employees with healthcare benefits – – – 90 3 % of employees with Group accident insurance – – – 39 4 % of employees with life insurance – – – 57 % of employees with disability insurance (short-term 5 and long-term) – – – 32 1 Since 2016, we’ve been reporting global voluntary insurance benefits that we offer our employees. No such data was tracked for the preceding years. 2 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed healthcare benefits for employees and possibly their dependents. Not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover (Mostly covered by an insurance policy). 3 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed accident insurance that pays a defined amount in case of death or disability caused by a work-related accident (not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover, e.g. workman's compensation). 4 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed life insurance cover that pays a defined amount of money in case of natural death (not accidental). 5 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed insurance cover that disability pays for salary continuation in case of inability to work caused by an insured incident. 119 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures All our employees are covered by either statutory or voluntary accident and health insurance. We offer a company pension in numerous countries along with various programs for supplemental company pensions and survivor's benefits. The global benefits listed in the table above are designed to provide additional security to our workforce and their families and to improve their quality of life. Benefits represent voluntarily employer-initiated as well as employer-financed assistance to our workforce in addition to the regular compensation package. Our benefits offer meaningful choices, where possible, to support a diverse workforce and are sensitive to the needs and customs of the employees who use them, regardless of country, age, family status, interests, or values. Long-term pension obligations and post-employment benefits 1 € million 2013 2014 2015 2016 Present value of all defined benefit obligations as of Dec. 31 2,737 3,813 4,153 4,698 Pension expenses 147 157 210 226 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 Depending on the legal, economic and fiscal circumstances prevailing in each country, different retirement benefit systems are provided for the employees of the Merck Group. Generally, these systems are based on the years of service and salaries of the employees. Pension obligations of the Merck Group include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and comprise both obligations from current pensions and accrued benefits for pensions payable in the future. In the Merck Group, defined benefit plans are funded and unfunded (see our Annual Report 2016, Note on Provisions for pensions and other postemployment benefits). Flexible working hours 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 % of employees with the option of working flexible hours 75 74 80 78 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 120 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Employee facts and figures, Germany 1 Parental leave in Germany As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees with a right to parental leave 254 331 317 359 thereof women (recorded via maternity leave in the respective year) 120 165 149 191 thereof men (recorded via special paternity leave in the respective year) 134 166 168 168 2 Number of employees who took parental leave 433 507 485 480 thereof women 292 349 301 303 thereof men 141 158 184 177 Number of employees on parental leave who worked part time during their leave 81 99 102 102 thereof women 77 94 99 95 thereof men 4 5 3 7 Number of employees who returned from parental leave 151 187 183 174 thereof women 60 83 51 62 thereof men 91 104 132 112 Return to work rate (%) 34.9 36.9 37.7 36.3 thereof women 20.6 23.8 16.9 20.5 thereof men 64.5 65.8 71.7 63.3 Number of employees still working for Merck one 3 year after their return from parental leave 152 137 184 – 3 thereof women 57 35 55 – 3 thereof men 95 102 129 – 3 Retention rate (%) 93.8 90.7 96.8 – 3 thereof women 91.9 58.3 98.2 – 3 thereof men 95.0 112.1 96.3 – 1 Figures only pertain to the Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany (which accounted for around 20.9% of Merck Group employees in 2016). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year, but who had not returned by Dec. 31. 2 Since parental leave can be taken for a period ranging from one month to three years, it is possible for employees to be recorded across a period of up to four calendar years. This explains why the number of employees on parental leave exceeds the number of employees who have a right to it. 3 Figure will be available on Dec. 31, 2017. 1 Employees with disabilities (%) As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 Employees with disabilities 5.0 4.7 4.7 4.5 1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA (which accounted for around 20% of Merck Group employees in 2016, calculations based on the German Social Code IX SGB IX). 121 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Apprentices 1 2 3 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of apprentices 516 498 506 576 % of apprentices 5.6 5.4 5.3 4.6 1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA sites in Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing, Germany (which accounted for roughly 24% of the Merck Group's employees in 2014). 2 Only pertains to Merck KGaA (roughly 19% of the Merck Group's total employee headcount in 2015). 3 Reflects only those Merck sites in Germany (approximately 25% of the Group's total workforce in 2016). 122 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Indicators: Environment Spending on environmental protection, safety and health 1 € million 2013 2014 2015 2016 Spending 142 145 148 189 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 These figures include both investments in as well as internal and external spending on waste and wastewater management, water, occupational safety, fire protection, noise reduction, air pollution prevention, decontamination, preservation of nature and the landscape, climate impact mitigation, and energy efficiency. We do not further break down our spending on environmental protection by type. 1 Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol) 2 metric kilotons 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 3 Total CO2eq emissions 790 784 736 729 715 Thereof direct CO2eq emissions 378 417 390 393 386 indirect CO2eq emissions 412 367 346 336 329 Biogenic CO2 emissions 6 6 11 54 56 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. Sigma-Aldrich in 2015) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolioadjusted). 2 Baseline for our emission targets is 2006. 3 eq = equivalent The increase in biogenic carbon emissions was caused by the biomass power plants that were commissioned in Goa, India and Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA) at the end of 2014. Our response to the Carbon Disclosure Project contains a detailed description of our calculation methods. We have included the following gases in our calculation of direct and indirect CO 2eq emissions: Direct CO2 emissions: CO2, HFCs, PFCs; CH4/N2O negligible; SF6/NF3 not available. Indirect CO2 emissions: CO2. In 2016, we emitted 0.048 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales. 123 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol) 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total gross other indirect emissions (metric 1 kilotons CO2eq ) 64 319 349 426 Fueland energy-related emissions, not included in Scope 1 or 2 (category 3) not recorded 97 95 127 Waste generated in operations (category 5) not recorded 96 123 127 3 Business travel air travel (category 6) 63 74 79 103 Business travel rail travel (category 6) 0.05 0.02 0.02 0.02 Business travel rental car travel (category 6) 1.3 1.2 1.1 0.6 Employee commuting (category 7) not recorded 51 51 68 4 4 4 Upstream leased assets (category 8) not recorded 0 0 0 5 5 5 Processing of sold products (category 10) not recorded 0 0 0 Downstream leased assets (category 13) not recorded 0 0 0 Franchises (category 14) not recorded 0 0 0 1 eq = equivalent 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 This figure covers roughly 80% 85% of the employees of the Merck Group because the data for the employees of Sigma-Aldrich, acquired in November 2015, are only partially available. 4 Already covered under Scope 1/2 emissions 5 Merck produces a huge variety of intermediate products for various purposes. Due to their many applications and our customer structure, the associated GHG emissions cannot be tracked in a reasonable fashion. No data is available for Scope 3 categories not listed above. Their relevance to Merck is assessed in the Scope 3 document. Biogenic emissions (Scope 3), if present, are not being recorded. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 1 metric tons 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total emissions of ozone-depleting substances 2.5 2.0 2.5 2.2 2 CFC-11eq 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich from 2013 onwards 2 CFC-11eq is a unit of measure used to compare the potential of various substances to deplete the ozone. Reference figure 1 indicates the potential of CFC-11 to cause the depletion of the ozone layer. Substances included: R-12, R-22, R-141b, R-402a, R-409a, R-401a. Source for the emission factors: Montreal Protocol. Other air emissions 1 metric kilotons 2013 2014 2015 2016 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 2 Nitrogen oxide 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.2 Sulfur dioxide 0.02 0.02 0.05 0.05 Dust 0.01 0.02 0.06 0.02 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. 124 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures The VOC, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, and dust emissions reported here are attributable to production activities as well as energy generation. These figures do not include emissions from vehicles. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Transport of finished goods, by means of transportation 1 1 1 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 % Truck 56 56 53 71 % Boat 37 38 41 18 % Airplane 7 6 6 11 1 The figures for 2013 through 2015 pertain to goods shipped by our Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Hohenbrunn sites in Germany (excluding Sigma-Aldrich). 2 From 2016 on, the figures contain the volumes of the biggest global distribution centers of our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials business sectors. These figures pertain to the total weight of transported products and indicate the primary means of transport (including Sigma-Aldrich). In shipping finished goods from our production sites to the local warehouses of our subsidiaries, we have been working to reduce the use of air shipping in favor of sea freight. This change aims to both reduce costs as well as lower transportrelated CO2 emissions. 125 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures 1 Energy consumption In GWh 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total energy consumption 2,108 2,158 2,256 2,253 Direct energy consumption 1,286 1,354 1,451 1,443 Natural gas 1,157 1,212 1,212 1,272 2 Liquid fossil fuels 114 115 104 30 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 15 27 135 141 Indirect energy consumption 822 804 805 810 Electricity 743 707 709 715 Steam, heat, cold 79 97 96 95 Total energy sold 0.4 0.6 0.5 0.5 Electricity 0.4 0.6 0.5 0.5 Steam, heat, cold 0 0 0 0 In TJ 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total energy consumption 7,589 7,769 8,122 8,111 Direct energy consumption 4,630 4,874 5,224 5,195 Natural gas 4,165 4,363 4,363 4,579 2 Liquid fossil fuels 410 414 374 108 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 54 97 486 508 Indirect energy consumption 2,959 2,894 2,898 2,916 Electricity 2,675 2,545 2,552 2,574 Steam, heat, cold 284 349 346 342 Total energy sold 1 2 2 2 Electricity 1 2 2 2 Steam, heat, cold 0 0 0 0 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the energy consumption has been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). 2 Light and heavy fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline At our sites in Billerica (MA, USA), Bedford (MA, USA), Molsheim (France), Tel Aviv (Israel), Rome (Italy), Guatemala City (Guatemala), Shizuoka-ken (Japan), and Shanghai (China), we use photovoltaics to produce power. Since 2015, the increase in biomass and self-generated renewable energy consumption has been attributable to the biomass power plants that were commissioned in Goa, India, and Jaffrey (NH, USA) in 2014. The reduction in liquid fossil fuel consumption primarily stems from a project at our Onahama site in Japan that switched energy generation from kerosene to natural gas. Merck currently only records purchased secondary energy – this is primarily electricity and, to a lesser extent, heat/steam/ cold. Details on the local energy mix, including the respective percentage of primary energy, renewable energy, etc. are not available. Data on local energy efficiency in electricity or heat generation are not available either. Our production sites are located in countries with a widely varying energy mix. Our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany consume the most energy, representing 29% of our Group-wide total. At these sites, fossil energy (coal, gas, etc.) accounts for approx. 53%, nuclear energy approx. 15% and renewable energies approx. 32% of the energy mix. Renewable energies account for a higher share of electricity generation at production sites in Switzerland, with nuclear energy taking the lead in France. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 37% for the conversion and distribution of generated electricity, this results in a primary energy consumption of 1,931 GWh for 2016. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 85% for heat/steam/cold, this results in a primary energy consumption of 112 GWh for 2016. This yields a total primary energy consumption of 2,043 GWh for 2016. The calculation is based on factors stated in the “Manual for energy management in practice Systematically reducing energy costs” published by DENA, 12/2012. 126 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures In 2016, Merck's energy intensity relative to net sales totaled 0.150 kWh/€ compared to 0.134 kWh/€ in 2015. Water consumption 3 1 millions of m 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total water consumption 9.6 11.1 13.6 13.7 2 2 2 Surface water (rivers, lakes) 0.8 1.2 1.2 1.2 2 Groundwater 5.4 6.3 7.0 7.2 2 2 2 Drinking water (from local suppliers) 3.4 3.6 5.4 5.3 2 2 Rain water and other sources 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. These figures do not include the ground water that we use for safety measures at our Gernsheim site in Germany. Here, the water is fed back directly into natural circulation. Water reused 3 1 millions of m 2013 2014 2015 2016 Water reused 16.6 16.0 23.0 22.7 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 The increase in reused water in 2015 is attributable to the recirculating cooling system that went online at our facility in Darmstadt, Germany. This system provides recirculating cooling water to both our new co-generation unit as well as our new cold and compressed air generator. The recirculating cooling system largely accounts for the amount of reused water as it allows the water to be re-utilized multiple times. The volume of reused water is thus greater than the total volume of consumed water. Wastewater volume and quality 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 3 Total wastewater volume (millions of m ) 8.6 10.1 11.8 12.1 Chemical oxygen demand (metric tons of O2) 756 1,319 1,933 1,535 Phosphorous (metric tons) 7 10 10 12 Nitrogen (metric tons) 77 81 330 303 2 2 2 Zinc (kg) 406 410 498 451 Chromium (kg) 23 36 42 34 Copper (kg) 36 34 84 53 Nickel (kg) 110 128 128 124 Lead (kg) 42 55 54 56 Cadmium (kg) 10 10 13 11 Mercury (kg) 1 1 2 2 Arsenic (kg) 4 4 5 4 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Figures retroactively adjusted. The wastewater volume includes indirect discharge into both public and Merck-owned wastewater treatment plants, as well as direct discharge (such as rainwater and cooling water). 127 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures The wastewater treatment plant at our Gernsheim, Germany site also treats wastewater from the neighboring municipality of Biebesheim. The communal wastewater from Biebesheim is included in the wastewater volume as well as in the emissions stated in the table. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste 1 metric kilotons 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total waste 161 228 317 254 2 Hazardous waste disposed 37 53 55 50 2 Non-hazardous waste disposed 31 55 35 44 3 Hazardous waste recycled 50 49 73 75 3 Non-hazardous waste recycled 43 71 154 85 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Disposed = incineration (without energy recovery) and landfill 3 Disposed = incineration (without energy recovery) and material recycling The increase in “non-hazardous waste recycled” in 2015 can be attributed to the sharp rise in construction, excavation and demolition waste. Construction, excavation and demolition waste accounted for 49% of our waste in 2015 and 30% in 2016. Exported/Imported hazardous waste 1 metric kilotons 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 Exported 7.1 9.6 5.1 4.6 3 Imported 0.01 0.003 0.01 0.01 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Disposal within the EU and the United States. 3 As part of the return system for our cell tests, these kits are brought to our Gernsheim site in Germany for proper disposal. Waste by disposal method 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total waste (metric kilotons) 161 228 317 254 Disposed waste (metric kilotons) 67 108 90 94 Landfilled waste (metric kilotons) 13 37 16 15 Incinerated waste (metric kilotons) 54 71 74 79 Recycled waste (metric kilotons) 94 120 227 160 Material recycling (metric kilotons) 69 93 195 128 Waste-to-energy (metric kilotons) 25 27 32 32 Recycling rate (%) 58 53 72 63 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 As in previous years, the total waste generated continues to be heavily influenced by the waste from construction and remodeling activities. Construction, excavation and demolition waste accounted for 49% of our waste in 2015 and 30% in 2016. In 2015, around 124 metric kilotons of construction, excavation and demolition waste was recycled, with roughly 53 metric kilotons recycled in 2016. 128 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Significant spills 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of significant spills 0 0 0 0 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 129 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Indicators: Community Spending on community involvement 1,2 € million 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total spending 46.2 50.8 100.0 43.0 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 ® 2 From 2016 on, we are separating spending on patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our community involvement figures. We calculate the value of pharmaceutical product donations according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations; for other product donations, we apply their fair value. 1 Community involvement spending by region Middle East North Asia-Pacific Latin and Africa Europe America (APAC) America (MEA) 2016 € million 10.1 2.3 4.4 1.1 25.1 % 24 5 10 3 58 1 This table presents the regions across the globe in which we support initiatives. For projects that benefit multiple regions, we have calculated the amount per region by dividing the project spending evenly per country. 1 Focus of our local community involvement 2,3,4 % 2013 2014 2015 2016 Health 23 33 33 35 Culture and education 42 38 33 36 Environment 10 10 7 5 Disaster relief 6 4 6 2 Other 19 15 21 22 1 Based on number of projects 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Since 2016, we have integrated our global projects into our community outreach figures, specifically the Global Pharma Health Fund, the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. This change in approach was due to the increasingly international nature of our efforts. We are spearheading a rising number of global projects that account for a growing percentage of our project portfolio. To ensure maximal accuracy, we are therefore including all international initiatives in our figures as of 2016. ® 4 From 2016 on, we are separating spending on patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our charitable spending figures. 130 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures 1 Motivations for our community involvement 2,3,4 % 2013 2014 2015 2016 Charitable activities 20 9 3 4 Community investment 59 59 92 87 Commercial initiatives in the community 21 32 5 9 1 Based on total spending on all projects 2 Including Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Since 2016, we have been integrating our global projects into our community outreach figures, specifically the Global Pharma Health Fund, the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. This change in approach was due to the increasingly international nature of our efforts. We are spearheading a rising number of global projects that account for a growing percentage of our project portfolio. To ensure maximal accuracy, we are therefore including all international initiatives in our figures as of 2016. ® 4 As of 2016, we are separating patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our charitable spending. We categorize the motivations for our activities based on the London Benchmarking Group model as well as the guidelines of the Bertelsmann Foundation for corporate social responsibility. Projects that primarily aim to make improvements within the community are classified as community investment. Initiatives that are predominantly aimed at company-relevant factors such as image or personnel recruitment are classified as commercial initiatives in the community. Charitable activities cover any other projects that benefit a charitable organization, but cannot be listed under either of the other two motivation categories due to missing data or their narrow scope. 131 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Goals Our corporate responsibility goals set the course to be followed for the next several years. This section presents these objectives and reports on the progress we've made towards achieving them. Legend: New goal Goal achieved In progress Goal not achieved Products Access to health We seek to improve access to health for underserved populations in lowand middle-income countries. Goal: Monitor and assess the progress and efficacy of our Access to Health programs Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Develop quantitative and qualitative End of 2016 Indicators were developed for the 2014 and performance indicators for the 4 A's: 2016 CR report for each A of the “4As of Availability, Accessibility, Affordability, Access” framework. achieved Goal and Awareness. Goal: Availability: Address unmet needs through the research, development and refinement of health solutions Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Develop a pediatric formulation of prazi2017 (program In 2015, both the Phase I bioavailability trials quantel to treat schistosomiasis in chilto enter Phase in healthy volunteers (South Africa) as well as dren under the age of six III) the swill and spit taste study with school-age progress In children (Tanzania) were completed. In 2016, we launched a Phase II study in Ivory Coast to test the efficacy and safety of two different formulations for orodispersible tablets in schistosomiasis-infected children under the age of six. Results are expected in the course of 2017. Develop a new anti-malarial drug 2017 (program In March 2015, we obtained the rights to an to enter Phase investigational promising antimalarial I) compound from Medicines for Malaria Venture In progress (MMV). The compound potentially represents a novel mechanism of action and is intended to be developed for both treatment and prevention of malaria in young children. The project completed the preclinical phase in 2016 and is progressing to Phase I to start in 2017. Develop a new diagnostic kit for 2017 (for start In 2016, the feasibility of two malaria assays measuring the presence and type of of clinical was validated and the detection levels are malaria parasite, and potentially testing) meeting the defined TPPs in terms of speciprogress In measure co-infection with HIV based on ficity and sensitivity for new competitive diagour Muse Auto CD4/CD4%. nostic assays. 132 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Goal: Affordability: Address inability to pay Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Participate in at least one collaboration End of 2018 with a public partner to share our IP and knowledge of infectious and neglected goal New diseases. Develop an IP-sharing platform with a End of 2018 non-commercial entity. goal New Goal: Awareness: Empower health workers, communities and people Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Develop an integrated initiative of our End of 2016 In 2016, we initiated the PPP “Water for Healthcare and Life Science business Health” in Ghana. Our aim is to raise awaresectors to raise awareness. ness for water quality and to improve local postponed Not and achieved capacity for water testing. The project will be fully operating in 2017. Through dialogue identify key access End of 2018 challenges and opportunities for our A2H strategy. goal New Goal: Accessibility: Strengthen supply chains and provide localized solutions Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Engage stakeholders to address supply End of 2018 We established the dialogue platform (Accessichain and delivery issues in developing bility Platform). In 2016, two meetings took countries. place. Goal achieved Organize one to two meetings of the End of 2018 Accessibility Platform. goal New Develop a collaboration to improve point End of 2019 of care delivery in developing countries. New goal 133 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Safety of chemical products Our customers should be able to use our chemical products safely. Goal: Use precautionary principle to establish a globally aligned hazard and risk communication system for all our relevant chemical products in the supply chain Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Implementation of REACH: Register Mid-2018 In 2016, we registered 41 phase 3 substances substances produced in quantities of and integrated the relevant substances from 1-100 metric tons per year (phase 3 of the Sigma-Aldrich portfolio into our REACH progress In REACH implementation) and register project. non-phase-in substances. Implementation of the Global Product End of 2020 Another five product safety summaries were Strategy: Issue product safety issued in 2016. summaries for all hazardous substances In progress registered under REACH. Projects for hazard communication: End of 2020 We have updated safety data sheets for Update safety data sheets for nonaround 30% of all non-hazardous substances hazardous chemical products. (excluding the Sigma-Aldrich portfolio). progress In Harmonize safety data sheets to align End of 2020 In the course of integrating Sigma-Aldrich, we with a globally uniform standard. created a new standard and harmonized hazard communication for roughly 60% of all progress In shared substances. Counterfeit products We want to reduce the risk of product crime. Goal: Integrate safety into relevant business processes for Healthcare and Life Science business sectors Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Identify strategic and commercial data End of 2018 We performed risk assessments in our that require greater protection; miniBiopharma business. mize risks by modifying processes. progress In Goal: Step up interdisciplinary collaboration within global security networks Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Develop Group-wide guidelines that End of 2016 The following guidelines were adopted in describe duties and processes. 2016: achieved Goal Product Crime Investigation Standard Product Security Standard (risk-based approach to authenticating the supply chain, identifying risks, and ensuring supply chain integrity and security) Product crime officers were appointed for all business sectors and subsidiaries. 134 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Expand organizational structures; train Ongoing We developed and implemented a training and certify employees who deal with program for our product crime officers. Our product-related crime. MACON network was expanded. In progress Implement a Group-wide notification End of 2017 We rolled out a new reporting system for system for counterfeit products. cases of product crime. In progress Goal: Educate employees and other target groups on the strategic relevance of counterfeit medicines Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Host conferences and seminars; best End of 2016 We conducted five seminars at sites outside practice sharing and lessons learned Germany and reported on product crime at through international networks. internal conferences such as the Global Quality Goal achieved Conference or the Global Drug Safety Academy. Our product crime officers met at a conference in Darmstadt. We established anti-counterfeiting networks in high-risk countries, consisting of internal and external partners. Goal: Develop and implement security technology and solutions for supply chain authentication, identification, integrity, and security Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Pilot a project to improve product safety End of 2016 in high-risk regions of Africa using software-based solutions. Support regional activities to counter End of 2016 We supported 68 investigations across 24 product crime. countries in 2016. We participated in workshops and seminars with law enforcement in Goal achieved the United States, Mexico and Singapore and engaged German federal authorities in dialogue. Monitor the number of unreported cases End of 2016 We collaborated with internal and external of counterfeit medicines in select counpartners in high-risk countries to step up tries and step up internet searches to efforts of networks to monitor the Internet for Goal achieved track down trademark infringement and incidents of counterfeiting involving Merck counterfeit products. products. We succeeded in significantly raising the detection rate for product crime incidents. Launch “Evaluating product crime in the darknet” project. Support regional activities in five highEnd of 2017 risk countries. New goal Monitor counterfeit pharmaceuticals in Ongoing conventional distribution channels as well as online sales. New goal 135 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Transport & storage safety In the transport and storage of our products, we seek to prevent risks to people and the environment. Goal: Ensure warehouse and transport safety for our company and our suppliers Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Integrate all service providers into our End of 2016 All service-provider warehouses have been audit process. integrated into our audit process. In 2016, we audited six third-party warehouses (2015: 4). achieved Goal Integrate all freight forwarders into our End of 2017 In 2016, we developed a concept for inteaudit process. grating freight forwarders into our audit process and plan to implement the concept in In progress 2017. Roll out improvement programs in counEnd of 2016 After a running a pilot program in India in tries and regions that handle products 2015, we successfully made improvements to with special risks where our audits idenwarehouse and transport safety. In 2016, we Goal achieved tified need for improvement. also audited suppliers and third-party warehouses to identify improvement opportunities and defined corrective actions. Analyze safety-related customer End of 2016 In 2015, we enhanced our packaging concept complaints to identify necessary for certain chemicals. In 2016, we started improvements for transport and waretaking steps to optimize our shipping packachieved Goal house safety. aging for customer orders in Asia and South America. Harmonize transport and warehouse End of 2022 safety master data through global ERP systems. goal New Animal welfare We work to safeguard the welfare of animals used by our company, contract research organizations, suppliers, and other partners. Goal: Ensure consistently high quality across our animal facilities Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Inspect Life Science animal facilities in End of 2018 preparation for potential accreditation: Conduct a feasibility study and make a New goal decision about accreditation. Re-accredit relevant animal facilities. Ongoing Three animal facilities were re-accredited in 2015 and 2016. New goal Goal: Promote the 3Rs Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Develop a Group-wide 3R program. End of 2019 New goal 136 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Goal: Ensure animal welfare in our supply chain Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Identify animal welfare risks in our End of 2017 supply chain and develop a strategy for certifying suppliers. goal New Employees Our employees are key to our success, which makes it imperative for us to attract, develop and retain the right talent. Diversity Goal: In 2011, we set the strategic goal of raising the percentage of leadership roles held by women to 25%-30%. Status: We achieved this objective in 2016. Group-wide, women currently make up 28.8% of management positions. Goal: By 2021, we aim to have stabilized the percentage of female managers at 30%, and we are continuing our efforts to raise the percentage of women in leadership roles and business units in which they are still underrepresented. Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Deploy teams at departmental level to End of 2021 develop goals and measures to move women into positions in various units New goal and at various levels. Attractive Employer Goal: Consistently fill at least two-thirds of positions ranked Global Grade 16 and up with internal candidates Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Use the Talent Management Process to Ongoing In 2016, 81% of our vacant management identify suitable employees with positions were filled internally. management potential and optimize the progress In process to systematically advance them. Build a talent pool that reflects our Ongoing The structure of our talent pool is a reflection demographic structure. of the diversity within our company. progress In 137 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Goal: Position Merck as an attractive employer for university graduates Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Participate in university fairs and orgaOngoing Thanks to our efforts at fairs and internal nize in-house events for graduates; events, we succeeded in attracting ten graduposition Merck via employer branding ates to participate in our Functional Graduate progress In channels. Program by March 31, 2017. Good leadership Goal: We value good leadership, an approach that enables our employees to unlock their full potential and advance in their careers. Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Have at least 50% of managers rated End of 2018 Nearly 50% of our top 400 have taken part in Global Grade 14+ take part in a our Global Leadership Program, our latest management program. initiative for top leaders. Similar figures apply In progress to our other management programs (AMP, MFP). Implement a regularly occurring process Ongoing At the beginning of 2016, we revised our to measure employee engagement in an approach to employee surveys and conducted effort to establish a baseline for engagea company-wide survey. In doing so, we have progress In ment and define a target. defined the baseline against which to measure future improvements. Health & safety Goal: Reduce the lost time injury rate Group-wide (to 1.5 or less). Status: By 2016, we’d reached this objective with an LTIR of 1.3 Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Implement the OSHAS 18001 occupaEnd of 2016 By the end of 2016, all Performance Materials tional health and safety management production sites had been certified to the system for all Performance Materials international standard OHSAS 18001. FurtherGoal achieved production sites. more, our Life Science sites in Buchs (Switzerland), Bangalore (India) and Irvine (UK) have been included in our Group certificate, as have our pharmaceutical operations at our sites in Goa (India), Atsugi (Japan) and Mollet (France). Reinforce our safety culture to prevent End of 2020 behavior-related accidents/Roll out our BeSafe! program at all newly acquired goal New sites and monitor ongoing implementation via appropriate performance indicators. 138 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Environment Environmental stewardship We want to minimize our environmental footprint and mitigate our impact on the climate as far as possible, which is why we are working to continuously improve energy and resource efficiency while also reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. Goal: Integrate all production sites in the Group ISO 14001 certificate for environmental management systems Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: At newly acquired production sites, Ongoing Seven Sigma-Aldrich production sites had an introduce environmental management ISO 14001-certified environmental managesystems in line with the Merck Group ment system and were transferred to the In progress ISO 14001 certificate and certify them Merck Group certificate. accordingly. Due to the size of the Sigma-Aldrich group and the integration process, the transfer of all sites to the new system must be done gradually. In 2016, the sites started a gap analysis that is still ongoing. Climate impact mitigation Goal: 20% reduction in our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 2020 (2006 baseline). Status: By the end of 2016, we had lowered our greenhouse gas emissions by around 10% relative to the 2006 baseline, despite growth in our operating business. Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Systematically examine the energy End of 2020 We continued to systematically examine consumption at our individual production possible energy savings at our production sites. sites. In progress In line with the EU Directive on energy efficiency, energy audits were conducted at our sites in Eppelheim and Berlin (Germany), as well as in Calais, Meyzieu and Semoy (France). In addition, we also performed energy checks at our sites in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Naucalpan (Mexico) and Kankakee, IL (United States). Identify potential energy savings and End of 2020 In 2016, we completed 42 Edison projects (p. implement appropriate measures. 79). Around 60% of the Edison projects planned Group-wide have already been or are progress In being rolled out. In 2017, we intend to launch 81 new projects with the potential to cut CO2 emissions by around 34,000 metric tons. Reduce process-related emissions. End of 2020 Our Life Science business sector is making a significant contribution to reducing processrelated emissions. In 2014, process optimizaprogress In tions resulted in a two-thirds reduction in our process-related emissions per production unit at our facility in Jaffrey, NH (USA). In 2015, we initiated a project to further cut emissions that is scheduled to end in 2017. Other projects are in planning. 139 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Waste & recycling Goal: By the end of 2017, set a reduction target for the quantity of waste we generate Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Implement a waste scoring model to End of 2017 We implemented the Waste Scoring Model and quantify our waste reduction efforts and expect to have a baseline established by the set a baseline. first quarter of 2017, from which a quantitaprogress In tive target will be set. Water management Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at seven appropriate sites in water-stressed areas and reduce their water consumption by 10% by the end of 2020 (2014 baseline). Status: By the end of 2016, we had reduced our water consumption at relevant sites by around 12% compared with 2014. Going forward, we want to ensure a 10% sustainable reduction in water consumption. Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: To achieve this goal, we need a variety April 2017 To help our sites in their efforts, we provided of primarily local measures tailored to the necessary expertise in the form of docuour individual sites. mentation and an Intranet site. progress In One inter-site measure is the creation of a water balance to provide a baseline. Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at 23 production sites with high water consumption by 2020 Status: Our sites are implementing the water management system in three stages using the CEFIC flagship self-assessment tool. We expect to complete Stage 1 (basic) by April 2017, Stage 2 (progressed) by May 2018 and Stage 3 (advanced) by May 2020. Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Meet the basic requirements set out in April 2017 The sites will be asked to provide an initial the CEFIC flagship self-assessment tool report on their progress in April 2017. (Stage 1). These include water quantity In progress and quality evaluations at the sites, as well as an environment analysis. 140 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Suppliers Goal: Ensure our suppliers adhere to ethical, social, environmental, and compliance standards. Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Perform a qualitative analysis of the End of 2017 available assessment and audit results and define potential courses of action. Goal New Create a holistic approach to managing End of 2017 sustainability in global supply chains. New Goal 141 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Community Health Hand in hand with our partners, we aim to eliminate the tropical worm disease schistosomiasis worldwide. Goal: Eliminate schistosomiasis in African school children: Since the start of our donation program, 100 million patients have been treated, primarily school-aged children. Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Incrementally increase annual tablet End of 2016 In 2016, we boosted our production capacity donation by a factor of ten, from 25 so as to produce 250 million tablets. In collabmillion in 2012 to up to 250 million in oration with WHO, we donated more than 200 achieved Goal 2016. million of these for distribution in 33 African countries. Donate up to 250 million praziquantel Ongoing tablets annually to WHO for African school children. goal New Optimize the praziquantel formulation. End of 2019 In 2016, the study design for the bioequivalence study was approved. The study will be conducted in 2017. In progress Develop a pediatric formulation of praziEnd of 2019 In 2016, we launched a Phase II study in Ivory quantel for children under the age of Coast to test the efficacy and safety of two six. different formulations for orodispersible tablets In progress in schistosomiasis-infected children under six. At the same time, we completed preparation of the Phase III study. Initiate new partnerships to promote Ongoing behavioral change in African school children. New goal Maintain the educational program and Ongoing In 2016, we expanded the educational provide WHO with educational booklets program and donated 340,000 educational to teach children about the disease and booklets to WHO for distribution in 10 African New goal ways to prevent it. countries. Position the Global Schistosomiasis Ongoing Alliance as the key partnering platform for advocacy, implementation, research, goal New communications, and strategy development. 142 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Minilab Through the GPHF Minilab™, we seek to fight counterfeit medicines in developing countries and emerging economies. Goal: Provide and further develop the portable compact GPHF Minilab TM Measure(s): By when: Progress by end of 2016: Status: Develop new test methods for five End of 2016 In 2016, the GPHF developed test methods for active ingredients and expand manuals five new active ingredients, meaning that a to describe the new testing methods. total of 85 test protocols are now available. Goal achieved The manuals have been updated accordingly. Conduct two training seminars on the End of 2016 In 2015 and 2016, the GPHF conducted six use of the GPHF MinilabTM; sell at least Minilab training seminars in Tanzania, Angola, 40 Minilabs. Kenya, Zambia, Rwanda, and Mozambique Goal achieved with well over 100 participants. The GPHF sold a total of 109 Minilabs. Develop new test methods for five End of 2017 active ingredients and expand manuals to describe the new testing methods. goal New Conduct three training seminars on the End of 2017 use of the GPHF MinilabTM; sell at least 35 Minilabs. New goal 143 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Recognition and Rankings The following overview presents a selection of major ratings and rankings for 2015 and 2016. Information on additional ratings and accolades received by individual businesses or sites can be found in the respective chapter of our 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report, or on our company’s website. Access to Medicine Index In 2016, Merck moved up to fourth place in the Access to Medicine Index (2014: sixth place). This index assesses 20 pharmaceutical companies with respect to their efforts to improve access to medicine in developing countries. It is published every two years by the Access to Medicine Foundation, an international non-profit organization. www.accesstomedicineindex.org Carbon Disclosure Project In 2016, we scored an Ain the CDP Index, thus achieving “Sector Leader Health Care, Pharma & Biotech” status for climate change reporting in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. As such, Merck is one of the top companies in this sector in the above-mentioned three countries and, ranking fourth, has moved up two places over the previous year. In 2015, we received a C for our performance and a score of 98 out of 100 points for our reporting. www.cdp.net Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register In 2015, Merck was added to the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe, which selects the 200 top-rated European companies based on their corporate responsibility performance. We are also included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register. forumethibel.org Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index Since 2015, Merck has been included in the Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index, which comprises the 120 highest-ranking European companies in terms of their environmental, social and governance efforts. www.vigeo-eiris.com FTSE4Good Index Since 2008, Merck has been included in FTSE4Good, an internationally leading sustainability index that annually measures the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and ethical practices. www.ftse.com 144 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Good Company Ranking In 2016, Kirchhoff Consult, a management consultancy, published its fifth Good Company Ranking. Among the 30 DAXlisted companies, we took tenth place. oekom research Sustainability Rating In 2016, the sustainability ratings agency oekom research AG gave Merck a Bon a scale of Dto A+ (top grade). Merck thus once more achieved Prime Status. www.oekom-research.com STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index In 2016, Merck was once again included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders sustainability index, which assesses companies based on key environmental, social and governance criteria. www.stoxx.com Vigeo Eiris Human Rights Study Vigeo Eiris, a sustainability rating and research agency, analyzed how 3,189 companies meet their social responsibility to respect human rights. Merck ranks among the top 30 companies and achieved a total of 69 out of 100 points (“advanced”). www.vigeo-eiris.com 145 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are aimed at all countries and organizations across the globe. We too play an active role in achieving these goals. Our efforts Under our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy (p. 9), we are already working to solve key challenges through efforts in the spheres of health, environment, and culture and education. We especially support SDG 3 (Good Health & Well-Being), SDG 4 (Quality Education) and SDG 7 (Affordable & Clean Energy). To achieve these goals, we join strategic partnerships (SDG 17) that allow us to work hand in hand with other companies, non-governmental organizations and governments. SDG 3: Good health and well-being “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.” Across the globe, approximately 400 million people lack access to effective and affordable medical care, a situation we intend to rectify through our Access to Health strategy (p. 34). Recognizing that we can’t solve these challenges alone, we have joined forces with strong partners to work towards a solution. Examples of our activities: Global awareness campaigns (p. 175) Eliminating schistosomiasis (p. 97) Efficient supply chains for better access to health (p. 39) SDG 17: Partnerships to improve healthcare (p. 16) 146 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures SDG 4: Quality education “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” The sciences in particular play a key role in the development of pioneering solutions. A well-educated and well-trained workforce is also essential to our future as a science and technology company, which is why we are working to ignite a passion for science in the next generation. To this end, we conduct a number of education projects (p. 100) across our sites worldwide, going to great lengths to provide underprivileged students with access to education. Examples of our activities: Global scholarship programs (p. 183) Support for education at our Darmstadt site and at our facilities worldwide (p. 100) SDG 17: Partner in “Afrika kommt!” (p. 75), a GIZ managerial program SDG 5: Gender equality “Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.” Promoting women's health and economic participation in developing countries (p. 42) Attractive working conditions for parents (p. 64) SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation “Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.” Protecting water as a resource (p. 84) Clean water at schools in China (p. 97) SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.” Our materials create ultra-efficient solar cells that can be used in innovative applications. Moreover, our products help customers save energy. For instance, state-of-the-art liquid crystals and OLED technology from our Performance Materials business sector make displays more energy-efficient. You can find more information under Sustainable products (p. 29). Examples of our activities: Liquid crystals in windows save energy (p. 180) Energy-efficient products (p. 29) Materials for innovative photovoltaic technology (p. 29) SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.” Respect for human rights and compliance with ILO core labor standards (p. 14) Social standards in our supply chain (p. 89) 147 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities “Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.” Partnership to provide integrated waste disposal and water treatment systems in cities in China SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.” Design for Sustainability (p. 30) Preventing and recycling waste (p. 82) SDG 13: Climate action “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.” Edison, our climate impact mitigation program (p. 79) SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals “Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development.” Partnerships to improve healthcare (p. 16) Partner in “Afrika kommt!” (p. 75), a GIZ managerial program 148 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures GRI content index The CR Report 2016 is based on the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and meets the criteria for the application level “Comprehensive”. The following GRI Index provides an overview of general standard disclosures, the GRI indicators (specific Standard Disclosures) identified as relevant, and where the corresponding contents are described. Read More 150 Company and report profile 157 Environmental performance indicators 155 Economic performance indicators 161 Social performance indicators 149 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures GRI Content Index Company and Report Profile External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior Letter from the CEO (p. 3) decision-maker of the organization G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportuStrategy (p. 5) nities Goals (p. 132) Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Company profile (p. 6) G4-4 Primary brands, products, and Company profile (p. 6) services Products & Industries G4-5 Location of the organization’s Company profile (p. 6) headquarters G4-6 Number of countries where the Company profile (p. 6) organization operates, and List of shareholdings names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal Company profile (p. 6) form G4-8 Markets served (including Company profile (p. 6) geographic breakdown, sectors Macroeconomic and Sectorserved, and types of customers Specific Environment and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organizaCompany profile (p. 6) tion Indicators Employees (p. 110) Indicators Environment (p. 123) Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Equity Consolidated Balance Sheet G4-10 Total number of employees by Supervised workers such as Attractive employer (p. 64) employment contract and gender temps are currently not logged in Indicators: Employees (p. 110) our employee data system. We are investigating possibilities to record information on supervised workers at the Group level. G4-11 Percentage of total employees Employee Engagement (p. 72) covered by collective bargaining Indicators: Employees (p. 110) agreements G4-12 Organization's supply chain Supply chain standards (p. 90) G4-13 Significant changes during the Company profile (p. 6) reporting period regarding size, Supply chain standards (p. 90) structure, ownership, or its Fundamental Information about supply chain the Group 150 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures G4-14 Whether and how the precauTransport and warehouse safety tionary approach or principle is (p. 50) addressed by the organization Safety and health (p. 70) Environmental stewardship (p. 77) Climate protection (p. 79) Plant and process safety (p. 86) G4-15 Externally developed economic, Governance (p. 8) environmental and social charCompliance (p. 11) ters, principles, or other initiaHuman rights (p. 14) tives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16) Environmental stewardship (p. 77) Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organizaReport profile (p. 103) tion's consolidated financial Company profile (p. 6) statements G4-18 Definition of report content Report profile (p. 103) Materiality Analysis (p. 19) G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the Materiality Analysis (p. 19) process for defining report content G4-20 Material aspects within the orgaMateriality Analysis (p. 19) nization G4-21 Material aspects outside the Materiality Analysis (p. 19) organization G4-22 Effect of any restatements of Report profile (p. 103) information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous Report profile (p. 103) reporting periods in the Scope Materiality Analysis (p. 19) and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16) the organization Materiality Analysis (p. 19) G4-25 Basis for identification and selecStakeholder dialogue (p. 16) tion of stakeholders with whom Materiality Analysis (p. 19) to engage G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeStakeholder dialogue (p. 16) holder engagement Materiality Analysis (p. 19) G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16) through stakeholder engagement Materiality Analysis (p. 19) Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Report profile (p. 103) G4-29 Date of most recent previous Report profile (p. 103) report G4-30 Reporting cycle Report profile (p. 103) G4-31 Contact point for questions Report profile (p. 103) G4-32 GRI Index GRI Content Index (p. 149) G4-33 External Assurance Report profile (p. 103) GRI Content Index (p. 149) 151 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the Strategy (p. 5) organization Management Statement on Corporate Governance G4-35 Process for delegating authority Strategy (p. 5) for economic, environmental and Procedures of the corporate social topics from the highest bodies governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Responsibility for economic, enviStrategy (p. 5) ronmental and social topics G4-37 Processes for consultation Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16) between stakeholders and the Materiality Analysis (p. 19) highest governance body Employee Engagement (p. 72) G4-38 Composition of the highest Management governance body and its commitStatement on Corporate Govertees nance The Executive Board G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the Statement on Corporate Goverhighest governance body is also nance an executive officer Management G4-40 Nomination and selection Diversity and equal opportunity processes for the highest gover(p. 67) nance body and its committees The Executive Board Objectives of the Supervisory Board Empowering women G4-41 Processes for the highest goverCompliance (p. 11) nance body to ensure conflicts of Information on corporate goverinterest are avoided and nance practices managed G4-42 Highest governance body's and Strategy (p. 5) senior executive's roles in the Values and compliance development, approval, and Report of the Supervisory Board updating of the organization's CR strategies, policies, and goals G4-43 Measures taken to develop and Strategy (p. 5) enhance the highest governance The Executive Board body's collective knowledge of Statement on Corporate Govereconomic, environmental and nance social topics G4-44 Evaluation of the highest goverBoard of Partners nance body's performance with The Supervisory Board respect to governance of Articles of Association economic, environmental and Statement on Corporate Goversocial topics nance G4-45 Highest governance body's role in Strategy (p. 5) the identification and manageReport on Risks and Opportuniment of economic, environmental ties and social impacts, risks, and Statement on Corporate Goveropportunities nance Compliance (p. 11) G4-46 Highest governance body's role Strategy (p. 5) on reviewing the effectiveness of Report on Risks and Opportunithe organization's risk manageties ment processes for economic, Report of the Supervisory Board environmental and social topics 152 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures G4-47 Frequency of highest governance Strategy (p. 5) body's review of economic, enviReport on Risks and Opportunironmental and social impacts ties risks, and opportunities Report of the Supervisory Board G4-48 Highest committee or position Report profile (p. 103) that formally reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report G4-49 Process for communicating critCompliance (p. 11) ical concerns to the highest Values and compliance governance body G4-50 Nature and total number of critCompliance (p. 11) ical concerns that were communiValues and compliance cated to the highest governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Compensation report highest governance body and senior executives G4-52 Process for determining remunerCompensation report ation G4-53 How stakeholders' views are Attractive employer (p. 64) sought and taken into account Compensation report regarding remuneration G4-54 Ratio of annual total compensaCompetitive salaries and addition for the organization's tional benefits not only increase highest-paid individual to the our attractiveness as an median annual total compensaemployer; they also motivate our tion for all employees in the people and build loyalty to the same country company. The compensation we offer is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Group. As far as possible, we strive to offer all our employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore, we monitor compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under G4-54 and G4-55 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. 153 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in Competitive salaries and addiannual total compensation for the tional benefits not only increase organization's highest-paid indiour attractiveness as an vidual to the median percentage employer; they also motivate our increase in annual total compenpeople and build loyalty to the sation for all employees in the company. The compensation we same country offer is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Group. As far as possible, we strive to offer all our employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore, we monitor compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under G4-54 and G4-55 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization's values, principles, Governance (p. 8) standards and norms of behavior Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) Diversity and equal opportunity (p. 67) Good leadership (p. 74) G4-57 Internal and external mechaCompliance (p. 11) nisms for seeking advice on Diversity and equal opportunity ethical and lawful behavior, and (p. 67) matters related to organizational integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechaCompliance (p. 11) nisms for reporting concerns Diversity and equal opportunity about unethical or unlawful (p. 67) behavior, and matters related to Supply chain standards (p. 90) organizational integrity * Disclosure on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter “Facts and figures“, including explanatory notes, and chosen DMAs in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report (p. 172). KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report. 154 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures GRI Content Index Economic Performance Indicators External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA Management Approach Economic performance Pension schemes Report on Risks and Opportunities Employee Engagement (p. 72) G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated Consolidated Income Statement and distributed Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Information by business sector /country and region Personnel expenses Indicators: Community (p. 130) G4-EC2 Financial implications and other We report in detail on various Climate protection (p. 79) risks and opportunities for the aspects of climate change as Water management (p. 84) organization's activities due to part of our participation in the Global Compact CoP (p. 169) climate change CDP (formerly known as the CDP Carbon Disclosure Project). Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's Indicators Employees (p. 110) defined benefit plan obligations Pension schemes G4-EC4 Financial assistance received Accounting: Property, plant and from government equipment Property, plant and equipment Research and development costs Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA Management Approach Good leadership (p. 74) Diversity and equal opportunity (p. 67) Employee Engagement (p. 72) 155 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level This indicator is not relevant to Indicators: Employees (p. 110) wage by gender compared to us, which is why we do not Human Rights Charter local minimum wage at significollect data on the ratio of the cant locations of operation standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. As a company in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries, we employ highly qualified individuals. Our Global Rewards Policy applies to all our subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Base pay is oriented to the median base pay, and short-term variable compensation is based on the third quartile of the relevant reference market. The overall compensation package thus exceeds the market median. Even those employees in the lowest pay brackets are paid the local minimum wage at the very least. G4-EC6 Proportion of senior manageWe encourage both local hiring Diversity and equal opportunity ment hired from the local and international appointments (p. 67) community at significant locaacross all levels of the company. tions of operation The percentage of local managers is not recorded as it is not relevant to our strategic personnel planning. Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local Supply chain standards (p. 90) suppliers at significant locations of operation * Disclosure on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter “Facts and figures”, including explanatory notes, and chosen DMAs in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report (p. 172). KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report. 156 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures GRI Content Index Environmental Performance Indicators External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Management Approach In all our endeavors, we attempt Packaging (p. 32) to efficiently utilize materials Reuse and recycling (p. 33) and recycle as much as possible. Resource efficiency (p. 82) Where feasible, we use recycled materials (in packaging, for instance). Overall, material consumption is not a major concern for us. There are few opportunities to use recycled material in our production processes because our business model puts us at the start of the value chain. We therefore do not collect such data at the Grouplevel. Individual data and measures are reported under the respective chapters. G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or See G4-DMA Sustainable product design (p. volume 29) Packaging (p. 32) Resource efficiency (p. 82) Design for Sustainability Green Chemistry G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used See G4-DMA Packaging (p. 32) that are recycled input materials Reuse and recycling (p. 33) Resource efficiency (p. 82) Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Management Approach Climate protection (p. 79) Environmental stewardship (p. 77) Sustainable product design (p. 29) G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Climate protection (p. 79) organization Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of Climate protection (p. 79) the organization Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN5 Energy intensity Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumpClimate protection (p. 79) tion Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requireSustainable product design (p. ments of products and services 29) Resource efficiency (p. 82) Product examples Performance Materials 157 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Aspect: Water G4-DMA Management Approach Water management (p. 84) G4-EN08 Total water withdrawal by Water management (p. 84) source Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN09 Water sources significantly Water management (p. 84) affected by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage of total volume of Water management (p. 84) water recycled and reused Indicators: Environment (p. 123) Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Management Approach Climate protection (p. 79) G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Climate protection (p. 79) emissions (Scope 1) Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas Climate protection (p. 79) (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas Climate protection (p. 79) (GHG) emissions (Scope3) Indicators: Environment (p. 123) Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emisIndicators: Environment (p. sions intensity 123) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas Climate protection (p. 79) (GHG) emissions Indicators: Environment (p. 123) Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting Indicators: Environment (p. substances (ODS) 123) G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant Indicators: Environment (p. air emissions 123) Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Management Approach Plant and process safety (p. 86) Waste and recycling (p. 82) G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality Water management (p. 84) and destination Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type Waste and recycling (p. 82) and disposal method Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN24 Total number and volume of Plant and process safety (p. 86) significant spills Indicators: Environment (p. 123) G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, Indicators: Environment (p. exported, or treated waste 123) deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 158 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, Water management (p. 84) and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Management Approach Sustainable product design (p. 29) Packaging (p. 32) Reuse and recycling (p. 33) G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of Owing to the multitude of prodSustainable product design (p. environmental impacts of products we supply and the minimal 29) ucts and services comparability of our various Packaging (p. 32) initiatives, we do not collect Reuse and recycling (p. 33) quantitative data at the Group level. The individual measures taken by our various businesses are reported in the respective chapters. G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and Owing to the multitude of prodPackaging (p. 32) their packaging materials that ucts we supply and the minimal are reclaimed by category comparability of our various initiatives, we do not collect quantitative data at the Group level. The individual measures taken by our various businesses are reported in the respective chapters. Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Management Approach Environmental stewardship (p. 77) G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant Environmental stewardship (p. fines and total number of non77) monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Management Approach Transport and warehouse safety (p. 50) G4-EN30 Significant environmental We do not consider relevant any Climate protection (p. 79) impacts of transporting products data queried under this indicator Transport and warehouse safety and other goods and materials that goes beyond the data (p. 50) used for the organization's operalready reported. Indicators Environment (p. 123) ations, and transporting members of the workforce Aspect: Overall G4-DMA Management Approach Environment (p. 76) G4-EN31 Total environmental protection Climate protection (p. 79) expenditures and investments Indicators: Environment (p. by type 123) 159 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that Supply chain standards (p. 90) were screened using environMica supply chain (p. 93) mental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential Supply chain standards (p. 90) negative environmental impacts Mica supply chain (p. 93) in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Compliance (p. 11) G4-EN34 Number of grievances about We track all complaints via our Compliance (p. 11) environmental impacts filed, central reporting system and addressed, and resolved through categorize them based on their formal grievance mechanisms content. In the future we will implement appropriate subcategories to adequately reflect the specific subject matter of the complaints. * Disclosure on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter “Facts and figures”, including explanatory notes, and chosen DMAs in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report (p. 172). KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report. 160 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures GRI Content Index Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Management Approach Attractive employer (p. 64) Diversity and equal opportunity (p. 67) Health and safety (p. 70) G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Indicators: Employees (p. 110) employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time At Merck KGaA in Darmstadt, Attractive employer (p. 64) employees that are not provided Germany (20% of the company's Indicators: Employees (p. 110) to temporary or part-time total workforce), part-time employees, by significant locaemployees receive the same job tions of operation benefits as full-time workers. Employees with temporary contracts, however, are not entitled to all company benefits, such as a company pension. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention Attractive employer (p. 64) rates after parental leave, by Indicators: Employees (p. 110) gender Aspect: Labor/Management relations G4-DMA Management Approach Attractive employer (p. 64) Health and safety (p. 70) Indicators: Employees (p. 110) G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods The regulations on periods of regarding operational changes, notice vary worldwide. We apply including whether these are the rules that are in force locally. specified in collective agreeThere is not need for us to track ments periods of notice at Group level. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Management Approach Health and safety (p. 70) G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce Occupational health and safety Health and safety (p. 70) represented in formal joint committees are required by law management-worker health and in Germany, which is why all safety committees that help employees of Merck KGaA sites monitor and advise on occupa(Darmstadt and Gernsheim, tional health and safety Germany) are represented by programs such a committee, one per site. These employees account for around 19% of our total workforce. The majority of facilities outside of Germany also have health and safety committees to represent their employees. Each individual site is responsible for arranging and maintaining such committees. 161 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of We have identified the lost time Health and safety (p. 70) injury, occupational diseases, injury rate (LTIR) as a key Indicators: Employees (p. 110) lost days, and absenteeism, and performance indicator for our total number of work-related company. fatalities by region and gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence of Health and safety (p. 70) high risk or diseases related to Indicators: Employees (p. 110) their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered Health and safety issues are in formal agreements with trade governed Group-wide by our unions EHS Policy. The organizational implementation of the policy is the responsibility of our individual sites and is subject to local laws and regulations. The facilities of Merck KGaA (Darmstadt and Gernsheim approx. 19% of our total workforce) are subject to bylaws on occupational health and safety. Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Management Approach Good leadership (p. 74) Diversity and equal opportunity (p. 67) Attractive employer (p. 64) G4-LA9 Average hours of training per Indicators: Employees (p. 110) year per employee by gender Compliance (p. 11) and by employee category Drug safety (p. 46) Chemical product safety (p. 44) Counterfeit products (p. 48) Animal welfare (p. 58) Attractive employer (p. 64) Diversity and equal opportunity (p. 67) Health and safety (p. 70) Good leadership (p. 74) Water management (p. 84) Plant and process safety (p. 86) G4-LA10 Programs for skills management Diversity and equal opportunity and lifelong learning that support (p. 67) the continued employability of Attractive employer (p. 64) employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees Attractive employer (p. 64) receiving regular performance Indicators: Employees (p. 110) and career development reviews, by gender and by employment category 162 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Management Approach Diversity and equal opportunity (p. 67) Objectives of the Supervisory Board G4-LA12 Composition of governance Since there is no globally Diversity and equal opportunity bodies and breakdown of uniform definition of the term (p. 67) employees per employee cate“minority”, we do not record this Indicators: Employees (p. 110) gory according to gender, age sort of data. Moreover, many The Executive Board group, minority group membercountries in which we operate The Supervisory Board ship, and other indicators of have strict data privacy regulaObjectives of the Supervisory diversity. tions governing the recording of Board personal employee data. Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men G4-DMA Management Approach Attractive employer (p. 64) Compensation report G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuThe salaries we offer are prediAttractive employer (p. 64) neration of women to men, by cated on the respective job significant locations of operation description and are based on our Global Job Catalog, which has fixed salary bands that are identical for men and women. Variable salary components that fall under performance-based compensation are paid on the basis of whether mutually agreed targets have been achieved. A performance management system governs this process. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that Supply chain standards (p. 90) were screened labor practices Mica supply chain (p. 93) criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential Supply chain standards (p. 90) negative impacts for labor pracMica supply chain (p. 93) tices in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Compliance (p. 11) G4-LA16 Number of grievances about We track all complaints via our Supply chain standards (p. 90) labor practices filed, addressed, central reporting system and Compliance (p. 11) and resolved through formal categorize them based on their grievance mechanisms content. In the future we will implement appropriate subcategories to adequately reflect the specific subject matter of the complaints. 163 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Human Rights External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Management Approach Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of Our Responsible Sourcing PrinciHuman rights (p. 14) significant investment agreeples and our Global Policy BusiCompliance (p. 11) ments and contracts that include ness Partner Risk Management Supply chain standards (p. 90) human rights clauses or that identify human rights issues as Mica supply chain (p. 93) underwent human rights the foundation for significant Merck Responsible Sourcing Prinscreening investments. ciples G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training Human rights (p. 14) on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA Management Approach Diversity and equal opportunity (p. 67) G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of Diversity and equal opportunity discrimination and corrective (p. 67) actions taken Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) Human Rights Charter G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identiSupply chain standards (p. 90) fied in which the right to exercise Mica supply chain (p. 93) freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) Human Rights Charter G4-HR5 Operations and significant Supply chain standards (p. 90) suppliers identified as having Mica supply chain (p. 93) significant risk for incidents of Indicators: Employees (p. 110) child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 164 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) Human Rights Charter G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identiSupply chain standards (p. 90) fied as having significant risk for Mica supply chain (p. 93) incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Assessment G4-DMA Management Approach Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of Human rights (p. 14) operations that have been Compliance (p. 11) subject to human rights reviews Indicators: Compliance (p. 107) or impact assessments Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that Supply chain standards (p. 90) were screened using human Mica supply chain (p. 93) rights criteria Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential Supply chain standards (p. 90) negative human rights impacts Mica supply chain (p. 93) in the supply chain and actions Human rights (p. 14) taken Compliance (p. 11) Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Human rights (p. 14) Compliance (p. 11) G4-HR12 Number of grievances about We track all complaints via our Supply chain standards (p. 90) human rights impacts filed, central reporting system and addressed, and resolved through categorize them based on their formal grievance mechanisms content. In the future we will implement appropriate subcategories to adequately reflect the specific subject matter of the complaints. 165 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Society External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Management Approach Compliance (p. 11) Values and compliance G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Compliance (p. 11) operations assessed for risks Values and compliance related to corruption and the Indicators: Compliance (p. 107) significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training in Governance (p. 8) anti-corruption policies and Compliance (p. 11) procedures Indicators: Compliance (p. 107) G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption As applicable, we report on risks Compliance (p. 11) and actions taken from litigation and legal proceedReport on Risks and Opportuniings in our Report on Risks and ties Opportunities. Aspect: Public policy G4-DMA Management Approach Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16) Code of conduct G4-SO6 Total value of political contribuStakeholder dialogue (p. 16) tions by country and recipient/ Code of conduct beneficiary Disclosure on donations to PACs (EMD Serono) Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA Management Approach Compliance (p. 11) Values and compliance Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for Indicators: Compliance (p. 107) anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Management Approach Compliance (p. 11) Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant As applicable, we report on risks Indicators: Compliance (p. 107) fines and total number of nonfrom litigation and legal proceedReport on Risks and Opportunimonetary sanctions for nonings in our Report on Risks and ties compliance with laws and Opportunities. regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Compliance (p. 11) G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that Supply chain standards (p. 90) were screened using criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential Supply chain standards (p. 90) negative impacts on society in Mica supply chain (p. 93) the supply chain and actions taken 166 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Aspect: Grievance mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Management Approach Supply chain standards (p. 90) Compliance (p. 11) G4-SO11 Number of grievances about We track all complaints via our Supply chain standards (p. 90) impacts on society filed, central reporting system and Compliance (p. 11) addressed, and resolved through categorize them based on their formal grievance mechanisms content. In the future we will implement appropriate subcategories to adequately reflect the specific subject matter of the complaints. Product Responsibility External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Customer health and safety G4-DMA Management Approach Drug safety (p. 46) Chemical product safety (p. 44) Sustainable product design (p. 29) Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product Drug safety (p. 46) and service categories for which Chemical product safety (p. 44) health and safety impacts are Sustainable product design (p. assessed for improvement 29) G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of As applicable, we report on risks Report on Risks and Opportuninon-compliance with regulations from litigation and legal proceedties and voluntary codes concerning ings in our Report on Risks and health and safety impacts of Opportunities. products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and service labelling G4-DMA Management Approach Drug safety (p. 46) Chemical product safety (p. 44) Responsible marketing (p. 52) Interactions with health systems (p. 61) G4-PR3 Type of product and service Within our businesses, product Drug safety (p. 46) information required by the labels are both important and Chemical product safety (p. 44) organization's procedures for mandatory. All pharmaceuticals product and service information and chemicals are subject to and labeling, and percentage of reporting and notification significant product and service requirements that we fulfill. The categories subject to such inforindividual requirements are mation requirements reported in the respective chapters. G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of Drug safety (p. 46) non-compliance with regulations Chemical product safety (p. 44) and voluntary codes concerning Report on Risks and Opportuniproduct and service information ties and labeling, by type of outcomes 167 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring Within the scope of our B2B Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16) customer satisfaction activities, we maintain close contact with our customers and endeavor to find out their needs and their opinion of us as business partners. Individual customer survey results, which are used for strategy development, are completely confidential Aspect: Marketing communications G4-DMA Management Approach Responsible marketing (p. 52) Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed prodResponsible marketing (p. 52) ucts G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of With regard to marketing activiResponsible marketing (p. 52) non-compliance with regulations ties, we do not report on the Report on Risks and Opportuniand voluntary codes concerning number of regulation violations ties marketing communications, or breaches of voluntary rules of including advertising, promotion, conduct. As applicable, we report and sponsorship by type of on risks from litigation and legal outcomes proceedings in our Report on Risks and Opportunities. Aspect: Customer privacy G4-DMA Management Approach Clinical trials (p. 55) Compliance (p. 11) G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated Clinical trials (p. 55) complaints regarding breaches of Indicators: Products (p. 109) customer privacy and losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Management Approach Compliance (p. 11) Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant As applicable, we report on risks Report on Risks and Opportunifines for non-compliance with from litigation and legal proceedties laws and regulations concerning ings in our Report on Risks and Indicators: Compliance (p. 107) the provision and use of prodOpportunities. We do not report ucts and services the monetary value of fines. * Disclosure on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter “Facts and figures”, including explanatory notes, and chosen DMAs in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report (p. 172). KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report. 168 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Global Compact 2016 Communication on progress in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact We have been a UN Global Compact participant since 2005. As a signatory of the initiative, we commit ourselves to ten principles based on key UN conventions regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. At the same time, the UN Global Compact encourages its signatories to actively engage in propagating the principles within their own sphere of influence. The following table presents the key measures we took in 2015 and 2016 to support and implement the principles of the Global Compact. Link: www.unglobalcompact.org UNGC principles: Key measures in 2015 and 2016: Relevant GRI Reference: indicators: Human rights Principle 1: Performed human rights self-assessments G4-HR2, Human rights (p. 14) Businesses should support across our sites G4-HR7, Standards in the and respect the protection G4-HR8, supply chain (p. 90) of internationally Conducted supplier assessments and audits G4-HR9, Health (p. 97) proclaimed human rights under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) G4-HR12, initiative G4-SO1, G4-SO2 Donated 300 million praziquantel tablets to the World Health Organization for the treatment of the worm disease schistosomiasis Principle 2: Performed human rights self-assessments G4-HR1, Human rights (p. 14) Businesses should support across our sites G4-HR10–11 Standards in the and respect the protection supply chain (p. 90) of internationally Conducted CR audits of suppliers and proclaimed human rights collected supplier self-assessments Conducted supplier assessments and audits under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative 169 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Labor standards Principle 3: Conducted internal audits on workplace G4-11, Human rights (p. 14) Businesses should uphold aspects of our Human Rights Charter G4-HR4, Compliance (p. 11) the freedom of association G4-LA4 Employee engageand the effective recogniPerformed human rights self-assessments ment (p. 72) tion of the rights to collecat our sites Standards in the tive bargaining supply chain (p. 90) Conducted CR audits of suppliers and collected supplier self-assessments Conducted supplier assessments and audits under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative Principle 4: Performed human rights self-assessments G4-HR6 Human rights (p. 14) Businesses should support at our sites Compliance (p. 11) the elimination of all forms Standards in the of forced and compulsory Conducted internal audits on workplace supply chain (p. 90) labor aspects of our Human Rights Charter Conducted CR audits of suppliers and collected supplier self-assessments Conducted supplier assessments and audits under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative Principle 5: Performed human rights self-assessments G4-HR5 Human rights (p. 14) Businesses should support at our sites Compliance (p. 11) the effective abolition of Standards in the child labor Conducted internal audits into workplace supply chain (p. 90) aspects of our Human Rights Charter Mica supply chain (p. 93) Conducted CR audits of suppliers and collected supplier self-assessments Conducted supplier assessments and audits under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative Attended the Mica Summit on the mica supply chain in Delhi, India Principle 6: Conducted internal audits on workplace G4-10, Human rights (p. 14) Businesses should support aspects of our Human Rights Charter G4-EC5–6, Compliance (p. 11) the elimination of discrimiG4-LA1, Diversity and inclunation in respect of employReached our goal to increase percentage of G4-LA3, sion (p. 67) ment and occupation leadership roles occupied by women; set G4-LA9, new goal for 2021 G4-LA11–13, G4-HR3 Expanded internal diversity programs Provided global SpeakUp Line for employees to report discrimination anonymously 170 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Environment Principle 7: Obtained ISO 14001 Group certificate for G4-EC2, Environmental stewBusinesses should support a environmental management G4-EN1, ardship (p. 77) precautionary approach to G4-EN3, Climate impact mitienvironmental challenges Annually reduced CO2 emissions (reduction G4-EN8, gation (p. 79) target by 2020: 20% versus 2006 baseline) G4-EN15–17, Resource efficiency G4-EN20–21, (p. 82) Implemented more than 400 climate impact G4-EN27, Water management mitigation projects since 2012 G4-EN31 (p. 84) New goal: Introduce sustainable water Waste and recycling (p. 82) management system at high-use sites by Sustainable product 2020 design (p. 29) Implemented measures to ensure product Drug safety (p. 46) Chemical product safety (such as REACH, GHS and our Global safety (p. 44) Product Strategy) Transport and wareDevelop and implement Merck Waste Score house safety (p. 50) Principle 8: Performed ISO 50001 audits (energy manG4-EN1–34 Climate impact mitiBusinesses should underagement) of 13 sites gation (p. 79) take initiatives to promote Plant and process greater environmental Reduced average CO2 emissions of our safety (p. 86) responsibility business car fleet by 12% compared to Transport and ware2013 (goal for 2020: 30% reduction); house safety (p. 50) Water management reduced maximum CO2 emissions for new (p. 84) company vehicles Waste and recycling Offered employees sustainable mobility (p. 82) Drug safety (p. 46) options such as rental bicycles Chemical product Conducted internal and external EHS audits safety (p. 44) Recovery and reuse Performed energy checks at our sites (p. 33) Labeled products Took back packaging Principle 9: Performed product life cycle analyses G4-EN6–7, Sustainable products Businesses should G4-EN19, (p. 29) encourage the development Developed sustainable products G4-EN27, Performance Mateand diffusion of environG4-EN31 rials mentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: Consolidated our antitrust and antiG4-56–58, Compliance (p. 11) Businesses should work competition principles into a single GroupG4-SO3–SO6 against corruption in all its wide guideline forms, including extortion and bribery Performed internal corruption audits Reviewed compliance standards of our business partners Strategically reorganized our Group function Compliance Trained employees on anti-corruption Provided global SpeakUp Line for employees to report corruption anonymously Published first EFPIA transparency report 171 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report1 To the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on disclosures on the stakeholder dialogue and the materiality analysis, selected qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the sustainability performance including the accompanying explanatory notes in the chapter “Facts & figures – Indicators” and selected disclosures on management approaches in the “Corporate Responsibility Report 2016” (further “Report”) of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt (further “Merck”) for the fiscal year 2016 published at http://reports.merckgroup.com/2016/cr-report. The selected disclosures on management approaches included in the scope of the assurance engagement apply to the aspects Procurement Practices, Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Employment, Occupational Health and Safety, Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Supplier Environmental Assessment, Supplier Human Rights Assessment, as well as Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society each described in the subchapters “Our principles”. The selected qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the sustainability performance and the management approaches included in the scope of the assurance engagement are marked with the symbol in the GRI G4 Content Index, published at http://reports.merckgroup.com/2016/cr-report/facts-figures/gri-content-index. It was not part of our engagement to review product or service related information, references to external information sources, expert opinions and future-related statements in the Report. Management’s Responsibility for the Report The legal representatives of Merck are responsible for the accurate preparation of the Report in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Merck applies the principles and standard disclosures of the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 und 2), and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development, as described in the section of the Report “Report profile”, as Reporting Criteria. This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures which are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA-Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. The quality assurance system of the KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft is based on the International Standard on Quality Control 1 “Quality Control for Audit, Assurance and Related Service Practices” (ISQC 1) and, in addition on national statutory requirements and professional standards, especially the Professional Code for Certified Accountants as well as the joint statement of WPK (Chamber of Public Accountants) and IDW (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany): Requirements for quality assurance in the auditing practice (VO 1/2006). 172 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed and the evidence obtained on the information disclosed in the above-mentioned assurance scope. Nature and extent of the assurance engagement We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). These standards require that we comply with our professional duties and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preclude that the above mentioned qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the aforementioned Reporting Criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of the audit procedures is subject to the auditor‘s own judgement. This includes the assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the Report under consideration of the Reporting Criteria. Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures when conducting the limited assurance: Inquiries of personnel on Group level responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries of Merck. A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for Merck in the reporting period. Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the indicators, including the consolidation of the data, at corporate and site level. Interviews with relevant staff on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating the data, as well as carrying out internal control procedures on the data including the explanatory notes. Visits to the sites Darmstadt (Germany) and Gernsheim (Germany) as well as Sante Meyzieu (France) and Martillac (France) to assess local data collection, validation and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data. Evaluating internal and external documentation, to determine whether qualitative and quantitative information is supported by sufficient evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced manner. An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sites for consolidation at group level. Use of the insights and relevant work performed for the group and statutory audit of the (consolidated) financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA with regard to audit procedures on those information and indicators that were derived from those consolidated financial statements. An evaluation of the overall presentation of the information, including the explanatory notes, within the scope of our engagement. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and evidence received to obtain limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the disclosures for the business year 2016 included in the scope of this engagement, published in the report and marked with the symbol in the GRI G4 Content Index are, in all material respects, not prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Purpose of the assurance report This assurance report is issued based on an assurance engagement agreed upon with Merck. The assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance is issued on behalf of Merck and the assurance report is solely for information purposes of Merck on the results of the assurance engagement. 173 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Facts & figures Limited liability This assurance report must not be used as basis for (financial) decision-making by third parties of any kind. We have responsibility only towards Merck. We do not assume any responsibility for third parties. Frankfurt am Main, 12. April 2017 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft [Original German version signed by:] Glöckner Fischer Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2016. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language, whereas the German text is authoritative. 174 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine MAGAZINE Enriching lives INTERVIEW WITH DR. SHINTA PRIMASARA Dr. Shinta Primasara (36) from North Sumatra, Indonesia, is the mother of three children. Muhammad Harits Zaki (10), Amirah Fatimah (4) and Azizah Aisyah (6 months) all suffer from hypothyroidism. Even though Primasara is herself a physician, it took a long time to find a diagnosis for her first child and get proper treatment. 175 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine Interview Dr. Primasara, what made you think that You are a doctor yourself. How did you something was wrong with your oldest take the diagnosis? child Muhammad Harits? At first I was shocked when I learned of the diagnosis – it As a baby, my son initially seemed very healthy; up to six had never even crossed my mind. This disease was rarely months old, his progress was normal for his age. He would heard of when I was in college. I didn’t expect it, as Harits’s occasionally come down with a fever or diarrhea, but early development was normal. I also didn’t know that I nothing that would have worried me. I noticed something suffered from hypothyroidism when I was pregnant. was wrong when he was nine months old. Harits could not Screening for hypothyroidism is thus essential to diagnosing sit up on his own; but his pediatrician still didn’t think the disorder in newborns. anything was seriously wrong. Later, our son’s development became regression, and we took him to see a neurologist to figure out the cause. Harits was diagnosed with thyroid Your daughters were also diagnosed with a hormone deficiency (hypothyroidism). We then consulted an thyroid disorder, but luckily this happened endocrinologist, who prescribed hormone thyroid treatment. right after birth. I have learned a lot about thyroid disease and now underHow is your son doing today? stand it. It is quite difficult to identify clinical symptoms in newborns, as they do not appear immediately. In both of The hormone deficiency caused by hypothyroidism impacts my pregnancies with my daughters, I received treatment for brain development, which is why my son's mental develophypothyroidism. They were both screened for hypothyment was delayed. He has severe learning difficulties, roidism four or five days after birth and were subsequently cannot do things on his own and his hearing is impaired so also diagnosed with the disease. Thanks to prompt treatthat he can only hear low-pitched sounds. ment, they are both developing normally, for which I am very grateful. Indonesia: Thyroid awareness Indonesia has one of the highest levels of thyroid disorder in Southeast Asia. Yet only 1% of patients 20 Million receive proper treatment. Children particularly suffer In 2016, we reached approximately 20 million people from the effects of this disease because the hormonal through our worldwide thyroid awareness campaigns. More imbalance can impact their development. than 14,500 individuals received thyroid checkups. We want to educate the public on thyroid disorders. Since The control tower of the metabolism 2014, we've been working with the Indonesian government The butterfly-shaped thyroid gland is the primary regulator to accomplish exactly that. Within the “Set yourself free of the body's metabolism. Its main job is to produce thyroid from Thyroid” campaign, we are hosting events such as hormones – messengers that are needed to make sure the symposia, lectures and seminars for physicians and the tissues and organs of the body work properly and at the public. Above all, however, we’re working to promote right speed. Through its hormones, this gland controls all hypothyroidism screening of newborns across the country. bodily tissues and organs. A thyroid disorder means that the Although decreed a standard procedure by the Indonesian thyroid gland is either producing and releasing too much government in 2014, implementation so far has been slow. (overactivity/hyperthyroidism) or too little (underactivity/ Our experts are currently partnering with the Indonesian hypothyroidism) thyroid hormone into the bloodstream, Pediatric Society to develop a manual on pediatric thyroid which can accelerate or slow down one's metabolism. There disorders that will help pediatricians to diagnose the are many possible symptoms. For example, some people disease. who suffer from thyroid disease may experience excessive sweating or restlessness, while others may be fatigued and depressed. 176 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine In response, we collaborated with TFI to develop a film, a children's book and an informational brochure for parents. These tools feature two butterfly cartoon characters called “Hypo” and “Hyper”, who explain the symptoms of hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. Worldwide, 34 of our sites supported this campaign through initiatives such as social media activities, drawing contests, info fairs, and free checkups for children. “Millions of people around the world suffer from some form of thyroid disease. Most of them, however, are unaware of their condition. They grapple with health limitations that could easily be alleviated with the right treatment. Thyroid Federation International “Catching butterflies” – across the globe! aims to change this and is working to raise awareness of thyroid disorders.” Merck is working to raise global awareness of the thyroid gland and possible disorders. Hand in hand with Thyroid Ashok Bhaseen Federation International (TFI), we've been supporting InterPresident of Thyroid Federation International national Thyroid Awareness Week for the last nine years. Held in May every year, the 2016 campaign was called “Catching Butterflies: Spotting the Symptoms of Thyroid Disorders in Children”. A survey we commissioned in 2016 revealed that 84% of mothers worldwide could not correctly identify typical symptoms of thyroid disorders in their children. 177 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine Greater awareness Initially, many diseases go undetected. People often know too little about diseases such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis (MS) and cancer. Our company has in-depth knowledge and expertise regarding these diseases. We therefore run global awareness campaigns in which we work closely with various partners such as patient advocacy groups. Many of our employees get involved in these initiatives as well. In addition to external campaigns, we also regularly organize awareness campaigns within our own company. 17 In 2015 and 2016, we organized 17 awareness campaigns around the world on diseases such as cancer, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, and thyroid disorders. Dispelling the stigma of infertility Since launching our More than a Mother campaign in 2015, we have been working in partnership with ministries of health and social welfare, academia, parliaments, and fertility societies to raise awareness about infertility prevention and break the stigma around infertile women in Africa. This initiative, originally launched in Kenya, was expanded in 2016 to Uganda, Nigeria, Tanzania, Ghana, Central African Republic, and Ivory Coast, where we are providing practical training for embryologists and fertility specialists in an effort to build fertility care capacity on the continent. We “Advocating for better health creates a ripple effect, are also helping governments define policies to improve uplifting entire families, communities and future access to safe and effective fertility care. In 2016, we generations. We are proud to support disease awarefurthermore helped more than 1,000 affected women to set ness campaigns around the world in order to take up their own business and thus achieve financial indepenmedical education in developing countries to the next dence. The More than a Mother campaign is championed by level. By promoting global access to health services, the first ladies of Nigeria, Central African Republic and we are taking a significant step toward achieving the Sierra Leone. It is publicized through social media to spread United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.” awareness of the stigmatization endured by these women and share their stories. Belén Garijo Executive Board member and CEO Healthcare Educating the public in rural India With our Su-Swastha project, we are working to improve the quality of healthcare in rural India. We educate both the public and physicians in these regions on commonplace health problems and how to treat them. For instance, experts provide information on coughs and childhood illnesses, explaining ways to prevent them. In addition, we offer free check-ups for patients and continuing education for physicians. 178 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine MAGAZINE Exploring the future INTERVIEW WITH JOHANNES CANISIUS Johannes Canisius, who holds a PhD in Chemistry, is one of the minds behind our latest vision for liquid crystal technology. Since 2012, the 49-year old Merck employee has been working with his team on the development of liquid crystal windows (LCWs). Head of the LCW business field within our Performance Materials business sector, Canisius explains the benefits of this innovative application. 179 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine Interview You and your team have developed a new Seems like a brilliant idea – how did it way to shade windows from the sun. What come about? inspired you? Our company is the world market leader in liquid crystal When the sun shines into an office, the bright light warms technology. For a long time, we focused our efforts on up the room and makes it hard to see – so you put down reducing the energy consumed by the liquid crystal displays the blinds. But the problem is that these darken the room, of smartphones, tablets and TVs. But then in 2012 we realmeaning you then have to turn on a light. And people often ized that we could use our liquid crystals for so much more. use air conditioning to cool the room down. We asked We heard about the Dutch start-up Peer+, a small team ourselves whether there might not be a better, more that was experimenting with liquid crystals in windows. We sustainable solution. We have essentially put sunglasses on partnered with them for two years before acquiring the the windows. Our liquid crystal technology allows the level company. With our ideas and expertise, we complement of incoming light to be adjusted at the touch of a button. If each other perfectly. the sun is shining, the room can be immediately darkened, which means it is less prone to heating up. This technology reduces the amount of energy consumed by air conditioning What role does sustainability play in your and lighting. Blinds can be done away with altogether, work? boosting the general feel good factor – with an uninterrupted view of the great outdoors, people become more Fortunately, it plays a major role. Every day, I have the creative and productive! chance to work on new, sustainable ideas. In developing our liquid crystal window technology, we received a lot of support from the Executive Board, even during challenging stages. The drive to blaze new trails requires top-down buyin, which we definitely have at our company! Saving energy Our liquid crystal windows can help save energy. Up to Since they absorb a portion of the sunlight and therefore the heat, the room does not grow as warm, 40 % reducing the need to use air conditioning. Light still Buildings outfitted with liquid crystal windows consume up enters the building, just not so bright that it's to 40% less energy otherwise required for air conditioning blinding. People no longer need to draw the curtains or lighting. or drop the blinds, nor do they need to turn on the lights. All in all, liquid crystal windows can thus save up to 40% of the energy that would normally be used for air conditioning or lighting. 180 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine Liquid crystal windows as a sunshade – how it works A mixture of liquid crystals and pigment molecules is placed between two panes of glass. The alignment of these crystals changes when an electrical current is applied. When users push the button to alter the current, the liquid crystals arrange the pigment molecules so that they absorb more or less light, depending on their positioning. This controls how much light the window transmits. If it’s set to “bright”, light penetrates the window. If darkened, light and heat are absorbed – but it’s still possible to see out. 100 % Our liquid crystal windows are 100% recyclable after the daylight dark state end of their useful life. daylight bright state liquid crystals pigment molecules Producing their own electricity Liquid crystal windows could be made to generate their own electricity. The liquid crystal mixture can be designed so “Our people have creative ideas and develop innovathat it functions as an optical waveguide. Incoming light tive and sustainable solutions with the full backing of would be conducted to the inner frame of the window, which our company. Johannes Canisius' team is a quintescontains small solar cells. These would then produce enough sential example: Their liquid crystal windows have electricity to enable the windows to operate. taken our liquid crystal technology in a completely new direction and will soon be an integral component Conserving resources of state-of-the-art architecture and sustainable building management.” Buildings with giant window façades have one major problem: it takes a lot of time, effort and money to block Walter Galinat the sun. Electric blinds require repairs and it is expensive Executive Board member and CEO Performance Materials as well as time-consuming to install a new motor. As a result, large office buildings often have all the motors changed at once, even the ones that still work, thereby wasting a lot of materials. With our liquid crystal windows, however, blinds are no longer needed. These windows require practically no maintenance and are 100% recyclable. 181 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine Cool to the touch Commercializing liquid crystal windows At our global headquarters in Darmstadt, we have already Our windows are on the verge of market launch, and our installed our liquid crystal windows in our modular Innovafirst production facility in Veldhoven (Netherlands) is schedtion Center as well as our OLED materials production uled for completion some time in 2017. Our initial target building. “During the summer, you can immediately feel the group will be the premium architecture segment, where room cool down when the windows are darkened and the large window façades envelop high rises and corporate sunlight is blocked out,” says Johannes Canisius, reporting headquarters, and the task of regulating the incident on the successful test phase. sunlight is complicated and expensive. Once these windows have established a firm foothold in this sector, we will turn our attention to the mass market. We believe that liquid The feel-good factor crystal windows will soon become the window of choice. Displays? No problem! But windows? With our new technology, we were faced with the major challenge of breaking into the market of the construction industry, a sector that is relatively conservative when it comes to innovations. 5 years It took 40 people – among them engineers, scientists, and However, modern architecture is increasingly catering to the quality managers – five years to develop our liquid crystal feel-good factor, which played right to our strengths. Over windows, from the initial idea in 2012 to market maturity in the last several years, the percentage of glass used in both 2017. private homes and large office complexes has increased exponentially. This is the perfect time for our liquid crystal windows. “Modern buildings are becoming more and more like living organisms, where the façade works like our skin in keeping the interior comfortable. Like in a human body, all parts of a building must function in harmony. Our liquid crystal windows fit the bill perfectly because they can be seamlessly integrated with other lighting and climate controls in a building, optimally making use of available daylight and all working together to make the building a pleasant place to be.” Caspar van Oosten CEO Merck Window Technologies, co-developer of the LCW technology, founder and joint owner of the start-up Peer+ 182 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine MAGAZINE Fostering talent INTERVIEW WITH BHAVYA VIJAY VAKIL Bhavya Vijay Vakil, a medical professional from Mumbai, India, knew early on that he wanted to be a doctor. Yet his family could not afford to send him to university. Thanks to financial support from the Merck Scholarship Program, Bhavya has made his dream come true. Now 26 years old, he works as an anesthesiology resident in Mumbai. 183 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine Interview Why did you want to become a doctor? What form of support has Merck provided? I come from a humble background. My father was an engiStarting in 2006, Merck covered 90% of my tuition at the neer but worked as a teacher – that was his passion. My Maharashtra University of Health Sciences. This support mother is a housewife. Until the eighth grade, I'd never lasted for about seven years. There are many local scholarreally considered what I wanted to be when I grew up. But ships available in India, but Merck's is one of the most then my father died of a heart attack – that day, I knew extensive. However, Merck also expects good performance that I wanted to become a doctor and help people. and continually checks on the progress of scholarship recipients. I had to get good grades in my classes to keep the scholarship, which kept me really motivated. And ultimately, How did you achieve your goal? I succeeded! It was very difficult at first. After my father's death, we had little money and I needed tutoring at school. My mother had You are now a medical resident. Do you no idea how she would pay for it. When I was in tenth have new goals? grade, my uncle happened to read about Merck's scholarship program in the newspaper. That was my window of I am currently working as an anesthesiology resident at a opportunity – I applied immediately. hospital in Mumbai. This comes with a great deal of responsibility, and I have to maintain high levels of concentration at work. I enjoy it a lot and would like to continue in this ... and you were accepted. Do you still field of medicine. After finishing my residency, I would like remember the moment you heard the good to go to London and apply for the fellowship offered by the news? Royal College of Anaesthetists. For anesthesiologists, successful completion of this fellowship comes with a lot of When Merck called to tell me I'd won a scholarship, it was cachet. Afterwards, however, I would like to return to one of the most pivotal moments of my life. I'd never Mumbai. It’s my home; it's where my friends and family dreamed it would actually happen! I was sure I'd messed up live. I want to be with them and serve my nation. the application. Far from it – I’d been accepted! I was unbelievably grateful. A springboard … … for great dreams: Our Merck India Charitable Trust (MICT) has been providing scholarships to underprivileged students since 2005. These scholarships cover a fiveto seven-year period, generally enough for recipients to pay for their tuition fees and study materials. Since the scholarship's launch, 54 recipients have successfully completed their degrees and found good jobs, primarily in the fields of IT and medicine. “With this scholarship, Merck is nurturing the future of the nation. We believe that a lack of financial resources should not be a barrier to young talent reaching their full potential and achieving a respectable life. That is why we have made a longterm commitment of financial support to these talented students who are starting a new phase in their education.” Anand Nambiar Managing Director of Merck in India 184 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine Furthermore, in 2016 our Healthcare business in China 275 students launched a scholarship program for MBA students enrolled in the National School of Development (NSD) of Beijing We are currently funding university degrees for 275 University. In Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya, we award prizes to students in Mumbai and Goa, India. outstanding students on an annual basis. Finally going to school – Other projects in India Progress through curiosity We procure mica used in the production of effect pigments for the cosmetics industry from Jharkhand, India. Many children and adolescents in this region do not attend school. We are collaborating with the IGEP Foundation to remedy this situation. In Jharkhand, we operate three schools with adjacent nursery schools along with a vocational training center for tailoring and carpentry, which provide services to 500 children and teenagers. At a fourth school, we provide scholarships that enable 200 children access to a basic school education. “With the constantly changing kaleidoscope of new issues we encounter and completely new forms of collaboration, we are always searching for inquisitive, capable young people who share our passion for science and technology. We are therefore committed to inspiring children and teenagers to explore the sciences. To this end, we promote a number of educaChina and Ghana: Supporting the health tional projects – particularly in the communities near experts of tomorrow our sites across the globe.” Because young, skilled individuals are key to the future Kai Beckmann success of entire regions, we are committed to facilitating Executive Board member and Chief Administration Officer education in other developing and emerging countries as well. Since 2011, for instance, we've been awarding twoJugend forscht: Three decades of year scholarships to talented students in China who come from an economically disadvantaged background. We are pioneering spirit focusing our support particularly on medical and pharma“Jugend forscht” is Europe's largest youth science and techcology students at Fudan University in Shanghai. Fudan nology competition. We have been supporting this initiative University is one of the most renowned academic institufor more than 30 years. Since 1996, we have also been tions in China and ranks among the top 100 universities hosting the state-level competition held in the German worldwide. To date, 600 students have benefited from our Federal State of Hesse, and have hosted the nationals twice. scholarships, with 120 in 2016 alone. Recipients have We have been selected to host the nationals again in 2018 included PhD fellows and graduates working towards an and are already looking forward to it. Furthermore, 80% of advanced degree. the Hessian Jugend forscht competitors came from schools with which we partner. 185 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Magazine More than 20,000 Since 2008, more than 20,000 students have paid a visit to the Merck-TU Darmstadt student chemistry lab, where they've tinkered about and conducted experiments. Inspiring teachers Teachers also need inspiration. For many years, we have been supporting more than 60 schools in Darmstadt and Gernsheim by providing class materials and continuing education for teachers. Our efforts here focus on subjects in which we're experts, such as chromatography, spectroscopy and lab safety. When science makes sparks fly Launched in 2016, our SPARK volunteering program works to bring science to life. It motivates employees across the Life Science business sector to volunteer to share their scientific knowledge with students at schools in 192 cities around the world. To date, around 4,500 employees have provided exciting insights into the world of science in classrooms and at Merck sites in 36 countries. More than 60,000 pupils have put on lab coats and had fun conducting hands-on experiments. Having fun in the lab Gilding copper coins, removing rust from iron, isolating pigments from carrots: young students are curious and love to experiment. They have ample opportunity to explore their curiosity in our top-notch Junior Lab, a facility that is perfectly equipped for school classes. In October 2016, we launched a similar learning laboratory for biology known as the “livfe BioLab”. This is an initiative that links classroom lessons with trending topics and modern methods of biological research. We partner with the Technical University (TU) of Darmstadt in the operation of both laboratories. 186 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Glossary Glossary 3R principle Design thinking The international guiding principle for all animal testing. The An approach to developing new ideas. Design thinking uses number of laboratory animals used as well the stress placed the designer’s sensibility and methods to match people’s on them before, during and after testing are to be kept to needs with what is technologically feasible and what a viable an absolute minimum by using methods to replace animal business strategy can convert into customer value and experiments (replacement), reduce the required number of market opportunity. tests and animals (reduction), and improve the test methods (refinement). Disease burden Biodiversity The impact of a health problem, often measured in terms of quality-adjusted life years or disability-adjusted life years, The diversity of ecosystems, habitats and landscapes on both of which quantify the number of years lost due to earth, the diversity of the species, and the genetic diversity disease. within a biological species or population. Dual-use products Biosimilars Goods that are normally used for civilian purposes, but that Officially approved subsequent versions of innovator may also have military applications. biopharmaceutical products made by a different sponsor after the original product's patent or exclusivity expires. Due diligence Based on guidance from the EMA (European Medicines A risk analysis exercised with particular care that is done in Agency), biosimilars must demonstrate comparability, or preparation for a business transaction. biosimilarity, to an existing approved product. Chromatography Ecotoxicology Focuses on the effects of substances on the ecosystem. A technique used to separate mixtures. CLP EHS Environment, Health and Safety describes environmental The European CLP regulation (Classification, Labelling and management, health protection and occupational safety Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) is based on the throughout the company. Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. End-user declaration CO2eq A binding customer statement regarding the intended use of a product. CO2 equivalent: This indicates how much a specified quantity of a specific greenhouse gas has contributed to the Essential medicines greenhouse effect and uses the global warming potential of carbon dioxide as a reference. Defined by the World Health Organization as “those drugs that satisfy the healthcare needs of the majority of the Compliance population”. Adherence to laws and regulations as well as to voluntary Exposure codices that are internal to the Merck Group. Compliance is a component of diligent corporate governance. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defines exposure assessment as the determination or estimation (qualitative CRISPR/Cas or quantitative) of the magnitude, frequency, duration, and route of exposure between an agent and an organism. This A biomolecular method for targeting, cutting and editing the analysis forms part of the chemical safety assessment DNA of an organism (gene editing). Experts think this techprocess. nique has great potential for curing diseases or generating plants and animals with new traits. 187 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Glossary FDA days to develop innovative solutions and ideas for predefined issues or challenges. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is the U.S. government agency responsible for protecting and advancing HazCom 2012 public health, especially as concerns food and drugs. A U.S. OSHA standard pertaining to the safe handling of GHS chemicals in the workplace, with an emphasis on occupational safety and environmental protection. This standard Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling requires manufacturers and distributors to provide informaof Chemicals: An international standard system to classify tion on the hazards posed by a product as well as ways to chemicals that covers labeling as well as safety data sheets. minimize risks. Global Grade IATA Merck uses a market-oriented method to rate positions International Air Transport Association within the company. The Merck Group has 23 Global Grades that enable a consistent rating system for positions across ICH the organization. The aim of the International Council for Harmonisation of Global Product Strategy Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) is to promote uniform assessment criteria for product An initiative of the International Council of Chemical Associregistration in Europe, the United States and Japan. The ICH ations (ICCA) through which participating companies of the makes recommendations toward achieving greater harmochemical industry make a commitment to comprehensive nization in the interpretation and application of technical product responsibility. guidelines and requirements for pharmaceutical product registration. GMP In vitro Good Manufacturing Practices is a system for ensuring that products are consistently produced and controlled according Procedures involving components of an organism that have to quality standards. These guidelines are used in the been isolated from their usual biological surroundings (e.g. production of medicines, pharmaceutical active ingredients test tube experiments). and cosmetics, as well as foodstuffs and feed. In vivo Good clinical practice (GCP) Latin for “within the living”, this term describes processes An international quality standard that enforces tight guidethat take place within a living organism. lines on ethical aspects of clinical studies. Interpharma Good distribution practice (GDP) A federation of research-based pharmaceutical companies in An EU guideline that regulates the proper distribution of Switzerland. medicinal products for human use. Investigational drug Greenhouse gases A pharmaceutical form of an active ingredient or placebo Gases in the atmosphere that contribute to global warming. being tested or used as a reference in a clinical trial, They can be either naturally occurring or caused by humans including approved as well as unapproved products when (such as CO2 emissions caused by burning fossil fuels). used or assembled (formulated or packaged) in a way different from the approved form, when used for an unapGxP proved indication, or when used to gain further information about an approved use. The general term for good (anything...) practice quality guidelines and regulations that are used in many fields, ISO 14001 including the medical, pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical chemistry industries. This international environmental management standard sets globally recognized requirements for an environmental Hackathon management system. Portmanteau from the words hacking and marathon. A ISO 50001 hackathon is an event attended by people from different professional backgrounds. Teams are given a few hours or This international standard defines globally recognized requirements for energy management systems. 188 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Glossary ISO 9001 OLED This international standard defines globally recognized Organic light-emitting diodes are a new technology for requirements for a quality management system. displays and lighting. Least developed countries (LDC) Onchocerciasis Countries that, according to the United Nations, exhibit the A chronic parasitic infection caused by nematodes that lowest indicators of socioeconomic development. occurs in the tropical regions of Africa and South America. In approximately 10% of those infected, the disease leads Liquid crystals (LC) to blindness, which is why onchocerciasis is also referred to as river blindness. Liquid crystals are a hybrid of a crystalline and liquid state. In general, molecules are perfectly arranged only when in a Organizational Health Index (OHI) solid crystal state, in contrast to the liquid state, when they move around chaotically. However, liquid crystals are a An index developed by the consulting firm McKinsey that hybrid of the two states: Although they are liquid, they uses pre-defined parameters to benchmark companies exhibit a certain crystalline arrangement. Their rod-shaped against peers in the same industry, of the same size, orienmolecules align themselves like a shoal of fish. In addition, tation, etc. One component of the process is an employee they respond to the electromagnetic waves of light like tiny survey on the organization's performance capacity. antennae. Therefore, such swarms of molecules can either allow specially prepared “polarized” light to pass through, or Orodispersible tablet they can block it. This takes place in the pixels of liquid A tablet that dissolves in the mouth within 30 seconds and crystal displays – as it does similarly in liquid crystal does not have to be taken with water. The active ingredient windows, which can provide shade against sunlight. is absorbed through the mucous membrane in the mouth LTIR and also partly through the lining of the stomach. The lost time injury rate measures the number of accidents Patent pool resulting in missed days of work (one or more days) per one A consortium of at least two competing companies that million man-hours. allows partners to share the use of patents relating to a Merck Competency Model particular technology. This model describes the behaviors needed to drive our Patient support program strategic orientation and success. These behaviors therefore Any organized system providing services, direct patient or provide key guidance for all learning and development activpatient-caregiver interactions that are intended and ities. designed to educate patients about certain diseases, help Merck Employee Engagement Survey patients with access to and/or the management of prescribed medication and/or disease outcomes, or provide This survey is conducted annually to measure the engagehealthcare professionals with support for their patients. ment of our employees and to gauge the twelve drivers thereof. Pharmacovigilance Mutagen The continual, systematic monitoring of a drug's safety. A substance that changes the DNA of an organism. Phase I study Neglected tropical disease (NTD) Phase I clinical trials test a new biomedical intervention in a small group of people (e.g. 20-80) for the first time to evalDiseases that occur primarily in developing countries. NTDs uate safety (e.g. to determine a safe dosage range and to include schistosomiasis, intestinal worms, trachoma, identify side effects). lymphatic filariasis, and onchocerciasis. This group of Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ diseases is called neglected because, despite the large number of people affected, they have historically received Phase II study less attention and research funding than other diseases. Phase II clinical trials study the biomedical or behavioral OHSAS intervention in a larger group of people (several hundred) to determine efficacy and to further evaluate its safety. The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ (OSHAS) is an international occupational health and safety management system. 189 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Glossary Phase III study protect employees as well as the tangible and intangible assets of Merck. Phase III studies investigate the efficacy of the biomedical or behavioral intervention in large groups of human subjects Spontaneous report (from several hundred to several thousand) by comparing the intervention to other standard or experimental intervenAn unsolicited communication by healthcare professionals or tions as well as to monitor adverse effects, and to collect consumers to a company, regulatory authority or other information that will allow the intervention to be used organization that describes one or more adverse drug reacsafely. tions in a patient who was given one or more medicinal Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ products and that does not derive from a study or any organized data collection scheme. Product safety summaries Stakeholder Intended to provide a general overview of the chemical substance and its use. It cannot take the place of a safety People or organizations that have a legitimate interest in a data sheet. company, entitling them to make justified demands. Stakeholders include people such as employees, business partPS-VA ners, neighbors in the vicinity of our sites, and shareholders. Abbreviation for polymer-stabilized vertical alignment: A polymer layer pre-aligns the molecules inside the display in STEM a certain direction. In the black state, the liquid crystals are not exactly vertical, but slightly tilted, which allows the Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. liquid crystals to switch more quickly. The light transmitStem cells tance of the display is significantly higher, thus reducing the backlighting, one of the most costly components to produce. Undifferentiated cells with the potential to develop into many different cell types that carry out different functions. Public-private partnership (PPP) Sugar cane bagasse A collaboration between public sector (government) organizations, private companies and/or not-for-profit organizaA fibrous waste product of sugar refining, which is left when tions. sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice. REACH Sunshine laws A European Union chemical regulation (EC No. 1907/2006) The Sunshine Provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and that took effect on June 1, 2007. REACH stands for RegisAffordable Care Act aim to create more transparent relationtration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemiships between manufacturers of drugs, medical devices and cals. medical aids on the one hand, and doctors and teaching hospitals on the other. Reproductive health Traces The term covers various areas such as pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, contraception, and infertility. Substances dissolved in water that are present only in minute amounts. Also referred to as micropollutants, these RID are synthetic substances present in concentrations ranging Regulation concerning international carriage by rail. from one nanogram to one microgram per liter of water. Schistosomiasis TRIPS A parasitic disease spread in warm lakes and ponds by The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual snails that serve as intermediate hosts. Property Rights is an international legal agreement between all the member nations of the World Trade Organization. Security TRIPS seeks to ensure that the measures and procedures for enforcing intellectual property rights do not become a This term stands for all necessary measures and governance barrier to lawful trade. activities to detect, analyze, handle, and mitigate securityand crime-based threats to the company. This helps to 190 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Imprint Publication contributors Published on April 28, 2017 by Concept and implementation of HTML, PDF & Print: Merck, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility nexxar GmbH, Vienna – Online annual reports and online Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany sustainability reports Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0 Text and consulting: Fax: +49 (0) 6151-72 5577 Stakeholder Reporting GmbH www.stakeholder-reporting.com Website: www.merckgroup.com Photos and graphics: Contact for questions regarding this report: art4stock/Fotolia, Ingmar Kurth, Frank Bauer, Merck Maria Schaad, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Friederike Segeberg, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility 191
