COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered: March 2016 – March 2017 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Date, 2017.03.27 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Comet Consular Sevices reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mats Colberg, CEO COMET CONSULAR SERVICES Visit Toldbodgade 63 E-mail info@cometconsular.dk VISAS / LEGALIZATIONS / TRANSLATIONS Address 1253 København K. Web www.cometconsular.com STO / GOT / OSL / CPH / HEL Phone +45 7877 7821 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Comet reaffirms that the following actions have been, and continue to be, undertaken to comply with human rights: We ensure that our coworkers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We protect our coworkers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. We take measures to eliminate equipment or transportation that could harm or threaten human life and health during production and delivering of services. We take measures to protect our coworkers from unlawful events such as burglary, assault and theft. Labor Comet reaffirms that the following actions have been, and continue to be, undertaken to ensure proper and law abiding employment standards: We ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor. We comply with minimum wage standards. We ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Environment Comet reaffirms that the following actions have been, and continue to be, undertaken to minimize our impact on the environment: We strive to avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of environmental protection systems (e.g. recycling and minimizing the use of paper). We ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. Anti-Corruption Comet reaffirms that the following actions have been, and continue to be, undertaken to ensure a proper code of conduct: We mention “anti-corruption” and “bribery” in contracts with business partners and at relevant institutions were we operate. COMET CONSULAR SERVICES Visit Toldbodgade 63 E-mail info@cometconsular.dk VISAS / LEGALIZATIONS / TRANSLATIONS Address 1253 København K. Web www.cometconsular.com STO / GOT / OSL / CPH / HEL Phone +45 7877 7821 We ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment. We commit ourselves to the continued use and development of our custom made Anti-corruption & Bribery Policy. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES The following outlines relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Comet realizes that improvement is needed in this area and commits itself to the continued improvement of measuring outcomes in the future: Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors: o Gender: 66 % Men, 44 % women o Ethnicity: 44% other ethnicity than Danish Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism: o Occupational dieses 0% 2015-2016 o Injuries 0% 2015-2016 o Absenteeism below 3% 2015-2016 COMET CONSULAR SERVICES Visit Toldbodgade 63 E-mail info@cometconsular.dk VISAS / LEGALIZATIONS / TRANSLATIONS Address 1253 København K. Web www.cometconsular.com STO / GOT / OSL / CPH / HEL Phone +45 7877 7821
