Rajawali Corpora 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PT RAJAWALI CORPORA 2016-2017 Page 1 Rajawali Corpora 2016 I. COMPANY IDENTITY Company Name PT Rajawali Corpora Date May 19th, 2017 Address Menara Rajawali Kawasan Mega Kuningan Membership April 8th, 2006 Lot 5.1 date Jakarta 12920 Country Indonesia Number of ±35.000 persons employees (Total Group) Contact name Y.W. Junardy Contact Position Commissioner Sector Investment Holding Company Contact 021 576 0808 telephone no. Brief description of nature of business PT Rajawali Corpora is an investment holding company of Rajawali Group operating in diversified industries with 10 business units in hotels and resorts development, land and air transportation, agriculture, coal, gold, and iron sands mining, broadcast media, public relation consultant, infrastructure, and IT Services. The Group covers approximately 35,000 employees. Statement of continuing support “PT Rajawali Corpora is proud to be the member of the United Nations Global Compact. We are committed to the Global Compact initiatives and uphold its ten principles pertaining to human rights, labor rights, protection of the environment and corporate governance. We believe that by adhering to this core set of universal values which are fundamental in meeting the socio economic needs of the world, we would be able to foster sustainable growth. Our commitment is also reflected in our participation in collaborative actions and full support to the operations of Indonesia Global Compact Network by providing office facilities, executive resources as well as operating funds in order to advance the GC Principles in Indonesia. Peter Sondakh Chairman & CEO PT Rajawali Corpora Page 2 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Rajawali Corpora’s Vision and Mission: Vision: To become an outstanding reputable company that creates and adds value to our stakeholders Mission: • Optimizing shareholders’ value. • Delighting customers with superior products and services. • Inspiring, empowering and caring for all employees. • Supporting the community and environmental sustainability. Values: • Integrity • Caring • Respect • Excellence & Innovative • Being Responsible • Unity • Growth Page 3 Rajawali Corpora 2016 II. IMPLEMENTATION OF UNGC’S 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle of practicing good management and being a responsible business. At Rajawali, the implementation of human rights is reflected in the company philosophy, values, policies and code of business conducts covering the roles of management and employees as well as the advancement opportunity, competitive compensation and benefits, work environments, and obligation to the community in location where we are operating (Corporate Social Responsibility). Implementations:  Framework: Corporate Governance The Governance framework is designed to provide the Rajawali Corpora Board, the Business Unit Boards and the Rajawali Group’s employees with a structure by which: o the business is conducted o decisions are presented and approved o employees conduct themselves Rajawali Corpora is committed to uphold its Corporate Governance to: o create Shareholder Value o protect individuals—provides ground rules in which management can operate o part of Risk Management o provide good control environment o provide good business practice–where it is structured and focusing on core principles o establish credible structure/credibility–assisting to attract solid, long term investors The Rajawali Governance Framework provides empowerment to the Business Units within the approved risk tolerance levels. At the Holding level, Rajawali Board approves the following: o Group organizational structure and Board Committees, including appointment of its members o Vision, mission, values and standards o Annual Strategic and Business Plan Page 4 Rajawali Corpora 2016 o Corporate actions, i.e. potential investments, divestments, mergers and acquisitions, restructuring, spin-offs, joint-ventures, partnerships, corporate actions (e.g. stock splits, dividends, etc.), capital raisings (e.g. public offerings, bond issuance, bank borrowings, etc.), hedging, write-off of assets, asset revaluation, capital management and other corporate finance activities o Strategy for external communications o Executive appointments and exits o Executive KPIs and compensation, benefits and perquisites o Dividend Distribution Policy o Corporate Social Responsibility activities o Financial Audits and Governance o Code of Conduct o Approval Limits With the above approvals from the Holding level, Governance is established. Business Units operating within the guidelines from Rajawali Governance. The Governance Framework had been reviewed annually to define and establish the 5 pillars of RC Corporate Governance which focus on accountability, fairness, transparency, independence and responsibility. The update of the Corporate Governance Manual in 2016 includes the following: o Code of Ethics o Integrity Undertaking o Compliance Confirmation and Undertaking (Annual Undertaking) o Gifts and Entertainment Declaration Form o Roles and Responsibilities of RC Board and Management o Finance and Investment Committee (FIC) Charter o Audit and Risk Management Committee Charter o HR and IT Committee Charter o Ethics Committee Charter o Governance and Internal Audit Charter o Procedures for Submission of Corporate Action to FIC o FIC Memo Template o Post-mortem Review Template o Group Risk Framework  Process: Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance and Code of Ethics are in place and implemented across all Business Units. The Corporate Governance Manual is reviewed annually and served as a guideline for the Boards and employees in conducting the business throughout the Group. o Governance and Internal Audit department prepares the Governance and Internal Audit plan in the beginning of the year, socializes it to the Business Units for inputs and comments, and seeks approval from the Audit and Risk Management Committee. Once approved, the Governance and Internal Audit Page 5 Rajawali Corpora 2016 plan will be implented accordingly, with a regular reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee during the Audit and Risk Management Committee meeting (at least biannually). o Governance are reviewed and developed with inputs from the relevant departments and business units and routed to Board of Directors for approval. o Corporate Governance and Risk Forum was conducted on 26 August 2016 at Menara Rajawali and was attended by 56 staff from Rajawali Corpora and Business Units. Shared thought leadership regarding Corporate Governance and Risk Management during the forum were as follows: 1. Building World-Class Ethics and Compliance Program Deloitte explained the importance of Ethics and Compliance program, as it is regulated by the law, such as Regulation No. 40 of 2007 on Limited Liability Companies and Regulation No. 5 of 1999 on Monopolistic Practices and Unfair Business Competition. In addition, Ethics and Compliance program is also good for business, through process optimization, increased effectiveness, and maintaining the business reputation. Important factors in establishing an effective Ethics and Compliance program include: Tone at the Top, Corporate Culture, Risk Assessments, Testing and Monitoring, and the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. 2. Code of Ethics Deloitte also presented guidelines for writing a Code of Ethics/Conduct, including the basic points to keep in mind when creating or modifying a code, recommended elements in the Code and potential Code topics. 3. Related Party Transactions and Transfer Pricing Deloitte explained the coverage of transfer pricing documentation and benefits of controls over intercompany process chain. 4. RC Policy Updates RC Corporate Governance presented the RC Policy Updates, i.e. the revision on RC Board Committee Structures, Finance & Investment Committee (FIC) Charter, Procedures for Submission of Corporate Action to FIC, FIC Memo Template, Post-mortem Template review, Audit & Risk Management Committee Charter, HR & IT Committee Charter, Ethics Committee Charter, and update of the Group Risk Framework. Page 6 Rajawali Corpora 2016 o To support on the implementation of Governance and Risk Management in Rajawali Group, the Internal Audit Forum titled “Building a cyber resilient organization in the Digital Era: Connected through People, Process and Technology” was conducted on 30 November 2016 at Function Room The Bellagio Mall, Jl. Mega Kuningan Barat, Jakarta and was attended by 47 participants from various Business Internal Audit and Information Technology units in Rajawali Group. Shared thought leadership regarding Cyber Security and IT Controls, Governance and Assurance were as follows: 1. Building a Cyber Resilient Organization PwC presented the evolving cyber security threats and incidents across industries and explained the major business impacts of security incidents. Further the roadmap on building cyber resilient organization was shared and the three line of defense against cyber risk was emphasized, i.e. IT & business functions, IT Risk Management and Internal Audit. 2. COBIT (Control Objectives for Information and related Technology) as Framework on IT Controls, Governance & Assurance RC IT Audit shared the high level overview of COBIT components as framework to establish propoer IT controls, governance and assurance. It provides process maturity rating model to assess and identify improvement area within organization. Further, high level comparison of COBIT with other relevant IT guidance and standards were also explained. o The event continued with the Panel Discussion from a few selected speakers from PwC and Rajawali Group and closed with a maturity self-assessment on business units in Rajawali Group. The overall experience enhances professional development, provides peer-to-peer networking, and building the audit bench strength across the Rajawali Group. Page 7 Rajawali Corpora 2016 o Code of Ethics Briefing session was conducted on 15 December 2016 at Menara Rajawali and was attended by 45 staff from Rajawali Corpora and Business Units. The socialization was aimed to ensure that the Board of Directors, Board of Commissioners, Executive Advisors and employees across Rajawali Group have a clear understanding of principles that are important in conducting our business and the ethical values that are required to uphold in maintaining and building the reputation of Rajawali Group. Page 8 Rajawali Corpora 2016  Embedding Management Responsibilities To establish corporate accountability, exercise fair, consistent treatment and transparency, the company has reorganized the Board Committees each chaired by Managing Director level: o Human Resources and Information Technology Committee. This Commiittee is established to evaluate and recommend on matters relating to compensation and benefits programs within the Group. Further, the Committee oversees the major Information Technology related strategies, projects, and technology architecture and monitor whether the IT programs in Rajawali Group support the Group’s business objectives and strategies effectively. o Ethics Committee This Committee is responsible to assist the RC Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to (a) the compliance by RC with all legal requirements to which it is subject, including all regulations and laws applicable to RC, (b) the design, implementation and execution of the RC’s Compliance and Ethics Program and (c) matters relating to Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Further the Ethics Committee assists the RC Board of Directors in establishing an appropriate “tone at the top” and promoting a strong “culture of compliance” while also recognizing the Board of Directors is responsible for instilling ethical compliance and Corporate Governance within RC. o Finance and Investment Committee This Committee evaluates and recommends potential investments, divestments, mergers and acquisitions, restructuring, spin-offs, joint-ventures, partnerships, corporate actions (e.g., stock splits, dividends, etc.), capital raisings (e.g. public offerings, bond issuance, bank borrowings, etc.), hedging, write-off of assets, asset revaluation, capital management and other corporate finance activities for the Rajawali Group. The Committee shall oversee existing investments and monitor the management of such for meeting peformance targets. o Audit and Risk Management Committee The Audit and Risk Management Committee is responsible to assist the RC Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities. The Committee reviews the system of internal control, risk management, corporate governance processes, financial reporting, audit process (internal and external) and the Group’s process for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and the Code of Ethics.  Rights to Equal Employment Opportunity & Non Discriminatory Treatment Written policy is in place and implemented across Business Units. The policy defines that all hiring process, promotion, and business decisions are taken strictly on qualifications, business imperatives, and merit. Page 9 Rajawali Corpora 2016  Rights of Workers Rights of Workers are stipulated in the Human Capital Policy. It covers, among others: o Health & Safety Rajawali Corpora has established comprehensive and adequate allowance including medical, transportation, health assistance, subsidy/assistance & emergency loan, safety, and security procedures. Since 2012, Rajawali Corpora also conducts Tali Kasih program as part of Employee Benefits Scheme—in which adequate funds or gifts are given in the event of marriage, bereavement, and birth. For work safety program, Rajawali Corpora has also provided comprehensive personal insurance for employees that travel often during work, and for all people managers. This comprehensive allowance scheme is established so that the employees can have a favorable working condition and thus, it may then support their well-being. The provision and amount of allowances may differ in Business Units by considering the industry common practices and requirements. Special field training is regularly conducted for plantation workers. o Education Every employee is eligible to get training in order to develop their skills and competency to support company objectives. Company provides both soft skills and technical skills education as required. Some conducted internally, others are acquired externally. Some examples of the in-house training programs: 7 Habits of Highly Effective People workshop was conducted for all nonstaff. This workshop was designed to providing knowledge of how to become an effective people. Page 10 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Monthly sharing session was conducted for all BU Group at Menara Rajawali, Jakarta. This session was designed to share knowledge from internal expert with various topics such as corporate governance and risk, information technology and security awareness, also several national issues. We conducted quarterly HC Forum for all HR business units with various topics such as people development and labor. Page 11 Rajawali Corpora 2016 In 2016, we also facilitate employee who want to share their knowledge by conducting weekly sharing session for all RC employees. o Internal Communication The company facilitates various internal / employee communication programs to allow employees to express their aspiration to the management, and vice versa. The available programs include: Intranet Rajawali—is an intranet based online technology that provides company information for all employees in order to keep the employees abreast with the current situation of the Company and Business Units. The Intranet is also functioned as an employee communication tool by means of enabling group interest forums such as photography, cycling, various sports, etc. Employee Activities of Rajawali Corpora comprise of various groups of interests in sports and arts, such as basketball, volley ball, futsal, badminton, table tennis, tennis, golf, cycling, yoga, karaoke, photography, and choir. Religious community such as Tausiyah is also part of Employee Activities initiative. The purpose of establishing such community groups is to strengthen the tie between Rajawali Corpora employees while also to promote the healthy and balance work-lifestyle by encouraging its members to contribute in sport, art, and/or religious activities. Sense of belonging (through workplace communal activities) may promote inter-employee sustainable engagement, whereas employee physical and mental health may in turn affect work productivity. Page 12 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Social Activities – practicing good management and being a responsible business through Rajawali Foundation by ‘giving, caring and enabling’ community is also Rajawali Corpora’s commitment to respect human rights. 1. Blood Donation – Feb 2016, May 2016, Aug 2016, Nov 2016, Feb 2017 Quarterly conducted, the open-for-public event attracted donors from Menara Rajawali tenants’ employees, Rajawali group employees and other walk-in donors. Event in August 2016 marked five years of our commitment helping communities through blood donations. Partners: PMI (Indonesian Red Cross) – Jakarta. Impacted beneficiaries: people who receive benefits of blood bags we contribute. In 2016, we contributed 320 blood bags of 350cc and 450cc to PMI. Since 2011, we have contributed almost 2,000 blood bags. Page 13 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Apart from blood donation events, we also donated to PMI in March 2016 for particular disaster relief program, especially for North Sulawesi natural disaster victims. Partners: Archi Indonesia, MSM-TTN, Velo Networks. Impacted beneficiaries: up to 100 individuals for first aid, staple food and shelter. 2. KITA bercerita (Keluarga Indonesia Teman Anak bercerita) – April 2016, May 2016, June 2016, Oct 2016, Nov 2016, Dec 2016, Jan 2017, and Feb 2017 Rajawali Corpora and Rajawali Foundation continued to invite more active participation from business units and their employees to support KITA bercerita movement. The movement which has two main purposes (1) to nurture reading habit since early childhood by doing 10-minute storytelling campaign and activities; also (2) to improve bounding between children and parents, has been successfully carried out with participation from Rajawali business units and starts to create wider impact to communities. Page 14 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Rumah Cerita. Creating wider impact is something we cannot do alone. It needs collaboration and commitment from many stakeholders as partners to do 10-minute storytelling everyday with children. It is simple yet impactful once we do it in parallel and consistent. Rumah Cerita or corner for storytelling is home for kids to read and explore their curiosity. We encourage teacher and parents to always accompany children, teach those good values through reading and storytelling activities to them. Page 15 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Social Media Disruptive technology affects to the way of teaching and learning nowadays. KITA bercerita use social media to reach out many people. Parents could use our contents on Instagram to do storytelling to children during heavy traffic for instance or just to check latest updates by simply visiting our Instagram account @kitaberceritaid and #kitaberceritaapa for contents. Partners: Sanggar Fortune, FORU, Archi Indonesia, Nusantara Infrastructure, Eagle High Plantations, RajawaliTV, Meares Soputan Mining, Tambang Tondano Nusajaya, Ayo Dongeng Indonesia (AyoDi), Pusat Talasemia RS Fatmawati & RSCM, Taman Tumbuh Kembang Anak Ceria UNJ, International StoryTelling Festival – in collaboration with Ayo DOngeng Indonesia (AyoDI), Sekolah Master Depok, Yayasan and SLB ElSafan for the blind children, Library in Pari Island, and Community Library of MSM-TTN. Impacted beneficiaries: more than 800 of parents, teachers and children age 5-11 y.o. 3. Rajawali Ramadhan – June 2016 We initiated three-day events of social activities in collaboration with business units to share happiness with elderly people and orphans in the holy month of Ramadhan. Series of events took place at Panti Sosial Tresna Wreda Budi Mulia of Kementerian Sosial in Radio Dalam and Orphanage in Kampung Melayu. Page 16 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Partners: Rajawali Corpora, Rajawali Foundation, Rajawali Property group, Eagle High Plantations, Archi Indonesia. Impacted beneficiaries: 150 of elderly people and orphans. 4. Supporting Environment (Mangrove Planting) – Nov 2016 The activity in Pari Island, North Jakarta was combining activity of KITA bercerita (education) and mangrove planting activity (supporting environment). It was started with education activities – story telling and book donation to one library in the island, continued with green/environment activity by planting mangrove along the shore of the island – to prevent further erosion and preserve marine biodiversity. Partners: Rajawali Corpora, Rajawali Foundation, Eagle High Plantations, Nusantara Infrastructure, TriAryani, RajawaliTV, Archi Indonesia, MSM TTN, Sanggar Foru, Fortune Indonesia, and one library in Pari Island. Impacted beneficiaries: more than 100 families in the island. Page 17 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Rajawali Foundation Involvement in IGCN (UN Global Compact Network Indonesia) to address Human Rights issue 1. Business & Human Rights Working Group (B&HRWG) – Apr 2016, Sept 2016, Oct 2016, Dec 2016, Mar 2017, Apr 2017 We commit in supporting achievement of Sustainable Development Goals by joining UN Global Compact Network Indonesia (IGCN) as a multi stakeholder initiative. This shall be the platform for dialogue, sharing information and learning from each other to align business operations with SDGs aspects. Together with other IGCN members we have started to concept and develop the working group which focus on business & human rights issues since 2015. Successfully launched on 6 April 2016, the Working Group has two main agendas; (1) To enhance implementation of UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights (UNGPs) into corporate values; (2) To actively contribute on Business and Human Rights-National Action Plan together with KOMNAS HAM. Acting as Co-Chairs of the working group are Anugraha Dezmercoledi from Rajawali Foundation, Andi Muttaqien from ELSAM and John Dharmawan from UI. Page 18 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Co-Chairs will lead multi-stakeholders dialogue, campaign, and necessary training to improve knowledge and awareness on related issues among private sectors and civil society. It is also important to always engage government in the process. There are three pillars of Business & Human Rights; (1) responsibility of Nation / Government to protect against human rights violation; (2) responsibility of private sectors to respect human rights; (3) Access to remedy which is available and respect justice. Partners of B&HRWG: Rajawali group Business Units to include Express Taxi and Eagle High Plantations who are also IGCN members, 84 total members of IGCN, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Law & Human Rights, KOMNAS HAM, ELSAM, OXFAM in Indonesia, INFID Impacted beneficiaries: individuals employed by private sectors (starting with Rajawali Group + 50 IGCN other private sector members), individuals working in the supply chain, consumers and neighbouring communities. Possible creating nationwide impact if our recommendations are included in the national action plan of Business & Human Rights optimistically will be finalized in 2017 by the government. Activities: (1) Multi-stakeholder Dialogue #1 in April 2016 to develop baseline study; (2) Multi-stakeholder Dialogue #2 in September 2016 to share updates on baseline study, started to engage Associations and government (Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Law and Human Rights) Page 19 Rajawali Corpora 2016 (3) Multi-stakeholder Dialogue #3 in December 2016 – to invite international expertise to provide review and insight of global issues on Business & Human Rights; (4) Multi-stakeholder Dialogue #4 in March 2017 took place at Ministry of Foreign Affair to hear insight and updates from Ministry of Foreign Affair from their involvement in international and regional (ASEAN) forums on this issue. More private sectors and associations joint the session. (5) Radio Talk Show To enhance public awareness on UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights in Indonesia, Anugraha from Rajawali Foundation to represent B&HRWG together with OXFAM in Indonesia, INFID and Kantor Berita Radio (KBR) held Live radio talkshow in April 2017. Page 20 Rajawali Corpora 2016  Employee Wellness Company provides comprehensive wellness facilities. These benefits vary from one business unit to another depending on each respective industry environments and affordability. These include: o Medical allowance & health prevention assistance; o Transportation allowances; o Special assistance/emergency loan offered to our employees affected by crisis, such as grievances (i.e.: death, prolonged sickness,) natural & fire disaster; o Employees’ leaves (Annual Leave, Long Service Leave, Maternity Leave, Sick Leave, Compassionate Leave, Hajj Pilgrimage Leave, and Unpaid Leave); o Employee transfer/relocation entitlements for those who are relocated at the company’s request. The entitlements include: housing allowance, educational allowance for the children, additional vocational leave, home trip, hardship allowance (if any,) and cost of living allowance.  Violations To exercise fair treatment and ensure all actions are justifiable, the company implements sanction procedures for any violations or breach of Code of Ethics by employees. Business Ethic Committee is involved in any serious violation.  Termination of employment To ensure that all termination actions are justifiable, properly administered, and executed according to the prevailing government laws and company policy/regulations, the company sets a termination procedure and an exit interview for any termination. There are two categories of termination: company initiated termination and employee initiated termination. Employees whose employment is terminated may receive severance compensation according to the prevailing government policy.  Freedom of association The company policy stipulates the company facilitates communication programs to allow dialog with employees to understand their aspirations. The formation of association or union is stipulated in the policy manual. Employee can form the organization so long as it adheres to the company policy and code of business conduct.  Political Activities The company is not affiliated to any political party. Employee joining political party is considered a personal affair. Employees should not use the company’s time and resources in conducting his/her political activities. Page 21 Rajawali Corpora 2016 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION  Labour policy o In accordance to the established policy, Company and its business units must not engage in any forced and compulsory labour. The Company establishes a standard working hour. The procedures and payment of overtime for eligible employees are provided in accordance to the government regulations. o The company policy stipulates that the minimum age of employee to be hired is 18 years old. No child labour. o The following is the distribution of employee by age in Rajawali Corpora (this figure does not include employees in Business Units): Rajawali Corpora, PT. Age Group as of January 2017 Age Group 21 25 26 30 31 35 36 40 41 45 46 50 51 UP TOTAL Head 2 13 23 33 28 27 18 144 Counts Non-discrimination Policy o Policy is in place and implemented across business units. Company provides a working environment that is free from harassment and discriminations including that from race, ethnic, color, religion, national origin, disability, marital status, age, sexual orientation, or gender. o Promotion is fully based on individual performance and potentials, evaluated by immediate superior, and approved by superior’s superior and Human Capital. Page 22 Rajawali Corpora 2016 o Distribution of employee by gender in Rajawali (excluding employees in Business Units): Rajawali Corpora, PT. Employee Data as of January 2016 Level Male Female Total Managerial 37 18 55 Non-Managerial 33 26 59 Non-Staff 30 0 30 Grand Total 100 44 144 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Rajawali Corpora’s commitment to environmental sustainability is articulated in its strategic sustainability framework (Fig 1) Figure 1. The Rajawali Sustainability framework  Our sustainability commitment Rajawali Corpora businesses are engaged in unlocking value from Indonesia’s natural wealth and creating services to meet an upwardly mobile society. In doing so, we contribute to providing jobs and livelihoods, supporting local communities and Page 23 Rajawali Corpora 2016 commerce and adding to the knowledge base of Indonesia. Our commitment: ‘Resource Stewardship for the Future’s Generation’ is consistently applied in each of the business in which we have invested. With an eclectic range of stakeholders, primarily in Indonesia where the majority of our investments are located, our efforts on environment management are included a selection of wider comments in respect of local community stakeholders as and where they have influence over the ‘right to operate’ in the locations concerned, recognizing that in most cases community and environment are integral to one another. Our stakeholders are employees, neighbors in the communities around our operations, local governments, customers & suppliers as well as investors and bankers. We also examine how we manage our impact on the environment. Including energy, land use, water, and biodiversity and pollution management, with the overriding aim of adopting best practices so that we can benchmark our performance within each of our core sectors, with internationally recognized and accredited standards. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS 10 FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY  Core Values The adoption of corporate governance is embedded in our Rajawali Values which are the guiding principles of our operations: Integrity : We act in an honest, ethical and truthful manner Caring : We show concern for others Respect : We value and appreciate other people’s views Excellence & Innovative : We do the best to consistently exceed expectations through actions and the generation of new ideas Being Responsible : We are accountable for our actions and inactions Unity : We capitalize on differences and work together to achieve common goals Growth : We always strive to become better  Code of Ethics The code provides a guideline to all directors, commissioners, executive advisors and employees in businesses conducted within and outside the Group. It includes compliance with laws, regulations and group’s policies; ethical business conduct and fair dealing; conflicts of interest: outside engagements or business dealings, related Page 24 Rajawali Corpora 2016 parties, insider trading, gifts & entertainment, kickbacks and prohibited commissions, non-solicitation; group properties and assets, including confidential information, intellectual property and official records; job performance; other stakeholders; health, safety and environment.  Reporting and Compliance Procedures Any report of violations or suspected violations to the Code of Ethics will be reviewed and acted upon. RC Ethics Committee is reponsible for maintaing a record of all regulatory and Code of Ethics violation.  Compliance Confirmation and Undertaking Each year directors, commissioners, executive advisors and employee within Rajawali Group will be required to formally acknowledge their compliance with the Code of Ethics. A signed Compliance Confirmation and Undertaking form is a requirement for continued employment at Rajawali Group.  Integrity Undertaking Member of Board of Directors, Board of Commissioners, Executive Advisors and Employees who hold positions of trust and confidence will be required to sign Integrity Undertaking upon appointment and/or upon joining Rajawali Group.  Promoting Good Corporate Governance Rajawali Corpora is also the active member of Indonesian Business Links (IBL), a non-profit foundation aims to contribute towards the creation of sound and ethical business practices in the country.  Bring Values of Excellence and Innovative into Public Policy Development and Implementation in Indonesia Excellence in public policy and public administration will shape more efficient bureaucracy, more welfare for people thus creating no room for corruption. In collaboration with Center for Public Policy Transformation (“Transformasi”), in 2016-2017 Rajawali Corpora through Rajawali Foundation supports improvement in public policy & regulation, to emphasize on addressing issues of poverty, workforce, inequality, vulnerable people, climate change and environment. Page 25 Rajawali Corpora 2016 1. USAID – SINERGI project to Mainstream Poor & Vulnerable Youth into Labor Market in Indonesia – Selection Process 2015-2016; Piloting 2017-2018; Full Implementation until 2021 From submission of 140 concept notes to USAID in 2015, there are 6 project concepts which finally were approved by USAID in the second semester of 2016. Rajawali Foundation leads the SINERGI consortium to receive a four year project fund from USAID to address poverty by mainstreaming poor and vulnerable youth (18 to 34 years old) into labor market in Indonesia. In the pilot phase, we will test the concept in Central Java for 15 months, starting June 2017, before scaling up to other provinces. Provincial Youth Support Committee (PYSC) The project will strengthen coordination between stake holders at provincial level to have better link & match between education and industry. Rajawali Foundation will bring together Provincial Government leaders, District level government leaders, private sectors, TVETs (Technical and Vocational Education and Training), CSO and Media into the process in the Committee. The project named SINERGI, which stands for “Strengthening Coordination for Inclusive Workforce Development in Indonesia”. Page 26 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Central Java with lower labor minimum wage rate compared to neighboring provinces has attracted many local and foreign investors to set up new labor intensive business in the province. Business sectors we are looking at are garment, textile and foot ware industries. Having said this there are still minimum local people working at local labor intensive industries in Central Java. Most of local workforces tend to migrant to Jakarta or working as basic skilled labor to overseas (TKI). The huge gap we have is the basis for SINERGI project to work with both local and national level governments to improve public policy & regulation which pro and support to mainstream youth into labor intensive industry, in particular poor and vulnerable youth. Once succeeded, this will be replicated / scaled up to other provinces in Indonesia which will significantly contribute to poverty eradication and develop local economy. Page 27 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Partners: Labor intensive industries (garment, textile, foot ware), Business Associations, Related Ministries, District level governments, Provincial Governments, TVET institutions, NGO & CSO to represent poor & vulnerable youth, Universities, and Media. Impacted Beneficiaries: The project is looking at 200-500 poor & vulnerable youth in several cohorts will receive benefits of training and access information to further job placements during 15 months of pilot project. In the full implementation phase of 4 years, the project will target up to 5,000 poor and vulnerable to receive benefit from the project. 2. USAID ICCTF – Strengthening Local Governments to Address Climate Change Risks; May 2016 – April 2017 In parallel with the SINERGI project, Transformasi and USAID-ICCTF (USAID Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund) BAPPENAS together with District Government of Gorontalo successfully delivered technical assistance to support local government to improve their medium and long term strategic development plan to adapt with climate change risk. Population of Gorontalo district is denser compared to most districts in the province. Gorontalo district has more than 50 rivers heading to one extensive lake; Lake Limboto. The district is located between sea of Sulawesi and Tomini bay, with soil character which is easily eroded. To emphasize on minimizing environment risks, to include to effectively adapting with climate change risks has become priority of District Government of Gorontalo. POKJA API Transformasi and Gorontalo District Government have initiated POKJA API (Kelompok Kerja Adaptasi Perubahan Iklim – Climate Change Adaptation Working Group) which is the first ever in Eastern Indonesia. The working group has delivered set of policy recommendations to Bupati and acknowledged by BAPPENAS as national agency for national development plan. The working group has successfully integrated Climate Change oriented development plan into medium term local / district development plan. This resulted in the 19 joint working plan agenda between 9 SKPD (Satuan Kerja Pemerintah Daerah) which leads to significant budget allocation (10.5% of 2017 APBD) that support local economy, health and infrastructure which is adaptive to climate change. Budget Transparency Significant budget allocation is followed up with certain budget transparency mechanism. Bupati Gorontalo, Prof. Dr. Ir. H. Nelson Pomalinggo, MpD. commits to transparency and open government. He has created open access for public to watch budget allocation and its realization. Page 28 Rajawali Corpora 2016 Partners: USAID – ICCTF, BAPPENAS, Related Ministries, Bupati Gorontalo, Gorontalo Districts Government, Academicians, Local NGOs, and Local Farmers Union. Impacted Beneficiaries: 356,000 of Gorontalo district population, and local farmers unions. Page 29
