2017 COMMUNICATION PROGRESS C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S CONTENTS 01 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO 03 02 SANTA FE OVERVIEW 04 03 GOVERNANCE PROCESS 05 04 ETHICS AND BEHAVIOUR 06 05 TEN UNGC PRINCIPLES 07 06 HUMAN RIGHTS 08 07 LABOUR RIGHTS 09 08 ENVIRONMENT 11 09 ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 00 C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S STATEMENT FROM THE CEO The Santa Fe Group is delighted to present its seventh Communication on Progress Report reaffirming our continued commitment and support for the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Sustainability is at the heart of all that we do and we continue to view corporate and social responsibility as our practices and policies that contribute to the wellbeing of the environment, economy and society. Martin Thaysen In 2016, Santa Fe placed a significant emphasis on strengthening our Integrity infrastructure to more effectively support our operational programs, and in turn our respective customers, and also to position the organisation for future growth. As a result of several structural alignments and our Chief Executive Officer strategic initiatives as part of the 2020 strategy, we feel that the implementation of our continued commitment to the principles of the Global Compact is stronger than ever. We commit to operating using ethical business practices and expect the same from our suppliers and business partners globally. We stand strong in our resolve to minimising the environmental impacts of our services, having a zero tolerance approach to corruption in all its forms, providing jobs and making a profit. We believe in treating our employees fairly and with respect and being a good neighbour to those within our local communities around the world. 01 The UNGC principles will continue to act as a guide, an inspiration and an aspiration to help create a sustainable future. Santa Fe will continue to drive forward its commitment to the UNGC guided by our own long-standing values of Drive, People, Quality and Integrity. 03 02 C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S SANTA FE OVERVIEW The Santa Fe Group is a global leader in international mobility, handling around 50,000 international relocations and around 15,000 domestic relocations (predominantly in Australia) per year, based on own operations in 45 countries and a network of agents. Santa Fe’s ambition is to make it easy for companies and people to live and work freely and flexibly around the world. Santa Fe provide a full range of mobility services for multinational Santa Fe design and manage entire companies and other organisations having executives and relocation programmes for large professionals on overseas assignments. In addition to this, Santa organisations with international Fe serve individual customers relocating without the support of an operations. Our value proposition is to employer. The service offering covers the entire relocation journey provide our corporate customers with – from Immigration Services to obtain work and resident permits optimum efficiency in their mobility through the physical packingand moving of household goods to management, full compliance with all a comprehensive range of value-added relocation and destination relevant legal regimes, and a safe and services to ensure the relocating family settles in to their new easy transition and new start for the home in the best possible way. relocating individual and family. 04 C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S GOVERNANCE PROCESS We transparently report our performance annually in terms of financial results, social responsibility and the operational aspects of our business. Our objective is to ensure our business remains sustainable in every meaning of the word. This means that we are able to provide our customers with a service that both offers value and continuity. It also means that through our continued commitment to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten UNGC principles, our Company contributes and benefits economies and societies globally. The governance structure is anchored 03 with a sustainability team aiming at aligning sustainability objectives, implementing and sharing best practices. The team consists of members in each region with overall responsibility held by the Santa Fe Group’s Chief Financial Officer. 05 C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S ETHICS AND BEHAVIOUR To truly make a difference in our organisation, CSR must be embedded into our culture, in addition to our processes, policies and practices. It must be aligned to our strategy and we must take a long-term view. To act in a globally responsible way, we continually review our initiatives, codes and schemes so that we can learn from them. 04 We pride ourselves on a fair, ethical and inclusive approach to our business, our people and our clients. Our Code of Business Conduct provides guidance to all employees on the conduct of our business according to the highest ethical standards which has allowed us to grow and prosper with a culture of honesty, integrity and accountability. In 2016, a huge focal point for Santa Fe was the launch of Santa Fe’s integrity programme, consisting of new and revised policies, discussion groups, face to face training and eLearning. Underpinning our integrity programme is the Santa Fe Code of business Conduct, which was translated into 14 languages and launched and completed by all employees. The Code contributes to our future success by helping to maintain a culture of honesty, integrity and accountability. The Code and our other ethics policies help to focus everyone on areas of ethical risk, offer guidance in recognising and dealing with ethical issues and provide mechanisms to report unethical conduct without fear of retaliation. Parallel to this, a new independent confidential Integrity hotline was launched to employees and third parties replacing the whistle-blower hotline. The integrity hotline hosted by Navex Global allows reporting via telephone or the website in local languages 24 hours a day. 06 05 C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S TEN UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection Businesses should support a precautionary approach to of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle environmental challenges; 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 8 abuses. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Labour Rights responsibility; and Principle 3 Principle 9 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; friendly technologies. Principle 4 We commit to: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Reduce the negative impact of our business on the Principle 5 environment, meet or exceed regulatory requirements and The effective abolition of child labour; and continuously seek to improve our processes to achieve high standards. Principle 6 • Monitor and Reduce carbon emissions. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Reuse 100 % of packing material where quality is not compromised. We commit to: Anti-Corruption • Continuous monitoring of our governance system to ensure compliance with basic human rights within our Principle 10 organisation and those with whom we interact Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • Compliance with national legislation including extortion and bribery. We commit to: • Apply a zero tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. • Continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations where we have special skills, products or services to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. 07 C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S HUMAN RIGHTS Policy Action Risks In accordance with principles 1 and 2 of In 2016, our Team in Australia The main risk related to our the Global Compact Santa Fe supports and led a Safety Campaign through activities include unintended respects the protection of internationally ‘Yammer’ which consisted of the work accidents especially for our proclaimed human rights and ensures that the sharing of policies, procedures, operational staff, non-compliance group is not complicit in human rights abuses. training material and open with the Global Compact’s We endeavour to ensure: discussion on ways of keeping principles and the requirements of employees and the workplace safe. OHSAS 18001. • Health and safety in the workplace Our Health and Safety Policy Our business activities are subject • Fair wages acknowledges that employee to various local Health and Safety • Wellbeing of employees wellbeing is an important factor to laws. • Good relations with local communities maintaining good health as such KPI Santa Fe held a ‘Healthy Selfie’ Taking care of people in our operations globally We measure and monitor the competition where employees and when working with partners and suppliers number of workrelated accidents shared photographs of things that is essential for us. Santa Fe Group’s Health and resulting in days off work. The KPI contribute towards their wellbeing. Safety Policy outlines our commitment to focus reflects developments in safety This ranged from healthy eating, on continuous improvements through effective performance whilst our services fun runs, dance classes and management systems. Our Occupational Health are being performed. spending time with family. Due to and Safety management systems are certified Results the success of the ‘Healthy Selfie’ according to OHSAS 18001. competition Santa Fe arranged In the field of occupational health View full Health and safety policy a Global ‘Step it Up’ competition and safety, both the number of We recognise the importance of work-life whereby teams reported the accidents with time loss and balance, and appreciate the value that out-ofnumber of steps they took for the number of lost workdays work activities bring back into the workplace. a six week period. A number of per accident has decreased We also aim to foster a culture of well-being employees reported a change to as depicted in Graph 1, Work by providing a variety of tools, education and their life style choices and are now accidents with days lost. A resources that reinforce healthy lifestyle choices. exercising more. The competition major factor in this positive Santa Fe continues to remain active in a variety was a great success with the development is the integration of of ways in support of community events and teams clocking up enough steps to health and safety considerations charitable organisations. We believe that, in walk around the globe just short of in decision-making processes, supporting charities and community events, we two times. along with more cooperation and not only improve the communities and world Numerous events took place in improved coordination across the we live in, we also motivate staff and create our local communities from relief organisation. In 2017 we aim to goodwill. work, removing rubbish from local continue to reduce the number of beaches and volunteering at accidents with time loss. We continue to make trucks available for disaster relief when tsunamis, earthquakes, food banks. All OHSAS 18001 certificates were typhoons or other natural disasters strike. In Santa Fe Asia contributed USD successfully renewed addition Santa Fe Group provides logistical 5.00 per booked move to Johns services to charities and local communities Hopkins Medicine in Baltimore, for a variety of events. Santa Fe continues to Maryland. Johns Hopkins is one of promote a culture whereby we care about our the world’s pre-eminent health care communities not just as an organisation institutions, and its researchers but also as individuals. have made a tremendous contribution in deciphering the mechanisms of cancer and discovering new treatments. A total Graph 1: Work Accidents with days lost of USD 48,500 was raised through 2013-2016 booked move donations. 100 Santa Fe Australia are proud supporters of Red Kite, committing to A$20,000 per year in corporate sponsorship. Red Kite helps to support the families of children living with cancer and is a wellknown and highly respected charity within Australia. On top of our base level of commitment, we also fundraise and participate in additional events when the opportunity arises. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 06 Days off due to accidents per headcount per 1000 employees Work accidents with days lost per 1000 employees 08 07 C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S LABOUR RIGHTS Policy In accordance with principles 3, Santa Fe conducted its second Santa Fe Group recognises that we work in a 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact global employee engagement richly diverse community and understand the Santa Fe: survey. We are partnering with the strategic importance of achieving a diverse • Recognises the right of Great Place to Work © institute workforce, which reflects that community. We employees to be members of a on this strategic people project undertake to recruit, develop and retain the trade union and negotiate pay and are already embracing the most talented people by valuing the varied skills and working conditions. feedback from our employees by and experiences they bring to Santa Fe Group; running local focus groups and • Supports elimination of all forms getting a better understanding of by investing in their training and development; of forced labour by treating employees fairly and equitably; by the working environment we need combating harassment and discrimination at • Applies preventative procedures to create to foster a culture of trust work, and by encouraging an honest and open and practices to ensure that at all levels. 86% of all employees culture which values the differences between persons below the minimum age took part in the survey and while in us. We have identified key focus areas to ensure are not employed some markets there is work to do, that we are equipping our people with the • Endeavours to prevent we have a number of markets with capabilities they need to achieve their career discriminatory practices and outstanding results. aspirations and help secure equal opportunities Risks us meet our goals. by means of the application The main risk related to our Pursuant to Danish legislation on gender of procedures and practices activities include non-adherence to equality, Santa Fe also has an objective for the to prevent discrimination in Santa Fe’s principle of preventing proportion of the underrepresented gender connection with recruitment or discriminatory practices and on the Board of Directors. It is Santa Fe’s dismissal, career development, securing equal opportunities and ambition that 25% of the members of the training and education or the potential legal, financial and HRBoard of Directors are women. Consequently granting of staff benefits. related consequences hereof. Santa Fe will ensure that qualitied candidates Action Our business activities are subject are considered before the Board of Directors In 2016 Santa Fe implemented to various national laws and proposes candidates to the Annual General a new Anti-Modern Slavery and regulations. Meeting. However, the Board of Directors’ final human trafficking Policy to ensure submission of candidates will always be based KPI that all employees are aware of on their actual competencies and experiences Santa Fe’s zero tolerance approach Santa Fe measures and relative to Santa Fe’s needs to ensure that the to forced labour and human monitors: candidate deemed best qualified is proposed. trafficking in accordance with the • Gender ratio by seniority This may mean that the ambition of a 25% UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. • Employee absolute turnover female representation on the Board of Directors View full Anti-Modern will not be met at all times, but it will continue to Slavery policy be a general ambition. Santa Fe took a globally consistent Retaining employees remains an important approach to Performance aspect of our business, our goal is to remain an Management by introducing attractive employer respecting, supporting and consistent metrics for our senior adhering to internationally proclaimed human leaders, supported the roll-out rights including the basic principles of the of the process through an online International Labour organisation’s Declaration performance management system of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. which ties seamlessly into our existing HR Information System and Learning Management System, creating a compelling overall ‘online bundle’ for our Graph 2: employees. In order to ensure Absolute employee turnover performance management has 25% a positive impact, only the top two levels of the organisation were required to complete this year’s process. The process has been designed with constant feedback in mind, e.g. monthly one-on-one meetings between managers and employees to update one another on performance against objectives. This will reduce the potential ambiguity and stresses often caused by formal mid-year 10% and year-end review cycles 2013 2014 2015 2016 as employees will have received Employee turnover ratio ratio* on-going feedback throughout *Annual average the year. 09 LABOUR RIGHTS C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S CONTINUED Results Graph 3 Gender ratio by seniority shows that In March 2016, the Annual General Meeting the overall female gender ratio increased by elected Jakob Holmen Kraglund as new 2.54%, with an increase observed in female member of the Board of Directors. Jakob senior and middle managers as well as Holmen Kraglund brings to Santa Fe significant operational staff. The absolute turnover was experience in driving large technology-driven 20%, as shown in Graph 3, Absolute employee transformation programmes, which is highly turnover, this was a 3% a reduction from 2015. relevant to Santa Fe and the execution of This can be attributed to Santa Fe responding our 2020 strategy. Jakob Holmen Kraglund to the feedback received from employees in replaces Connie Astrup-Larsen on the Board the 2015 Great Place to Work Survey. In 2017 of Directors, which means that currently Santa we shall continue to respond to the feedback Fe does not meet its target of having 25% received in the 2016 employee engagement female representation on the Board of Directors. survey and performance management will be Santa Fe aims to ensure that there is female cascaded to the entire organisation. representation on the Board of Directors within the next two years. 100% Graph 3: Gender ratio by seniority 2013 2014 2015 2016 0% Ratio of total workforce – Male Ratio of total workforce – Feale Ratio of senior management – Male Ratio of senior management – Female Ratio of middle management – Male Ratio of middle management – Female Ratio of office staff – Male Ratio of office staff – Female Ratio of operations staff – Male Ratio of operations staff – Female 10 C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S ENVIRONMENT Policy Action Results Santa Fe supports a precautionary approach As we grow and increase sales and Graph 4 Waste distribution, shows to environmental and climate challenges, delivery of our household goods that 2016 saw a 2% increase in undertake initiatives to promote greater services, we continue to look for the amount of waste recycled to responsibility and climate friendly technologies ways to increase the efficiency 75%, a 14% reduction of waste in accordance with principles 7, 8 and 9 of the and reduce emissions levels of our incinerated to 6% and a 12% Global Compact. fleet. Many of these initiatives have increase in the waste sent to landfill We systematically and proactively protect, required no additional investment; to 19%. An analysis of the data respect and safeguard the environment by promoting the choice of lowershows that there was an increase and climate in daily business activities by emission models for our fleets, in the amount of wood, carton development of production methods and continuously improve the way in and paper packaging recycled. products, training of employees and influencing which they are maintained and The positive reduction in waste suppliers and stakeholders. how their routes and volumes are incinerated was mainly attributed scheduled. to a decrease in wood, household Santa Fe’s Environmental policy is intended goods/ personal effects being to be sustainable and is being integrated Santa Fe has continued to monitor its GHG emissions. We continue incinerated. However, there was into our day-to-day business practices. As an increase in the amount of such, this policy is communicated to all staff to work with our offices globally to improve the data quality to records management boxes and members and is also available to the public. general waste being sent to landfill. Santa Fe applies recognised Environmental allow better and more in depth reporting of our Scope 1, 2 and Opportunities for improvement Management Systems such as ISO 14001 (or have been identified in Hong Kong its local equivalent) based on the principle of 3 GHG emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. where the disposal of household continuous performance improvement. These goods/personal effects and systems are the basis for the deployment of key In 2016 we updated our GHG emissions reporting factors and wood contributed to over half the elements which include risk analysis, monitoring Group’s total waste sent to landfill. of environmental performance and compliance the predominant source of the emission factors we have used is Improvements can be achieved by to regulations and permits, follow-up of the placing an even greater emphasis corresponding corrective actions, review of DEFRA 2015. on the importance of reusing waste performance and improvement plans by the In 2016, 16 offices in Europe where possible as well as recycling, management. implemented ISO 50001, energy providing awareness training for View full Environmental policy management system. employees as well as the resources Our business has environmental impacts Santa Fe’s Household goods and systems in place to maximise from the packing material we purchase services continues to be heavily our recycling potential. and their disposal. With a fleet of over 550 reliant on natural resources in There was a 13.8% increase in vehicles we acknowledge this as being a huge particular materials such as the energy consumed per cubic environmental consideration for Santa Fe. Our paper, cardboard, plastic etc. We meter transported on our fleet by vision and goals focus on reducing our impacts continued our efforts in reducing road in 2016 (Graph 5, fleet fuel per at each stage of our value chain and making a waste by the application of our tonnage) Areas for improvement positive difference to the world in which we live. reduce-reuse-recycle philosophy. were identified in Australia which Our objectives are to reduce our impact on Risks saw the highest increase in fuel the environment year-on-year by: The main environmental risk related per tonnage moved. An analysis to our activities include excessive of the results has shown that in • Becoming more energy efficient, thereby emission of CO2 and waste. this region the opportunity to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. consolidate shipments was not • Minimising our waste by applying a reduceOur activities are subject to always possible and therefore reuse-recycle philosophy. environmental laws and regulations reduced the efficiency of the fuel governing, among other things, being used. waste disposal and emissions. Risks are monitored locally and Electricity consumption per from the head office to prevent, employee reduced by 5.49% to remedy or minimise any adverse 2,013 kWh of electricity consumed effect on the external environment. per 2,919 employees (Graph 7, kWh electricity consumed KPI per employee) . This result was Santa Fe measure and monitors: influenced by a number of locations • Waste distribution running electricity saving schemes • Fleet fuel consumption per involving initiatives such as turning tonnage [MJ/M3]kWh electricity off the lights when not in use, and consumed per employee GHG auto shut down of computers after Impacts by scope. working hours. Fleet fuel consumption per tonnage [MJ/M3]kWh electricity consumed per employee GHG Impacts by scope. 11 08 ENVIRONMENT C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S CONTINUED In 2016, there was an overall decrease in Santa Fe’s GHG emissions (see Graph 6: GHG impacts by scope). There was an increase in Scope 1 GHG emissions due to the increase in the amount of fuel consumed by our fleet. The Scope 2 GHG emissions saw a reduction due to a decrease in the electricity consumption. Reductions in Scope 3 GHG emissions were seen across all modes of transport (air, sea and road) for goods that were transported by third parties including airlines, shipping lines and hauliers. The reduction appears to be due to an overall reduction in the weight of shipments being moved as well as slight reductions in the distances being travelled, across all modes of transport. All ISO 14001 certificates were renewed. 16 European offices were formally certified to ISO 50001. In 2017 we aim to recycle 77% of all available waste produced from cardboard and paper and reduce the amount of plastic and household goods waste being sent to landfill and incineration by 2%. This can be achieved by understanding the reasons why some waste is not being recycled and work on solutions to ensure as much waste as possible is being recycled. In addition we shall continue to look at ways in which we can reduce the amount of fuel being consumed. Graph 5: Graph 4: Fleet fuel consumption Waste distribution per tonnage [MJ/M3] 100% 110 0% 80 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 Recycling 2014 Inceneration 2015 Landfill 2016 Graph 7: Graph 6: kWh electricity consumed GHG Impacts by scope per employee 8,000 1,400,000,000 2,100 Scope 1 +2 CO2e Scope 3 CO2e (tonnes) (tonnes) 0 0 2,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 Scope 1 2014 Scope 2 2015 Scope 3 2016 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION C O M M U N I C A T I O N P R O G R E S S Policy Action This allows Santa Fe to build a risk Santa Fe has a zero tolerance approach In 2016, as part of the Integrity profile and any high risk scores towards corruption in all its forms. All Santa Fe program Santa Fe established a or non-conforming responses employees are expected to promote a culture wider policy framework including are then reviewed by the General based on ethics and compliance. new and revised anti-money Counsel or Compliance Committee laundering, black list and high risk for a final decision about whether We enter into open dialogue with relevant Santa Fe can do business with that business partners, and we have set up countries, dangerous goods and weapons, integrity reporting and supplier guidelines both internally and externally specifying how to avoid bribery and corruption compliance Policies. Risks in accordance with principle 10 of the global View full integrity reporting policy The main risks related to our compact. To compliment the Integrity activities include employees and Santa Fe demonstrates an ability to efficiently program and further educate suppliers’ violation of Santa Fe’s handle data through robustly managed and empower employees’ Compliance Policies and potential processes. Achieving and maintaining ISO eLearning training was provided legal and financial consequences 27001 data security management certification to all employees in the areas hereof. has allowed us to strengthen the levels of of Anti Bribery and Corruption, Our business activities are subject trust between ourselves and our customers, Competition Law and Data to various national laws and improving our ability to securely manage their Protection. The training was made regulations as well as legislation data and at the same time providing assurances available in four languages. with an international reach. that we are following ISO 27001 information Santa Fe also reintroduced and KPI security best practice. expanded the role of the Compliance We monitor results of internal anti09 Santa Fe’s Service Level Agreement and Committee function into the corruption training and supplier Suppliers Code of Conduct detail the minimum organisation, Chaired by the Group audits on an ongoing basis and performance requirements expected of anyone General Counsel and attended by adapt our policies and processes if who does business with us, in accordance with the Group Chief Executive Officer, necessary. the 10 Principles of the UNGC. Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer Results and the Group Risk Manager. The 100% of employees completed the Compliance Committee’s function Code of Business Conduct is to consider all matters of nonThe results for the eLearning financial compliance, including completion is not yet available as the Company’s overall compliance the deadline for completion spans programs, policies and procedures; into 2017. significant legal or regulatory In 2017, Santa Fe shall maintain compliance exposure; and material eLearning training for employees reports or inquiries from government on topics to combat corruption or regulatory agencies. In addition Santa Fe shall collect Santa Fe continued to follow the annual declaration statements requirements of ISO 27001 Data from employees for the Code of Security Management to ensure that Business Conduct. all data and information that interacts within our Company is secure. Santa Santa Fe will continue to work Fe undergoes regular audits via with its supply chain in 2017 to certification bodies, internal audits provide support and guidance and also audits by our corporate via educational means to ensure customers. the Santa Fe Group is working with responsible businesses Santa Fe redesigned its supplier which will be supported by the due diligence on boarding process implementation of the supplier due which included revising the Partner diligence on boarding process. Agreements, enhanced due diligence questionnaires including submission of key documents including but not limited to: Company registration certificates, VAT/ Tax registration certificates, anti-bribery and corruption policy, ethics policy, data protection policy, environmental policy, necessary insurances and licences, credit checks to ensure the financial stability of our suppliers and a robust verification process via ‘World Check’ to identify any connections to pending or convicted criminal activities as well as any associations with politically exposed persons. 13 Santa Fe Relocation Central Way Park Royal London NW10 7XW United Kingdom T 44 208 961 4141 santaferelo.com
