A partnership built on trust Sustainability at Berlin Hyp AG 2016 GRI Report s Finanzgruppe Content General Disclosures 3 Specific Disclosures 14 Organisational Profile 4 Economics 15 Strategy7 Economic Performance 16 Ethics and Integrity 9 Indirect Economic Impact 17 Governance9 Anti-Corruption18 Stakeholder Engagement 10 Anti-Competitive Behaviour 19 Report Profile 11 Environment20 Materials22 Energy22 Emissions23 Environmental Compliance 24 Society 25 Employment27 Employer-Employee Relationship 28 Occupational Health and Safety 28 Education and Training 29 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 29 Non-Discrimination29 Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining  30 Human Rights Screening 30 Local Communities 31 Evaluation of Suppliers with Respect to Social Impact 31 Politics32 Advertising and Labelling Products and Services 32 Protection of Customer Privacy 33 Socio-Economic Compliance 34 Imprint 35 2  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society This GRI Report complies with the standards (2016) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and was prepared in accordance with the “Core” option. The Sustainability Report also serves as Berlin Hyp’s Communication of Progress (COP) for the purposes of the United Nations’ Global Compact (UNGC). GRI Content Index General Disclosures 3  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Organisational Profile Pfandbriefe or green senior unsecured bonds. Creating incentives for green buildings while also financing them represents one part of the GRI 102-1 | Name of the organisation Bank’s sustainability measures that is directly related to its core busiBerlin Hyp AG ness: commercial real estate lending. GRI 102-2 | Primary brands, products and services GRI 102-3 | Location of the organisation’s headquarters Berlin Hyp offers a wide range of services covering all the bases when it Berlin, Germany comes to real estate financing. Tailored financing solutions in the field of commercial real estate make us stand out from the crowd. Among other GRI 102-4 | Countries with significant operations things, we finance office space, logistics, retail and residential real In addition to its headquarters in Berlin, Berlin Hyp has five other sales estate, either as individual properties or as part of a portfolio. Along with offices in Germany: Düsseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg, Munich and conventional mortgage loans, we also offer sureties, framework lines, Stuttgart. Abroad, the Bank also has one office each in Amsterdam, Paris interest hedge products, financing products for construction work (conand Warsaw. We have financed properties in the following countries: struction enterprises and developers), business current accounts, operating equipment loans, and overnight money and term money, as well as • Germany valuations and payment transactions services. • Belgium • France In addition to its offering of syndicate financing and valuation and restruc• United Kingdom turing services, Berlin Hyp – as a partner and competence centre for the • Poland commercial real estate financing operations of German savings banks – • Netherlands offers savings banks unique added value through products such as its • Czech Republic secured “ImmoSchuldschein” and “ImmoKonsortial”. GRI 102-5 | Nature of ownership and legal form Mediumand long-term refinancing generally takes place through issues Berlin Hyp is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Landesbank Berlin Holdof covered and uncovered bank bonds. The mortgage Pfandbrief has coning AG Group (Landesbank Berlin Holding), the majority of whose shares sistently and enduringly proven to be the leading means of refinancing. are held by the Erwerbsgesellschaft der S-Finanzgruppe mbH & Co. KG. Berlin Hyp integrated a further key sustainability component into its GRI 102-6 | Markets served value-added chain in 2015 with the issue of green bonds to refinance Berlin Hyp specialises in providing large-volume real estate financing and green financing, thereby providing capital market investors added value develops individual financing solutions for professional investors and housthat goes beyond creditworthiness or cover funds. Green Bonds are ing societies. As a partner of the German savings banks, it also provides issued within the scope of the Green Bond programme either as green these institutions with a comprehensive range of products and services. 4  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Berlin Hyp mainly refinances itself in the capital market. The Bank GRI 102-8 | Employees by employment type, gender and region issues mortgage and public Pfandbriefe as well as senior unsecured (UNGC: Principle 6) and subordinated debt securities. By issuing green bonds, the Bank is also represented in the market for sustainable capital investments (see also GRI 102-2). Employees by region 2015 2016 Number of employees1 576 585 Key market activities of which in Berlin 530 538 in € m 2014 2015 2016 of which at German branches 35 37 Mortgage loans 17,721 17,898 18,125 of which in Poland 4 4 Public-sector loans 2,908 2,652 1,228 of which in the Netherlands 4 4 Green building financings – 1,037 1,841 of which in France 3 2 Green Bond Issuances – 500 1,000 1 Excluding the members of the Board of Management GRI 102-7 | Scale of the organisation In 2016, Berlin Hyp AG generated an operating result after risk provisionEmployees by gender and employment type ing of € 120.1 million and had a balance sheet total of € 26.4 billion. 2015 2016 Applicable equity capital amounted to € 1,395 million as at 31 December of which of which of which of which 2016. Please refer to the Annual Report for details regarding economic Total women men Total women men development, the Group structure and the competitive position. Number of employees 576 292 284 585 292 293 (see also GRI 102-4 and 102-6 ) of which on fixed-term contracts1 26 9 17 20 8 12 Full-time 447 180 267 455 178 277 Part-time 129 112 17 130 114 16 Key performance indicators Employees covered by 232 150 82 232 152 80 collective wage agreements 2014 2015 2016 Employees not covered by 344 142 202 353 140 213 Operating income after risk povisioning (in € m)1 119.8 124.0 120.1 collective wage agreements Balance sheet total (in € m) 30,428 28,544 26,354 Core Tier 1 capital (CET1) (in € m) 1,005 1,007 1,076 1 Including students on dual study programmes or trainees, student workers and interns. Core Tier 1 capital ratio (in %) 12.4 13.3 13.5 Employees 544 576 585 1 The previous year’s figures have been adjusted accordingly for the discontinuation of the “extraordinary result” from 2016. 5  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society GRI 102-9 | Description of the supply chain These areas of action are as follows: Berlin Hyp procures more than 90 per cent of its goods and services from companies based in Germany, with the remaining 10 per cent being pro• Profitable business model cured from companies within the EU. • Responsible business policies • Forward-looking customer relationships The 40 largest suppliers provide the following procured goods, • Binding trust among others: • Attractive employer Berlin Hyp therefore has a good foundation for avoiding risks to its busiProcurement share in % ness operations, or at least for managing them safely, while at the same time seizing opportunities for a forward-looking approach. Audit, consulting, appraisal and rating services 55 IT 30 Direct risks arising from our current and future business activities are HR services 5 managed by Berlin Hyp’s risk management. The aim of risk management Travel expenses 3 is the conscious acceptance of strategically appropriate risks in order to Energy supply 2 gain access to earning opportunities so as to leverage them to generate Facility cleaning 1 appropriate and sustainable income. Construction work 1 Expenses for employee pensions 1 Berlin Hyp records and assesses the risks associated with climate change Other 2 in a two-year cycle and documents them in a climate risk report. Compliance management stipulates the conditions and limits of Berlin Hyp’s business activities by imposing requirements and, under certain GRI 102-10 | Significant changes during the reporting period circumstances, rejecting transactions, products or customer relationships. There were no significant changes during the reporting year. Compliance activities focus on preventing money laundering, terrorism GRI 102-11 | Implementation of the precautionary principle financing, insider trading, fraud, corruption and other criminal activities Sustainability management has defined areas of action within the scope within the scope of our business activities. For example, Berlin Hyp has of a stakeholder dialogue process to describe key current and future implemented measures to prevent bank transfer fraud, allowing the Bank challenges and to develop corresponding sustainable solutions. to detect attempted fraud early on and minimise losses. Compliance risks are assessed on an ongoing basis and documented in a risk report. 6  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society GRI 102-12 | External initiatives that the organisation endorses • DVFA – Deutsche Vereinigung für Finanzanalyse und Asset ManageBerlin Hyp endorses the following external sustainability charters, ment (German Association for Financial Analysis and Asset principles or initiatives: Management) • GIF – Gesellschaft für Immobilienforschung e.V. (Society for Real • Deutscher Nachhaltigkeitskodex (German Sustainability Code) Estate Research) • Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charter) • HypZert • The sustainability initiative of Zentraler Immobilienausschuss • ULI – Urban Land Institute (German Property Federation) • RICS – Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors • Green Bond Principles of the International Capital Market Association • vdp – Verband deutscher Pfandbriefbanken e.V., Berlin (Association of • Equator Principles German Pfandbrief Banks) • ZIA – Zentraler Immobilienausschuss (German Property Federation) GRI 102-13 | Memberships in industry and business associations Berlin Hyp employees regularly contribute their experience and experWe also attend the sustainability conferences of various working groups tise to a range of institutions. As a result, Berlin Hyp also ensures that and committees of the aforementioned industry and business associathe company takes into account the industry’s latest standards – tions. In particular, these include the following: including sustainability standards. • ZIA sustainability and energy committee Berlin Hyp is a member of the following industry and business • ZIA Corporate Social Responsibility working group associations – among others: • DSGV sustainability reporting working group • DSGV sustainability working group • Appraisal Institute • Arbeitgeberverband des privaten Bankgewerbes e.V. (Private Banking • Industry’s Employers Association) Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Betriebsräte der Immobilienund PfandStrategy briefbanken (Working group of the works council of the real estate GRI 102-14 | Statement from the most senior decision maker and Pfandbrief banks) Ladies and Gentlemen, • BFW – Bundesverband Freier Immobilienund Wohnungsunternehmen e.V. (Association for Private Housing and Real Estate Companies) Thanks to our business model, Berlin Hyp is ideally positioned to provide • CBRE Financial Council large-volume and complex financing. We develop future-oriented prod• Climate Bonds Initiative ucts and services relating to our core business that provide customers • DSGV – Deutscher Sparkassenund Giroverband e.V. (German Savings with true added value. Sustainability is constantly becoming ever more Bank Association) important – both for banks and the real estate market. According to the • DV – Deutscher Verband für Wohnungswesen, Städtebau und Federal Ministry for the Environment, buildings are responsible for Raumordnung e.V. (German Association for Housing, Urban around a third of all resource consumption and CO2 emissions in Gerand Spatial Development) many. This means that sustainable solutions for the construction and renovation of real estate are becoming increasingly important. 7  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Berlin Hyp recognised the inherent opportunities years ago, anchoring GRI 102-15 | Key impacts, risks, and opportunities concerning sustainability in its corporate strategy and driving the issue forward in its sustainability processes and structures. Over the past two years, we have very successTo be economically successful in the long term, we also take into account fully focused on sustainable developments in our core business. For environmental and social aspects in addition to the economic ones in how some time now, we have also been providing incentives for green buildwe act. Our objective is to assume responsibility to owners, customers, ing financing. We caused a sensation on the capital market in April 2015 employees and society that goes beyond legal requirements. by offering refinancing through green bonds and issued the world’s first ever green Pfandbrief. This was then followed last autumn by the issue of Through our business activities, we support the important contribution a green unsecured bond, making us the first issuer to have issued green made to economic and social prosperity by the real estate industry. The bonds in two asset classes. At the end of 2016, our books contained infrastructure developed, realised and maintained creates fundamental green building financing of € 1.8 billion; we also plan to remain active as and sound value for our economy and is the basis for commercial activity a regular issuer of green bonds on the capital market in the future. and the housing industry. The positive feedback received when talking with various stakeholders shows me that we are on the right path with our sustainable strategy. By financing real estate, particularly green buildings, Berlin Hyp makes an important contribution to enhanced and productive infrastructure in We create value while at the same time consuming resources. The potenGermany and its neighbouring European countries. In doing so, the Bank tial we tap when this process is as sustainable as possible throughout also contributes to fulfilling UN Sustainable Development Goal 11: “Make the entire value-added chain is accordingly high. The UN Global Comcities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable”. pact’s ten principles are therefore more than just a declaration for us: they are an unwavering commitment. Furthermore, we are expressly We have stipulated requirements and procedures to manage ESG (Envicommitted to tackling climate change and plan to use our products to ronment, Social, Governance) risks responsibly during the course of ordicounteract its effects. nary business operations. Berlin Hyp has also excluded business activities relating to certain critical industries. For example, we do not finance We have set ourselves ambitious targets: green financing is to account any real estate if their construction or operation is directly related to the for 20 per cent of our real estate portfolio by 2020. We also plan to production of genetically modified organisms or the production of reduce our own CO2 emissions by 5 per cent year on year in 2017. I am tobacco or alcohol. very confident that we are ideally positioned to achieve these objectives thanks to our green bond programme for the sustainable development of Given the significance and long-term use of real estate, the additional the core business and our comprehensive sustainability management. consideration of sustainability is a key factor in real estate financing for The full GRI Report provides information on our plans. ensuring the lasting value of an exposure, among other things. Berlin Hyp therefore has a special interest in its customers constructing or Yours sincerely, acquiring and managing real estate whose value is secured by giving Sascha Klaus Chair of Berlin Hyp’s Board of Management 8  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society professional consideration to environmental, economic and social crite• Guideline on responsible conduct towards customers ria. Berlin Hyp generally also takes into account its customers’ safe han• Guideline on corporate environmental protection dling of legal requirements pertaining to building, environmental, plan• Corporate citizenship guideline ning and nature protection legislation when making real estate financing • Guideline on sustainable purchasing policies decisions. • Guideline on the sustainable purchasing of office supplies, IT equipment At the end of 2016, the existing ethics guidelines were replaced by the Ethics and Integrity Code of Conduct, which, in the form of an overview of the Bank’s regulations, bindingly describes the Bank’s responsibility standards – both perGRI 102-16 | Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour taining to Berlin Hyp as a company as well as for each individual employee. (UNGC: Principle 10) In its efforts to make its business operations sustainable, Berlin Hyp goes beyond simply complying with applicable laws and external regulations. It has also made voluntary commitments, such as to the UN Global Compact, and introduced various internal policies that provide the Governance Bank’s employees with clear guidance on how to conduct themselves. GRI 102-18 | Governance structure, including the highest governance These include: body committee Berlin Hyp is managed by a Board of Management with overall responsi• Guideline on sustainable real estate financing bility. The Board of Management comprises three members: • Guideline on human rights, diversity and inclusion at Berlin Hyp • Environmental management system guideline • Sascha Klaus (Chair of the Board of Management) • Sustainability guideline for suppliers and service providers • Gero Bergmann • Guideline on stakeholder communication • Roman Berninger • Sustainability in Berlin Hyp’s Depot A • Lobbying guideline The Supervisory Board has 15 members. The Supervisory Board has • Guideline on handling of tax requirements three committees: the Staff and Strategy Committee, the Audit Commit• Code of Conduct tee and the Loan Committee. • Guideline on corporate environmental protection • Climate risk analysis Berlin Hyp’s Board of Management and the Supervisory Board follow the • Guideline on social and environmental product responsibility recommendations of the “Government Commission on the German Cor• Guideline on responsible conduct towards customers in porate Governance Code” for the development of internationally and financial difficulties nationally recognised standards of good and responsible corporate 9  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society management. The Supervisory Board and the Board of Management act in the awareness that good corporate governance is the necessary basis Stakeholder Engagement for the success of the Bank and is therefore in the interests of our shareGRI 102-40 | Stakeholder groups engaged holders and the capital markets. We maintain regular dialogue with our key stakeholders: customers and employees, policy makers, administrative bodies, the public and media, GRI 102-35 | Remuneration policies for the highest governance body environmental and social organisations, suppliers and unions, business and senior executives partners and competitors, as well as capital market representatives. The Supervisory Board establishes and annually reviews the remuneration system, including the major contractual elements, for the Board of GRI 102-41 | Percentage of employees covered by collective bargainManagement at Berlin Hyp. Members of the Board of Management ing agreements (UNGC: Principle 3) received fixed remuneration as well as a variable component. The SuperAll employees covered by the co-determination obligation are covered by visory Board transferred the duties of the Remuneration Controlling collective bargaining agreements and collective agreements. Committee to its Staff and Strategy Committee. GRI 102-42 | Identification and selection of stakeholders The members of the Supervisory Board receive remuneration for their Stakeholders who are directly or indirectly affected by Berlin Hyp business work; this amount is stipulated in the Articles of Association, which state activities and whose opinions and actions directly or indirectly impact Berthat Supervisory Board members receive fixed annual remuneration. No lin Hyp’s business activities are of particular relevance for Berlin Hyp. Susvariable remuneration is paid. tainability management reviews stakeholders’ relevance assessments at least once per year, documenting the findings in a portfolio together with Details pertaining to the Bank’s remuneration policies are included in the respective stakeholders’ degree of influence and organisation. the Annual Report from page 68. GRI 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency GRI 102-38 | Ratio of the highest annual total compensation to the We seize existing opportunities to engage with the various groups in median annual total compensation society to identify our stakeholders’ sustainability perceptions and In 2016, the median annual total compensation of employees at all locarequirements early on and to react appropriately and swiftly. tions was € 84,499. This figure includes part-time capacities that were The formats used include: not converted to full-time equivalents. The highest annual total compensation, including fixed and variable components, was 11.4 times the cal• Customer satisfaction analyses culated median annual total compensation. • Customer events • Customer complaints management • Board of Management dialogue events with all employees • Employee satisfaction analyses • Employee sustainability day 10  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society • Staff meetings In order to revise last year’s materiality analysis, we • Exchanges with the works council within the scope of the statutory consultation and notification obligations • analysed studies and standards of relevance to Berlin Hyp and the • Informal discussions and discussions with management personnel finance industry, • Investor roadshows • analysed last year’s ratings, • Work performed by bodies and associations • analysed our competitors’ sustainability reports, • Idea management • updated the semantic analysis of the stakeholder groups relevant to the Bank, GRI 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder • discussed sustainability issues with our employees from their point engagement and response of view during the 2016 sustainability day, Capital market investors have reacted positively to our green bonds • yielded first interim results from the berlinhyp 21 future process measures, welcoming our measures and encouraging us to maintain our pertaining to cluster sustainability and adopted course. Furthermore, stakeholders did not suggest to Berlin Hyp • collected feedback from a finance industry sustainability expert. any specific sustainability issues during the reporting period. Berlin Hyp’s sustainability working group subsequently discussed the results. The working group also prioritised individual issues on the basis of their materiality. The relevance of our stakeholders’ issues is considReport Profile ered in relation to the relevance of said issues for our company as well as for our business model. We also determined which issues should be GRI 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements reported to which extent in order to provide our stakeholders with approBerlin Hyp holds 100 per cent of the capital and voting rights in Berlin priate information. Hyp Immobilien GmbH. Pursuant to Section 296 (2) German Commercial Code (HGB), Berlin Hyp Immobilien GmbH is of subordinate importance Next, we allocated the selected issues to the GRI standard classification for Berlin Hyp. The company had no other investments in companies and assessed whether the greatest influence in each case can be exerted that would require the preparation of consolidated financial statements. from within or outside Berlin Hyp. Subsequently, the results were organAs a result, Berlin Hyp is not required to prepare consolidated financial ised according to the most important stakeholder groups to provide a statements. For details, please refer to the list of shareholdings pursuant clear presentation. Previous definitions were also refined. to Section 285 Nos. 11 and 11a HGB in the notes to the respective annual accounts. Of course, the entire process is not only designed to prepare the reports: the results are also constantly fed into the strategic development of susGRI 102-46 | Process for defining the report content tainability management. The sustainability issues of importance to Berlin Hyp and its stakeholders are selected pursuant to our guidelines pertaining to responsible conduct towards customers. 11  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society GRI 102-47 | All material aspects and aspect boundaries within and Berlin Hyp’s materiality analysis for 2016 outside the organisation Customers Employees Society Competitors Owners Impact Material aspects Specific disclosures Internal External Profitable business Profitable Economic performance model business model Indirect economic impact Responsible Materials business policies Energy Responsible business policies Emissions Evaluation of suppliers with respect to Forward-looking social impact customer relationships Politics Forward-looking Advertising and labelling products and services customer relationships Protection of customer privacy Binding trust Screening on human rights Binding trust Local communities Attractive Anti-corruption employer Anti-competitive behaviour Environmental compliance very important important less important Socio-economic compliance Attractive employer Employment Employer-employee relationship Occupational health and safety Training and education Diversity and equal opportunity Non-discrimination Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 12  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society 102-48 | Restatements of information provided in previous reports GRI 102-55 | Selected GRI index The 2015 Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with GRI G4. This GRI Report has been prepared in the form of a table. This GRI Report is the first to be prepared in accordance with the new GRI standards, which were published in 2016. GRI 102-56 | External verification of the report The consumption data, the method of collecting data, CO2 emissions as GRI 102-49 | Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries well as our environmental management are verified externally by GUT The aspect boundaries are unchanged. Certifizierungsgesellschaft für Managementsysteme mbH, Berlin, Germany, as part of the validation of environmental statements pursuant to GRI 102-50 | Reporting period EMAS. The economic key figures, where these are audited as part of the 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 annual accounts, are verified by Berlin Hyp’s auditor. GRI 102-51 | Date of most recent previous report 30 June 2016 GRI 102-52 | Reporting cycle Since 2013, the sustainability report has been published annually. GRI 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report Berlin Hyp AG Sustainability Management Vanessa Landschoof-Schlichting Budapester Straße 1 10787 Berlin Telefon: +49 30 2599 9122 Email: vanessa.landschoof-schlichting@berlinhyp.de GRI 102-54 | “In accordance” option with GRI This report complies with the GRI standards, and was prepared in accordance with the “Core” option. 13  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Specific Disclosures 14  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Economics budget/actual comparisons, using – in addition to financial performance indicators – various non-financial performance indicators that also take GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – economics into account sustainability aspects: (economic performance, indirect economic contribution) As a financial institution with some 150 years of experience in the real • Market: new customer recruitment, target portfolio, S-Group business estate lending business, Berlin Hyp knows all about long-term and sus• Employees: employee structure, motivation, management tainable growth. and development • Sustainability: green issues, green financing, sustainability rating We have resolved to strengthen our position as one of the leading comand compliance mercial and real estate financers with the most stable earnings in Germany. For us, this means participating in numerous significant real estate Berlin Hyp uses a special filter for the Bank’s own investments (Depot A) transactions in Germany, alone or within the syndicate, and maintaining a to take into account social and environmental aspects on an equal footstable customer base thanks to the quality, speed and reliability of our ing with the economic objectives of a financial investment. The filter is customer service and loan processing. We aim to strengthen our signifibased on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as well as our comcance as a partner and have therefore set up a decentralised sales strucpliance requirements. Own investments are reviewed quarterly. If a ture which has been aligned with the needs of the savings banks. portfolio security does not fulfill the criteria of the sustainability filter, Treasury, together with Sustainability Management, will decide what Berlin Hyp’s business policies are managed on the basis of an annual measures (such as the immediate sale of the portfolio) need to be taken. strategy and planning process in compliance with regulatory requirements and the risk strategy approved by the Board of Management. In For more information, please refer to the Annual Report as well as – particular, the financial statements, budgets, financial and risk reports bManagement approach – compliance, GRI 203-1 and 203-2. prepared in accordance with German commercial law, as well as the liquidity and new business reports, are the Bank’s central management tools. Potential deviations and their causes are analysed on the basis of 15  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Economic Performance fund for general banking risks pursuant to Section 340g German Commercial Code (HGB). In addition to other tax expenses of € 0.2 million, GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach Berlin Hyp reversed tax provisions totalling € 0.3 million. Berlin Hyp – economic performance donated € 55,000 to various charities during the course of the reporting For more information, please refer to Management approach – year. economic page 15. For information on more donations, please  see GRI 203-2. GRI 201-1 | Direct economic value created and distributed For more information, please  see the 2016 Annual Report Net cash from Berlin Hyp’s operating activities are mainly due to interest from page 29. and commission income, which amounted to € 504.4 million in 2016. This amount was offset by interest and commission expenses of € 206.0 milGRI 201-2 | Financial implications, risks and opportunities due lion. Berlin Hyp incurred operating costs, in the stricter sense, primarily to climate change from administrative expenditure of € 122.3 million, which includes staff Berlin Hyp performs an annual climate risk analysis to examine the risks expenditure of € 62.6 million. Other administrative expenditure that climate change poses to its business activities. Given their type, amounted to € 55.3 million. This item also includes the expenditure of intended use and geographic location, the financed real estate is the annual contribution to the European bank levy (€ 10.9 million), which exposed to low climate risks (storm damage, heavy rainfall, flooding, serves to establish a single resolution fund (SRF) within the EU’s banking extreme temperatures). union. The Bank’s very positive economic performance was utilised to completely close the coverage gap affecting pension reserves within the GRI 201-3 | Coverage of benefit plan obligations scope of the first-time adoption of the German Accounting Law ModerniPensions are an important component of Berlin Hyp’s additional benefits sation Act (BilMoG), resulting in expenses of € 19.1 million. This one-off as an employer. It is also why the company’s history results in various difeffect had a significant impact on other operating income (€ -20.3 milferent corporate pension schemes that pay out in the event of old age, lion). The operating result before risk provisioning amounted to € 155.8 disability or death. For further information on the liabilities, please refer million. Netted risk provisioning of € 51.3 million was reported for the to page 79 of the Annual Report. lending business in 2016. Income of € 15.6 million was reported for the valuation result for securities in the liquidity reserve. Expenses for risk GRI 201-4 | Financial assistance received from governments provisioning therefore totalled € 35.7 million. The operating result after Berlin Hyp has not received any financial assistance from risk provisioning amounted to € 120.1 million. Profits of € 73.0 million government agencies. were transferred to the parent company (Landesbank Berlin Holding AG, Berlin, Germany), despite creating provision reserves to strengthen regulatory equity of € 50.0 million by means of a further allocation to the 16  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Indirect Economic Impact In addition to its importance for the real estate industry, Berlin Hyp’s business activities are also relevant for the finance industry, as we proGRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach vide investors with the opportunity to invest their capital in a safe man– indirect economic contribution ner through various products. We also increasingly provide explicitly For more information, please refer to Management approach – sustainable capital investments. economic on page 15. More information is provided on a separate website: 203-1 | Infrastructure investments and services provided www.gruener-pfandbrief.de By financing real estate, Berlin Hyp makes an important contribution to enhanced and productive infrastructure in Germany and Europe. As proGRI 203-2| Indirect economic contribution jects by housing associations, non-profit housing companies and housWe are committed to the community in which we live and work, making a ing companies, among others, are part of our core business, we support positive contribution to Berlin Hyp’s wider community. During the reportsocial housing construction and the modernisation of existing social ing year, for example, we maintained our long-standing partnership with housing properties. Demand for affordable housing for low-income Kinderhaus Berlin-Mark Brandenburg e.V. and covered the entire costs of households and other social groups has been on the rise for years. The an autumn trip (€ 30,000). We also donated € 25,000 to various charities. importance of Berlin Hyp as a partner for sound financing concepts and sufficient capitalisation is therefore rising. Our employees were also active on behalf of Kinderhaus and made donations, such as “Schultüten” (school cones) or basic items for a new flat With respect to the impact of our investments, it should be noted that (total value of € 8,400). Many of our employees and management personordinary business activities usually only relate to certain real estate pronel were also actively involved in various non-profit organisations (total jects such as commercial real estate or housing construction in European, value of € 41,500). high-income OECD states. These countries generally have legal frameworks pertaining to high to very high environmental, social and goverLast year, Berlin Hyp also donated € 50,000 to Betriebs-sportgemeinnance (ESG) requirements. Through our own standards, we go beyond schaft Berlin Hyp e.V., a company sports club. meeting these requirements. In terms of the environment, we favour projects that focus on concepts such as “reduce, reuse, recycle” or “cradle to In addition to its social commitment, Berlin Hyp, in its role as employer cradle”, for example. The financing of green buildings represents a part of and contractor, has a positive impact on economic and social developthe sustainability measures that is directly related to the core business. ment at its locations. 17  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Anti-Corruption made. As a further preventative measure, the ordering and purchasing process is centrally anchored in Organisation and IT. It is the responsibilGRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – compliance ity of the neutral body – a unit designed to be responsible for ensuring (anti-corruption, anti-competitive behaviour, environmental that orders are handled in a uniform manner. The neutral body coordicompliance, socio-economic compliance) nates all tender processes, which are also supported by Compliance. Our Code of Conduct describes all values, principles and methods which characterise Berlin Hyp’s business activities. It includes the voluntary In addition to our measures pertaining to corruption, bribery, donations commitment of all Berlin Hyp employees to customers, sales partners, and sponsoring, we also prohibit the preparation or arrangement of agreeservice providers and other market participants to act in an ethical and ments to restrict competition. We treat competitors fairly and with respect. lawful way. Together with our guiding principles on sustainability, it serves to secure and increase the company’s value. As a rule, all employees are required to avoid conflicts of interest and, where ethical doubts arise, contact a supervisor or a compliance and/or Risk Controlling is a separate part of our corporate structure. Compliance anti-money laundering employee. Berlin Hyp expressly does not tolerate and Legal form a pivotal part of Corporate Development. This means that employees committing criminal acts. We pursue any cases uncovered the head of Corporate Development also serves as the Sustainability, using the “zero tolerance principle”. All criminal, employment and civil Compliance and Anti-money Laundering Officer, who reports to the Board consequences will be exhausted in the event that an employee has of Management on a regular basis and to the Supervisory Board at least demonstrably committed a criminal offence. We have taken comprehenonce per year. sive measures to prevent, uncover and adequately react to fraudulent activities, making use not only of internal options, but also of correThreat analysis, as it is commonly known, is used to estimate and minisponding external information provided by customers, business partners mise potential risks arising from money laundering, terrorism and other or other third parties. For this purpose, we have implemented a whistlecriminal activities. The analysis is carried out annually and covers all blowing system. locations. It also includes fraud risks – including corruption – and assesses the units’ corresponding control activities. The Bank regularly GRI 205-1 | Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to reviews the preventative measures derived from the threat analysis, supcorruption and risks identified plementing them as and when needed. We also analyse reported or susAll business locations are subject to continuous monitoring by Complipected cases affecting the entire industry to improve preventative meaance and Internal Audit. sures and prevent future risks as best as possible. The order process was reviewed to ensure that it meets Compliance Berlin Hyp does not tolerate any form of corruption or bribery. Berlin Hyp requirements. No irregularities were found in 2016. has binding guidelines with regard to the giving and receiving of gifts, perks and invitations to events to enable unequivocal decisions to be 18  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society GRI 205-2 | Anti-corruption communication and training Web-based training on fraud risks in 2016 also included anti-corruption issues. All employees completed this mandatory training. In the reporting year, Purchasing employees also received training on the application of the UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles – and therefore on the principle of combatting corruption. GRI 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No cases of corruption are known to have occurred at Berlin Hyp in 2016. Anti-Competitive Behaviour GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – anti-competitive behaviour For more information, please refer to Management approach – compliance on page 18. GRI 206-1 | Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly practices There were no legal actions pending or being prepared during the reporting year. 19  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Environment Berlin Hyp’s environmental impact GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – environment (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) Area Environmental impact Examples We bear an important social responsibility as a leading real estate financer Materials usage (paper usage) Consumption of energy, waCopy paper, printed material in Germany. It is from this responsibility that we derive our obligation ter and resources (wood) Energy consumption Emissions, increasing the District heating, electricity • to contribute to preserving the basis of life and economic capacity of greenhouse gas (GHG) effect, today’s generation and future generations as well as consumption of resources Waste generation Ecotoxicity, use of disposal Waste paper, • to reduce costs by making sparing use of resources sites, contaminating hazardous waste groundwater by actively engaging in environmental protection within the Company as Consumption of water Consumption of resources, Cooling, kitchens, well as along the entire value-added chain. generation of wastewater sanitary facilities Business trips Emissions, increasing the Company cars, road transWe have an obligation to our customers, owners, employees, suppliers greenhouse gas (GHG) effect port, rail and air traffic and society to act responsibly and aim to achieve sustainable development Product ecology Emissions, sealing Real estate financing overall within the meaning of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. It is on this basis that we have formulated an environmental policy that We document our measures for the further development of environmenprovides the framework for measurable environmental objectives and tal performance in our annually updated environmental programme. appropriate measures. Berlin Hyp aims to reduce the following environPlease refer to our online environmental programme for a detailed overmental impacts: view of objectives, measures and timetables. An environmental management system pursuant to EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme) was introduced at our headquarters in Berlin, Germany, to identify and manage our environmental performance. Berlin Hyp’s Board of Management is responsible for developing and 20  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Organisation of the environmental management system (EMS) Board of Management Environmental management representative Sustainability Officer • Ensures that the EMS is introduced, implemented and maintained • Internal and external contact partner • External representation; contact partner for the Environmental Management Officer • Development and updating of sustainability strategy • Calling and chairing meetings of the Sustainability Working Group • Support for departments in identifying and implementing sustainability measures Environmental Management Officer Environmental Protection Committee • Sustainability reporting • Answering external questions (from rating • Central contact for all matters concerning • Stipulating environmental objectives and the agencies, customers, investors) corporate environmental protection environmental programme • Monitoring the external development of • Operative implementation and constant • Communication relevant sustainability standards and issues development • Planning • Updating and documenting the EMS • Change proposals • Regular reporting to management • Monitors the acceptance and impact of envi• Supporting internal/external audits ronmental policies • Updating environmental objectives operating the environmental management system. All those with locations – with the exception of electricity consumption, where we cover operational responsibility for environmental management report to the more than 92 per cent of our employees. The environmental key figures Board of Management. are determined on the basis of the calculation tool provided by Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e. V. (VfU). Our environmental performance is managed on the basis of specific enviThe VfU key figures and the associated calculation tool are revised by a ronmental key figures. The environmental key figures presented here repVfU project group every two to three years; this is done to incorporate resent Berlin Hyp’s business activities, including the domestic and foreign international advancements in environmental indicator systems and 21  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society greenhouse gas (GHG) footprinting standards. Detailed information on GRI 301-2 | Percentage of materials used that are recycled input the currently methodology and calculation of the VfU environmental key materials (UNGC: Principle 7) figures is provided at www.vfu.de. We only use FSC-certified office and copy paper; the paper we use also includes recycled paper. The percentage of recycled paper is not curAs environmental management can only prove successful if all employees rently calculated. No other recycled products are of any relevance for play their part, we place great importance on involving all employees. For Berlin Hyp’s business activities. example, the Works Council is represented in the Environmental Protection Committee and is kept continuously up-to-date. New proposals and ideas on how to improve the company’s sustainability are regularly received by Idea Management, Berlin Hyp’s corporate suggestions scheme. Energy GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – energy (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) For more information, please refer to Management approach Materials – environment from page 20. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – materials (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) GRI 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organisation For more information, please refer to  Management approach (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) – environment from page 20. Energy consumption Paper consumption Year-on-year Year-on-year in MWh 2014 2015 2016 change in % in kg 2014 2015 2016 change in % Electricity consumption 2,912 2,783 2,882 3.56 Copy paper 15,500 19,000 18,000 -5.26 Diesel oil for emergency generators in litres 980 729 3,080 422.50 Printed material and other1 969 1,638 1,788 9.16 District heating for space heating, air condition2,205 2,208 2,426 9.88 ing and hot water 1 Other paper products were not recorded separately in 2014 or 2015. Company car fuel consumption in litres1 – – 117,655 – 1 Company car fuel consumption was recorded using a different method in 2014 and 2015 and is therefore not disclosed here. Since 2016, consumption figures have been calculated according to the total litres of fuel consumed. GRI 301-1 | Materials used by weight or volume (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) Paper is the material most relevant to Berlin Hyp’s business operations. During the reporting year, 18,000 kg of copy paper and 991 kg of paper for the annual report, customer newsletters and brochures were used, as well as 797 kg of other paper products (business cards, stationery and envelopes). 22  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society The consumption of diesel oil for emergency generators is generally the result of the safety checks required for the generators. Consumption figEmissions ures can fluctuate widely depending on the refuelling process and the GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – emissions performance of tests. Since January 2016, we have been using green (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) energy – gained exclusively from water power – at our Berlin location. For more information, please refer to Management approach From 2017, all our German locations will switch to using green energy. – environment from page 20. GRI 302-4 | Reduction of energy consumption GRI 305-1,2,3 | Direct, indirect and other indirect greenhouse gas (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) (GHG) emissions (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) We again implemented a range of measures in 2016 to keep our energy consumption levels as low as possible. The deactivation of the oxygen reduction system in the server rooms cut our consumption by 50 MWh. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – Scope 1, 2 and 3 To cut our energy consumption even further, we launched the mission E® Year-on-year initiative – an energy efficiency campaign for employees – in 2017. in tonnes of CO2 2014 2015 2016 change in % Scope 1 – direct GHG 247 305 328 6.15 Scope 2 – indirect GHG (location-based) 1,602 1,676 2,082 19.50 Scope 2 – indirect GHG (market-based) – – 516 – Scope 3 – supply chain GHG 493 649 539 -16.94 Total THG (Scope 2 – location-based)1 2,342 2,630 2,949 12.13 1 Total GHG (Scope 2 – market-based): 1,383 Berlin Hyp reports CO2 data on the basis of the electricity consumption of more than 92 per cent of employees. The consumption amounts of the remaining 8 per cent are estimated, as the employees work at leased properties and the energy bills for these properties could not be presented in time. Berlin Hyp purchases offsetting certificates to offset emissions resulting from necessary air travel. A total of 161 t of CO2 equivalents were offset during the reporting year. GRI 305-5 | Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) Our total CO2 emissions rose slightly during the reporting year (b please refer to GRI 305-1). Despite this, we successfully implemented measures in 2016 to keep our CO2 footprint as small as possible. 23  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society During the reporting year, we cut our CO2 consumption by 1,566 t by switching to green electricity (hydropower). Roughly 31 t were also saved Environmental Compliance by deactivating the oxygen reduction system. Since 2011, we have been GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach using a total of 111 solar modules installed on the roofs of the two build– environmental compliance ings at our headquarters as a climate-friendly energy source; these have For more information, please refer to Management approach a total output of 26,794 kWp and save a corresponding amount of CO2. – compliance from page 18. We aim to reduce emissions by 5 per cent in 2017. GRI 307-1 | Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmenFurthermore, by issuing green bonds, Berlin Hyp makes a substantial tal regulations contribution to reducing the indirect environmental impact of its busiThere were no fines or sanctions imposed during the reporting year. ness activities. The results and methods used to estimate the amount of CO2 cut by the financed green buildings are presented in the CO2 Report (as at 30 June 2016) at www.gruener-pfandbrief.de. By calculation, and depending on the model used, each million in green bonds (nominal amount) saves between 4.7 t and 26.0 t of CO2 a year. 24  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Society The central Health and Safety Committee at our headquarters in Berlin, Germany, is responsible for occupational health and safety throughout GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – employees the Bank. The Act on the Implementation of Measures of Occupational (employment, employer-employee relationship, occupational health Safety and Health to Encourage Improvements in the Safety and Health and safety, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity, Protection of Workers at Work (ArbSchG) stipulates the duties and componon-discrimination) (UNGC: Principles 3, 6) sition of the committee. All divisions and departments have representaOur management culture is characterised by appreciation, target orientives on the Health and Safety Committee who work together as partners. tation, sustainability and sufficient freedom of decision-making and creative leeway for staff. Management supports staff in their development Berlin Hyp has also established a health forum, which meets quarterly at through the career stages and phases of their life. a discussion group that spans all hierarchy levels. This group analyses anonymised health data and the results of employee questionnaires to This philosophy determines our employee strategy and thereby supports come up with proposed health promotion measures. Berlin Hyp’s overall strategy: Health management itself is the responsibility of HR. 1. Strengthening our position as one of Germany’s leading commercial Key elements here are: real estate financers 2.  Furthering our integration as a partner for commercial real estate • Occupational healthcare financing within the Savings Banks Finance Group • Occupational reintegration • Health promotion measures Only by attracting the best employees to Berlin Hyp – and retaining them – can we achieve these objectives. This requires a systematic personnel Our health promotion measures include reducing the risks related to planning system, which is the responsibly of HR. strain in the workplace or encouraging self-determination by promoting collective and individual health awareness. To do so, we organise annual We use internal and external resources to meet HR requirements. Vacant health days while also offering regular, free seminars, in cooperation positions are also always advertised internally, and qualified internal with health insurance companies, fitness centres, personal trainers and applicants are given the opportunity to attend an interview. When more. Betriebssportgemeinschaft Berlin Hyp e.V. plays a key role in keepattracting the next generation of talent, we focus on trainees and training our employees fit. Berlin Hyp has provided financial support for ing students in business management dual study programmes. The consporting activities designed to boost fitness, team spirit and competicept targeting the next generation of talent is complemented by the use tions throughout the industry for more than 20 years now. More than of student workers and interns. 300 employees are currently making active use of this opportunity. Training and education is designed to maintain and constantly improve the performance of our management personnel and employees, promoting individual commitment. Each member of our management staff is 25  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society responsible for managing his or her team’s individual development • Identifying the potential and promoting women in a timely manner steps. They initiate and support needs-based measures on the basis of • Promoting men as well (absolute equal opportunities) the annual staff evaluation meetings as well as the current and future task structure of the staff. The objective of all the measures is: The process is accompanied by the following measures: • Proactively developing and safeguarding qualified personnel • Ensuring that job descriptions address both genders and a transpar• Making adjustments in line with new organisational forms and new ent applicant selection technologies so as to tap into new areas • Making the promotion of equality between male and female employ• Increasing operational flexibility ees a mandatory evaluation criterion in management performance reviews and a required behaviour The personnel development function cycle comprises the follow• Equal access to personnel development measures ing: needs assessment, target-setting, planning and implementing the measures, performance review and ensuring knowledge transfer. We also promote equal opportunities by supporting our employees in achieving a healthy work-life balance. The range of working time models We strongly believe that diversity creates advantages from differences. we offer and the collective agreement regarding equal opportunities and We have underscored this philosophy by signing the Diversity Charter a family-friendly environment ensure transparency and equality. The and other initiatives. At Berlin Hyp, we both actively promote and manintroduction of trust-based working hours during the reporting year date this philosophy. Our human rights, diversity and inclusion guideline allows us to meet requirements pertaining to modern flexible working provides our employees and business partners with clear directives for hours and make it easier for employees to achieve a work-life balance. their day-to-day actions. This guideline is based on national legislation as well as international standards, including: At Berlin Hyp, non-discrimination means that customers, employees, suppliers and other business partners are not advantaged or disadvan• The United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights taged with regard to their • The United Nations’ conventions pertaining to the world of work • The European Union’s Convention for the Protection of Human Rights • race, and Fundamental Freedoms • skin colour, • gender, The guidelines not only provide orientation, they also contain concrete • language, specifications to promote diversity. For example, Berlin Hyp has stipu• religion, lated the minimum number of women to be employed at the second and • political opinion, third management levels (b see also GRI 405-1). Equal opportunities • other beliefs, for women and men to participate in management are to be even more • national origin, firmly integrated into the corporate culture through measures such as: • social origin, 26  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society • wealth, GRI 401-2 | Benefits provided to full-time employees • birth, With the exception of the provisions relating to retirement pensions, • sexual orientation and all benefits are available to employees with temporary and • other status. permanent contracts. At Berlin Hyp, human rights, diversity and inclusion are upheld on the GRI 401-3 | Return to work after parental leave (UNGC: Principle 6) basis of relevant German laws. Entitlement, return to work and staff remaining with the Bank after parental leave Employment By gender1 Entitlement2 Men 8 Women 12 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – employment Taken 3 16 For more information, please refer to Management approach – Returned after parental leave 10 4 employment from page 25. Remained with the Bank3 10 3 GRI 401-1 | New employee hires and employee turnover 1 These figures relate to Germany and therefore include more than 98% of the Bank’s employees. The respective national legislation applies for the ten employees based outside Germany. (UNGC: Principle 6) 2 New entitlements in the reporting year Employee turnover during the course of the reporting year, based on 585 3 Twelve months following a return after parental leave employees, stood at 2.3 per cent (13 employees). The average period of employment is more than 16 years. New employee hires in 2016 Men Women Total Employees 13 7 20 Trainees 2 2 4 Students in dual study programmes 2 1 3 Board of Management 1 0 1 Employee turnover is not currently recorded by age distribution and region, as this information is not relevant for management purposes. 27  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society For more information, please refer to Management approach – Employer-Employee Relationship employees from page 25. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – employer-employee relationship GRI 403-2 | Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and workFor more information, please refer to Management approach – related fatalities employees from page 25. GRI 402-1 | Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes Illness and accidents (UNGC: Principle 3) 2015 2016 All minimum notice periods as established by German employment law Number of accidents 5 8 and the German Co-determination Act (MitbestG) apply in the event of Total working days lost 67 202 significant operational changes, which are also addressed by manageLongest period of working days lost due to an accident (in days) 20 54 ment and the Works Council. As a rule, we comply with all of the labour Total illness frequency (in %) 6.18 6.01 law provisions of the countries in which we operate. Long-term illness frequency (in %) 1.58 1.02 These figures are currently not recorded by region and gender. Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – occupational health There are no positions at Berlin Hyp that result in an increased incidence and safety or risk of diseases. For more information, please refer to Management approach – employees from page 25. GRI 403-4 | Occupational health and safety agreements with trade unions GRI 403-1 | Percentage of total workforce represented in health and Berlin Hyp does not negotiate occupational health and safety directly with safety committees trade unions. Instead, it negotiates these issues with the Bank’s Works All Berlin Hyp employees are represented in the Health and Safety ComCouncil in accordance with statutory requirements. mittee and are also represented in a health forum that spans all hierarchy levels. 28  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Education and Training Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – training and education – diversity and equal opportunity For more information, please refer to Management approach – For more information, please refer to Management approach – employment from page 25. employment from page 25. GRI 404-1 | Average hours of training (UNGC: Principle 6) GRI 405-1 | Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Employees spent an average of 23.4 hours receiving training and educaemployees by aspects of diversity (UNGC: Principle 6) tion during the reporting year; management personnel spent an average Women made up 49.7 per cent of all employees during the reporting year of 32.7 hours on such activities. as at 31 December 2016. At 27 per cent, the proportion of women in the first management level below the Board of Management exceeded the GRI 404-2 | Programmes that support the continued employability of stipulated target of 21 per cent. The target of 27 per cent for women in employees (UNGC: Principle 6) the second level was not met, with women making up only 24 per cent. In line with our personnel development concept, we offer employees and This was due to structural changes at the Bank, which resulted in the management personnel specially tailored programmes. The trainee proelimination of some management positions. gramme prepares four new trainees for their careers every year. The dual study programme has supported a maximum of four students every year A total of 6.3 per cent of all employees had severe disabilities in 2016. since 2016. Employees are offered promotion programmes that support and provide funding for a programme of study at well-known institutions. No data is currently being recorded for other diversity aspects. Management personnel can attend coaching sessions and spend a week working at a social institution as part of the “SeitenWechsel®” programme to support their personal development. GRI 404-3 | Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Non-Discrimination and career development reviews (UNGC: Principle 6) GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – non-discrimination All employees except those on parental leave or suffering from longFor more information, please refer to Management approach – term illness, for example, receive annual performance reviews and coremployment from page 25. responding training. GRI 406-1 | Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken (UNGC: Principle 6) No incidents were reported in 2016. 29  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society Freedom of Association and Right to • Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights. Collective Bargaining • Companies should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – freedom of association and right to collective bargaining (UNGC: Principle 3) In order to implement these principles, Berlin Hyp has adopted a series For more information, please refer to bManagement approach – of guidelines, such as the human rights, diversity and inclusion guidescreening on human rights from page 30. lines, from which we derive specific measures (see Management approach – employment from page 25). GRI 407-1 | Locations and suppliers identified at which the right to exercise freedom of association has been violated or is at risk, and We also expect our contractors and suppliers to act in line with the prinmeasures taken ciples of the UN Global Compact and human rights, particularly with The cooperation between employer and employees is characterised regard to the following: by a partnership of trust; the same is also required of our suppliers and contractors. • Preventing child labour • Free choice of employment There were no reports of any violations of or risks to the freedom of • Freedom of association association during the reporting year. • Non-discrimination We have set down corresponding principles and requirements in a sustainability agreement. Contractors and suppliers must Human Rights Screening • agree to be bound by them, GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – human rights • ensure that they are implemented in their entirety and at all times and (human rights screening, local communities, evaluation of suppliers • relay them along their supply chain and confirm compliance. with respect to social impact) (UNGC: Principles 1, 2) Berlin Hyp is committed to protecting human rights in all aspects of its Berlin Hyp’s Purchasing employees can check contractors and suppliers business operations. We acceded to the UN Global Compact in 2015 to on the basis of random samples or ad-hoc questionnaires. Such checks set an example, both inside and outside the Bank. Berlin Hyp is putting may be performed unannounced and at any time in accordance with prethe following two UN Global Compact human rights principles into pracvailing legislation. These employees look into the existence of fundatice in a targeted manner: mental sustainability structures, compliance with the principles as well as the correctness of the information submitted. Any significant violations of the principles and requirements, both those committed within the company itself or along the outsourced supply chain, must be 30  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society immediately and voluntarily reported. Employees of suppliers may use Berlin Hyp’s whistleblowing system to directly inform the Compliance Local Communities Officer of any violations. In the event of violations, Berlin Hyp reserves GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – local communities the right to agree to mutual plans of action or ultimately terminate con(UNGC: Principles 1, 2) tracts. Berlin Hyp may also monitor the progress of the plan of action For more information, please refer to Management approach – without informing the other party. screening on human rights from page 30. GRI 412-1 | Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews GRI 413-1 | Local communities Our business activities are restricted to Europe. However, in the event we Berlin Hyp does not operate outside Europe, meaning there is no need were to operate outside Europe, we would then allow ourselves to be for any special protection of local communities. guided by internationally recognised environmental and social consideration standards. GRI 413-2 | Operations with potential negative impacts on local communities GRI 412-2 | Employee training on human rights issues Our business activities are restricted to Europe. However, in the event we Staff Office and Purchasing employees received training, which also were to operate outside Europe, we would then allow ourselves to be guided focused on human rights. Seven employees attended this 90-minute by internationally recognised environmental and social impact standards. training session. GRI 412-3 | Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or screening By financing real estate, particularly green buildings, Berlin Hyp makes an Evaluation of Suppliers with Respect important contribution to enhanced and productive infrastructure in Gerto Social Impact many and its neighbouring European countries, and is thereby also satisfying the UN Sustainable Development Goal “Make cities inclusive, safe, GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – evaluation of resilient and sustainable”. Through its capital market products, Berlin Hyp suppliers with respect to social impact (UNGC: Principles 1, 2) also provides investors with a secure form of investment. Furthermore, For more information, please refer to Management approach – Berlin Hyp has specified requirements and procedures to responsibly screening on human rights from page 30. manage economic and social risks as well as risks arising from inadequate corporate governance in its ordinary business operations. Berlin Hyp has GRI 414-1 | Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using also excluded business activities relating to certain critical industries. environmental criteria By signing our sustainability agreement at the conclusion of the contract, our suppliers and contractors are obligated to improve the societies in which they operate by promoting human rights, improving economic, environmental and social conditions, and requiring that their contractors and suppliers do the same. 31  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society No random-sample screenings were performed during the reporting year. Such screenings will be performed from 2017. Advertising and Labelling Products and Services GRI 414-2 | Negative social impacts on human rights in the supply chain and measures taken GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – advertising and Berlin Hyp procures all of its goods and services from European counlabelling products and services tries. Approximately 90 per cent come from Germany. The sustainability Berlin Hyp only provides ethical products and services. We provide our performance of our suppliers is ensured through confirmation of our customers with responsible and forward-looking advice in line with their comprehensive sustainability requirements. Our contractors and supplineeds; benefits and risks are communicated clearly. ers complete questionnaires to determine whether they have, in fact, implemented our sustainability requirements; the correctness of the Our products and services must always meet the following requirements: information submitted is verified using random-sample checks. • They contribute to sustainable development as defined by the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. • They serve the individual without detriment to the general good. Politics Their development always takes the principles of the UN Global Compact into account. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – politics • They are always transparent and easy to understand. (UNGC: Principles 10) • Our written information regarding products and services and our Out of principle, Berlin Hyp does not directly influence political decisionmarketing material must include all significant details on the offer making processes. We do not employ any third parties for the purpose of presented to the customer for the purpose of evaluating the offer; cultivating political contacts or to influence the formation of public this information must be presented in a comprehensible manner. opinion. We do not offer or provide products or any consultation regarding any However, Berlin Hyp does indirectly participate in the formation of public products that do not meet these requirements. Furthermore, some of our opinion as a result of it memberships in various associations as is cusproducts, such as our green bond programme and impact reporting, are tomary in the industry. These contribute to political and public opinionregularly reviewed by external third parties within the scope of a secondforming through their publicly available charters of associations and party opinion. their missions (see also GRI 102-13). In order to communicate fairly and transparently, Berlin Hyp takes into GRI 415-1 | Total value of political contributions account the fundamental principles of the “ICC Consolidated Code of Generally, Berlin Hyp does not make any contributions to politicians, Advertising and Marketing Communications Practice” (ICC Code Marketpolitical parties or affiliated organisations. ing) of the International Chamber of Commerce. The Code contains 32  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society specific recommendations for all marketing-relevant areas, including GRI 417-1 | Principles/procedures for product and service information issues such as sales promotions, sponsoring, direct marketing, advertisand labelling ing and marketing using digital and interactive media. For more information, please refer to Management approach – advertising and labelling products and services from page 32. The ICC Code Marketing’s recommendations are enshrined in three fundamental principles: GRI 417-2 | Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes of conduct concerning product and service informa• Marketing communication should always be legal, decent, tion and labelling honest and truthful. There were no incidents reported in 2016. • Marketing communication should always be prepared with an appropriate sense for social and professional responsibility and should be GRI 417-3 | Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and in line with the fair competition principles that are generally accepted voluntary codes of conduct concerning advertising in the business world. There were no incidents reported in 2016. • Marketing communication should never damage the public’s trust in marketing. Communication and Marketing is responsible for applying these princiProtection of Customer Privacy ples, with employees informing the appointed marketing service proGRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – protection of vider, for example, to ensure that the marketing is responsible. customer privacy Berlin Hyp collects, processes and uses a large amount of personal data Berlin Hyp has also established its own complaints management system, relating to customers and business partners. This data serves the Bank’s which aims to steadily increase customer satisfaction levels. These are general operating activities and allows the Bank to provide customers checked on a regular basis by analysing all of the complaints received with tailored advice and support. during a specific period. The results of these analyses are made available to the Board of Management and Legal. All complaints regarding securiPersonal data must be handled carefully, in accordance with the law and ties services are also reported to Compliance, as these must be reported in line with clear rules so that we do not lose the trust that our customers to the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) pursuant place in us. This means that it must always be clear who receives what to Section 34 d (1) German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). information – both within the Bank itself and in our dealings with customers and business partners. Berlin Hyp’s Data Protection Officer is required to monitor the proper use of data processing programmes with which personal data is to be processed. Specifically, the Data Protection Officer is required to monitor 33  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economics Environment Society compliance with technical and organisational measures. For example, it GRI 418-1 | Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer must be clear who entered what personal data and when, and who had privacy access to what personal data and when. No complaints in connection with the protection of customer data were received in 2016. Our employees’ awareness of data protection is particularly important given the rapid evolution of modern information and communication technology. All employees receive guidance on how to deal with data protection, as people continue to play a vital role when it comes to data security – despite all technical precautions. This is followed by self-learnSocio-Economic Compliance ing training on data protection. Furthermore, pursuant to the Federal GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | Management approach – socio-economic Data Protection Act (BDSG), all employees are informed of and required compliance (UNGC: Principle 10) to comply with the legal provisions pertaining to the protection of perFor more information, please refer to Management approach – comsonal data; this is generally performed when employees are hired. pliance from page 18. Employees are required to maintain data secrecy even beyond their employment at the Bank. GRI 419-1 | Significant fines concerning the provision and use of products and services All employees are required to ensure that no data entrusted to them is There were no pending fine procedures during the reporting period. passed on to unauthorised third parties. Data may also not be falsified or destroyed. The Data Protection Officer must be informed immediately if an employee becomes aware of non-compliance with data protection provisions. 34  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report Imprint Imprint Publisher Berlin Hyp AG Sustainability Management Vanessa Landschoof-Schlichting Budapester Straße 1 10787 Berlin T +49 30 2599 9122 vanessa.landschoof-schlichting@berlinhyp.de Concept, Text and Design akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, Munich, Germany Picture Credits © U1: NottomanVl/Shutterstock.com, Le Panda/Shutterstock.com, Sharapanovochka/Shutterstock.com Editor’s Note For the purposes of improved readability, this document foregoes the simultaneous use of masculine and feminine linguistic forms. All terms referring to persons apply to both sexes. 35  Berlin Hyp AG | 2016 GRI Report
