Corporate social responsibility report 2016 Contents Statement from CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Responsible solutions in every step. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Climate and environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Supply management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Anti-corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Working conditions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 The ten principles of UN global compact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 3 This report is the statutory corporate social responsibility report for Kamstrup 2016. See §99a in Årsregnskabsloven. Statement from CEO Advancing sustainable development serves as our inspiration to create innovative and cutting edge solutions, which drive our customers’ businesses forward. Our relentless quest to develop solutions, which create progress for others, is helping customers all over the world to optimize their efficiency, identify new opportunities for growth and promote greater environmental responsibility. By anticipating our customers’ challenges, we are creating environmentally friendly technologies, which enable them to run a better business and inspire smarter, more responsible, solutions for the communities they serve. Striving for a better water and energy future Climate change and the long-term availability of fossil fuels are subjects of worldwide concern. Both of these issues are driving the development of more efficient energy systems, including distributed local power supply and storage, and smart grids for electricity distribution. Smart energy metering solutions are a vital part of this development. Water scarcity and the sustainable management of water resources have, and will continue to be, a driving force behind our innovation. According to the UN, water use has been growing at more than twice the rate of the population increase over the last century. Our water meters, with their leakage and low flow detection, can contribute to the sustainable use of the world’s water resources. To save energy and water you need to understand how you are consuming it, and that in turn is only possible if you have accurate and reliable data. This is the essence of our intelligent metering solutions. Data from the meters is transferred to user-friendly systems that keep customers informed about how much energy they consume over different periods and across different energy sources. Throughout all of our endeavours, we actively encourage and support ethical behaviour by all of our stakeholders. We have a zero tolerance stance against corruption of any kind, each of our employees around the world follows strict guidelines to ensure our values, and reputation are upheld at all times. Kamstrup is dedicated to protecting human rights and naturally takes a firm stance against child labour or any practices, which could impinge upon those rights. We take great pride in the high quality working conditions, we provide for our valued employees. Not prepared to rest on our laurels, we use the reporting associated with the UN Global Compact to regularly identify and assess areas, which require extra focus. Constant development through parallel initiatives is how we create growth, and also how we improve our social and environmental performance; in this way, the UN Global Compact helps take us to the next level. Per Asmussen, CEO 5 Responsible solutions in every step At each step in the value chain of Kamstrup, We work actively to reduce our we focus on ensuring sustainable environmental impact by reducing the use solutions. We are aware that there are of energy and water as well as substances environmental impacts connected to our in our wastewater. Likewise, we aim to chain of activities, and we strategically increase recycling of our waste. However, work to reduce the impacts caused by the we cannot keep track of and reduce our production, transport, use and end-of-life environmental impacts without considering treatment of our products and services. the entire supply chain. Therefore, we also Furthermore, we comply with relevant have a number of environmental as well as occupational health and safety legislations ethical requirements for our suppliers, as and aim at being a company with a high stated in this document. level of health, safety and well-being among our employees. Components Dealer End-user Human rights, quality, Anti-corruption, working Saving energy and water. working conditions, conditions and safety, Meters have long shelf life. anti-corruption, RoHS, energy, environment, Consumption insights. confict minerals. human rights. Production Transportation Disposal Human rights, working Fuel use and CO2 Return systems at conditions, equality, product reduction, safety, Kamstrup, recycling quality, waste, reduction anti-corruption of waste. of energy, reduction of dangerous substances, reduction of waste water, packaging, reduction of waste. Fig. 1: Kamstrup business model 6 7 Climate and environment Environmental commitments Within Kamstrup, we have developed an We will: environmental management system, which • Prevent pollution, damages and accidents, as well as work ensures that we comply with national and related illness in association with the company’s activities local environmental legislation across and products. all areas, from product development to recycling of used meters. Among other • Manage environmental related risks, where applicable. things, this system obliges us to audit our • Use energy, water and raw materials with care. legislative compliance every year. • Be aware of relevant legislation and ensure compliance. Environmental policy • Set up targets for continuous improvements. Beyond the requirements of Danish law, we also have an environmental and • Educate and motivate the employees to actively participate occupational health and safety policy in environmental and occupational health and safety work. stating that we want to affect the • Communicate openly about environmental and occupational environment as little as possible. health and safety matters, internally as well as externally. At Kamstrup, we work actively to reduce our environmental impact by reducing the use • Use subcontractors that act in an environmentally. of energy and water as well as substances responsible manner. in our wastewater. Likewise, we aim to • Ensure that contractors in Kamstrup’s areas comply increase recycling of our waste. with relevant legislation and rules of Kamstrup. 8 Certification Description of our environmental Kamstrup’s headquarters have been processes ISO 14001 certified since 1997. At our production facilities in Stilling we Our subsidiaries in Norway and Sweden and have identified the major environmental branches in Germany, Finland, Switzerland, impacts as being consumption of water, and the Netherlands are also ISO 14001 electricity and heat as well as water waste certified. management and sorting and handling ISO 14001 specifies the requirements for of waste. We have processes in place to an environmental management system, handle these impacts, i.e. our energy group which enables an organisation to develop works proactively on limiting consumption and conform to appropriate environmental of water and energy. We analyse our policies and procedures. The standard does wastewater annually in order to follow and not itself state specific environmental act on the trend in substances in the water. performance criteria, but instead shows Finally, our production works at optimising how the organisation can set its own waste sorting and handling. environmental goals, taking into account We have procedures and instructions in the law and those aspects of environmental place where needed in order to handle our protection, which it can influence. major environmental impacts. In other words, we have received this In our production at our headquarters, we certification for working towards shrinking do have a few operations able of causing the environmental footprint of our business air pollution. However, thanks to extraction and reducing pollution and waste from our systems and exhaust filters, the actual production. emissions from these operations are below measurable levels. Kamstrup also complies During 2017, we will implement the with regulations regarding impacts of noise, ISO 14001:2015 standard ending with smell and visualisation. We receive no our recertification in December 2017. complaints about any of these nuisances. During the implementation process, we will among others focus on a risk based Our maintenance database ensures that the approach to our business and possibilities systems we rely on to control air pollution as well as identify and analyse the are regularly checked and maintained. requirements of our stakeholders. In our Corporate Social Responsibility policy, The following sections explain in more we stress that: “We shall be mindful of details how we aim to reduce our global environmental concerns and strive to environmental impact. make a positive impact on the environment at every opportunity”. Subsequently, we point out our intention to use energy, water and raw materials with care. 9 Energy consumption (headquarters) Kamstrup is constantly looking for possibilities to reduce energy consumption at the headquarter in Stilling. The graph below shows a small drop in heat consumption for 2016 although we have inaugurated a new administration building. Electricity usage for 2016 is slightly higher per produced meter which can be explained by increased electricity used outside production. Energy levels are close to 2015. Consumption of energy per produced meter Consumption of energy (kWh) per produced meter 18 16 Electricity 14 Heat 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 Fig. 2: Energy consumption per meter produced from 1998-2016 Water consumption (headquarters) In our production facilities, we use water for calibrating meters and ensure reuse of this water. However, during 2016 we have increased our water usage due to increased requirements for calibration of our meters. Likewise, we have used water for constructing our new building. Drinking water and sanitary purposes make up another part of our water consumption. Most of our washrooms now have taps with sensors and variable-flush cisterns. The graph below shows the water consumption per employee from 1998-2016. Water consumption per employee (m3) 18 Water comsumption per employee (m3) 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 10 Fig. 3: Water consumption per employee from 1998-2016 Transportation Recycling, incineration and deposit In the logistic chain of transporting goods, production we continually work to optimise our shipping Kamstrup comply with the legal operations within the import/export of requirements for production waste. We goods and to improve our energy efficiency. have the necessary permits for transport, Since our export shipments to customers storage, recycling and disposal of mainly are delivered in smaller lots and hazardous waste, and we only use licensed customers often are in need of the products contractors. shortly after production, we primarily We are working towards implementing optimise our import affairs. extra initiatives to optimise our waste Within Denmark, vans are our primary management. This includes increased means of transportation. For overseas sorting in waste fractions in order to re-use transportations, we use transportation by more waste and to minimise the pick-up sea whenever possible, because it is a lot frequency to save fuel and money. To fulfil less environmentally damaging compared this initiative, we have employed a person to air transport, as well as less costly. to work on waste optimisation only. Everybody involved in the logistics chain of Every year we compile statistics for importing goods is aware of the need to plan recycling, incineration and deposit covering our orders of raw materials and deliveries all the materials used at our headquarters in of goods in order to avoid urgent deliveries Denmark. The figures show a small drop in requiring air transport to the greatest the amount of recyclable waste from 2015 extend possible. to 2016. The waste sent to incineration is Transportation is one of the factors we take handled at incineration plants that uses into account when calculating the carbon heat to generate electricity and district footprint of our products – i.e. the total heating. In 2017, we focus on recycling amount of greenhouse gases, measured as certain fractions discharged through tonnes of CO2 equivalent, associated with a incineration today. product through its entire life cycle. This led to the following result for 2016: Waste in % 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Recycling 36 49 52 61 50 74,5 68,7 Incineration 63 50 47 38 49 25,0 31,0 Deposit 1 1 1 1 1 0,5 0,3 The total amount of waste in 2015 was 541 ton. In 2016, this increased to 568 ton primarily due to the increase in production of meters. The waste data are derived from reports of our waste receivers. 11 Products Environmentally friendly technologies Our CSR policy states: “When practically By using and showing energy consumption possible, all products and packaging shall be clearly and accurately, our products recyclable”. encourage end-users to manage their use of resources and protect the environment. All our products are recyclable. By coFurthermore, our system solutions for operation with one of our waste partners, energy metering do much more than just lithium batteries are also recycled. measure: they provide remote reading, and We dispose of lithium batteries at an thereby minimise the use of vehicles; they authorised facility and ask our customers enable detailed analysis of consumption to do the same. patterns, through which end-users can Most of our customers are European explore ways to reduce their energy with their own laws covering recycling. consumption; and they reveal leaks However, we also offer to recycle any wasting valuable resources. products returned to us by our customers. Recommendations for the disposal of wornProduct development out products are always included in our Environmental considerations shall be technical manuals and product catalogues. central to our product development and to how we plan our production with the Packaging purpose of reducing any harmful impact Packaging is one of our focus areas. We on the environment, internally as well as always aim to use as little packaging externally. During product development, our material as we can and to make it as technology and purchasing departments recyclable as possible. Our choice of cooperate to find the best materials and packaging is continuously updated, and we components possible, considering their always consult packaging experts when environmental impacts. We also collaborate designing new packaging. with universities and other research institutes when selecting materials. Our electricity meters are packaged mainly in recycled cardboard, which can be recycled again after use. For heat and cooling meters, we also use expanded During product development, our policy is to: polystyrene packaging, which can be • use as few different materials as possible, and give preference recycled in most countries. to materials that can be recycled or reused. The majority of our water meters are • avoid dangerous or poisonous substances/materials packaged in polyethylene terephthalate (both in product and in production processes). (Amorf PET). For some products in our water meter portfolio, we are using reusing • be aware of the RoHS directive and the substances that the cardboard in combination with expanded directive prohibits in electronic products. polystyrene. We do our best to recycle our products. All the materials we use We enclose technical manuals and product can be recycled. Through cooperation with our waste dealer, lithium catalogues whenever the product standards batteries are also recycled. require it. However, we only enclose the At Kamstrup, we are careful to comply with all the EU directives specific language version needed for each and other regulations applying to us. customer, and we aim to cut the amount of printed material by providing electronic documentation via our website. 12 RoHs – Restriction of Hazardous Environmental targets substances We set up our own environmental action RoHs is a directive limiting the use of programme each year for the company. certain hazardous substances in electrical In 2016 our environmental goals were: and electronic equipment. In order to keep on complying with the RoHs directive, lead• reduction of heat consumption per free soldering was implemented in our PCB heated m2 in 2016 compared to 2015. production during first quarter of 2014. • reduction of electricity consumption per produced meter in 2016 with 10% WEEE – Waste Electrical and compared to 2015. Electronic Equipment The WEEE directive deals with the producer’s • increase the amount of waste for responsibility for the disposal of waste from recycling to 80 % in 2016. electrical and electronic products. Based on We have reduced our heat consumption per guidelines from the Danish Environmental heated m2 compared to 2015. However, two Agency and Frequently Asked Questions of our goals were not achieved as we have on RoHs & WEEE issued by the EU, we have increased our electricity consumption per determined that Kamstrup’s products do produced meter in 2016 and have recycled not generally fall within the scope of WEEE. 69 % of our waste; consequently, our goal on The only exception is a few of our modules, waste is not achieved. In general, our waste for which we are registered with the Danish fractions for incineration have increased agency DPA-System and will file appropriate compared to our fractions for recycling. reports as these modules are sold. Energy groups REACH – Registration, Evaluation In order to reduce energy consumption and Authorisation of Chemicals throughout the buildings at our head office Kamstrup does not import substances, in Stilling, a third-party energy review preparations or articles covered by the was finished in early 2016. Kamstrup has REACH regulation. We closely monitor the established an energy group meeting every “Candidate List of Substances of Very High quarter to identify and implement actions to Concern”. reduce Kamstrup’s energy use. Since the Candidate List is a dynamic Supplier environmental requirements document, we regularly read the official, and We have designed and issued a leaflet updated list on ECHA’s (European Chemicals outlining Kamstrup’s Supplier Environmental Agency) website. Requirements. This is available at our website kamstrup.com Battery directive The Battery directive regulates the manufacture and disposal of batteries Future focus areas in the EU, with the aim of improving the Driven by consumers’ needs and values, we will environmental performance of batteries continue to develop energy and water conserving and accumulators. We comply with the meter solutions. Battery directive. Besides this, we will continue to identify processes: • with a potential of reducing energy and implementing actions where relevant. • where waste can be sorted and recycled. 13 Supply management During recent years, Kamstrup has intensified and systematised its efforts CSR supplier statements within CSR and supplier management, Our suppliers sign a document confirming that the focusing on the purchase of materials, company: semi-finished products, subcontracted activities and deliverables included in • makes sure it is not complicit in human rights Kamstrup’s product range. abuses • does not use any form of forced or compulsory CSR Supplier Information labour With reference to our CSR policy, we have developed the document Supplier • does not use child labour Information including a CSR Supplier • does not discriminate in respect of employment Statement covering the themes: and occupation environment, anti-corruption, human rights and labour issues, reach and conflict • complies with all relevant environmental and minerals. occupational health and safety laws Please see the statement in the fact box. • works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Supplier categorisation • only delivers products in compliance with Kamstrup’s suppliers are categorised as the RoHS II directive and is aware of the legal shown in the scheme below. Horizontally, requirement that possibly prohibited materials the categorisation is named Business and materials subject to declaration must, Importance, which is based on the supplier’s without prior request, be communicated to importance in proportion to the Kamstrup’s Kamstrup. business; vertically, it is named CSR Risk, which is based on country profiles provided • only delivers products not containing: Substances by the Danish Ministry of Business and listed in the REACH Candidate List of Substances Growth. of Very High Concern for Authorisation – ECHA, as published on the echa.europa.eu website “Conflict minerals” as defined in Section 1502 of the Where Priority Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Europe 2 Protection Act and also urge it’s sub suppliers to North America 2 observe the above principles. South America 3 Africa 5 Southwest Asia 4 Central Asia 4 North Asia 4 East Asia 4 South Asia 4 Southeast Asia 4 Oceania 2 15 CSR Risk Priority 5 Supplier information Supplier information HIGH Code of conduct Code of conduct Self Assessment CSR Audit 4 3 Supplier information Code of conduct Supplier information Self Assessment 2 Code of conduct LOW 1 Business importance LOW HIGH S4 S3 S2 S1 Fig. 4: Supplier categorisation scheme As described in the prioritisation scheme, only suppliers with CSR Risk 1-2 as well as Business Importance S3-S4 can be approved by signing the CSR Supplier Information document. Suppliers within the yellow area in the supplier categorisation scheme must fill in a Kamstrup self-assessment report containing various questions within human rights, environment, health and safety etc. The report is subsequently evaluated by Kamstrup’s purchasing departments, and if unsatisfactory or insufficient, a CSR audit will be carried out. If the self-assessment report is deemed satisfactory, the supplier will be approved by the responsible Kamstrup purchaser. If the CSR Risk is higher than 3, and the supplier is placed under S1 or S2 within Business Importance, a CSR audit must be conducted. If there is any doubt about a supplier’s general CSR performance, a CSR audit can be carried out irrespective of geographical position and strategic importance. 16 The results of the CSR audit are evaluated on the same level and by the same people as findings from quality audits and our segregation of duties thereby ensure that any purchaser cannot implement a new supplier singlehandedly. After an audit, a corrective action plan containing the findings from the audit will be sent to the supplier. The findings are categorised by importance by Kamstrup and the supplier is expected to return an action plan for correcting the findings within reasonable deadlines based on the severity of the findings. North Asia North Europe Central America Asia East Asia Southwest Asia South Asia Africa Southeast Asia South America Oceania Auditing effectuated by experts A CSR audit effectuated by an external As clarified in the prioritisation scheme, company serves to obtain a professional a CSR audit must be effectuated by all and objective evaluation according to Chinese suppliers within category S1 & S2. local law and practice. The first Chinese Thus, we have entered into collaboration audits took place mid 2012 and the results with an international company situated in until end of 2016 have been evaluated as London and specialised in CSR auditing. satisfactory. This company holds local Chinese offices, All audits performed by an external auditing which carry out CSR. company are coordinated by Kamstrup’s Audits for Kamstrup resulting in workplace purchasing departments. During the audits, conditions assessment reports are followed a Kamstrup employee acts as an observing by action plans and evaluation of action party and coordinator between participating plans, if necessary. If a supplier does not parties before, during and after audits possess the ability or will to collaborate on – this also includes follow-up audits. an action plan concentrating on improving the CSR performance, Kamstrup will seek an alternative business partner. 17 Anti-corruption Kamstrup runs a business without In addition, we have in 2016 introduced corruption. Corruption is immoral, illegal a whistle-blower scheme describing the and punishable, and it can hurt our positive steps an employee should take if noticing image as a loyal and trustable business misconduct in the way their colleagues or partner. In addition, we would risk losing managers carry out their work. Misconducts projects and superior employees. can include criminal actions, submission of misleading information to authorities, For that reason, all our businesses work serious breaches of safety standards and so against all forms of corruption, including on and must be reported to ones manager. extortion and bribery. Our CSR policy, which All reports will be treated seriously and also covers anti-corruption, says:“…none of the objective basis of the reports will be Kamstrup’s employees may receive or give comprehensively investigated. As a result, gifts, loans, payments or other remuneration all decisions stemming from this procedure which may incite dishonesty or illegal acts, will be treated in accordance with sound or which may be seen as an attempt to business ethics. influence the objectivity of commercial decisions”. Our CEO Per Asmussen stresses: “If we are offered entering into corrupt agreements, the answer is always NO”. Our Future focus areas intolerance for corruption is well known to We will continue our strong stand on this issue and everyone within Kamstrup, who may face generate internal knowledge about the topic. this issue. All new employees are introduced to our policy about anti-corruption, and during sales seminars in 2016 employees have also been informed about our practices. Likewise, our sourcing and sales people will be trained in anti-bribery in 2017. Furthermore, country managers and sales managers have signed a document stating that they comply with principles like anticorruption in Global Compact. 18 Working conditions We always comply with relevant In spring 2008, the Danish Working occupational health and safety Environment Authority categorized us in legislations. To make sure of this, we use a its highest standard, which is only given to standard occupational health and safety companies who make a special effort to management system (OHSAS 18001). create a good working environment. Environmental and occupational The latest recertification audit from Danish health and safety policy Standards took place on November 1-3, 2016. One non-conformance was found and Our Environmental and Occupational Health corrected right away. There were also eight and Safety Policy says: remarks, eight recommendations and eight “Kamstrup aims at being a company with a positive appraisal remarks. high level of health, safety and well-being among the employees. Kamstrup will prevent The majority of the action plans have been pollution, damages, work-related illnesses completed satisfactorily and the ones and accidents related to the company’s remaining were evaluated as less important. activities and products”. Therefore, we still hold the OHSAS 18001 certification. Our dedication to a healthy work environment is ensured, among other ways, Working environment committee through a certified occupational health The purpose of the working environment management system at the company committee is to ensure safety and a good headquarters. working environment. All the employees CSR policy elect a working environment representative for each unit and the management elects In our CSR policy, we state: a representative as well. Frequent checks “At Kamstrup… we shall contribute to create ensure high working environment standards. working conditions that comply with these principles [principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 in the In 2016, the mental working environment is UN Global Compact] and observe applicable still as important as the physical. legislation and regulations. All employees In order to comply with this increased focus, shall be given the opportunity to develop we have carried out a number of employee skills required to handle their tasks and for satisfaction surveys focusing on the mental future career options”. working environment. We work in a decentralised environment where each employee must make use Works council of and develop his or her skills, take The works council encourages co-operation responsibility and action whenever needed. across the organisation for the benefit of Kamstrup’s management stands behind the individual employees and the company actions of its employees. as a whole. Among the members of the works council are the shop stewards, who Certification represent the employees in negotiations Kamstrup’s headquarters has been with management. OHSAS 18001 certified since December 2007. OHSAS (“Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series”) 18001 is an international specification for occupational health and safety management systems. 19 Collective agreements Dangerous substances Kamstrup in Denmark is a member of the Kamstrup has never had a fire or an organisation DI (Danish Industry). Through explosion. Oil, chemical waste and DI, Kamstrup has a collective agreement flammable liquids are stored in special safe with employees represented by the Central rooms and lockers. Used lithium batteries Organisation of Industrial Employees in are stored in a dry place and shipped to Denmark (CO-industri). licensed contractors. By the end of 2016, we are still mapping all Safety of the chemicals used in the production. Our production processes are planned in a way that there is no special risk of The purpose is mainly to replace as many environmental harm from unforeseen materials as possible with an environmental incidents. healthier product. Besides, we want our colleagues to be exposed to the chemicals An occupational health and safety action as little as possible and thereby ensure plan is made each year. Our action plans for healthier working conditions. 2016 and results are shown below: An instruction booklet is handed out to all • Improve psychological work environment external personnel, who carry out any kind so Kamstrup receives no results below of work at Kamstrup’s locations in Stilling. average at next questionnaire for offensive behaviour. Safety assessment Result: Offensive behaviour is decreasing The purpose of the safety assessment is in Kamstrup. Results are not comparable to systematically prevent and eliminate with average. unsuitable indoor climates, noise and • Zero accidents measured as accidents stress. During the yearly evaluation, we with minimum one lost work day and make risk assessments in our production registration of 100 near misses. and have thereby, among others things, Result: Goal not achieved. Seven lost reduced heavy lifting, pushing and pulling work days and 50 near misses. significantly. • Integration of risk assessment when Workplace assessment implementation of new equipment. The workplace assessment is about Result: Goal achieved. There is a close both physical safety and the mental dialog with the QEHS manager and a risk work environment, and it is effectuated assessment is part of the process. every third year. However, if we suspect a deviation from our safety and well-being, • Involvement of employees in the which cannot be corrected within 14 days, work environment processes through a workplace assessment must and will be education and information about executed at once. Also all new machines responsibilities. and new processes are subject to a Result: Goal achieved. All groups of workplace assessment. employees are to some extent involved in the work environment issues. 20 Accidents We are still registering all accidents. Both LTI´s and near miss accidents. By means of this registration, it is easier for us to take preventive action and thus identify and reduce the risk of future accidents. Total of work accidents 2009–2016 Accidents Near-accidents 2009 4 5 2010 6 6 2011 3 1 2012 3 1 2013 13 (6 with absence) 6 2014 6 7 2015 8 (4 with absence) 22* 2016 7 (with absence) 50* *Duing the last years we have increased our focus on registration of near-accidents. Empowerment through employee Job rotation development Job rotation is welcome in Kamstrup, as our A skilled and well-educated workforce is CEO Per Asmussen has explained: essential to Kamstrup. All new employees “Job rotation is revitalizing. Learning keeps go through a tailored induction program us young and mentally agile. Quite often, when they join the company. Every there is more new to learn in a new job than established employee has a personalised there is in the old job – and often more education and training plan that is reviewed fun too. Kamstrup needs to be a dynamic regularly. company with wide opportunities for career development. Changes in responsibility At least once a year all employees have a function and geography should all be personal development review with his or her possible. This is one of the ways to ensure manager. This meeting is an opportunity that Kamstrup is a challenging and attractive to discuss the job, relationships with other place to work.” employees and progress towards targets, and to plan future development in the It is important for us to be open about this. employee’s career, education and training. Seeking a job in a different department is Hourly-paid employees take part in group not a breach of loyalty to an employee’s development dialogues instead. present manager. It is a token of loyalty to Kamstrup, and a new job is a token of Anyone leaving the company is offered a loyalty from Kamstrup to the employee. resignation dialogue with a manager and participation in a resignation questionnaire. Every manager must support job rotation across the company, and all jobs are advertised on the Intranet. A good manager is one who is developing employees to make valuable contributions in other departments. The only valid objection to a particular job rotation rests on the issue of timing: sometimes a job shift must be timed to suit the needs of an ongoing project. 21 Employee satisfaction Health insurance and pensions Since 2010, we have carried out yearly As required by current legislation, all employee satisfaction surveys. The survey employees are covered by occupational includes employees in Denmark, Sweden, injury insurance. The company pays for Norway, Germany, Austria and Switzerland. accident insurance. The results of the 2016 survey were overall Employees covered by collective satisfactory and only a few focus areas agreements have a compulsory retirement were identified. pension scheme. Length of service Fitness and diet We have a low turnover of staff. End of 2016, Good health means happier, more the average length of service at Kamstrup productive employees and a better working was approximately 7 years. More than 50 environment. We therefore support healthemployees have worked for Kamstrup for promoting activities and support employees more than 20 years. who wish to change their lifestyles. We have our own Fitness and Health centre and offer Redundancies health check, physiotherapy, massage, During 2016, we established more than 100 chiropractic and acupuncture, spinning, new positions and we expect to continue our gym, yoga, fysiopilates and combat fitness. growth in 2017. We also have in-house dentist clinic and a hairdresser. Future focus areas Our future success lies in the continuous development of our employees and our organization as a whole. In 2017, we will continue focusing on: • Psychological work environment. • Zero accidents. • Risk assessment. • Employee involvement and development. 22 The ten principles of UN global compact Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and The elimination of all forms of forced respect the protection of internaBusinesses should make sure that tionally proclaimed human rights. they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom Principle 4 of association and the effective The elimination of all forms of forced recognition of the right to collective. and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Principle 6 The effective abolition of child labour. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support Principle 8 a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 10 technologies. Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 23 Think forward Kamstrup A/S Industrivej 28, Stilling DK-8660 Skanderborg T: +45 89 93 10 00 F: +45 89 93 10 01 info@kamstrup .dk kamstrup .com
