Sustainability Information 2016 siemens.com Foreword Dear Reader, It was Werner von Siemens, the founder of our Company, who first defined the purpose of the Company. He stated that science and engineering should be applied for the common good. The company has remained true to that purpose for nearly 170 years by providing technologies that improve quality of life and create lasting value for society. Our reference for determining the value we create for society is the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It sets out 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Working from these goals, we identify issues relevant to the development of a country and demonstrate how we contribute to reaching them: We call this new approach “Business to Society.” To date, we have completed Business to Society studies for countries including Germany, the United Kingdom, Turkey and South Africa. Further studies in key markets, such as the United States, the United Arab Emirates, and Australia are in progress. Combating climate change is one of the Sustainable Development Goals. With the Paris Agreement, 193 countries pledged to limit global warming to well below two degrees Celsius. This was the first time ever that so many countries made such a comprehensive commitment to protect the climate, and we believe it will boost investment in low-carbon technologies. We also believe that fighting climate change is not only prudent, but profitable. Siemens is leading this effort. In fiscal 2016, our products and solutions from the Environmental Portfolio enabled customers and partners throughout the world to reduce their CO2 emissions by 521 million metric tons, which corresponds to almost 60 % of the annual CO2 emissions of Germany. Simultaneously, we increased our customer ’s energy efficiency and competitiveness. Siemens is the first major industrial company to commit to cutting its CO2 emis­sions by half by 2020 and to being carbon neutral by 2030. We launched our CO2-neutral program in September 2015, and we are on track: we have already invested € 32 million in 11 energy efficiency projects. Three of them have been completed, and the results are impressive: per year, they reduce operating costs by about € 1 million and CO2 emissions by about 6,000 metric tons. But we will do even more. We will be investing a total of € 100 million over the next four years and expect to achieve accumulated annual savings of € 20 million. In 2016, we inaugurated our new headquarters building in Munich. It is certified as a LEED Platinum building and consumes 90 percent less energy than the old building complex. Its photovoltaic system meets about 30 percent of the demand for electricity. We will continue to install our own energy systems at a growing number of our facilities, for example at the Siemens Campus in Erlangen. 2 Foreword Technological innovation plays a key role in meeting many Sustainable Development Goals. To foster new disruptive ideas, we have bundled our start-up activities in a separate unit called “next47”. It will receive funding of € 1 billion over the next five years and focus on Distributed Electri­ fi­cation, Artificial Intelligence, Connected (E)-Mobility, Autonomous Machines, Block-Chain Applications, and E-Aircraft. Improved governance is one of the goals for sustainable development, and that involves fighting corruption. It was just 10 years ago that we had to deal with our own corruption scandal. We made fundamental changes in our Company’s organizational setup and culture. We developed and implemented a comprehensive worldwide compliance program and made clear that we have zero tolerance for compliance violations and for any illegal behavior. Today, we are glad that we have been able to regain the trust of stakeholders and to restore our reputation. However, markets and regulations change. So we will stay vigilant. We will continue to support the Siemens Integrity Initiative and Collective Action in our markets. Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals requires collaboration among many stakeholders. We are fully committed to the targets and principles of the United Nations Global Compact and its CEO Water ­Mandate. In August 2016, we signed the CEO statement for the United Nations Women Empowerment Principles. We continue to support the “WEF Climate CEO” and the We mean business initiatives. Our contribution to sustainable development has been reconfirmed by excellent ratings. Siemens has been included in the DJSI World Index for 17 consecutive years. RobecoSAM rates Siemens as one of the most sustainable companies in our industry. And CDP has recognized our per­ formance by rating us among the best when it comes to capturing business opportunities arising from low-carbon technologies, mitigating climate risks, and reducing the carbon footprint in our supply chain. Siemens does business in almost every country in the world. Wherever we do business, our promise is to support sustainable development by providing technologies that improve quality of life. That’s how we create lasting value for society. And that’s what we call “Ingenuity for life”. Sincerely yours, Joe Kaeser Dr. Roland Busch Foreword 3 Content Sustainability at Siemens Facts and Figures Annex P. 6 P. 12 P. 37 Materiality Employees Reporting method P. 7 P. 15 P. 38 Business to Society Occupational health and safety ­management Environmental Portfolio ­reporting principles P. 8 P. 17 P. 42 Decarbonization Research and Development GRI G4 key aspects and boundaries P. 9 P. 20 P. 43 Sustainability management and organization Supply chain management United Nations Global Compact P. 10 P. 23 P. 46 Sustainability collaboration Distribution and customer relations United Nations Water Mandate P. 10 P. 24 P. 47 External recognition of our ­sustainability Siemens Environmental Portfolio Independent auditor’s limited ­performance ­assurance ­report P. 25 Environmental protection P. 49 Notes and forward-looking ­statements P. 31 Compliance P. 50 Further information and i­nformation P. 35 resources Corporate citizenship Sustainability at Siemens In 2015, all 193 UN member states adopted the Agenda 2030 for PROFIT Sustainable Development and agreed on the 17 sustainable deWe contribute to our customers’ competitiveness with our velopment goals (SDGs). For us at Siemens, sustainable developproducts, solutions and services. ment is the means to achieve profitable and long-term growth. We partner with our customers to identify and develop susWe have a clear commitment to think and act in the interest of tainability-related business opportunities. future generations, achieving a balance between Profit, Planet We operate an efficient and resilient supply chain through a and People. supplier code of conduct, risk management, and capacity building. “Ingenuity for life” describes our unrelenting drive and promise We proactively engage with our stakeholders to manage proto create value for customers, employees and societies. “For life” ject and reputational risks and identify business-relevant trends. relates to our role in society: to make real what matters. We deWe adhere to the highest compliance and anti-corruption liver on this promise by combining our innovation with our knowstandards and promote integrity via the Siemens Integrity Inihow – in the areas of electrification and automation, enhanced tiative. by digitalization – aiming at improving the lives of people today and creating lasting value for future generations. PLANET We enable our customers to increase energy efficiency, save Sustainability at Siemens is a key enabler of our strategy program. resources and reduce carbon emissions. We are guided by responsible business practices in our interacWe develop our products, solutions and services based on a tions with external and internal stakeholders and we walk the life-cycle perspective and sound eco-design standards. talk within our own operations with regard to environmental and We minimize the environmental impact of our own operations social aspects. We are convinced that sustainability is a business by applying environmental management programs and aim opportunity, especially in the sense of energy and resource effito become carbon neutral by 2030. ciency, and a key element for our aim to be the employer of choice. PEOPLE We contribute to the sustainable development of societies Materiality with our portfolio, local operations, and thought leadership. We foster long-term relationships with local societies through For almost a decade we have included opportunities and risks Corporate Citizenship projects carried out jointly with partners. derived from the five megatrends – Climate Change, UrbanizaWe live a zero-harm culture and promote the health of our tion, Demographic Change, Globalization and Digitalization – in employees. our decision-making processes. External frameworks, like the We live a culture of leadership based on common values, an Sustainable Development Goals, the ten principles of the UN innovation mindset, people orientation and diversity. Global Compact, and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines inform our material aspects. We identified key issues The Siemens Divisions and regional entities define their material in regular dialog with external and internal stakeholders, and priaction areas according to their local needs and circumstances. In oritized them with regard to their importance for Siemens and fiscal 2015, we defined two sustainability focus areas – Business our stakeholders. In fiscal 2014, the results from this materiality to Society and Decarbonization – which span the 12 principles process were then discussed with our Sustainability Board and above. These focus areas aim to accelerate specific aspects while finally approved by our Managing Board and Supervisory Board. we continue to improve our performance along all 12 principles. The following twelve principles were defined in this process and are annually reviewed: In the following sections we set out the key facts and figures on environmental and social topics that are most material to Siemens and significantly impact our stakeholders. These topics are directly derived from the 12 principles and guided by the GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The “GRI G4 key aspects and boundaries” overview in the Annex illustrates how we link our 12 principles with the key material aspects of GRI G4. 6 Sustainability at Siemens Business to Society 1 Adopting an outside-in perspective of the most relevant development priorities in a given context (e. g. global, national, At the heart of the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development are project). the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 underlying 2 Identifying and measuring our contribution to these priorities. targets to guide governments, civil society and the private sector 3 Defining strategic actions to enhance our contribution and in a collaborative effort for change. In order to enable our organishape further development. zation to conduct a structured analysis of our contribution to the 4 Providing transparency on our contribution to external and global SDGs as well as to national development priorities, we internal stakeholders. have developed our Business to Society (B2S) approach. Understanding our impact and making it transparent not only lays the The SDGs were clustered to six globally applicable impact areas foundation for informed strategic decisions and stakeholder diathat have been developed in two pilot projects in fiscal 2015 to logs, but also gives purpose to our employees. The B2S approach provide an intuitive structure to the organization and external consists of four steps: stakeholders. This was the first step to comprehensively evaluate our company-wide contribution to the SDGs, which we will finalize in fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2016, we rolled out the approach globally, with eight countries completing all the steps by the end of fiscal 2016: Argentina, China, Germany, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, T ­ urkey and the U.K. Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 1 are clustered into to the Business to Society impact areas Strengthening Developing local Driving Sustaining the Improving Shaping Societal the Economy Jobs and Skills Innovations Environment Quality of Life Transformation 1 UN – transforming our world: The 2030 agenda for sustainable development. Sustainability at Siemens 7 Highlight results include: We tackle greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) along the entire value Siemens’ global operations contribute to about € 250 billion in chain – in the supply chain, in our own operations and at our GDP creation and more than 4.3 million jobs, equaling more customers. than ten times the number of our own employees.¹ In Germany, 40 % of both purchasing volume and revenue are Compared to emissions from our supply chain (approximately attributable to business done with small and medium-sized 17 Mt CO2), those of Siemens’ own operations (1.7 Mt CO2) concompanies (SMEs).¹ stitute about 10 % of the overall cradle-to-gate emissions. This is Over the last six years the number of patients in emerging due to the fact that operations within our supply chain are more countries with access to Siemens imaging systems increased energy-intensive than our own, mainly due to processing of raw by more than two thirds from about 760 million in fiscal 2010 materials. We intend to collaborate more intensively with our to about 1,270 million in fiscal 2016.² suppliers to support them in improving energy efficiency and reIn the U.K., more than 400,000 students were reached by ducing their CO2 footprints. education p ­ rojects in fiscal 2015. In September 2016, Siemens and the Argentinian government ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO agreed to intensify cooperation to create employment, supOur main contribution to climate change mitigation is our Enviport development of local SMEs, and train future engineers ronmental Portfolio. In fiscal 2016, we helped our customers save and technicians. more than 521 Mt CO2 with our products installed in previous years and still in use. This amounts to more than 25 times the size 1 Numbers from fiscal 2015. of our cradle-to-gate emissions. For further details please refer to 2 Heathineers – Based on the number of installed Siemens computed tomography (CT) systems in 113 developing countries (UN HDI 2010 < 0.785). the CHAPTER ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO and the CHAPTER ­E NVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO REPORTING PRINCIPLES IN THE ANNEX . For fiscal 2017, we plan to roll out the approach in even more countries in addition to developing empowerment concepts. At the same time, first-wave countries will move into review cycles, Value chain emissions and savings from Environmental ­Portfolio (EP) in fiscal 2016 (in Mt CO2) thus advancing from a project approach to a sustainable process. 521 Decarbonization ~25x We have considered Climate Change a megatrend for over a decade. In December 2015, 193 countries adopted the Paris Agree1.7 ment and committed to limiting global warming to well below 16.8 18.5 2°C. The Agreement entered into force in November 2016, after being ratified by more than 90 countries. Consistent with the Supply Own Cradle to EP savings 1 Chain o ­ perations gate SDGs, Siemens is committed to contributing to the decarboniza1 Total annual savings of products installed since 2002 at our customers and still tion of the global economy, which is required by the end of the in use in ­fiscal 2016: 521 Mt CO2. century. There are two main fields for action in order to achieve decarbonization in the long term: Decarbonization of the energy system by: – Increasing the share of renewable energies – Electrification of consuming sectors that currently use fossil fuels for their energy demand Reducing demand by increasing energy efficiency 8 Sustainability at Siemens CO 2-NEUTRAL SIEMENS To address our own operations, Siemens launched the global CO2CO2-neutral target trajectory (in Mt CO2)¹ neutral program in September 2015: Based on a positive business case, we plan to halve the footprint from our own operations by 2020 and be carbon neutral by 2030 (baseline fiscal 2014). The 2.2 – 50% reduction of CO2 will be achieved through a series of ongoing 2.0 1.7 activities: 1.1 Drive Energy Efficiency Program 0.0 Between fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2020 we will invest more than € 100 million in improving energy efficiency at our own sites. With 2014 2015 2016 2020 2030 these investments, we expect to achieve approximately € 20 mil1 As reported in respective fiscal year. lion energy cost savings per year once all the measures are ­implemented. In this fiscal year, 11 projects within the Energy With all the described measures performed in fiscal 2016, we reEfficiency Program were already started at our manufacturing duced our CO2 emissions by more than 440,000 t CO2 compared sites with an investment volume of € 32 million. Furthermore, in to fiscal 14, which is the program’s base year. We are thus well June 2016, Siemens moved into its new headquarter, a landmark on track to achieve our interim goal of a 50 % reduction by 2020. in terms of sustainable building. The new building consumes 90 % By executing the CO2-neutral program, we are not only protectless primary energy than its predecessor, has a solar photovoltaic ing the environment and improving our cost position, but also installation that covers approximately 30 % of its electricity destrengthening our expertise to apply innovative and environmenmand and achieved the highest level of “green” building certificatally-friendly technologies for our customers. tion “LEED Platinum”. Leverage distributed energy systems Sustainability management and We will expand our use of distributed energy systems at our own organization sites by combining wind turbines, small gas turbines, solar panels, intelligent energy management systems and energy storage The importance we attach to sustainability is evident from the solutions. Our long-term target is to generate 10 % of our electriccentral position it holds within the Company ’s organization, in ity demand through distributed energy systems at our sites. The our programs and in the measures we execute. Efficient sustainSiemens Campus in Erlangen will be one of the first showcases. ability management is a company-wide task that requires clear structures and a thorough embedding of sustainability within our Reduce fleet emissions Vision 2020 and our corporate culture. We will improve our Company ’s car fleet of about 47,000 vehicles, emitting roughly 300,000 t CO2 per year. Our goal is to reAll our sustainability activities are steered by the Chief Sustain­ duce these emissions and related fuel costs by 30 % by 2020. ability Officer (CSO), who is a member of our Managing Board. In fiscal 2016, offerings of hybrid and electric vehicles were exThis person chairs the Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB), conpanded. Based on a survey on mobility requirements performed sisting of representatives from the Managing Board, Divisions, by approx. 1,500 senior managers, additional innovative mobility countries and corporate functions. The SSB is the central steering concepts are scheduled to be introduced in 2017. We will concommittee for sustainability at Siemens. It meets regularly to ditinue to roll out a CO2 component in our company car policies to rect our sustainability activities as part of our corporate strategy other countries. and adopts appropriate measures and initiatives. The Sustainability Director manages the Sustainability department, which is rePurchase “green” energy sponsible for driving sustainability within Siemens and for coorWe are increasing the share of purchased electricity from renewdinating the sustainability activities and other company-wide able sources like wind parks. In fiscal 2016, more than 30 sites in programs and measures. The director reports to the Chief SustainGermany and several in the U.K. and the U. S. were already supability ­Officer. Additionally, sustainability is anchored across the plied with “green” electricity, covering more than a third of the organization by our global network of Sustainability Managers in demand in these countries. the Divisions and countries, ensuring that all measures and initiatives are implemented. Sustainability at Siemens 9 Sustainability collaboration At the end of fiscal 2013, our Chief Compliance Officer was elected Chairman of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery / Corruption of the We believe that close collaboration with stakeholders supports us Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. in addressing complex, interlocking sustainability challenges. Maintaining an intensive dialog with our customers, partners Furthermore, he was appointed Chairman of the B20 Cross-­ along the supply chain, and other external stakeholder groups thematic Group on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-Corand organizations helps us to regularly adjust our focus on materuption during the German G20 presidency 2016 / 2017. Activities rial issues and upcoming trends and individual needs. We listen in the World Economic Forum include the Company’s participato our stakeholders and integrate their perspectives into our busition in the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). ness priorities and decision-making processes. Stakeholder engagement creates value for both stakeholders and the Company through knowledge exchange and co-creativity. It is essential for External recognition of our our business license to operate and it contributes to the improve­sustainability ­performance ment of business conditions and risk reduction on customer projects and in our own operations. Our sustainability performance has continuously been externally confirmed by the most renowned and relevant sustainability inStakeholder engagement is managed by dedicated departments dexes and ratings. at corporate, regional, divisional or project level according to their individual stakeholder landscape. Our key stakeholders include, With a score of 89 points, Siemens is a member of the DJSI World but are not limited to, customers, investors, suppliers, employees, Index of RobecoSAM/Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the 17th communities, policy-makers, media, non-governmental organiconsecutive year and hence one of the most sustainable compazations, business organizations, and academia. Our Stakeholder nies in our industry. Siemens leads the industry in the economic engagement requirements are anchored in our Project Managedimension and ranks second in the environmental dimension. In ment System (PM@Siemens) from the pre-tender and project the social dimension, we rank third. In 7 of 19 categories, we lead execution to the service phase. the industry group “IDD Industrial Conglomerates”. We are continuing with our engagement with leading sustainaWe also received high ratings on a number of other indexes and bility organizations, such as the World Business Council for Susrankings, including CDP, who rated us with “A−”. We responded tainable Development and the United Nations Global Compact to the climate change and supply chain assessment to explain how (UN GC). We are committed to its ten principles and actively conwe reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate climate tribute to the CEO Water Mandate. In fiscal 2016, we committed change risks while at the same time motivating our ­suppliers to to the Women Empowerment Principles of the UN GC and signed disclose information on how they are approaching c­ limate and the “Charta der Vielfalt”. For years, we have been a committed water risks and opportunities. Financial Times Stock Exchange member of One Young World. This year we participated with 50 (FTSE) included Siemens in its FTSE4Good series. F ­ TSE4Good is delegates in Ottawa, Canada. designed to identify companies that demonstrate strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices, measured against Since fiscal 2015, we have disclosed our sustainability informaglobally recognized standards. In addition, Oekom awarded tion with reference to the guidelines (G4) of the Global Reporting Siemens with its “Prime” label, qualifying Siemens shares on the Initiative (GRI), which aim at high transparency and comparabilstock market for an investment from an ecological and social perity for corporate sustainability reporting. In November 2015, we spective. Oekom research AG is the German market-leading procontributed to the business voice at the United Nations Climate vider of information for social and environmental performances Change conference in Paris and demonstrated Siemens’ role in of companies and industries. EcoVadis rated Siemens with the limiting global warming to well below 2°C through our decarbo­ “Silver recognition level”, underlining our performance as a susnization activities. tainable supplier to our customers. 10 Sustainability at Siemens Facts and Figures Employees The proportion of women as a percentage of the total workforce remained unchanged at 23%. Demographic change, employability and the impact of digitalization are key challenges we have been focusing on for several years. People are the decisive factor for future success, and that is Proportion of women why we strive to continuously win and retain the best employees September 30, worldwide. We aim to be the employer of choice by empowering (as a percentage of total employees) 2016 2015 and motivating all employees with a high-performance culture, Siemens 23 23 life-long learning and development possibilities. We are respectEurope, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East 22 22 ful, inclusive and diverse. At Siemens, everyone can develop acAmericas 24 25 cording to individual talent and passion, while being treated fairly Asia, Australia 26 27 independent of their ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, disability status and professional background. In projects 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. for our customers, we train our people thoroughly – enabling them to use the opportunity for personal and professional growth. New hires were about one tenth of the total employee base and up by 8 % in the year under review compared to fiscal 2015. In the Since fiscal 2010, we have been measuring employee satisfaction same period, exits were up by 7 %. The percentage of all company with our management tool: the Siemens Global Engagement Surdismissals – as share of employee exits – was 15.9 % for the year, vey. We aim to achieve an approval rating of over 75 % on a suscompared with 18.3 % in the previous year. tainable basis in the key categories of Leadership and Diversity. These targets are also anchored in our strategy program “Vision 2020”. In fiscal 2015, more than 260,000 Siemens employees (77 % Siemens employee hires response rate) took part in our worldwide survey, which is conFiscal year ducted every two years. Based on the constantly high employee (in thousands) 2016 2015 engagement and our results in both key categories in fi ­ scal 2015, Siemens 35.1 32.6 we are confident that we will achieve our targets by fiscal 2020. Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 18.5 15.4 Americas 8.5 9.1 On September 30, 2016, we employed 351,000 employees worldAsia, Australia 8.1 8.0 wide, which represents an increase of approximately 3,000 in comparison to fiscal 2015. Of these employees, 61 % were in 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. ­Europe, C. I.S, Africa and the Middle East, 21 % in the Americas region and 18 % in Asia, Australia. Women hired Fiscal year Siemens employees (as a percentage of new hires) 2016 2015 September 30, Siemens 25 25 2016 2015 Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East 24 24 Siemens (in thousands) 351 348 Americas 26 25 Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East Asia, Australia 26 27 (as a percentage of total employees) 61 61 Americas 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. (as a percentage of total employees) 21 21 Asia, Australia (as a percentage of total employees) 18 18 Siemens employee exits 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Fiscal year (in thousands) 2016 2015 Siemens 30.8 28.8 12 Facts and Figures Employee turnover rate Use of working hour programs at Siemens Fiscal year September 30, (in %) 1 2016 2015 (in thousands) 2016 2015 Employee decision 4.1 4.0 Part-time 10.4 10.0 Other reasons for exit 4.7 4.3 Employees on leave of absence 9.0 8.4 Total 8.8 8.3 1 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary e ­ xits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. DIVERSITY At Siemens, we foster diversity throughout the organization – through a variety of activities, measures and programs. Siemens Retiring within the next five years today is home for over 170 nationalities worldwide. Diversity September 30, strengthens our innovative capacity, unleashes the potential of (as a percentage of total employees) 1 2016 2015 Siemens’ employees and thereby directly contributes to our busiSiemens 15 15 ness success. We want to create an open workplace for all employees dedicated to our goals. After the new organizational 1 Based on the Siemens worldwide average retirement age of 60. setup, we strengthened our diversity activities by phrasing a new ­strategy. The identified action areas reflect our strategy program Changes in age structure “Vision 2020”. Our focus areas are: The distribution of employees by age group remained virtually unchanged compared to the year before. The median age in the Consciously addressing Unconscious Bias year under review was 41. Promoting Gender Balance Fostering the value of Globality Encouraging Diversity & Inclusiveness Age structure in fiscal 2016 (as a percentage Our focus on diversity is reflected, for example, in the adaptaof total employees) 1 < 35 35 – 44 45 – 54 > 55 tions made to our recruitment processes: These ensure that the Siemens 31 28 26 15 preliminary selection of candidates better reflects the diversity of Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, customers and employees at all levels and in all regions. Middle East 27 27 30 16 Americas 26 26 26 22 Asia, Australia 51 33 13 3 Employees in management positions¹ September 30, 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. 2016 2015 Siemens 61,800 63,000 Working hours and working arrangements Female employees in management positions (percentage of all management positions) 15.6 15.4 Average official weekly working hours 1 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary r­ esponsibility, plus project managers. September 30, (in hours) 1 2016 2015 Siemens 39.0 39.0 Today, Siemens has 15.6 percent of female employees in manageEurope, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 37.7 37.6 ment positions and, due to concerted efforts, this share is conAmericas 41.0 41.1 tinuing to grow. Asia, Australia 41.3 41.3 1 Contractually agreed weekly working hours at the end of the fiscal year. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. Facts and Figures 13 TALENT ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT As part of Siemens’ commitment to education, every year young It is our employees that make Siemens successful. Therefore, we talents from all over the world are provided with the opportunity are convinced that attracting, developing and retaining them are to gain work experience in Germany. Since 2012, the company essential activities. Recruiting in all of our countries is consisthas been offering specifically designed apprenticeship training ently based on the same global principles. This guarantees a high-­ for approximately 30 young Europeans a year from different Euquality hiring experience for all candidates around the globe. ropean countries in Berlin. This year we extended the group with talents from African countries like Algeria and Morocco. In total, We ensure continuous individual development with dedicated 26 people from 15 European and African countries participated. processes and practices: The Performance Management Process After completing their apprenticeships in mechatronics and elecis one core element of talent development. It aims to create a trical / electronic engineering, they return to their home countries continuous dialog between employee and manager, about exand work in one of our local operating companies. pectations regarding individual contributions and behavior as well as feedback on actual impact and a demonstrated mindset of The education program at Siemens is increasingly attracting inownership culture. We believe that achievements should be reterest abroad. That’s why Siemens is currently training around warded based on meritocracy: The compensation system for our 2,240 young people in its local regional companies both inside top executives and senior management worldwide includes a and outside Europe, for example, in the context of large customer significant variable component. Through a variety of concepts, projects in Egypt and India. employees are encouraged to reflect on their aspirations and abilities, thus enabling them to grow into different roles and take We encourage our employees at all locations to develop their ownership of their career development. A portfolio of measures competencies and qualifications. In fiscal 2016, we spent around ranging from balanced people development measures (on the € 270 million in continuing education (without travel expenses), job, people experiences and formal learning) to dedicated potenwhich equals about € 775 per employee. tial development programs ensures that our talents are developed continuously. The average number of training hours is divided between management training courses and several training courses specified LEARNING, LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND for our workforce. Each employee is encouraged to participate in VOCATIONAL EDUCATION educational development to increase their lifelong employability. Possessing the necessary skills at the right place and the right time is a success factor for Siemens. Average number of training hours of employees in ­management positions Siemens Global Learning Campus provides training courses to all employees, helping to develop their personal skills, supporting Fiscal year managers as they work to develop their teams, and assisting those (per participant per category) 1 2016 2015 responsible for entire organizational areas as they seek to impleSLE Training Alumni Top Management (no trainings in fiscal 2016) 0 25 ment strategic steps and change processes. Siemens continues New general management appointees to be one of Germany ’s largest providers of professional edu­ (99 participants in fiscal 2016) 94 94 cation for secondary school graduates (about 6,740 places for New advanced management appointees Siemens trainees, and about 2,460 places for trainees from other (405 participants in fiscal 2016) 66 66 companies). As in previous years, we again made 10 % of our New management appointees (461 participants in fiscal 2016) 66 66 trainee positions available to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. 1 Based on mandatory participants in Siemens Leadership Excellence programs or executive courses. 14 Facts and Figures SIEMENS EQUITY CULTURE Occupational health and safety It is our conviction that employees who hold shares of their com­management pany will identify more closely with it and thus be willing to assume greater responsibility and foster an ownership culture – Occupational health and safety management is anchored in our which ultimately enables the sustainable development of Siemens. sustainability principles and in our business processes. We have Right now, 97 % of the company’s employees have the opportutherefore developed central programs and processes that are apnity to become Siemens shareholders via our company program. plied locally and adapted to the respective business needs. OccuWith this program – the Share Matching Plan – Siemens rewards pational health and safety management is an integral part of our the commitment and loyalty of employees with a participating Business Conduct Guidelines, our internal monitoring systems and interest in the company. For every three Siemens shares employour risk management and internal controls. In addition, occupaees buy and then hold for the applicable vesting period of two or tional safety is part of the international framework agreement three years, they receive one Siemens share without payment of between Siemens AG, the Central Works Council of Siemens AG, consideration (matching share) – provided they are still employed IG Metall and the global union IndustriALL. by Siemens and have not transferred or sold the shares. Thus, the plan enables stock ownership for employees regardless of their PROMOTING A CULTURE OF SAFETY income level. Siemens “Vision 2020” aims to further raise the In addition to technical protective measures, we foster practicing num­ber of employee shareholders by at least 50 %. In fiscal 2015, occupational safety culture by providing optimal working condiSiemens Profit Sharing was additionally implemented as a concept tions for all Siemens employees and those of our contractors. Both with the aim of allowing employees below senior manage­ment as a Company and as individuals, we are responsible for ensuring level worldwide to benefit from free Siemens shares in the case of that the working environment at Siemens is safe at all times and extraordinarily successful business years. In fiscal 2015, Siemens for every employee. We strive for a global and consistent approach endowed € 200 million to a Profit Sharing Pool. that builds on local management systems and best practices to achieve a sustainable performance. EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND RELATIONS WITH EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES Our customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities require high Siemens practices fair-minded collaboration between Company safety standards. Safe behavior is governed not only by complymanagement, employees and employee representatives, and uping with laws, regulations and procedures, but also by the perholds the fundamental rights of the employees. These already sonal values of managers and employees. Our “Zero Harm Culapply worldwide and are firmly anchored in our Business Conduct ture @ Siemens” program (ZHC@Siemens), which we launched in Guidelines. Underscoring the commitment to social responsibilfiscal 2012, has been further developed and rolled out to drive the ity and respect, the Siemens Central Works Council, the German targeted cultural change on occupational health and safety. It trade union IG Metall and the global industrial union IndustriALL contains three principles: have signed an international framework agreement (IFA) in 2012 on the principles of corporate responsibility with reference to the Zero incidents – it is achievable! Everyone must be able to relevant international conventions of the United Nations, such as work at Siemens without suffering an incident. Everywhere. the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global At any time. Compact. Health and safety – no compromises! The health and safety of all employees are our highest priority and must not be compromised by time or cost pressure. We take care of each other! We work with open eyes to recognize dangerous situations and look after one another. Risky behavior is not tolerated – we intervene when we see it, and we lead by example. Facts and Figures 15 To further align the different businesses and countries and to achieve global coverage we are driving the rollout of our Zero Fatalities Harm Culture @ Siemens Country Concept. In addition, our busiFiscal year nesses and countries further improve safety at the local level 2016 2015 through various activities according to local needs and requireFatalities at Siemens ments. To underline the importance of ZHC @ Siemens we intro(work related) 2 4 duced the ZHC @ Siemens Label as an additional element of the Fatalities at Siemens (commuting accidents) 5 4 ZHC @ Siemens program in fiscal 2016. To achieve the label, the Fatalities at Siemens Contractors organizational units within the country have to deploy the Zero (work related) 0 4 Harm Culture @ Siemens program in a comprehensive and sysTotal 7 12 tematic way. The criteria for the Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens Label cover procedural, quantitative and qualitative elements, and are reviewed by an independent Label Panel. In fiscal 2016, nine countries achieved the Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens Label: In fiscal 2016, the overall number of fatalities was lower than in Austria, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Ireland, Portugal, Turkey, fiscal 2015. Regrettably, we reported seven fatalities. All of them United Kingdom and South Africa. involved Siemens employees. The seven Siemens cases included five commuting accidents on the way to or from work and two ACCIDENTS WORLDWIDE work-related cases. In the previous year, there were four fatalities When recording lost-time injuries (LTIs), we incorporate the apinvolving contractors and eight involving Siemens employees. In plicable national definitions for categorizing incidents as being fiscal 2016, there were five commuting fatalities compared to four work-related. fatalities in fiscal 2015. Road safety was identified as a focus topic for 2017. LTIFR employees and contractors 1 Management attention is key to fostering and improving safety. Fiscal year The responsible CEO of the business concerned therefore dem2016 2015 onstrates commitment by personally reporting work-related faEmployees 2 0.56 0.62 talities or serious incidents to the Siemens Managing Board. This Contractors 3 0.47 0.45 includes the root causes and contributing factors of the incident as well as corrective and preventive actions taken to prevent re1 Lost-time injury frequency rate: number of lost-time injuries (LTI) x 200,000 / work hours currence. performed; LTIs are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work. 2 Depending on national regulations, foreign or temporary workers may also count as employees. To achieve sustainable improvement and share lessons learned, 3 Contractors who bill by time, especially those who work on large project sites. we continuously strengthen our incident investigation capabilities by providing professional training and support. To systemAfter a slight increase in the LTIFR for Siemens employees in fiscal atically analyze the causes of our incidents, root cause analysis 2015 (0.62) we achieved further reduction in fiscal 2016 (0.56) as training courses have been conducted in Austria, in the U.K., the a result of all our implemented measures within Divisions and U.S., China, Germany and the Middle East, with more to come. countries. One of our main safety risks is related to electrical safety. To significantly improve electrical safety, a Center of Competence for Electrical Safety (CoC ES) has been established. This CoC ES is based on a global team of highly experienced and qualified electrical engineers. Divided into several work streams, the team gives specific advice. One key initiative is a global electrical safety campaign based on on-site workshops for electricians to raise awareness and improve electrical safety. 16 Facts and Figures Contractors are a main resource, especially in our project busiPROMOTING HEALTH ness. Contractor performance and safety are important factors We are convinced that sustainable health promotion among our for Siemens’ business success. In order to reduce the number of employees will only succeed if all health-related measures and accidents related to contractors we have introduced additional initiatives are consistently aligned with the permanently changbusiness-specific actions and activities. Particularly on construcing requirements of today ’s working environment and completion sites, such as our megaproject in Egypt, which includes three ment each other in a sensible manner. Increasing the number 4.8 gigawatt turnkey combined cycle power plants and 12 wind of individual measures is not enough. A systematic approach is parks with approximately 600 wind turbines, specific hands-on called for to manage health as a resource and act proactively. Our training centers for employees of Siemens and its contractors company-wide program Healthy @ Siemens outlines a framework have been set up on site in order to improve relevant competenfor workplace health and well-being. It focuses on engaging top cies and skills. management, local leaders and employees, enhancing collaboration of all health-relevant players and establishing a continuous We also launched a global Center of Competence for Safety in improvement process. In fiscal 2014, we introduced the Healthy Projects (CoC SiP) in fiscal 2016. This CoC SiP consists of team @ Siemens Label as a quality characteristic for sustainable health members with cross-functional expertise. One main focus is to management to encourage implementation. To achieve the improve contractor management covering the entire process Healthy @ Siemens Label, Siemens country organizations have to from contractor selection and qualification, contracting and exmeet requirements in seven categories and pass a comprehenecution to contractor evaluation. It is integrated in our project sive ­on-site-assessment. So far, 19 countries have been awarded management process, and clear roles and responsibilities for all the Healthy @ Siemens Label. functions involved are defined for each phase, with relevant documents and tools provided. Research and Development In fiscal 2016, health and safety audits also focused on highrisk activities. The Siemens internal audit department was a ­ ssigned Our research and development (R & D) activities are ultimately to conduct EHS audits in order to check internal and external EHS geared to developing innovative, sustainable solutions for our requirements. In total, 25 EHS audits have been conducted within customers – and the Siemens businesses – and simultaneously our Energy Management, Wind Power and Renewables, Power safeguarding our competitiveness. For these reasons, we focus and Gas, Mobility, Process Industries and Drives and Power Genin particular on eration Services Divisions. The audits will be continued in fiscal 17 within other selected divisions and countries. enabling energy supplies that are economically sustainable; further enhancing efficiency in the generation of renewable OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS and conventional power and minimizing losses during power The total number of cases of occupational illness relative to the transmission; number of employees has remained at a low level for many years. finding novel solutions for smart grids and for the storage of The corresponding indicator (occupational illness frequency rate, energy from renewable sources with irregular availability; or OIFR, relative to 1,000,000 work hours performed) was 0.48 promoting the efficient utilization of energy, especially in in the year under review (fiscal 2015: 0.35). Here we report the buildings, industry and transportation, e. g. through highly figures for Siemens Germany, only. OIFR is calculated solely on efficient drives for production facilities or for local and longthe basis of cases of occupational illness recognized by the Emdistance trains; ployers’ Liability Insurance Association. creating the highly flexible, connected factories of tomorrow using advanced automation and digitalization technologies; turning unstructured data into value-adding information, e. g. when providing services such as preventive maintenance; advancing the integration of medical imaging technology, in vitro diagnostics and IT for medical engineering to support improved patient outcomes. Beyond these points of focus, we recognize how important highly sophisticated software solutions are for all the fields of business in which Siemens is active. R & D activities are carried out by our businesses as well as our Corporate Technology (CT) department. Facts and Figures 17 Corporate Technology is both a creative driver of disruptive inRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT novations and a partner to the Siemens businesses. Its R & D acIN OUR BUSINESSES tivities are focused on the Company’s core activities in the fields R & D at the Power and Gas Division concentrates on developing of electrification, automation and digitalization. In many research products and solutions for enhancing efficiency, flexibility and projects, CT works closely with scholars from leading universities economy in power generation and in the oil and gas industry. and research institutions. These partnerships, along with close These products and solutions include turbomachinery – primarily collaborations with start-ups, are an important part of Siemens’ high-performance, low-emission gas turbines for single operation open innovation concept, which is designed to make the Comor for combined cycle power plants – and compressor solutions pany even more innovative. for various process industries. The Division’s current technology initiative, which started in fiscal 2015, is aimed at intensifying In fiscal 2016, Siemens announced the creation of an autonomous R & D in innovative materials, advanced manufacturing methods unit that will place the Company's partnership with start-ups on and plant optimization. Along with promoting digitalization in a much higher level: next47. The unit went into operation in Ocoverall product lifecycles, Power and Gas is on track preparing for tober 2016. It has been given a budget of € 1 billion for its first five changing energy markets and their increasingly diversified cenyears. With the creation of next47, Siemens plans to further entralized and decentralized structures. hance its innovativeness and speed up the introduction of innovations to the marketplace. next47 is focusing on five innovation At the Wind Power and Renewables Division, our R & D efforts fields: artificial intelligence, distributed electrification, autonoare focused on innovative products and solutions that allow us to mous machines, blockchain applications and connected electric take the lead in performance, improve our competitiveness, and mobility. Electrically powered flight is an example of a disruptive build a stronger business case for customers. This includes finddevelopment being pursued by next47. In cooperation with Airing ways to more intelligently monitor and analyze turbine condibus, Siemens intends to demonstrate by 2020 that electricity can tions, and smart diagnostic services. Our R & D efforts also focus be used to power large planes. on digitalization. At our remote diagnostics center in Brande, Denmark, we collect digital data from more than 10,000 turbines In fiscal 2016, we reported research and development expenses in more than 30 countries, which total more than 24 million data of € 4.7 billion, compared to € 4.5 billion in fiscal 2015. The resultsets annually. We use this data to provide value for our customing R & D intensity, defined as the ratio of R & D expenses and revers: in 85 % of cases, issues can be corrected and turbines reenue, was 5.9 % – the same level as in fiscal 2015. Additions to started without sending out a service team. capitalized development expenses amounted to € 0.3 billion in both fiscal 2016 and 2015, mainly at Healthineers. As of SeptemThe R & D activities of our Energy Management Division focus ber 30, 2016, Siemens held approximately 59,800 granted paton preparing our portfolio for changes on all voltage levels in the ents worldwide in its continuing operations. As of September 30, world of electricity. The increasing infeed of renewable energy to 2015, it held approximately 56,200 granted patents. On average, power grids requires that those grids become more flexible and we had 33,000 R & D employees in fiscal 2016. efficient, particularly with distributed generation on the rise. The digitalization of future grids will enable intelligent grid operation and data-driven services. Cost-out programs and optimization of our footprint are improving the competitiveness of our product port­folio on global markets. Our innovations are centered on power electronics, digitalization or grid stabilization. The full ­integration of energy supply systems with process automation is a core portfolio element for industrial applications and infrastructures. 18 Facts and Figures R & D work at the Building Technologies Division focuses on opThe focus of R & D activities in the Process Industries and Drives timizing comfort, operational and energy efficiency in buildings Division is on the digital transformation of products, solutions and infrastructures, protecting against fire and security hazards, and services for all sectors in the process industry, such as oil and and minimizing related risks. We aim to create a portfolio of prodgas, chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Information and communiucts and services ranging from the field to the cloud, based on cation technologies (ICT) play a crucial role in areas such as imopen standards wherever possible. This includes data-based serprovements in instrumentation, analytics, industrial communicavices for new ways of optimizing energy consumption, easily tion and process control systems. The end-to-end use of ICT is scalable and reasonably priced services, a new and harmonized as essential a prerequisite for the expansion of drive and trans­ system landscape with effective integration of electrical conmission platforms by means of integrated condition monitoring sumption, fire detection and HVAC (heating, ventilation, air conand service cloud connections as it is for the commissioning and ditioning) systems, and a complete range of products tailored ­operation of processing plants or the use of computer-assisted specifically to growing markets. simulations to support their operators. The same applies for new service offerings that complement operational engineering data The Mobility Division’s R & D strategy addresses customers’ dewith additional condition-related data (condition monitoring) and mand for maximum availability, high throughput and enhanced use it for purposes such as asset management. The digitalization passenger experience. Although there is a growing need for moof our comprehensive process automation and industrial commubility worldwide, possibilities for building new roads and railways nication portfolio includes a holistic industrial security concept. are limited. Meeting the demand for mobility requires intelligent Another central objective of our R & D activities is to further insolutions that make transport more efficient, safe and environcrease energy efficiency while reducing the consumption of raw mentally friendly. Reflecting this, Mobility ’s R & D activities emmaterials and cutting emissions. This applies to our own product phasize digitalization in developing state-of-the art rail vehicles, creation processes as well as to our customers’ processes that are automation solutions for rail and road traffic, and rail electrificafacilitated by our products (systems, solutions and services). tion systems. Most of these goals can be achieved only with intelligent IT solutions such as WLAN-based control systems for drivThe R & D activities of Healthineers are directed toward our growth erless and conductorless metro train operation, decentralized fields in therapy, molecular diagnostics, and services. We want to wayside architecture for rail automation, cloud-based product tap the full potential of imaging solutions in therapy and to essolutions, and Integrated Mobility Platforms that intelligently tablish a closer connection between diagnostics and therapy in network passengers, mobility service providers and traffic mancardiology, interventional clinical disciplines, surgery, and radiaagement centers. tion oncology. Strategic partnerships are an essential part of our strategy to reach this goal. Expanding our innovation map beOne of the R & D priorities at the Digital Factory Division is the yond our established portfolio, and investing in new ideas will Digital Enterprise Software Suite. It includes Teamcenter software. help us tap new business fields. For example, we will extend our Serving as a data backbone, Teamcenter digitizes the entire prodactivities in the highly dynamic growth field of molecular diaguct lifecycle management (PLM) process – from product design nostics. We will expand our services business beyond productthrough planning and engineering to production and service. In related services by adding a digital services portfolio and increasaddition, the TIA (Totally Integrated Automation) Portal engineering enterprise transformation services to help customers in their ing platform is being intensively improved. Thanks to its open transition to value-based care within more and more provider interfaces, it exchanges data with other systems. The seamless organizations across geographical borders. link to simulation tools enhances the benefits of virtual commissioning, which is used to identify flaws at an early stage and in a cost-effective manner. Data-based services are another field of research. Siemens offers MindSphere, an industry cloud that ­industrial companies can use to develop and provide their own digital services. As a result, new types of services such as predictive maintenance and resource optimization can be provided. Machinery and plant builders can use it to monitor production operations around the world. MindSphere helps them reduce downtimes and offer new business models. Facts and Figures 19 Supply chain management IDENTIFYING RISKS AND IMPLEMENTING IMPROVEMENT MEASURES SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES Due to our very large and dispersed supplier network – we proThe principal goal of supply chain management (SCM) at Siemens cure from some 90,000 suppliers in around 150 countries – it is is to provide a substantial and sustainable value contribution for not possible for us to inspect all suppliers to the same extent, for the success of our businesses. The four elements of this value example, via site audits. We have therefore established a riskcontribution include: based system to systematically identify potential risks in our supply chain. The main factors are: Productivity Quality Risk identification and categorization of all our commodities Availability Weighting the countries' risk level grouped by sustainability Innovation indicators like legal compliance and prohibition of corruption and bribery, respect for the basic human rights of employees, As such, the objectives clearly go beyond cost savings alone. In prohibition of child labor, etc. We also use information from fiscal 2016, Siemens’ purchasing volume amounted to ap­proxi­ internationally recognized organizations mate­ly € 39 billion, which equaled roughly half of our total reveOther strategic decisions, such as preparation for upcoming nue. projects with large local procurement volume In line with the objectives of “Vision 2020”, Siemens Supply Chain This risk-based system consists of sustainability self-assessments Management has set up a range of activities in its “Bold Moves” by suppliers, risk evaluations conducted by our purchasing deprogram to foster cost effectiveness and support global business. partments, sustainability questions within supplier quality audits, Key elements of the Bold Moves program are “Cost and Value and sustainability audits by external auditors. Engineering” and “Global Value Sourcing”. “Cost and Value Engineering” is a cross-functional program to Sustainability self-assessments 1 achieve cost-optimized technical solutions, including cost transFiscal year parency across the entire value chain. “Global Value Sourcing” in(Number) 2016 2015 tends to strengthen the local presence and leverage the potential Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 1,157 940 in emerging markets. In both programs, Siemens strives to sigAmericas 684 543 nificantly increase activities by fiscal 2020. Asia, Australia 2,377 2,025 Total 4,218 3,508 All purchasing activities are being executed within the framework of our sustainability requirements. These are the guiding princiFiscal year ples and form an integral part of all relevant supplier management (Results) 2016 2015 processes – such as supplier selection, supplier qualification and Category “green” (no deviations) 2,974 2,577 evaluation, and supplier development. Category “yellow” (minor deviations) 3 686 436 Category “red” REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS (suspicion of serious deviations) 3 558 495 Instituted in fiscal 2007, we require all our suppliers to comply Total 4,218 3,508 with the principles of our “Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries”. It includes, among others, respect 1 To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume > € 50,000 p. a. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review. for the basic rights of employees, strong health and safety and 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. environmental protection standards as well as zero tolerance on 3 Clarification of the situation by the designated buyer, agreement on corrective measures corruption and bribery. In fiscal year 2015, we updated our Code within a defined period of time, or conduct of an external sustainability audit. of Conduct and included additional requirements on fair competition, anti-trust laws and intellectual property rights, a chapter on conflicts of interest and the avoidance of conflict minerals. The Code of Conduct is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and reflects the content of our Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines. 20 Facts and Figures The sustainability self-assessments are, as part of the Siemens supplier qualification process, under continuous review in order External sustainability audits to meet the latest requirements. Besides the qualification of new Fiscal year suppliers, we furthermore renewed the qualification of other sup(Number) 2016 2015 pliers in accordance with our supplier qualification process which Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East 68 9 requires the periodic requalification of suppliers every three years. Americas 50 1 Over the years, we have constantly increased the number of conAsia, Australia 202 40 ducted sustainability self-assessments. Both strengthened interTotal 320 50 nal processes and monitoring, as well as growing awareness of suppliers to evaluate their own sustainability performance, led to Fiscal year a 20 % increase in fiscal 2016. (Agreed improvement measures) 2 2016 2015 Legal compliance / prohibition of corruption and bribery 1,063 136 Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questions Respect for the basic Fiscal year human rights of employees 2,371 357 (Number) 2016 2015 Prohibition of child labor 185 35 Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East 1 470 463 Health and safety of employees 2,679 388 Americas 224 172 Environmental protection 422 170 Asia, Australia 254 346 Supply chain 316 56 Total 948 981 Total 7,036 1,142 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. 2 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers or to structural improvements to management The second element is supplier quality audits with integrated systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. sustainability questions. In fiscal 2016, we conducted 948 on-site quality audits, thus keeping up our strong efforts over the last If deviations from our requirements are identified in our sustainyears. ability self-assessments or audits, they must be remedied by the suppliers in question within a reasonable period of time. Besides The most effective approach to review our suppliers’ sustainabilfollow-up audits handled by our external audit partners, the reity performance is an external sustainability audit. This is consponsible procurement units directly agree with the respective ducted by one of our audit partners. As a quintessential part of suppliers on the corrective actions defined during our audits. our risk-based approach we use these audits as a control mechanism for high-risk suppliers. In fiscal 2016, we increased the numDeviations identified in the audits mainly relate to structural deber of external sustainability audits conducted to 320 (from 50 in ficiencies in management systems and the lack of specific prothe previous fiscal year) to be in line with our Global Value Sourccesses and guidelines at the supplier. Serious deviations, all cases ing initiative. The latter increases both the number of suppliers in the area of health and safety for employees, were identified at and sourcing volumes from emerging markets. Hence, external eight suppliers but were corrected by the set deadline. sustainability audits follow this trend of increasing globalization. In all we do, we are guided by the principles of developing our suppliers in close partnership and building up their competencies for the long term. Nevertheless, in the event of substantial deviations or an unwillingness to implement measures for improvement, we exclude suppliers from any business with Siemens. Since fiscal 2015, we have implemented the tightened process of the “Central Warning Message” which ensures a faster and more effective reaction to major breaches of the Code of Conduct requirements: All local blockings now have to be reported to ­Corporate SCM. There, the necessity of a worldwide blocking is decided centrally. It allows us to block suppliers for all Siemens organizations worldwide at short notice. Facts and Figures 21 We continuously work on the requirements for occupational CLIMATE PROTECTION AND CONFLICT MINERALS health and safety standards for suppliers at our project construcAs part of Siemens’ CO2-neutral program and our CDP reporting, tion sites. Specifically for the health and safety management syswe collect and publish data on our greenhouse gas emissions tems, we require a detailed risk assessment for every trade, an (Scope 3 upstream) caused by purchased products and services. appraisal of the risks identified, and measures to mitigate them. As of fiscal 2016, we disclose our Scope 3 upstream emissions in In fiscal 2016, we have focused on a stricter contractor selection the chapter “Industrial Environmental Protection” of this report. and the extensive evaluation of the contractors’ safety perforWe have started to evaluate our CO2 emissions more deeply in mance while present on Siemens project sites. For fiscal 2017, we key commodities and at specific suppliers. The result will be the will implement this joint SCM and EHS process. The process will basis for future decisions on how to select suppliers for joint work be tool-based and mandatory for all relevant Siemens organizaon decreasing the CO2 emissions for our purchased products. tions worldwide. Siemens is well aware that products and components purchased KNOW-HOW TRANSFER AND CAPACITY BUILDING from suppliers may contain minerals from conflict regions. The We still believe that our suppliers’ commitment to complying with Conflict Minerals Statutory Provision defines “conflict minerals” our sustainability principles is most effective when it is based on as tin, tantalum, gold, tungsten and the ores from which they are their own convictions. The key is to build our suppliers’ compeextracted, or any other minerals or their derivatives determined tence and intensify knowledge transfer related to sustainability. by the Secretary of State of the United States of America to be Supporting this, we updated our “Code of Conduct brochure” in financing conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo region. fiscal 2015, available both electronically and as a print version. In addition to in-person meetings we support our suppliers with an Siemens has developed a “Conflict Minerals Policy” and integrated inter­net-based information and training platform, which we upit into the purchasing process to ensure that uniform, enterprisedated in fiscal 2016, available free of charge to all suppliers. In wide duty of care is in place within the supply chain. Our approach parallel, we also updated the company-wide training program for is informed by the risk-based requirements of the “OECD Due Siemens buyers including the training module “Sustainability in Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals the ­Supply Chain” that is mandatory for all Siemens employees from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas”. Responsibility for the with purchasing responsibility. adherence and related activities lies with the Supply Chain Management organization. In order to establish transparency on the use, sources and origins of conflict minerals in our supply chain, we work to identify the smelters involved in our supply chain. We collaborate closely with the “Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI)” and with our direct suppliers. In surveying our suppliers, we make use of the “Conflict Minerals Reporting Template” developed by the CFSI. We notify our CFSI partners of the smelting facilities identified in the course of the supplier survey. The CFSI then checks whether the smelters cited are certified. We are an active member of the “Conflict-Free Smelter Program” and encourage those smelters not yet certified to take part in audit programs. Here we stand alongside these smelters as they progress to their final audit and eventual certification. The results of each case are communicated via the CFSI website. We are confident that this joint approach and the certification of smelters and refiners will increase the demand for conflict-free raw materials and transparency within the supply chain as a whole. 22 Facts and Figures Distribution and customer relations Most of our customers are small and medium-sized companies and organizations that care about local interaction. To address Our strategy program “Vision 2020” has a clear focus on customlocal business opportunities with them, we are able to draw on a ers: We want to be closer to our customers and markets and aim large global sales force steered by our regional companies. They to foster an intimate and trusting partnership with our customers. are responsible for serving our customers in the respective countries, leveraging our global network of market partners like conWe serve customers in almost every country of the world and sultants, distributors, integrators, engineering, procurement and want our management to reflect this global orientation even more construction companies (EPCs) and machine builders. We are curstrongly in the future. To measure customer satisfaction, in other rently selling products and services in almost every country in the words, the quality of the partnership, we use the Net Promoter world. Our Divisions drive sales on a global scale. They are able Score (NPS). Hence, we annually conduct a comprehensive custo support customers around the world directly from their respectomer satisfaction survey. In addition, we implement processes tive headquarters, especially for large contracts and projects. and systems that facilitate fostering long-term customer loyalty. Moreover, loyal customers not only keep buying and increasing Sustainable customer relationships are the basis for our long-term their purchases over time, but are also more likely to recommend success. We employ a structured key account management (KAM) Siemens to a colleague or business partner. approach throughout the Company to take care of our key customers. Our key account managers continually develop and mainDuring the survey, we also receive feedback from our customers tain relationships with them over the long term. This approach is on where we could improve. In accordance with these improvesupplemented by our Executive Relationship Program. In this proment areas, the Divisions and regions define measures that are gram, members of the Company’s Executive Management stay in reviewed on a regular basis to enhance customer relations. The direct contact with selected customers and maintain an ongoing definition and implementation of measurements is a crucial step dialogue with them to familiarize Siemens with their needs. toward getting closer to the overall Siemens goal of becoming our customers’ partner of choice. A follow-up process is impleWe drive close cooperation with renowned universities. This promented both internally and externally – regardless of the cusvides access to top-grade knowledge to constantly develop our tomer rating. In the case of a critical NPS rating (1–6 on a scale go-to-market approach. One example is a study we conducted from 1–10), we immediately follow up on the interview to create this year in cooperation with the Technical University of Munich transparency on critical issues and evaluate whether reasonable on changes in the information and buying behavior of B2B cusmeasures can be initiated to substantially enhance the relationtomers in general and our customers in particular due to digital ship. The NPS for fiscal 2016 was based on the results of approxmedia and sales channels. imately 26,000 interviews in 116 countries and in 36 languages. In fiscal 2016, our company-wide NPS rose once again compared To address these changes, Siemens has developed global and local to the previous fiscal year. channels on relevant social media platforms within the last years including Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube and Instagram. In total, we address about three million followers directly on these channels. We follow a clear conversation paradigm and aspire to respond within one day. Established processes between cor­porate communications and customer care cater for a high and timely response rate. Siemens orchestrates topics that are relevant for customers and prospects across all social media platforms and in­ fluences the customer decision-making process in the early stages. Facts and Figures 23 Siemens Environmental Portfolio Key results of the Environmental Portfolio The Siemens Environmental Portfolio is part of Siemens’ response Fiscal year to global challenges such as climate change, scarcity of natural 2016 2015 resources and environmental pollution. It is therefore a key eleRevenue generated by the ment of the Sustainability focus area “Decarbonization”, as deSiemens Environmental Portfolio (continuing operations, in billions of €) 36.3 32.7 scribed in the CHAPTER SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS . The EnvironAnnual customer reductions of carbon dioxide mental Portfolio consists of products, systems, solutions and emissions generated by elements from the services (Environmental Portfolio elements) that meet one of our Siemens Environmental Portfolio newly selection criteria, namely energy efficiency and renewable eninstalled in the reporting year (continuing operations, in millions of metric tons) 60 58 ergy. These elements reduce impact on the environment and Accumulated annual customer reductions emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (defined of carbon dioxide emissions generated by together in the following as carbon dioxide emissions), which are elements from the Siemens Environmental Portfolio within the reporting year (continuing responsible for climate change. The reduced level of impact is operations, in millions of metric tons) 521 487 measured by carrying out comparisons with reference solutions (baselines). With our Environmental Portfolio we intend, among other things, The Environmental Portfolio elements that contribute the most to help our customers reduce their carbon dioxide footprint, cut to the total reduction of carbon dioxide emissions at our customtheir energy costs and improve their profitability through an ers are combined cycle power plants (CCPP), power plant moderni­ ­increase in their productivity. In addition to its environmental zation and upgrade activities, power generation from wind power, benefits, our Environmental Portfolio enables us to compete sucfrequency converters and high-voltage direct current (HVDC) cessfully in attractive markets and generate profitable growth power transmission systems. underlining Siemens’ strategic focus on technologies for energy efficiency and climate and environmental protection. For fiscal Including revenue from newly developed and additionally quali2016, more than three-quarters of the revenue from our Environfied Environmental Portfolio elements and excluding revenue mental Portfolio was generated from products and solutions for from elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria, revenergy efficiency. enue from continuing operations relating to the Environmental Portfolio in the current year amounted to € 36.3 billion, exceeding the comparable revenue of € 32.7 billion from fiscal 2015. This means that in fiscal 2016 our Environmental Portfolio accounted for 46 % of our revenue from continuing operations. Furthermore, with our Siemens Environmental Portfolio elements installed in fiscal 2016, we helped our customers reduce their emissions by a further 60 million metric tons of carbon dioxide. With the total of our Siemens Environmental Portfolio elements installed at customer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002 that remain in use today, we reduced accumulated annual customer carbon dioxide emissions by 521 million metric tons in fiscal 2016. To learn more about the Siemens Environmental Portfolio, please visit: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ENVIRONMENTALPORTFOLIO 24 Facts and Figures Environmental protection Compared with baseline fiscal 2014, we were able to significantly improve efficiency in primary energy use by 18 % with respect to Siemens aims to increase customer benefits and strengthen its comparable revenue, and reduce scope 1 and scope 2 emissions position as a sustainable company while improving energy and by 355,000 t CO2 on a portfolio adjusted basis. By purchasing resource efficiency and fulfilling growing international require“green” energy, as one of the levers in the CO2-neutral program, ments with regard to environmental protection. To reach these we not only reduce our carbon emissions but also decrease the objectives, Siemens has installed a comprehensive Environmental primary energy input of our own operations. This trend has also Protection, Health Management and Safety (EHS) management been supported by the implementation of energy efficiency meassystem. The requirements of this system help our operating units ures. Compared with fiscal 2015, waste production in fiscal 2016 comply with the applicable laws, regulations and customer reincreased disproportionately to comparable revenue. Waste efquirements, satisfy our corporate requirements and achieve our ficiency was slightly reduced by a further 1 %, making a total of Siemens-wide environmental targets. The system requires that -3 % compared with base year 2014. We were nevertheless able to all our relevant production and office sites implement an environfurther reduce waste to landfill by 12 % compared with the base mental management system which fulfills the requirements of year, which underlines our “zero waste to landfill” ambitions. The the ISO 14001 standard. For product-related environmental prorising demand of environmental information led to a 25 % increase tection all relevant external standards addressing lifecycle aspects in the total number of Lifecycle Assessments (LCAs) in fiscal 2016. are integrated in our own internal standard “Specifications on To further extend the value added of LCAs, pilot projects have environmentally compatible product and system design” coverbeen conducted within the PrEE program in our business. ing international standards, e. g., IEC 62430 and ISO 14040 / 44. It defines requirements to reduce the environmental impact of our INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION products and systems during the production, use, service, and Our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on optimizdisposal phase. It forms an integral part of our business processes ing energy and resource efficiency at our sites. Our two programs and is mandatory for all our products. “Serve the Environment” and “CO2-neutral” complement each other and define Siemens-wide targets in the period to 2020 for Our programs “Serve the Environment” (StE)”, “CO2-neutral ” and StE and 2030 for CO2-neutral: “Product Eco Excellence” (PrEE) address all our material environmental impact with regards to industrial environmental protecReduce absolute CO2 emissions by 50 % until 2020 and become tion and product-related environmental protection, respectively. carbon neutral for our own operations by 2030 at the latest, Our objective is to improve our performance. The energy effiby driving energy efficiency, leveraging distributed energy sysciency target of StE forms an integral part of our CO2-neutral protems, reducing fleet emissions and purchasing “green” energy. gram, targeting a net-zero carbon footprint by 2030 in of own Improve waste efficiency. operations. We encourage our employees to engage in our proReduce waste for disposal. grams by conducting training and workshops in all key markets. Assess water-related risks, apply adequate mitigation measures In addition, we are running a “We say thank you” campaign, which and thereby implement the Siemens Water Strategy. honors outstanding individual employees’ performance in environmental protection. To continue the StE program, we are integrating energy and waste efficiency aspects into our supply chain, assessing the total costs of ownership for energy-intensive products. Air pollution control will be considered holistically, taking into account the local air emission situation at our production plants and offices. All energy-relevant sites will be trained in on-site energy generation in order to foster energy efficiency and resilience against energy price increases in the next two years. In 2016, Siemens further enhanced its water strategy with a view to meeting modern challenges in water management, such as water scarcity, water pollution and impact from climate change, such as changing patterns in flooding and precipitation. Facts and Figures 25 Environmental management system All our locations have an environmental management system in Secondary energy place; 285 locations are also certified to ISO 14001. 283 are exFiscal year ternally certified, while two have been audited and certified by (1,000 gigajoules) 2016 2015 Siemens internal auditors. The decision as to whether a unit has Electricity 8,875 8,768 its environmental management system certified in accordance District heating 1,971 2,072 with ISO 14001 is taken by the environmental protection execuTotal 10,846 10,840 tives of the businesses and countries in close consultation with the environmental protection officers. The requirements of the new ISO 14001:2015 standard are inteElectricity consumption increased by 1 %. The implemented effigrated into our management processes on an ongoing basis. At ciency measures partly managed to offset the increase in producleast 30 sites are already certified to ISO 14001:2015, including tion and newly acquired business activities. The share of renewamatrix certification for all sites of Divisions Wind Power and Reble electricity amounted to 23 % of the total electricity consumption. newables and Power Generation Services. A total of 49 Siemens The consumption of district heating decreased, mostly due to the locations have implemented an energy management system in shorter heating period in Europe compared with previous years. accordance with ISO 50001 and further locations are in the proIn total we were able to substantially improve our Primary Energy cess of implementing such a system. To implement the EU Energy Efficiency by 18 % compared with the base year fiscal 2014. This Efficiency Directive EED (2012 / 27 / EU), a European-wide approach efficiency indicator incorporates weighted calculations related to has been developed taking full advantage of our own energy serthe primary fuels consumed in generating the energy used at our vices. sites and the amount of energy used to extract, convert and distribute the fuels consumed. Energy consumption The energy consumed by the Company business vehicles is rePrimary energy corded centrally. Staff vehicles, service vehicles, and trucks owned Fiscal year by Siemens are grouped together for this purpose. In fiscal 2016, (1,000 gigajoules) 2016 2015 the Company fleet consumed fuel with an energy content of Natural gas/liquid petroleum gas 5,480 5,335 around 4.0 million gigajoules, compared with 4.3 million gigaFuel oil, coal, gasoline/diesel 434 370 joules in fiscal 2015. This is a decrease in consumption by almost Total 5,914 5,704 7 % mainly due to our car policy which encourages employees to use more energy-efficient vehicles. Greenhouse gas emissions In fiscal 2016, the total consumption of natural and liquid petroWe report our greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of the Corleum gases increased by 3 %. The consumption of other fossil fuels porate Standard of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World plays a minor role with respect to natural gas consumption. In Resource Institute (WRI) and of the World Business Council for particular, there has been an increase in the consumption of onSustainable Development (WBCSD). Direct greenhouse gas emissite car fuels and fuel oil by 17 %, mainly due to newly acquired sions (Scope 1) arise from sources in the Company ’s ownership sites. Overall, the total primary energy consumption increased by or under its control. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 4 % compared with the previous year. Despite the efficiency measrefer to the consumption of purchased electricity and district ures implemented and a reduced demand for heating energy, it heating. We also started this year to report upstream emissions was not possible to offset the newly acquired business activities (Scope 3) from our supply chain, such as purchases, goods and and in general increased production. services, capital goods, fuel and energy-related activities, waste in operations, transportation upstream and business travel (already disclosed in previous years). Scope 3 emissions from our supply chain have been calculated by means of a multi-regional macroeconomic input-output model on the basis of our volume of purchased goods and services. 26 Facts and Figures Atmospheric pollutant emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Other industrial emissions into the atmosphere are also relevant Fiscal year in terms of environmental protection. Volatile organic compounds (in 1,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents) 2016 2015 (VOC) contribute to the formation of ozone close to the earth’s Scope 1 856 907 surface and are responsible for what is known as summer smog. Scope 2 883 1,222 We use these organic compounds as solvents in paints and adheSum Scope 1 and 2 1,738 2,129 sives, in impregnation processes, and for surface cleaning. We Scope 3 also monitor the use of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) and Purchases goods & services 15,071 — comply with the Montreal Protocol, the international convention Capital Goods 393 — on the protection of the ozone layer, as well as with country-speFuel and energy related activities 235 — cific legislation. Waste in operations 55 — Transportation upstream 634 — Business travel 380 378 Atmospheric pollutant emissions Total Scope 3 16,768 378¹ Fiscal year (in metric tons) 2016 2015 1 In fiscal 2015 only business travel reported as Scope 3 Emissions. Volatile organic compounds 915 886 Ozone-depleting substances in metric tons of For Scope 1 and 2 combined, we reached a reduction in emissions R11 equivalent ¹ 0.17 0.27 of 391 Mt CO2 compared to fiscal 2015. Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) have been reduced by 6 %. This is due to re1 R11 equivalent measures ozone depletion potential. duced heating emissions from natural gas, attributable to lower consumption, warm winters and energy efficiency measures, The volume of emissions of volatile organic carbon increased due while taking account of portfolio changes. For the other Kyoto to emissions from aquired businesses, while the other sites regases, including sulfur hexafluoride, we have also seen a reducported a slight decrease in emissions. Some sites, such as Siemens tion. For SF6 alone, our emissions amounted to 162,000 t CO2 Standard Motors Ltd in China, have implemented effective emiswhich is a reduction of close to 2 %, due to improvements in hansion-reduction projects. This clearly shows that training from the dling and emission control. Serve the Environment program (Module Air) has been usefully deployed at the sites. The significant reduction in Scope 2 emissions is mainly a result of a change in our power purchasing policy as part of our CO2The volume of emissions of ozone-depleting substances deneutral program, as we move towards a cleaner power mix with creased from 0.27 to 0.17 tons of R11 equivalents. Overall, we a strong focus on renewable energies and gas. We have therefore have seen constant awareness with respect to implementing purchased “green” electricity from hydro and wind power mainly phase-out plans for a step-by-step substitution, especially for the in Germany, Denmark, the UK, the US, and Austria, or we have primarily used R22. acquired suitable certificates there. According to the location-­ based approach which takes account of the average grid factors In calculating nitrogen oxides, we have assumed typical combusof the above nations (converting the use of power to equivalent tion conditions in the relevant thermal processes, resulting in a CO2 emissions), we have saved 309 Mt CO2 through our “green” figure of 193 metric tons for environmentally relevant locations electricity purchasing strategy. in the year under review. The figure includes nitrogen oxides released during the incineration of fuels reported in the section on Scope 3 upstream emissions amount to almost 17 Mt CO2. The bigprimary energy. gest contribution comes from purchasing of goods and services, adding up to almost 90 % of Scope 3 upstream emissions. Facts and Figures 27 Waste Water and wastewater The environmental relevance of waste depends on the type of With the Siemens Water Strategy, we aim to reduce the local waste and its method of disposal. Our waste performance indicanegative impact of our water use, taking water stress and other tor addresses both waste efficiency and absolute disposal waste risks into account, such as water pollution or flooding of environreduction. Several sites have already achieved a Zero Disposal mentally relevant areas. To date, we have analyzed 330 relevant waste status, like Power and Gas in Erfurt / Germany. sites centrally using the Global Water Tool of the WBCSD, the precipitation forecasts of the 5th Assessment Report of the InterWe differentiate between hazardous, non-hazardous waste and governmental Panel on Climate Change and flood risks according construction waste. The groups of hazardous and non-hazardous to a risk consultant. These results show that water stress, impact waste are each further divided into recyclable waste and waste from climate change and flood risks are relevant to Siemens. The for disposal. We report waste from construction or demolition results also show that our centralized risk assessments have to be work separately because this kind of waste material arises indecomplemented with a local assessment, in order to produce a pendently of production. sufficiently precise risk assessment. This is being carried out now. From the start of fiscal 2015 until the end of fiscal 2016, 18 % of our sites have implemented the water strategy. Waste Fiscal year Implementation of Water Strategy (in 1,000 metric tons) 2016 2015 Non-hazardous waste 365 340 Fiscal year Hazardous waste 27 26 2016 ¹ Construction waste 43 168 Percent implemented Water Strategy 18 Total 436 533 1 First reported year. For the last two years, water consumption without chemically Year-on-year, non-hazardous waste increased by 7 %. Hazardous unchanged cooling water has remained more or less stable and waste rose by 4 %. The sharp reduction in construction waste in only increased slightly by 3 %. If you take into account that 0.5 milfiscal 2016 is due to fewer construction activities. In total and inlion cubic meters of water usage can be attributed to our new cluding all waste types, we reduced the waste volumes of Siemens acquisition sites, the other Siemens sites have reduced their conby 18 % compared with fiscal 2015, although our total waste effisumption by 0.27 million cubic meters. ciency dropped to –3 % compared with our base year considering comparable revenue. This is mainly due to the restructuring of Divisions with the highest waste volumes and to increased metal Water consumption processing from large orders in another Division. Waste efficiency Fiscal year therefore went down slightly by 1 % in fiscal 2016. We were nev(in million cubic meters) 2016 2015 ertheless able to further reduce waste to landfill sites by 12 % comWater consumption 7.70 7.47 pared with the base year, underlining our zero landfill ambitions. Ground and surface water for cooling water purposes (returned to receiving water body chemically unchanged, but warmed) 21.86 20.73 Recycling Total 29.56 28.20 Fiscal year (in %, including construction waste) 2016 2015 Share of recycling in total waste 90 91 The waste recycling rate was 90 %, 1 % lower than in fiscal 2015. This change lies within the usual range of volatility and reflects only small shifts within waste fractions. 28 Facts and Figures Wastewater from manufacturing processes amounts to less than We calculate environmental efficiency on a portfolio-adjusted one million cubic meters. Volume-wise, our main water use is for basis equivalent to the adjustment used to calculate the compacooling processes, most of which is returned to the receiving warable revenue change as stated in the Annual Report. Revenue ter body with the same chemical water quality as when it was change in this context means the change of revenue from fiscal drawn from the environment. 2015 to fiscal 2016 excluding currency translations and portfolio effects. This portfolio adjustment procedure for revenue was used accordingly for the environmental efficiency parameters of Wastewater waste and energy as well as for the percentage of revenue covFiscal year ered by LCA and Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs). The (in million cubic meters) 2016 2015 approach therefore enables us to monitor and compare our enviWastewater from employee facilities 4.81 4.89 ronmental performance over time, regardless of acquisitions and Wastewater from manufacturing processes disposals from year to year, and closely relates environmental (­total) 0.89 0.75 performance to business performance. Other (incl. losses, ) 1.38 1.43 Conditioned cooling water discharged PRODUCT-RELATED ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION as wastewater 0.46 0.46 The Product Eco Excellence program aims to increase transparTotal waste water without chemically ­unchanged cooling water 7.54 7.53 ency with respect to environmental product information, responds Cooling water (returned to receiving water to market developments (e. g. legal and eco design requirements, body chemically unchanged, but warmed) 21.86 20.73 labeling, and product environmental footprint) and delivers added Total wastewater 29.40 28.26 value for the customer and our business. To this end, our program is focused on resource productivity by implementing a sustainable management approach over the entire lifecycle. Environment-related incidents and penalties Resource productivity starts with increasing awareness inside the In the year under review, we recorded 15 incidents classed as Company. To work satisfactorily on materials and components, being of environmentally minor relevance, 11 were oil or diesel we therefore use product environmental assessments and a methspillages, three were dust releases and one related to water hyodology to raise resource efficiency. giene. These are occurrences that have to be notified to the authorities – notifiable incidents – or that had an external impact By 2020 the “Product Eco Excellence” Program will on the environment. Total fines from penalties in the year under Implement automated data collection and processing for dereview were not significant. clarable substances to increase transparency on substances in our products. This is the prerequisite for further proactive subMethodology, reporting on environmental factors stitution activities to address future statutory requirements and collection of environmental data and customer demands. In fiscal 2016, we used our environmental information system to Improve the coverage of LCAs and EPDs as we consider the analyze 340 reports from sites in all relevant countries where availability of product-related environmental information bedefined threshold values were exceeded for parameters such as ing an important basis to meet customer needs vis-à-vis prodenergy use, resource consumption and emissions within the enuct environmental performance. vironmental management. To measure and monitor our environReduce critical materials being used in Siemens products, supmental impact, we use absolute values such as energy consumpported by a material assessment methodology. The overall tion in gigajoules. We report environmental data for continuing target of the program module is to reduce critical material operations. Extrapolation to 100 % was applied to reflect compurchasing volumes. plete consumptions in our figures. Overall, the extrapolation was only significant for water with 8 % and primary energy with 10 %. We monitor our environmental impact for all office and production sites of environmental relevance using environmental data gathered quarterly. Facts and Figures 29 Achievements in fiscal 2016 During the supplier qualification process, suppliers must commit Lifecycle assessments and environmental product declarations to declaring substances listed on the List of Declarable Substances (LoDS). These substance declaration requirements are mandatory Fiscal year for our suppliers and are included in procurement and project (percentage of revenue ¹ covered) 2016 2015 contracts. On this basis, suppliers must notify if product parts, Full-scale LCAs 65 63 components and / or compositions contain declarable substances Screening LCAs 46 44 and must disclose relevant details about these substances. As a EPD 65 66 systematic approach, it builds the foundations for our future automated data collection and processing with high data quality. 1 We consider the revenue of a Business Unit in relation to Siemens revenue once we have carried out at least one “Full-scale LCA,” “Screening LCA,” or “EPD” for their products or In order to establish an easy-to-use method, Siemens relies on an ­systems. No product-related coverage is calculated. internet-hosted database in which our suppliers declare the substances they use in their products. In 2016, we enhanced our tool With our product-related environmental program, we aim to into make quality-based judgments to prove the accuracy of the crease our LCA and EPD investigations in the future. supplier information provided. As statutory requirements on declarable substances are increasingly stringent, our system for Furthermore, the product-related environmental program is supdeclarable substances frequently takes into consideration the ported by the module for Critical Materials. Based on the EU Compossibility of enhancements. mission communication “Report on critical raw materials for the EU”, 20 critical raw materials were identified as supply-critical out Within Siemens, we aim to identify and reduce the environmenof 54 candidate materials. tal load of our products by using Full-Scale and Screening LCAs. Both approaches follow the requirements of ISO 14040 / 44. HowIn fiscal 2016, our critical material assessment methodology was ever, screening LCAs only cover a part of the entire lifecycle, e. g. transformed within a tool as an internal application to accomthe use phase that is of highest importance for our customers or modate the importance of the topic in our businesses. The tool represents changes in product design in comparison with the itself presents a variety of topics to component and product enpredecessor product generated. gineers to evaluate risks associated with critical materials (e. g. ecological or toxicological effects or possible future scarcity) and By continuously increasing the number of LCAs, we gain a comto support decisions for reducing or avoiding particular materials. prehensive knowledge base about the environmental footprint The purchasing volumes of the eight critical materials which are we create during the entire lifecycle. We therefore started to exassignable to the Siemens Business Units are analyzed via a Supply tend our lifecycle approach to also cover services of products Chain database. Compared with fiscal 2015, the current analysis placed on the market. Here, additive manufacturing is one of the of the SCM database shows a decrease in the purchasing rates of key technologies in service business, as demonstrated by the gas critical materials. turbine burner repair at Siemens Energy Management in Finspang (Sweden). At the same time, we use the insight gained from the LCAs to improve not only product-related but also process-related aspects, as well as to help optimize the internal production landscape. The current reporting period shows a continuously high coverage rate for business units with LCAs (Screening and Full-Scale) and EPDs. Compared with 2015, the revenue-based coverage ratio of EPDs shows a slight reduction of 1 %. Figures for fiscal 2015 have been adjusted to reflect changes in the composition of Business Units and therefore differ from last year ’s report. Nevertheless, in fiscal 2016, the absolute number of EPDs went up by 11 % compared with fiscal 2015. 30 Facts and Figures Compliance We actively support the enactment of the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the Anti-Bribery Convention of For Siemens, integrity means acting in accordance with our valthe Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ues – responsible, excellent and innovative – wherever we do (OECD), which – like the ten principles of the United Nations business. A key element of integrity is compliance: Adherence to Global Compact – provide important guidance for our entire orthe law and to our own internal regulations. We have zero tolerganization. At the end of 2013, our Chief Compliance Officer was ance for corruption and violations of the principles of fair com­ elected Chairman of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery / Corruption of petition, as well as for other violations of applicable law – and the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. Furwhere these do occur, we rigorously respond. thermore, he has been appointed Chairman of the B20 working group on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption durOur Business Conduct Guidelines describe how we fulfill our coming the German G20 presidency. We are also actively involved in pliance-related responsibilities. They are also an expression of our Global Compact. Our activities in the World Economic Forum invalues and lay the foundation for our own internal regulations. clude the Company’s participation in the Pact Against Corruption Our Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all employees Initiative. worldwide. COMPLIANCE PRIORITIES FOR FISCAL 2016 AND Our Compliance System aims to ensure that all our worldwide ACHIEVEMENTS business practices are in line with these guidelines and in compliOur compliance priorities provide the basis for the ongoing ance with all applicable laws. To serve this purpose and provide ­development and further improvement of our Compliance Systhe Company with reliable protection against compliance risks, tem. In this connection, we take into account and aim to fulfill our Compliance System has three pillars: Prevent, Detect and continuously evolving requirements in the compliance field, ­Respond. We are continuously working to further strengthen which reflect both our own work and the changing market condicompliance in our Company and to combat corruption together tions and compliance risks of our business activities. with other organizations (Collective Action). With effect from fiscal 2015, we defined the compliance priorities as illustrated and briefly described in the figure below. These priorities, which have also guided our activities in fiscal 2016, are supplemented by focus areas and activities for each fiscal year. Foster Integrity Support business management to meet its responsibilities for compliance and further strengthen the culture of integrity in our ­Company and beyond. Committed to Business liance Priorit Manage Risk & Assurance mp ies Co Further intensify cooperation between the Foster Continue providing our businesses with Compliance Organization and our businesses Integrity the appropriate level of assurance within and reinforce our Compliance System’s our Compliance System. Risk & ­market and customer focus. Committ e age Busine d to a n r an c e M Assu ss Ownership Culture Excellent Compliance Team Effective Processes Ex c Com elle e tiv Provide an excellent compliance team through p Te lian nt ec e s Continue to further optimize and streamline a first-class learning and development landam ce Eff cess our compliance processes. Pro scape and close collaboration. Vision 2020 Facts and Figures 31 Achievements in fiscal 2016 include the consolidation of most of Company as quickly as possible. As well as the CRA results, this the compliance-related company-wide internal regulations in one analysis of the overall Group-level compliance risks takes into accomprehensive circular and the start of the integration of scorecount, for example, the insights from compliance controls – the cards for gifts and hospitality into a new company-wide webongoing assessment of the operation of our compliance processes based application. to ensure their effectiveness – and the results of case-related investigations. In the area of compliance in project execution, we have worked on intensifying the identification of compliance risks on an on­ The corporate compliance risks are derived from these consoligoing basis together with further enhancing the collaboration dated results, which are then shared with the Company ’s busibetween our project managers and Compliance officers, for exnesses. As in the CRA process, relevant risks are reported to ample, through joint performance of structured compliance risk Siemens’ Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), and measures to assessments for the execution phase of projects. reduce the risks are drawn up and implemented. Using the potential of big data, we have introduced Business PartThe identification of compliance risks in individual Siemens entiner dashboards together with related analytics for better support ties worldwide (CRA) and the Group-level compliance risk analyof related risk management and monitoring of business partners. sis are complemented by an interdisciplinary exchange during the quarterly Compliance Risk Radar meeting. As a major component of the learning and development landscape for the Siemens Compliance Organization introduced in BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS fiscal 2015, the first internal certification of compliance profesCooperation with third parties such as sales agents, customs sionals has been successfully concluded. clearing agents, consultants, distributors and resellers is part of Company operations and often essential in order to reach certain COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT areas of the market. At the same time, however, the Company Our Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) process requires that CEOs may be liable for the actions of these third parties. and managers in the Company – together with the relevant Compliance Officers – systematically determine and assess the comOur mandatory process and tool for business partner compliance pliance risks to their units on a regular basis. due diligence is designed to help all Siemens entities conduct risk-­ based integrity checks of business partners. Transparent and riskSince fiscal 2014, the CRA has been performed in two different oriented decisions about a business partner relationship are based ways: on high-quality compliance due diligence and – depending on the risk level – audits of the business partners conducted by the In even-numbered years, the CRA process is performed for ’top-­ Siemens audit function or professional external service providers. risk’ countries in order to complement the analysis at Lead Country / Division level and in Healthineers with in-depth risk The management of each Siemens unit is responsible for the assessments for selected countries. We identify these coununit’s use of business partners. This means that business partners tries in advance based on an analysis of external and internal must be carefully selected and appropriately monitored and mancompliance risks. aged throughout the course of a business relationship. In odd-numbered years (starting in fiscal 2015), the CRA ­process is performed at Lead Country / Division level and in As previously reported, we have introduced a common code of Healthineers. conduct that both suppliers and business partners have had to contractually commit to comply with since fiscal 2015. It has reAs previously reported, in fiscal 2015, the CRA was performed for placed the previous ’Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers’. Prior the Divisions, Healthineers and Lead Countries. Accordingly, in to the introduction of the new code of conduct, our business fiscal 2016, the CRA was performed for ’top-risk’ countries identipartners were obliged by the binding contract provisions to comfied as described above. The CRA results have been incorporated ply with principles of the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines. into the Group-level compliance risk analysis, which aims to determine systematic and globally recurring compliance risks to the 32 Facts and Figures COMPLIANCE TRAINING AND COMPLIANCE COMPLIANCE INDICATORS PERCEPTION One focus of our preventive measures under the Compliance System is to provide compliance training to all managers and employCompliance indicators 1 ees who hold positions with a particular risk profile. In accordance Fiscal year with the company-wide binding definition of these “sensitive 2016 2015 functions”, the Compliance Officers of the relevant company units Compliance cases reported 675 568 identify the managers and employees whose participation is reDisciplinary sanctions 233 208 quired and ensure that they attend the training sessions. They therein warnings 112 116 monitor and confirm the fulfillment of these requirements at therein dismissals 96 79 regular intervals. therein other 2 25 13 Our company-wide compliance training portfolio consists of in1 Continuing and discontinued operations. person and web-based training programs. The in-person training 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and suspension. programs also provide our employees with an opportunity to discuss correct behavior based on day-to-day work examples. The The “Tell us” whistleblowing system and the Company’s ombudsthird element of our compliance training portfolio is the annual man are two secure reporting channels that can be used by our Integrity Dialog to maintain an ongoing and high awareness of employees and external stakeholders to report violations of exintegrity and compliance topics at Siemens. The Dialog, which is ternal and internal rules. Reports to these channels are passed on conducted across the entire Company, serves as a forum for manto our Compliance Organization. Possible misconduct may also agers to discuss recent compliance matters with their employees. be reported directly via the Managing Board or supervisors to the Compliance Organization and, in particular, to the Compliance The assessment and analysis of compliance risks for the operatOfficers in our individual company units. Our employees regularly ing units and at Group level offers important indicators that help make use of this reporting channel. In fiscal 2016, the total numus develop and define the focus of our training activities, in­ ber of compliance cases requiring further inquiries or investigacluding the selection of themed modules for the annual events tions reported via all the above-mentioned reporting channels held in conjunction with the Integrity Dialog. Our operating units was 675. We believe that the increase from fiscal 2015 (568) is ­address specific challenges by enhancing their training activities within the normal range of variation. with additional topics from their own businesses or by extending the mandatory target groups for specific compliance training The total number of disciplinary sanctions for compliance viola­programs in their units. In this way, our training activities reflect tions in fiscal 2016 was 233 (fiscal 2015: 208). The disciplinary both Siemens-wide topics and the key topics specific to the opersanctions reported in a specific fiscal year do not all relate to the ating units. compliance cases reported in the same period: Disciplinary sanctions are frequently not implemented in the year in which a case We conduct regular surveys to gauge how Siemens employees was reported. This is due to the fact that a reported compliance perceive the topic of compliance. Since fiscal 2010, this has been case has to undergo the Company’s entire internal case handling an integral component of the company-wide Siemens Global Enprocess, from the mandating and performing of an internal ingagement Survey. As previously reported, the survey was carried vestigation to the documentation of its results in an investigation out in fiscal 2015. We consider the results as an indication of the report that will form the basis for related disciplinary sanctions continued positive compliance perception of our employees. The and remediation measures. next survey is planned for fiscal 2017. Furthermore, a single reported compliance case may, for instance, result in several disciplinary sanctions or in no disciplinary sanctions at all – because, for example, the employee concerned has left the company for some other reason in the meantime. Therefore, here too, it is not possible to establish a direct correlation between the number of reported compliance cases and the number and type of disciplinary sanctions implemented in a given reporting period. Facts and Figures 33 In our view, the detected compliance violations in our Company Within the first funding round – based upon the settlement with in the past fiscal year demonstrate once again that our Complithe World Bank – 31 projects were funded with a total contractual ance System has been properly designed and is being effectively funding volume of US$ 37.7 million. implemented. Based on the nature of our businesses and the environment and regional areas we work in, we do not regard the The second funding round was announced on June 27, 2013, and number of such incidents as unusual. the deadline for applications was August 29, 2013. We selected projects which are to receive approximately US$ 35.6 million of EXTERNAL REVIEW OF SIEMENS COMPLIANCE total funding over a period of three to five years. Related funding As previously reported, Siemens has retained the law firm Gibson, contracts were concluded by the end of fiscal 2015. Dunn & Crutcher LLP (“Gibson Dunn”) to conduct an independent review and assessment of the implementation and operative efOur compliance priorities described above will further guide us fectiveness of Siemens’ anti-corruption policies, procedures, and and are specified by focus areas for fiscal 2017. internal controls. Gibson Dunn summarized the scope, methodology, and results of its review in a report issued to the Company Measures planned for fiscal 2017 include the comprehensive redated November 15, 2015. See Sustainability Information 2015 for view and optimization of compliance training programs for our further details. employees, further improvements of our business partner due diligence and the start of the third funding round of the Siemens COLLECTIVE ACTION AND SIEMENS INTEGRITY Integrity Initiative. INITIATIVE If substantial progress is to be made in combating corruption and The effectiveness of compliance at Siemens is based on the global fostering fair competition, as many stakeholders as possible must governance of our Compliance Organization and clear-cut reportact collectively. That is why we have joined forces with other ing lines and close cooperation between our Compliance Officers ­organizations to fight corruption and promote ethical markets around the world and our company units. The other pillar of our through Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity Initiative. Compliance System – with its three action levels of Prevent, Detect and Respond – is the requirement that all Siemens managers The global Siemens Integrity Initiative was launched by Siemens assume personal responsibility for compliance in their respective on December 9, 2009. It earmarks more than US$ 100 million to units. support organizations and projects fighting corruption and fraud through Collective Action, education and training. The initiative We will continue to further develop our compliance system in focuses on supporting projects that have a clear impact on the order to adapt it to evolving requirements in the field of complibusiness environment, can demonstrate objective and measurance. Our overall aim remains unchanged: We want to anchor able results, and have the potential to be scaled up and repliintegrity permanently throughout our company in order to ensure cated. The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes one element of sound business decisions based on clear principles of integrity. the July 2009 settlement between Siemens and the World Bank and the March 2013 settlement between Siemens and the EuroFURTHER INFORMATION AND LEGAL pean Investment Bank (EIB). PROCEEDINGS For further information, please refer to: COMPLIANCE RISKS ON PAGES 30–32 in A. COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT AND NOTE 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ON PAGES 84 F in B.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN THE SIEMENS ANNUAL REPORT 2016. 34 Facts and Figures Corporate citizenship These three pillars form the basis of our Corporate Citizenship Framework. Corporate Citizenship has been an integral part of Siemens since our inception in 1847. While doing business in almost every counIn fiscal 2016, we donated € 22.8 million globally, reflecting a detry in the world, Siemens is deeply anchored in the societies in crease of approximately 14 % compared to the previous fiscal year. which we operate in aiming to contribute to their sustainable development. Corporate Citizenship is Siemens’ external, voluntary community engagement. The aim is to advance societies Donations by making our technology, our skills, our infrastructure and our Fiscal year knowledge accessible to more people around the world. We strive (in millions of €; in %) 2016 2015 to create shared value for society, while at the same time strengthTotal 22.8 26.6 ening our business. These activities can take on a variety of forms Share of net profit 0.4 % 0.5 % ranging from philanthropic disaster relief to more strategic shared value or inclusive business approaches like our mobile clinics in India. Donations by category Within our global Corporate Citizenship Framework, responsibility Fiscal year for choosing and carrying out charitable and socially innovative (in millions of €) 2016 2015 activities lies with the local units in each country. This ensures Education and science 16.0 16.1 that we provide support where it is needed most. We generate Social 4.6 6.2 business benefit by supporting local entities that are responsible Environment 0.1 0.1 for initiating Corporate Citizenship activities. We seek to generate Arts and culture 2.2 4.2 shared value while applying high management standards. Total 22.8 26.6 Our local engagement includes projects initiated by Siemens, monetary or in-kind donations to partners, the contribution of our knowledge, and employee volunteering. Donations by region Our citizenship commitment is driven by external global goals Fiscal year such as the UN Sustainability Development Goals and is based on (in millions of €) 2016 2015 our business strategy, core competencies and our Corporate CitiEurope, C.I.S.,¹ Africa, Middle East 10.2 14.8 zenship Principles. Referring to this we have defined three stratherein Germany 7.0 11.5 tegic focus areas of our Corporate Citizenship activities: Americas 10.1 9.3 Asia, Australia 2.5 2.5 Access to Technology: We provide shared value through acTotal 22.8 26.6 cess to our core competencies in digitalization, automation, electrification and scientific research. 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Access to Education: We provide our knowledge to a broader audience, especially in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) studies, and enable thought leadership. We support educational and research activities, particularly in natural sciences, engineering and heathcare. Sustaining Communities: We strive to improve people’s living conditions. We therefore focus on social, cultural and educational contributions to the society. Our cultural commitment is also part of our self-conception as a responsible corporation that preserves values, generates creativity and provides inspiration for progress. In addition, we provide urgent humanitarian relief, including financial and technical assistance after natural disasters. Facts and Figures 35 Annex Reporting method DATA COLLECTION Given Siemens’ size and global spread, gathering data poses a Sustainability is a fundamental principle for us, guiding our very major logistical challenge. Moreover, our companies throughout actions. Our “Sustainability Information 2016” supplements our the world are required to comply with local regulations concernfinancial reporting in fiscal 2016. The reporting method provides ing the compilation and definition of performance figures, which details of the underlying key elements on which our sustainabilmeans that the data generated is not always comparable. Where ity reporting is based. applicable, we point out any significant limitations in the information presented in the Report. As a rule, no company-wide REPORTING APPROACH standards exist for the information published in the Report. This The “Sustainability Information 2016” (“the Report”) describes the applies in particular to specific financial figures, including, for strategy, organization, initiatives and goals for ensuring sustainexample, the revenue attributable to the Environmental Portfolio. ability. It supplements our financial reporting in the Annual ReAs a result, these figures may not be comparable with the data port, following on from last year ’s reporting. It also serves as our published under the same or similar designations by other comannual progress report on implementing the United Nations CEO panies. The data published in this Report is collected through Water Mandate and sums up our performance with regards to the various internal reporting systems which, for the most part, are 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Furtherdifferent from those applicable for the financial information premore, our Report is guided by the G4 Sustainability Reporting sented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In particular, the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the recomstandards and controls applied and the computer systems used mendations of the Global Compact and Transparency Internaduring the preparation of the data may be less comprehensive in tional regarding anticorruption reporting. All key performance comparison. We reserve the right to change our internal guideindicators of the Environmental Portfolio are reported according lines regarding the inclusion of data in the Report without prior to the “Environment Portfolio Reporting Principles” included in announcement. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughthe Annex. out this Report may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. REVIEW PERIOD AND REPORT BOUNDARIES This Report is based on activities carried out during Siemens’ fisINDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REVIEW cal 2016 (October 1, 2015 – September 30, 2016). Any exceptions We prepared our Report to high quality standards. Consequently, are indicated as such. In general, our fully consolidated compaas in previous years, we again commissioned an independent nies are all covered by the Report. Here, too, possible exceptions accounting firm to conduct a limited assurance of the “Sustainregarding the pool of data used are indicated. Minority equity ability at Siemens” and “Facts and figures” chapters of this Report. investments are not included in our reporting. You can find the results of the assurance by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the Annex. The indicators and information reported below relate to the Company’s continuing operations, unless indicated otherwise. In order to ensure comparability of the details, those for the previous year were adjusted accordingly with any exceptions duly indicated. Annex 37 Environmental Portfolio Our Environmental Portfolio elements are typically long-lasting ­reporting principles products (e. g. motors) or infrastructure elements (power plants, trains) that contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions not only in the reporting year but for many years. We thereENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO ­GUIDELINE fore also calculate the accumulated annual customer reductions As there are currently no accepted international standards adof carbon dioxide emissions. The accumulated annual emission dressing the identification and reporting of “green” products, we reductions are calculated as customer reductions of carbon dioxreport the revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the acide emissions generated by Environmental Portfolio elements incumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emisstalled in the current reporting period (see above) plus those elesions generated by it in accordance with internal regulations dements installed since the beginning of fiscal 2002 that are still in fined in our Environmental Portfolio Guideline. use at the customer. If elements installed in previous reporting periods are no longer in use, they are no longer taken into conThis Guideline sets out criteria and processes for the qualification sideration when calculating the accumulated annual customer of elements for the Environmental Portfolio, defines roles and rereductions of carbon dioxide emissions in the respective reportsponsibilities as well as processes to account for annual customer ing period. reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and refers to financial reporting guidelines for recognition of revenue. It is based on the For the Environmental Portfolio elements installed in a given reReporting Principles set forth in “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting period, we consider the reductions of carbon dioxide porting Standard – Revised Edition” and “GHG Protocol for Project emissions for the entire reporting period, irrespective of the acAccounting” issued by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. tual date of installation during the year of first time recognition. These principles are relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency, accuracy and conservativeness. Revenue generated by GOVERNANCE – PROCESSES AND ­D EFINITIONS the Environmental Portfolio is recognized in accordance with The qualification of our Environmental Portfolio elements as well revenue recognition policies as described in NOTE 2 in B.6 as the respective reporting is based on clearly defined processes NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN THE ANNUAL REand criteria. PORT OF THE SIEMENS GROUP (“SIEMENS”) AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2016 . In principle, products, systems, solutions and services of operating SCOPE OF REPORTING units (Divisions and separately managed business Healthineers To date, the Environmental Portfolio-related key performance inof the Siemens Group) may qualify for the Environmental Portfodicators are revenue and customer reductions of carbon dioxide lio. The entire Siemens business portfolio is reviewed on an anemissions generated by elements from the Siemens Environmennual basis to ensure the appropriate qualification of Environmental Portfolio. tal Portfolio elements based on the criteria described hereafter. This covers the inclusion of newly developed elements as well as Carbon dioxide emission reductions at our customers are calcuthe integration of additionally qualified elements where evidence lated based on comparing the Environmental Portfolio element of fulfillment of the qualification criteria was not available in prior (e. g. a combined cycle power plant and the related carbon dioxreporting periods. For additionally qualified Environmental Portide emissions per kilowatt hour) with a reference solution (e. g. a folio elements, we report their prior-year revenue and prior-year global average grid factor for power production). The annual recontribution to the accumulated annual customer reduction of duction of carbon dioxide in the reporting year is calculated based carbon dioxide emissions on a comparable basis. Elements that on technical parameters (e. g. the installed capacity in giga­watts no longer fulfill our qualification criteria are excluded from our in the reporting year or load hours). For all Environmental PortEnvironmental Portfolio; prior periods are not adjusted. folio elements sold in a reporting year, the annual reductions are added up to calculate the annual carbon dioxide emissions reducPrior to inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, potential new tions at our customers at the end of that year. Environmental Portfolio elements have to undergo a multilevel internal evaluation process which includes reviews in the respective Siemens divisions as well as a review in the Sustainability department. 38 Annex Within this process, Siemens verifies the completeness of docuService types are differentiated between “product-related service” mentation supporting the fulfillment of the qualification criteria. and “value-add service”. In cases in which a Siemens product, Furthermore, Siemens considers whether or not significant “adsystem or solution qualifies as an Environmental Portfolio eleverse effects” exist. Adverse effects describe the situation that a ment, the revenue, and if applicable, the annual customer reducpotential Environmental Portfolio element, despite fulfilling the tion of carbon dioxide emissions of the “product-related service” qualification criteria, might cause considerably higher environshall generally be accounted for and reported on in line with the mental effects elsewhere in the element’s lifecycle. If material related Environmental Portfolio element. In cases of “value-add adverse effects are known, the element is not included in the services” the revenue and, if applicable, the annual customer reEnvironmental Portfolio. duction of carbon dioxide emissions shall be accounted for and reported on only if the service itself qualifies as an Environmental If the revenue related to an Environmental Portfolio element canPortfolio element by meeting one of the selection criteria as denot be accurately separated from our total revenue, the respecfined below. tive revenue will not be accounted for and reported due to the principle of conservativeness. In fiscal 2016, revenue and carbon To qualify for inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, an eledioxide emission reductions at our customers generated with the ment must meet one of the following selection criteria. Products, in 2015 acquired business of Dresser-Rand Group Inc. (Dressersystems, solutions and services with planned application in miliRand), a supplier for the oil and gas industry, has not been intary use or nuclear power are not included in the Environmental cluded in the Environmental Portfolio due to the fact that the Portfolio. evaluation process of the portfolio has not been finalized yet. Energy efficiency The Siemens Sustainability Board chaired by Siemens Managing The criterion for energy efficiency is an improvement in energy Board member and Chief Sustainability Officer Roland Busch anefficiency of 20 % or more during the customer use phase comnually acknowledges changes in the composition of the Environpared to the applicable baseline, or a reduction of at least 100,000 mental Portfolio. Another task of the Sustainability Board is to metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents per reporting period in discuss potential concerns of stakeholders with regard to the inthe customer use phase compared to the applicable baseline. If clusion or deletion of certain technologies in the Environmental an energy efficiency increase can only be reasonably defined as Portfolio. reduction of dissipation losses (e. g. as defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards for energy efCRITERIA FOR INCLUDING ELEMENTS IN THE ficiency classification of motors), a 20 % reduction of dissipation ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO loss would also qualify products for our Environmental Portfolio. An Environmental Portfolio element can be a product, a system, a solution or a service as defined above. Examples of products and systems meeting the above mentioned energy efficiency criterion are combined cycle power plants, intelIf all products, systems, solutions or services of a Siemens’ orga­ ligent building technology systems (both reduce carbon dioxide nizational unit meet one of the selection criteria, this unit may be emissions by at least 100,000 metric tons per reporting period) considered as an Environmental Portfolio element as a whole. or ELFA Hybrid Drives for buses (20 % efficiency improvement). Furthermore, a core component of a system or solution may qualRenewable energy ify as an Environmental Portfolio element, if the component proThis criterion covers technologies in the field of renewable envided by Siemens is key to enabling environmental benefits reergy sources or smart grid¹ applications and their respective core sulting from the system’s or solution’s overall application. This components. The scope of the renewable energy criterion is power means that the environmental functionality of the overall system generation and heat generation from, for example wind power or solution cannot be achieved without the component provided (onshore and offshore), hydroelectricity or biomass. by Siemens. Examples of core components qualifying as elements of the Siemens Environmental Portfolio are gear boxes for wind Examples of the respective Environmental Portfolio elements are turbines or thyristor valves for high-voltage direct current (HVDC) wind turbines as well as core components such as gearboxes for power transmission systems. wind turbines. 1  ccording to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) – Smart Grid Interoperability A Standards Project (USA), the term smart grid, “refers to a modernization of the electricity delivery systems so it monitors, protects and automatically optimizes the operation of its interconnected elements – from the central and distributed generation through the high-voltage transmission net­work and the distribution system, to industrial users and building automation systems, to energy storage installations and to end-use consumers and their thermostats, electric vehicles, appliances and other household devices.” Annex 39 DETERMINING THE REFERENCE SOLUTION – When calculating emission reductions compared to the baseline, BASELINE METHODS we consider either direct savings (e. g. by power plants or efficient Energy efficiency and annual customer reduction of carbon dioxmotors) or the indirect effects that occur when different products ide are all assessed by carrying out a comparison with a reference in a system interact and create emission reductions (e. g. composolution (baseline). There are three different options for the refnents for building automation). If Siemens only delivers core comerence solution: before-and-after comparison, direct-comparison ponents but not the entire system, annual customer reduction of with a reference technology or comparison with the installed base. carbon dioxide emissions will only be calculated for these parts. The final decision as to which baseline is used is taken by the respective Division within Siemens based on the following options: The baselines are reviewed annually and, if necessary adjusted, such as when statistical data on the installed base is updated Before-and-after comparison because of technical innovations or regulatory changes. A before-and-after comparison refers to the difference between an initial situation at the customer and the situation after instalThe calculation of the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions is lation of a Siemens product, system, solution or service. A before-­ based on a specific comparison for every relevant Environmental and-after comparison implies the presence of a preexisting prodPortfolio element with a baseline. For this calculation, we focus uct, system, solution or service at the customer, the characteristics on those elements that have a material impact on the overall carof which are improved or substituted by the employment of a bon dioxide emissions reduction. Siemens product, system, solution or service. This comparison may be applied, for example, in cases in which a Siemens prodEMISSION FACTORS FOR CALCULATING THE uct, system, solution or service modernizes a power plant or opANNUAL REDUCTION OF CARBON DIOXIDE timizes the energy consumption of a building. EMISSIONS For some emission reduction calculations, the baseline reference Direct comparison with a reference technology for the installed base is determined using known global emission Direct comparison with a reference technology refers to the diffactors such as those for power production. The baselines used ference between the Siemens product, system, solution or serfor our calculations are mainly based on data from the Internavice and either an appropriate single other technology or a pretional Energy Agency (IEA) for gross power production and for decessor. Direct comparison with a reference technology implies grid losses, on data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate the existence of one alternative or predecessor product, system, Change (IPCC) for fuel-based emission factors, and our own assolution or service in the market which is employed for the same sessments of power production efficiency. or a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, for example, by using low-loss high-voltage direct current (HVDC) power transmission in comparison to conventional alternating current power transmission. Comparison with an installed base Comparison with an installed base refers to the difference between the Siemens product, system, solution or service and an average of several installations employed for the same or a similar purpose. Comparison with an installed base implies the existence of global or regional average data on several installed products, systems, solutions or services employed for the same or a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, for example, to combined cycle power plants (CCPP) by drawing a comparison with the average global greenhouse gas emissions factor for electricity generation. 40 Annex Most relevant emissions factors applied in fiscal 2016 are: Emission factors for CO2 abatement calculation Emission factor Basis for comparison of Environmental ­Portfolio ­elements Category (g/kWh) (g CO2/kWh) Global power generation all primary energy carriers 576 Power ­generation Global power generation fossil energy carriers 854 Renewables Utilization of electricity (including transmission losses) 624 All types of utilization of electricity apart from trains Source: IEA (IEA World Energy Outlook 2015) 1, own calculations 1 Emission factors were updated to IEA World Energy Outlook 2015 (prior year: IEA World Energy Outlook 2014). For consistency reasons, we generally apply global emission facREPORTING ESTIMATES tors for calculating emission reductions unless specific conditions To date, there is no applicable international standard that applies of a solution require application of local emission factors. For across companies for qualifying products, systems, solutions and the calculation of annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide services for environmental and climate protection, or for compilemissions e. g. for wind turbines, we apply the emission factor ing and calculating the respective revenue and the quantity of 854 g / kWh of global fossil power production as the baseline. reduced carbon dioxide emissions attributable to such products, systems, solutions and services. Generally, our approach includes all greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto-Protocol. However, for power production and elecThus, the inclusion of elements in the Environmental Portfolio is trical applications, we consider the only relevant greenhouse gas based on criteria, methodologies and assumptions that other comto be carbon dioxide. If other greenhouse gases occur in technipanies and other stakeholders may view differently. Factors that cal applications, they are included in our calculations. may cause differences, among others, are: choice of applicable baseline methodology, application of global emission factors that For some Environmental Portfolio elements, we do not know the may be different from local conditions, use patterns at customers detailed parameters of use at our customers. We therefore apply that may be different from standard use patterns used for carbon internal and external expert estimates for these, following the dioxide emission reduction calculations, assessment of the life principle of conservativeness. span of the Environmental Portfolio elements, internal assessments of our own power production efficiency factors, share of a core component and expert estimates if no other data is available. Accordingly, revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be comparable with similar information reported by other companies. We report the annual carbon dioxide emissions reduction in the period of installation of the Environmental Port­ folio element. The period of installation will be determined by milestones or based on estimated construction periods. This may differ from the timing of revenue recognition. Furthermore, we subject revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions to internal documentation and review requirements which are less sophisticated than those applicable for our financial information. We may change our policies for recognizing revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future without prior notice. Annex 41 GRI G4 key aspects and boundaries Siemens principles, boundaries and key aspects Internal External No 1. Profit ­Boundaries ­Boundaries GRI G4 Aspects 1.1 We contribute to our customers’ ­competitiveness Customers Economic: Economic Performance with our products, ­solutions and services. 1.2 We partner with our customers to ­identify and develown Customers Economic: Economic Performance op sustainability related ­business opportunities. ­operations 1.3 We operate an efficient & resilient supply chain own Suppliers Economic: Procurement practices through supplier code of conduct, risk management, ­operations Environmental: Supplier environmental assessment; and capacity building. Grievance mechanism (environmental) Labor practices: Supplier assessment for labor ­practices; Grievance mechanism (labor practices) Human rights: Supplier human rights assessments; Grievance mechanism (human rights) Society: Supplier assessment (for impact on society); Grievance mechanism (for impacts on society) 1.4 We proactively engage with our stakeholders to manown Customers, Economic: Economic performance; Indirect age project and reputational risks and identify busi­operations Suppliers, ­Economic Impacts ness relevant trends. ­Society 1.5 We adhere to the highest compliance & anti-­ own Customers, Environmental: Compliance; Grievance corruption standards and promote integrity via the ­operations Suppliers, ­mechanism (environmental) Siemens Integrity Initiative. ­Society Labor practices: Grievance mechanism (­labor ­practices) Human rights: Forced or Compulsory Labor; Grievance mechanism (human rights) Society: Anti-Corruption, Anti-competitive behavior; Grievance mechanism (for Impacts on society) Product responsibility: Compliance 2. Planet 2.1. We enable our customers to increase energy Customers Environmental: Energy, Emissions ­efficiency, save resources and reduce carbon ­emissions. 2.2 We develop our products, solutions and services own Customers Environmental: Product and Services based on a life-cycle perspective and sound eco-­ ­operations Product Responsibility: Product responsibility design standards. and service labelling 2.3 We minimize the environmental impacts of our own own Society Environmental: Materials; Energy; Water; Emissions; operations by applying environmental management ­operations Effluents and Waste; Transport programs and aim to become carbon neutral by 2030. 3. People 3.1 We contribute to the sustainable development Society Economic: Indirect economic impacts of ­societies with our portfolio, local operations, and Society: Local communities thought leadership. 3.2 We foster long-term relationships with local societies own Society Economic: Indirect economic impacts through Corporate Citizenship projects jointly with ­operations Society: Local communities partners. 3.3 We live a zero-harm culture and promote the health own Suppliers Labor practices: Occupational health and safety of our employees. ­operations 3.4 We live a culture of leadership based on common own Economic: Market Presence ­values, innovation mindset, people orientation ­operations Labor practices: Employment; Training & Education; and diversity. Diversity and equal opportunity;Equal remuneration for women and men; Non discrimination The detailed GRI G4 Index – Comprehensive Option 42 Annex is available at our Sustainabiltiy website United Nations Global Compact Siemens has been member of the UN Global Compact since 2003 and is committed to upholding the Compact’s ten principles. Our “Sustainability Information 2016”, our online Communication on Progress at the UN Global Compact webpage and the following report index, describes the progress we have made during fiscal 2016. Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 1 Our Siemens Business Conduct Our Code of Conduct (CoC) In the year under review, the number Support of Guidelines (BCG) provide the for Siemens suppliers and third of sustainability self-assessments human rights ethical and legal framework within party intermediaries includes ­added up to 4,218. We conducted 948 we ­conduct our b ­ usiness activities. besides other: supplier quality audits with integrated Principle 2 They contain our ­basic principles respect for basic rights of employees sustainability questions and 317 Exclusion of human rights and rules for our conduct internally strong “health and safety” ­external sustainability audits. In the abuses and externally, for example on environmental protection external sustainability audits, we human rights core labor standards. zero tolerance on bribery and ­identified a total of 7,068 potential Principle 3 The BCG are mandatory for all ­anti-corruption improvements. Serious deviations Assurance of Siemens entities worldwide. such in ­areas of “health and safety for freedom With our Code of Conduct (CoC) SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ­employees” were identified at eight of association for Siemens suppliers we ensure THIS REPORT, PAGE 20 suppliers but were corrected by the Principle 4 that these basic rights and principles set deadline. Elimination of are also observed in our supply chain. We have implemented the tightened all forms process of the “Central Warning of forced labor Human Rights Risk assessment ­Message” which ensures a faster principles are is integral part of and more effective reaction to major Principle 5 our project management and breaches of the Code of Conduct Abolition of risk management systems. child labor requirements. SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT THIS REPORT PAGE 6 THIS REPORT, PAGE 20 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT THIS REPORT, PAGE 20 Principle 6 We do not tolerate discrimination Our global diversity networks promote Internationality of our workforce is Elimination of and have anchored that in the and discuss diversity topics across reflected in more than 170 different discrimination ­Siemens Business Conduct Guidethe Company. These groups and pronational working at Siemens. lines. We actively foster diversity grams include the Global Leadership within the Company by creating a Organization of Women (GLOW), EMPLOYEES working environment that is open ­Diversity Ambassador and GENE, our THIS REPORT, PAGE 12 to all people, independent of their generation’s network to foster crosscultural background, heritage, generation exchange. In addition, we ­ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender have over 140 local employee netidentity and individual gender exworks worldwide with employees pressions. We are amongst signatories ­actively engaged in diversity-related of the “Charta der Vielfalt”. programs and activities. The success of all measures is assessed annually EMPLOYEES in the diversity scorecard. THIS REPORT, PAGE 12 Diversity focus areas are: Consciously addressing Unconscious Bias Promoting Gender Balance Fostering the value of Globality Encouraging Diversity & Inclusiveness EMPLOYEES THIS REPORT, PAGE 12 Annex 43 Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Women In fiscal 2016 we signed the CEO We encourage the use of the Women In the year under review, women Empowerment Statement to underline our commitEmpowerment Principles as guide ­accounted for 23 % of our total workment to the Women Empowerment posts for actions that advance and force. The proportion of female Principles of the UN Global Compact. empower women in the workplace, ­employees in management positions marketplace and community, and at Siemens has risen continuously SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS communicate progress through the in recent years and is now 15.6 %. THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 use of sex-disaggregated data and In fiscal 2016 women hired amountother benchmarks. ed 25 % of all new hires. EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES THIS REPORT, PAGE 12 THIS REPORT, PAGE 12 Principle 7 Siemens has an EHS management Our programs “Serve the EnvironIn fiscal 2016, we reduced our CO2 Precautionary ­system in place to manage its enviment” (StE)” , “CO2 neutral Siemens” emissions by 400,000 tons CO2 comapproach to ronmental performance. All relevant and “Product Eco Excellence” address pared to the baseline in fiscal 2014 environmental relevant production and office sites all our material environmental and thus we are well on track to protection are obliged to implement an environ­impacts for industrial environmental achieve our interim goal of 50 % remental management ­system which protection and product-related enviduction by 2020. In the year under fulfills the requirements of the interronmental protection respectively. review, we already launched 11 enernationally recognized ISO 14001 gy efficiency projects with a total standard as well as our own internal Starting with fiscal 2016, we ­disclose ­investment ­volume of € 32 mio. Furstandard “Specifications on environour Scope 3 upstream emissions thermore, in June 2016 Siemens mentally compatible ­product and caused by purchased products and moved into its new headquarter. system design”. services. The new building consumes 90 % less primary energy than its predecessor, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS has a solar PV installation that covers THIS REPORT, PAGE 25 THIS REPORT, PAGE 8 ~30 % of its electricity demand and achieved the highest level of “green” ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION building certification “LEED Platinum”. THIS REPORT, PAGE 25 SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS THIS REPORT, PAGE 8 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION THIS REPORT, PAGE 25 Principle 8 Raising our employees’ awareness of Siemens maintains a global environIn the year under review, we donated Specific initiatives environmental and climate protection mental communications network around € 22.8 million for corporate to promote is an element of both our environto ensure that knowledge about citizenship activities, of which environmental mental strategy and our social com­environmental management, meth€ 16 million went to education and protection mitment. With internal communi­ ods, solutions and experiences is science and € 0.1 million to environcations measures and our corporate communicated across locations, mental activities. We continue to citizenship focus on “environmental,” ­businesses and national borders. support the “WEF Climate CEO” and we help create a greater sense of the “We mean business” initiatives ­responsibility for ecological issues. For years, we are an engaged memand Siemens took part at the Conferber of One Young World, the World ence of Parties (COP 21) in Paris in SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS Business Council for Sustainable November 2015. where we promoted THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 ­Development (WBCSD) and the World Siemens contribution to mitigate Economic Forum. ­climate change. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP THIS REPORT, PAGE 35 SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS This year 50 delegates from Siemens THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 participated in the One Young World conference in Ottowa. SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS THIS REPORT, PAGE 10 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP THIS REPORT, PAGE 35 44 Annex Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 9 As part of our Environmental PortfoWe continuously review our portfolio In the year under review, our Environ­ Development and lio, we develop and market products, with regards to newly developed mental Portfolio helped our customdiffusion of solutions and services that enable or acquired portfolio elements that ers and partners throughout the environmentally our customers to reduce their CO2 qualify as Environmental Portfolio world reduce their CO2 emissions by friendly technologies emissions, lower lifecycle costs and ­elements or exclude elements that 60 million metric tons. protect the environment. no longer fulfill our qualifications ­criteria. SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS SIEMENS ENVIRONMENTAL THIS REPORT, PAGE 8 ­P ORTFOLIO SIEMENS ENVIRONMENTAL SIEMENS ENVIRONMENTAL THIS REPORT, PAGE 24 ­P ORTFOLIO ­P ORTFOLIO THIS REPORT, PAGE 24 THIS REPORT, PAGE 24 Principle 10 The Siemens Business Conduct In fiscal 2015, we defined our compliAchievements in fiscal 2016: Measures against Guidelines (BCG) provide the ethical ance priorities: Consolidated the most compliance corruption and legal framework within which Foster Integrity related company-wide internal we conduct our business activities. Manage Risk and Assurance ­regulation in one comprehensive Our compliance system aims to enEffective Processes circular and the start of the intesure that all our worldwide business Excellent Compliance Team gration of scorecards for gifts and practices remain within this frameCommitted to Business hospitality into a new companywork as well as in compliance with wide web-based application. applicable laws. We have zero tolerThese priorities have also guided our Start using Big Data, through Busiance for corruption and violations activities in fiscal 2016 and are suppleness Partner dashboards together of the principles of fair competition – mented by focus areas and activities. with related analytics for better and where these do occur, we rigorsupport of related risk manageously respond. Our compliance We actively support the enactment ment and monitoring of business ­system has three pillars: Prevent, of the UN Convention against Corpartners. ­Detect, Respond. ruption and the OECD Convention on Intensified the identification of Combating Bribery. Our Chief Com­ compliance risks and further COMPLIANCE pliance Officer has been appointed ­enhanced the collaboration beTHIS REPORT, PAGE 31 Chairman of the B20 Cross-­thematic tween our project managers and Group on Responsible Business ConCompliance officers, e g. by duct and Anti-Corruption during the joint performance of structured German G20 presidency 2016/2017. compliance risk assessments for Activities in the World Economic the execution phase of projects. ­Forum include the Company’s participation in the Partnering Against In fiscal 2016 the total number of ­Corruption Initiative (PACI). compliance cases were 675. COMPLIANCE COMPLIANCE THIS REPORT, PAGE 31 THIS REPORT, PAGE 31 Annex 45 United Nations Water Mandate Water re-use in United Kingdom During the repair of a leaking drain at the site in Sudbury, the PROGRESS REPORT Siemens worker noticed that the waste water looked remarkably Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO Water clean. Therefore they implemented the water treatment process Mandate in 2008. Our continuing support for the CEO Water Manto use the “concentrated tap water” again for toilet flushing. date reflects our commitment on two fronts: Firstly, managing water efficiently in our own facilities. Secondly, providing soluWater recycling in India tions that help our customers and societies handle water and At the location of the Siemens works in Kalwa, India, a wastewawaste water more economically. ter treatment system has been installed that would, for the most part, regulate itself. OUR OWN ACTIVITIES For more information about the resource conservation and water Our Business Units offer solutions for drive technologies, energy consumption at Siemens locations, see section Environmental distribution and automation for water and wastewater treatment Protection THIS REPORT PAGE 25 . We are pursuing a new approach plants and water transport. to water resources management that was developed in 2012. At locations where there are increased water-related risks – for exOUR SUPPLIERS ample, as a result of aridity, high wastewater loads, or poorly The environmental requirements that our suppliers must fulfill developed technical infrastructures – we define goals that are are defined in our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. The matched to local circumstances. This enables us to effectively responsible use of water forms an integral part of this code. For reduce risks and negative impacts on the environment. With the more information on these requirements and on supply chain Siemens Water Strategy, we aim to reduce the local negative immanagement THIS REPORT PAGE 20 . pact of our water use, taking water stress and other risks into account, such as water pollution or flooding of environmentally COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT relevant areas. As a member of various international organizations, we’re involved in numerous initiatives and programs, including the ­Action 2020 We use all our resources carefully and avoid waste of resources Water Project of the World Business Council for Sustainable Dewherever it is possible. Amongst others through Leadership in velopment. We initiate and implement projects in various regions Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for all our that promote efficient use of water. new buildings including our new global headquarters in Munich, where efficient use of water is a key element of building design In addition, the Siemens Stiftung drives an entrepreneurial apcriteria. Through collection and usage of rainwater, the water proach to supply clean drinking water to communities. Project consumption of the new headquarters lies 50 % below guide valexample include: ues of new buildings. Further examples are: Safe Water Enterprises Optimized wells in Germany With Safe Water Enterprises, Siemens Stiftung is committed to The intelligent merging of several wells on the premises of the a sustainable supply of safe drinking water in rural regions in Siemens Duisburg site has succeeded in saving 40,000 cubic meKenya. In Kisumu, the two Safe Water Enterprise was officially ters of fresh water annually. This reduces water costs by 138,000 handed over to the communities and each are providing safe Euros. drinking water to an average of 2,000 people each. It was built in cooperation with our partners SOS Children’s Villages and SkyJuice Foundation. For more information with regards to the projects of the Siemens Foundation, please refer to: WWW.SIEMENS-STIFTUNG.ORG/EN/PROJECTS 46 Annex Independent auditor’s limited AUDITOR’S MEASURES TO ENSURE ­assurance ­report regarding INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY We are independent from the Company in compliance with the ­sustainability information German statutory and professional requirements, and have complied with other professional requirements. The assurance engagement performed by “Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft” ­relates exclusively to the GerThe quality assurance system of Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschafts­ man PDF-version of the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and prüfungsgesellschaft is based on the national statutory regula“Facts and Figures” of the report “Sustainability Information 2016”. tions and professional pronouncements including, but not limThe following text is a translation of the original German Indeited to the Professional Charter for German Public Auditors and pendent Assurance Report. German Sworn Auditors and the Joint Statement by the German Chamber of Public Accountants and the Institute of Public AudiTO SIEMENS AG, BERLIN AND MUNICH tors on Quality Assurance in the Practice of Public Auditors VO We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engage1 / 2006, which are in accordance with the International Standards ment on the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts on Quality Control issued by the International Auditing and and Figures” in the report “Sustainability information 2016” of ­Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Siemens AG for the reporting period from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016 (hereafter the report). AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the information Our engagement is exclusively limited to the German PDF-verin the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” sion of the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and in the report based on our work performed. Figures” in the report in their entirety. Our engagement did not include any prospective statements and links to other web pages. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance The report is published as a PDF-version at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) INVESTOR/EN 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by the MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY IAASB. This standard requires that we plan and perform the The legal representatives of Siemens AG are responsible for the ­assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preparation of the report in accordance with the reporting critepreclude that the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts ria and for the selection of the information to be assessed. As and Figures” in the report are not in accordance, in material rereporting criteria, the Company applies the G4 Sustainability Respects, with the aforementioned reporting criteria. In a limited porting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and, assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are for the key performance indicators of the Environmental Portfomore limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and lio, the reporting principles as outlined in the Annex “Environtherefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reamental Portfolio Reporting Principles” and the underlying criteria sonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend set forth in “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – on the auditor's judgment. This includes the assessment of the Revised Edition” and “GHG Protocol for Project Accounting” issued risks of material misstatements in the report with regard to the by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. reporting criteria. This responsibility includes the selection and application of apWithin the scope of our work we performed amongst others the propriate methods to prepare the report and the use of assumpfollowing procedures: tions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures that are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, the legal Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability strategy, representatives are responsible for internal controls that they sustainability principles and sustainability management indeem necessary for the preparation of a report that is free from – cluding the stakeholder dialog of Siemens AG. intended or unintended – material misstatements. Inquiries of employees responsible in the central Corporate Development Strategy – Sustainability department for the preparation of the sustainability reporting in order to assess the sustainability reporting system, the data capture and compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the limited assurance engagement. Annex 47 Inquiries of employees responsible in the corporate departCONCLUSION ments for the topics employees, occupational safety and health Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come management, research and development, supply chain manto our attention that causes us to believe that the information in agement, distribution and customer relations, environmental the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” portfolio, environmental protection, compliance and corporate of the report “Sustainability Information 2016” for the reporting citizenship to assess the data capture and compilation methperiod from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016 in its entirety ods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the has not been prepared, in material respects, in accordance with limited assurance engagement. the reporting criteria. Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and processes for compiling, analyzing, and aggregating sustainINTENDED USE OF THE REPORT ability data in the reporting period and testing such documenWe issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreement tation on a sample of basis. with Siemens AG. The limited assurance engagement has been Analytical measures at Group level, on the level of Divisions performed for the purposes of Siemens AG and is solely intended and the separately managed business Healthineers regarding to inform Siemens AG about the results of the assurance engagethe quality of the reported data. ment. Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relating to the collection and reporting of the sustainability data LIMITATION OF LIABILITY from the topics environmental protection and occupational The report is not intended to be used as a basis for (financial) safety during site visits decision-making by third parties of any kind. We have responsibil– at the location Olean (USA) of the Division Power and Gas, ity towards Siemens AG only. We do not assume any responsibility – at the location Amberg of the Division Digital Factory, towards third parties. –a  t the location Frenstat (Czech Republic) of the Division ­Process Industries and Drives, Munich, November 28, 2016 –a  t the location Brande (Denmark) of the Division Wind Power and Renewables, Ernst & Young GmbH – at the location Erlangen of Healthineers, Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft – at the location Munich of Siemens Real Estate – as well as at the Divisions Power and Gas, Digital Factory, Process Industries and Drives, Wind Power and Renewables and the separately managed business Healthineers. Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relating to the collection and reporting of the key performance Spannagl Johne indicators of the Environmental Portfolio including the proceWirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin dures for determining the qualification of products, solutions (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) and services for the Environmental Portfolio during site visits at the Divisions Power and Gas, Power Generation Services, Wind Power and Renewables and Process Industries and Drives. Inquiries of employees from selected departments at the Group’s headquarters, corporate departments, Divisions and the separately managed business Healthineers and at the sites visited on material qualitative statements in the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” as well as the inspection of selected underlying documents. Review of material qualitative statements in the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” for plausibility and consistency. 48 Annex Notes and forward-looking Such statements are based on the current expectations and cer­statements tain assumptions of Siemens’ management, of which many are beyond Siemens’ control. These are subject to a number of risks, There is no standard system that applies across companies for uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited to those dequalifying products and solutions for environmental and climate scribed in disclosures, in particular in the chapter Risks in this protection, or for compiling and calculating the respective reveAnnual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties nues and the quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions atmaterialize, or should underlying expectations not occur or astributable to such products and solutions. Accordingly, revenues sumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achieve­ from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our cusments of Siemens may (negatively or positively) vary materially tomers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be comparable from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forwith similar information reported by other companies. Revenues ward-looking statement. Siemens neither intends, nor assumes from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our cusany obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statetomers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions are derived from variments in light of developments which differ from those anticious internal reporting systems that are generally different from pated. those applicable to the financial information presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are, in particular, subject This document includes – in the applicable financial reporting to less sophisticated internal documentation as well as preparaframework not clearly defined – supplemental financial measures tion and review requirements, including the IT systems in use and that are or may be alternative performance measures (non-GAAP the general internal control environment. We may change our measures). These supplemental financial measures should not be policies for recognizing revenues from our Environmental Portfoviewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of Siemens’ net lio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide assets and financial positions or results of operations as p ­ resented emissions in the future without previous notice. in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Other companies that This document contains statements related to our future business report or describe similarly titled alternative performance measand financial performance and future events or developments inures may calculate them differently. volving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other “look forward to,” “anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and “estimate,” “will,” “project” or words of similar meaning. We may percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. also make forward-looking statements in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders and in press releases. This document is an English language translation of the German In addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral document. In case of discrepancies, the German language docuforward-looking statements. ment is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. Annex 49 Further information and ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ­information resources The Siemens Annual Report 2016 is available online at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUAL-REPORT FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE CONTENTS FURTHER SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE FROM: Further information on our commitment to sustainability and Adress Siemens AG additional sustainability-related indicators are available at: Wittelsbacherplatz 2 WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y 80333 München Germany Further information on research, development and innovation at Siemens is available at: Phone + 49 (0) 89 636 33443 (Media Relations) WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INNOVATION + 49 (0) 89 636 32474 (Investor Relations) Fax + 49 (0) 89 636 30085 (Media Relations) + 49 (0) 89 636 32830 (Investor Relations) © 2016 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich Email press@siemens.com investorrelations@siemens.com sustainability@siemens.com 50 Annex siemens.com
