THE TRIMO COMPANY AND THE TRIMO GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 EXTRACT BUSINESS ORIENTATION OF THE TRIMO GROUP Trimo is one of the leading European providers of complete solutions in the field of building envelope with a tradition, longer than fifty years. Nowadays, it is a high-technology company that provides functionally and aesthetically accomplished products and solutions to its customers. Business success of Trimo has been built on the strategic orientation of sustainable development, differentiation, innovation and partnership. Companies including Airbus, Porsche, Heathrow Airport, Nestle, Philips, DHL, McLaren, IKEA, Prologis, Mercedes Benz, Coca Cola and many others trust us. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO OF THE TRIMO GROUP STEEL CONSTRUCTION 1 ORGANISATION CHART OF TRIMO GROUP SALES NETWORK Trimo and its trademarks have been successfully present in more than 60 countries over the world. Indirectly, the companies, subsidiaries, foreign branches, agents and representatives of Trimo operate in almost 30 countries. Manufacturing plants are located in Slovenia and Serbia. Through its sales subsidiaries Trimo operates also in Great Britain, Russia, Germany, Poland and Macedonia. Its operations have been extended also beyond the foreign representative offices in the Czech Republic,France, Hungary and Slovakia. When building the recognition of the corporate trademark and selling products we cooperate with agents and dealers in the Netherlands (covering all Benelux countries), Russia, Greece, France, Switzerland, India, Sweden, Austria, Italy, Spain (covering also Latin America), Portugal, Kazakhstan, Singapore and UAE. In 2017, we plan to further extend the partner network in the countries and regions where we have identified a potential to grow further. 2 MILESTONES IN TRIMO HISTORY 1961 Establishment of the company Kovinsko podjetje Trebnje 1974 Beginning of the manufacture of panels with an insulating PU filling 1987 Beginning of the manufacture of fireproof panels with an insulating filling made of mineral wool 1989 The first container was made. 1990 The first company abroad was founded. 2001 Beginning of the manufacture in Russia 2007 Beginning of the manufacture in the UAE and Serbia. 3 MILESTONES IN TRIMO HISTORY 2008 Delivery of façade panels for the construction of the first CO2 neutral building in the world. 2009 Qbiss One was launched – as the highly aesthetic solution to the façade systems 2010 ArtMe as a unique aesthetic façade design received the “red dot” product design award in 2010. 2013 Introduction of Q-Air as the new glass façade system in the global market. 2014 40th anniversary of Trimoterm panels Complete organisational and business restructuring of the Trimo Group 2015 Trimo got a new owner, EAS (Innova Capital) 2016 New complete corporate image of the company 4 QUALITY MANAGEMENT AND INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 5 Our strategic orientation is the development and provision of high quality products and services, integration of innovative and complete solutions in new products and processes as well as development of an efficient integrated company management system. Our basic principle is the satisfaction of all stakeholders and therefore care for complete quality management throughout the chain of operations is incorporated into each of our activities. The main orientations of quality management are: • excellent quality of products and services, acknowledged and measured by the customers, • certification, ensuring and managing of quality of products and systems of management in accordance with the applicable legislation, harmonised standards, additionally included in the certification system and with special requests of customers and interested partners in view of providing optimal support to all stakeholders, • continuous improvement of process efficiency in the Trimo Company and the Trimo Group. We at Trimo are aware that the quality of operations, responsible environmental management and care for safety and health of employees are key elements of the control of the efficient integrated quality management system and comply with the requirement of standards ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007. We understand and implement the integrated management system as a system of mutually connected processes that help realise the ambition and development orientations of Trimo. Key processes form a chain of values and their efficient operation is enabled by the support processes and management processes. We remain focused on achieving results, assessment of their effectiveness and efficiency by the constant supervision, measurements and analysing of processes with the aim to develop and constantly improve them in order to increase the satisfaction of all stakeholders. On the defined control points we continuously check if the requirements of the customers, regulations, owners, employees and other interest public have been met. Cases of good practices, novelties and improvements are systematically recognised and integrated into processes and management systems. All the employees are involved in the improvement process. The company encourages innovative thinking, creativity of each individual to unveil initiatives and suggest improvements in its own working environment or to participate actively and through a team introduce improvements of a broad working environment. Monitoring of appropriate efficiency and effectiveness indicators has been established for each process. Improvement indicators are integrated into the system for performance planning and monitoring, which is ensured by their regular monitoring. By suitable daily activities the employees improve the quality of products and services, health and safety at work, ideas and better solutions, efficiently control the environmental aspects and resources that we manage with due professional care. 6 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 7 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE EMPLOYEES Competent, motivated and responsible employees are vital for the sustainable development and high level of business excellent of the Trimo Group. The employees’ energy and commitment are guarantee for long-term successful and competitive operations. The responsibility towards the employees is therefore determined as one of the key orientations. The strategy in the field of acquisition and development of human resources in 2016 was as follows: • employment and development of employee competence for successful and competitive operation in the global environment and achievement of strategic objectives of the company, • efficient connection of human resources, organisational and strategic objectives of the Trimo Group, • employment and development of senior management with internationally comparable knowledge and appropriate experience, • care for quality, healthy and safe working environment, • cultivation of the organisational climate and culture of the employees. The fundamental principle of Trimo operations is the values based on high ethical standards, respect of human rights17, treatment of each individual as a free and thinking person. In this way, every person can express their full potential in accordance with their capabilities and interests. 17 We are members and co-founders of the Slovene United National Global Compact (UNGC). 8 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The health of employees is an important area to which we pay special attention by implementing various activities for improving work conditions. In the Trimo Group, we ensure safe and regulated work environment to all the employees. Each company in the Group is committed to ensuring the necessary resources (personnel, finance etc.) for the operation of the occupational health and safety system and to implementing measures for the prevention of risks of injuries and health problems. Safety of the employees In the Trimo Group, we provide for safety and health of employees through risk control, improvement of work conditions, on-the-job training and education, technical, organisational and preventive measures, supervision over following of the rules of occupational health and safety and measures for the reduction or prevention of injuries at work. Trimo’s environment safety policy18 recognised a clear commitment to a healthy and safe working environment, which is also expressed in the statement on safety. Using a systematic and transparent method, Trimo also implements an occupational health and safety work programme in accordance with the principles of the OHSAS 1800119 standard. The programme of work for 2016 was dedicated to the prevention of risks of work-related accidents and a healthier lifestyle of the employees. Among important indicators of effectiveness of providing health and safety at work, we also monitor indicators of injury frequency and sick leave absenteeism due to work-related accidents. 18 Environmental and safety policy is available on the Trimo website. 19 Trimo introduced it in 2003 and is integrated into the system of the Company's Rules of Procedure. 9 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT Trimo is aware of its responsibility towards the social environment, which is evident in the various forms of cooperation with the local environment and outside the local environment. With sponsorships and donations, we make the operation of various non-profit organisations and associations possible. In this way, we encourage sports and education, carry out humanitarian activities, strengthen cultural creativity and support youth projects. We also cooperate with the Pensioner’s Organisation and organise meetings with former employees. Thus, we contribute to the improvement of the quality of life and to development of the social environment. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT The commitment to sustainable development is one of the foundations of Trimo’s organisational and mission. We realise our strategy through the implementation of the model of green business, such as developing environment – friendly and people friendly products and technologies, introducing the cradle to cradle23(C2C) and developing highly energy efficient building envelope systems. 23 ” Cradle to cradle” means each production of a new product from a discarded one. 10 We define sustainable development as achieving a balance between economic, social and ecological interests and develop it in accordance with our values and with the help of Trimo’s key competencies and clear vision. As the member of UNGC, we observe their ten principles (human rights, labour standards, environment, transparency and anti-corruption).24 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The Trimo Group has committed itself to balanced sustainable development of products, technologies and processes. We develop and implement the strategy of providing complete and innovative solutions, taking into account high safety standards and the reduction of risks for all stakeholders. We introduce life cycle analysis, including decomposition. The transfer of technologies and setting up of new production facilities is based on the criteria of European environmental legislation with minimum environmental risks. We monitor emissions and separately collect waste in all production companies. The Trimo Group has spread the culture of continuous improvement and raised the awareness of the importance of responsible environmental action in a local and global sense. We have an integrated management system in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard in Trimo. Trimo’s offer of complete solutions also includes the option and implementation of environmentally friendly solutions that contribute to the added value for the customer and to sustainable development in the broader sense. Trimo’s products and services are focused on energy efficiency, fire protection, noise protection and airtight solutions. Trimo’s products are recyclable. Trimo’s field of environmental management system is run by the authorised person of the management, who is responsible for the development if the whole field and the implementation of the sustainable development strategy.25 The most important elements of this strategy are waste reduction, the introduction of full recycling approaches or an approach that leads to the “cradle to cradle“ concept, rational use of natural resources, the use of renewable energy sources and the development of products and technologies that are in balance with natural processes. Important activities and achievements of the management of the environmental management system in Trimo in 2016 were: • a large share of recyclable waste and handing over in form of secondary or primary raw materials (97.1% of all waste), • revision of the “Emergency preparedness and response procedures” process, • evacuation exercise for the employees, • other periodic activities (monitoring of emissions, inspection of active fire protection systems, employee training …). EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS Trimo carries out measures for risk control in the field of environmental protection, such as fire, spill and explosion. In 2016, there were no emergencies with a negative impact on the environment. 24 More about that in Annual Report for 2009 25 The environmental safety team consists of experts from various fields (health and safety at work, hazardous substances, HR, natural resources, energy, etc.). 11 WASTE MANAGEMENT We pay a lot of attention to the waste management system, especially at the site where the waste occurs. We constantly upgrade the waste management system through the system of employee training and informing and through supervision and implementation of improvements. IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT By implementing careful natural resources and energy product management and measured for reducing the indirect impact on the level of emissions, we provide minimum impact on the environment. We monitor CO2 emissions occurring from the activities in the production factory on the basis of energy product use. In 2016, the total emissions increased due to increased production and, consequently, due to the increase in energy product consumption. We regularly monitor emissions of combustion plants and other sources of emissions. We ensure minimal noise emissions into the environment with built-in technology and set anti-noise protections. All the measured results of the emissions and noise in the environment are below the prescribed legal limit values. We perform regular supervision over the use pf paints and solvents for the VOC emissions from the varnishing machines for painting steel structures. We also take care of proper proportions between solvents and dry matter so that we do not exceed the quantities of allowed emissions. 26 Note: Emissions of the employees are not included (arrival to work, business trips …) 12 TRIMO D.O.O. PRIJATELJEVA CESTA 12, 8210 TREBNJE, SLOVENIA T: +386 (0)7 34 60 200 F: +386 (0)7 34 60 127 TRIMO@TRIMO-GROUP.COM WWW.TRIMO-GROUP.COM
