UN Global Compact Annual Report -----------------------------------------------------June 2017 UN Global Compact Annual Report June 2017 Page 1 of 5 ORANA India UN Global Compact Reporting on Communication on Progress (COP) 0. Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From 01.10.2015 to 30.09.2016 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer 1st June 2017 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that Orana India Pvt. Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Vandana Tandan GM-India Operations 2. Introduction The Orana Group hereunder Orana India Pvt. Ltd. is committed to sustainability in all business activities and aims to apply highest ethical standards in order to ensure the long-term success of the Orana Group and its stakeholders. In support of this goal, the Orana Group implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct in 2007 and since then all Orana Group companies hereunder Orana India Pvt. Ltd. have subscribed to the UN Global Compact. Both specify minimum standards expected of Orana and its suppliers and are based on principles for: a) Human Rights b) Labour c) Environment d) Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Annual Report June 2017 Page 2 of 5 In the Orana Group all staff are committed to following these principles. The Orana Group further requires its suppliers to explicitly acknowledge and adhere to the principles embodied in the Code of Conduct to ensure that their own suppliers also will comply with these principles. 3. Human Rights Description of Actions All sites further ensure that hiring, remuneration, advancement, training and termination decisions are based on objective factors and not connected to gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, or any other discriminating factors. Instead this is determined by skills, qualifications and experience required for the position in question. All Orana sites do not tolerate workplace harassment, hereunder but not limited to words, signs, offensive jokes, e-mail statements, pranks, intimidation, sexual or physical harassment or violence. Policies are in place to protect all employees. The Orana Group has implemented health and safety prevention policies which comply with national, international and Orana company rules. These policies are made available to employees in a language, which is understood by the employees. All Orana sites documents accidents and adjusts its processes to prevent future accidents, if any. At all sites, workers and managers are trained to respond to emergencies and emergency exits are free from obstruction. Fire extinguishers are available. Work environments are maintained and kept clean. All sites have sufficient and suitable ventilation, lighting, availability of potable water, washing facilities and sanitary facilities and suitable eating areas. All employees are provided with protective equipment and training necessary to safely perform the functions of their positions. Moreover, all sites have implemented rules in regard to hygiene, alcohol and smoking. Measurement of Outcomes Employee Turnover is measured for all Orana Group companies. For Orana India Pvt. Ltd., employee turnover in 2015-16 was 27%. In 2015-16 no cases of harassment were reported at Orana office. At Orana India office accidents and near accidents are not measured but accidents are recorded at our co-packers. There are no accidents for any of our co-packers reported during the period of assessment. UN Global Compact Annual Report June 2017 Page 3 of 5 Hygiene audits are being conducted by Orana staff together with our staff at our copackers as a routine practice. In addition to the above, hygiene related issues are addressed in the Internal Audits. All non-conformities are closed with proper corrections, corrective and preventive actions. 4. Labour Description of Actions No Orana site will hire any form of forced labour or child labours. All sites recognize and encourage the freedom of association rights of its employees and ensure that trade unions are able to communicate openly with management regarding working conditions without threat of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. All sites pay workers according to applicable wage laws, including minimum wages, overtime hours and mandated benefits. Non-applicable due to no production site as all production is being done at copacking sites. Measurement of Outcomes All Orana India’s wages are as a minimum consistent with Indian Labour Law and prevailing industry standards. Holiday, sick leave and maternity leave are provided in consistency with Indian Labour Law. Working hours are also consistent with Indian Law and prevailing industry standards. 5. Environment Description of Actions All co-packing sites shall comply with all applicable environmental regulations. Measurement of Outcomes Co-packing sites have ensured that all required environmental permits and licenses are in place and that their reporting requirements are followed. Co-packing sites have initiated measuring of carbon foot print per ton produced at their facilities in April Quarter 2016. The intention is once the measuring is implemented to initiate initiatives to ensure a reduction in carbon foot print per ton produced. 6. Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Annual Report June 2017 Page 4 of 5 Description of Actions The Orana Group has a zero tolerance on corruption. All corruption, extortion and embezzlement are prohibited. Employees are not allowed to pay or accept bribes in business or government relationships. All Orana sites shall conduct their business consistent with fair competition and in compliance with anti-trust laws. The Orana Group’s relationships with suppliers are based entirely on sound business decisions and fair dealing. Employees are not allowed to accept any gifts or entertainment. Employees are not allowed to accept or give kickbacks when obtaining or awarding contracts. Measurement of Outcomes All staff at Orana India Pvt. Ltd. are instructed not to pay corruption or bribery in order to unjustly influence public officials or suppliers. When deemed necessary, Orana India Pvt. Ltd. encourages employees to go to government official / other relevant meetings two persons at a time in order to discourage corruption and bribery. Additionally, the Orana Group is in the process of establishing a whistleblower function on corruption across the entire Orana Group. -----------------------UN Global Compact Annual Report June 2017 Page 5 of 5
