Communication On Progress (COP) 2017 The UN Global Compact 2017 P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 1 of 14 Name of company: Green Development Consult Title of document: Communication on Progress (COP) Validity period: 2017 to 2018 Month/year of submission: May, 2017 Company Information Registered Name: Green Development Limited Type of Undertaking: Consultancy in Agriculture, Environmental Management, Mineral Exploration and Mining, Climate Resilient Development Address for Correspondence: P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana Tel. No.: +2338823811 E-mail: greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Contact Person: Prosper Mensa Burnson Position: CEO Tel.: +2338823811 E-mail: navburnson@gmail.com P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 2 of 14 Executive Summary Significant improvements and reviews on corporate policies fulfilling national requirements, Good International Industry Practices (GIIP) and the Ten (10) Principles of UN Global Compact are noted below, in the reporting period.  From June first 2016 the Company has further on equal employment opportunity for both sexes to upgrading the skills and knowledge of female employees, to fill the professional development gaps between male and female workers of the company.  Senior management are given the opportunity to apply for and own shares in the company from June 2016 and this opportunity is to be extended to junior workers by June 2018, upon satisfactory impact of the first phase of this venture.  Our employees are supported to become trade union memberships, and they are encouraged in many forms to be registered at various professional bodies and institutions.  Both junior and senior employees are supported to enroll on short courses, online facilitated and self-pased courses and distance learning degree programs to enhance their skills and knowledge to be equal to the emerging global challenges especially areas of climate resilient development, Low Emission Development (LED) and energy efficiency, organic agriculture and sustainability management including sustainability reporting in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our Policy review updated 30th June 2016 prohibits the company to have any professional and business relations with companies with poor human rights records. A comprehensive employee feedback mechanism developed and singed into operational from June 2016, provides for the identification, management and reporting on any form of human rights along both the company’s upstream and downstream supply chain. In January 2017 green development consult (GDC) has integrated environmental impact assessment into all it projects and The company provides adequate information to relevant stakeholders on environmental, social and legal issues relevant to our operations and committed Principles, in appropriate languages and forms to allow for effective participation in decision making and the company ensures an implemented management plan that aims to achieve long-term economic and financial viability P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 3 of 14 1.0 Introduction 1.1 Objective The objective of the Communication on Progress (COP) demonstrates the commitments of Green Development Limited to its values and mission in corporate sustainability management and to improve the relevance and effectiveness of the Principles of UN Global Compact and in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). 1.2 Purpose The report is purposed to disclose major interventions and undertakings of Green Development Limited for the 2016 reporting year, including the processes and procedures of significant social, environmental, economic and institutional aspects identification and employed strategies to address these aspects in the context of the legislative and legal framework of Ghana and UN Global Compact Principles. 1.3 What the Company Does 1.1.1 Green Growth and Climate Resilient Development Green Development Consult is a local Research and Consultancy, with core research and business mandate in sustainability and green growth integration into local business design and models for inclusive impact in the Agribusiness, Water Resources and Mining industries, in Ghana. 1.1.2 Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (MEL) Green Development Consult has a dedicated department and expertise in Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (MEL). GDC provides capacity building for SMEs and individual project and program managers to develop skills in planning and managing quality performance and impact evaluations, and improving the link between evidence and action, with the following objectives:  Guiding project design teams to organize information from previous evaluations to inform their strategy and development hypothesis formulation  Designing training modules for managers incorporate active learning into program and project management approaches P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 4 of 14  Intruding organizations to Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) processes that can be used to foster learning  Organizing technical workshops and training on the identification and application of tools to foster action based on learning from M&E results 1.1.3 Environmental and Social Management Systems (ESMS) GDC has specialties in Environmental and Social Management Systems (ESMS) designing, with demonstrated business records in the following specializations:  Environmental and Social Management Programmes (ESMP)  Social and Environmental Impact Assessment (SEIA)  Environmental and Social Management Planning 1.1.4 Organizational Capacity Assessment and Development  Proposal Development and Fundraising: How to Connect with Donors  Financial Modeling for the Social Sector  Global Social Entrepreneurship management  Innovative Business Models for Better Impact  Economic Analysis of Investment  Project Management (PMP) 1.4 Projects Undertaken the Reporting Year 1.4.1 Research and Development (R&D) 1.4.1.1 Monitoring Evaluation and learning (MEL) Research The overall purpose of the research department is to identify innovative ways in encouraging businesses and non-businesses to create a climate for collaborative learning, both internally and externally by strategizing for inter and intra sectorial partners. P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 5 of 14 We also seek understanding for reasons why gathering and reporting performance information would not be sufficient for ensuring continuous improvement. Research objectives will explore current national and corporate structural opportunities and incentives that are needed to facilitate the assimilation of monitoring and evaluation findings, and undertaking assessment of capacity of national and corporate business to absorb the implications of conclusions and recommendations M&E findings. 1.4.1.2 Advocacy, awareness raising and training on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 1.4.1.3 Green Economy sector in Ghana Research Subject Pre-identification of potential EU's contribution to the Green Economy sector in Ghana through the development of local social-environmental or eco-enterprises. Objectives of the Project The survey methods include a combination of document review, stakeholder consultation, interviews and observations in both the household-level information and the VTE/ Co-operative. The baseline survey will aim at Tree Aid’s long term goal of baselining a potential NTFP trade project in northern Ghana, with a short and mid-term goals of poverty reduction and climate resilient development, respectively. 1.4.1.4 Promoting Organic Agriculture using Market-based Instruments The Venture Green Development CONSULT (GDC) partnering with Restoration Ghana (local NonGovernmental Organization (NGO)) has launched a Venture in the Hohoe District in the Volta Region of Ghana to advocate, build capacity and dialogue for policy influence in promoting and supporting organic agriculture using a combination of market-based approaches and indigenous knowledge, to voluntarily drive participation in conservation and protection of farmlands. Out of the total population of 68,204, 38.7% are involved in agriculture. P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 6 of 14 The objective The objective of the Venture is to reverse the current degradation of farmlands, extinction of very important plant and animal species and conservation of watersheds and restoration of riparian ecology, as a result of pervasive annual bushfires, massive and uncontrolled application of synthetic agrochemicals and employment of conventional agribusiness practices. The Venture purpose The Venture purposes to work directly with farmer to map and assess the value chain to identify opportunities to innovate for incentives based organic farming that encourages production of chemically free and healthy farm products whilst promoting conservation and building sustainability in food security and livelihood empowerment. 1.4.2 Service Provision 1.4.2.1Proposal Development and Fundraising Green Development Consult developed fundraising of $90,073,585.43 for Laughbazz Africa Limited to host first ever African Comedy Awards (ACA) including launching by Laughbazz Africa Limited in Accra Ghana. The goal of the Award are the following:  Working to establish and develop a continental version of comedy award system. We have South Africa and Kenya comedy awards for Africa  The ACA will harmonize and model African Comedy Brand (ACB) including crystalizing and recognizing the performing comedians on the continent  The Award is to make African comedy industry competitive at the international level  ACA has the potential of promotion innovation and sustainably growing the comedy industry and contributing to the entertainment business in Africa. 1.4.2.2 Mineral Exploration (Gold) P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 7 of 14 The Tem of Reference (TOR) of the geological exploration for two (2) licence concessions for gold prospecting including designing the exploration survey, sampling and sample analysis, and reporting for the following exploration programs: 1. Land Survey 2. Geochemical survey 3. Trenching GDC produced technical reports, quarterly returns and annual exploration reports to regulatory Agencies (Geological Survey, Inspectorate Division, and Minerals Commission). 1.4.2.3 Environmental Audit We jointly developed a proposal with Earthtime Building, Liberia for MNG Gold Liberia Limited to conduct an environmental audit to be submitted to the EPA for 5 different concessions, in Liberia. 1.4.2.4 Developing Business Case for Council of Solicitors International (CSI) Objectives The objective is to support awareness raising of the right of Ghanaian citizens, relevant national institutional strengthening for building capacity at all levels, including through local, national and international cooperation in particular for the underprivileged in society, to prevent injustice, violence and crime and promotion of policies for sustainable development. Corporate Goal and Targets The goal of CSI is to promote the provision of affordable and accessible justice for all citizens of Ghana by 2030 and developing capacities for building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, with the aims of: P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 8 of 14 1.4.2.5 Training on Proposal Development Green Development Consult partnered with Oxford Research Group (Ghana) to develop training proposal for capacity building for Western Region Coastal Foundation Programme (WRCFP) in the following: 1. Proposal development 2. Project Management 3. Report Writing The objective of the training is to develop the knowledge and skills of the Western Region Coastal Foundation Programme (WRCFP) to communicate with the new oil, power and gas industry and relevant stakeholders to share their thoughts and to give concrete ideas and messages on community development, with the aim of getting budget out of the proposal to develop sustainable and competitive projects for the benefit of their people. The training will be purposed to build capacity of the WRCF staff in the concepts of logical chain thinking and a clear understanding of the objectives of the new oil, power and gas industry in order to build shared visioning within a socioeconomic and geographical framework. Specifically the training emphasizes on eligibility preparedness and criteria of the WRCFP, the ability to understand and present the communities’ interest and priorities that reflect current thinking, and proposals that are commensurate to the business portfolio and environment in the district. The training programme for proposal development, project management and report writing is tailored to build capacity for WRCF staff to understand and appreciate the causal relations of the current and potential impacts on the livelihoods, social and economic in the geographical area and the new oil, power and gas industry. The project management training aims at identifying solutions that relates to the impacts, programs that build local content and entrepreneurial skills development, with project administration that incorporates sustainability and inclusiveness. Both technical and P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 9 of 14 regulatory reporting training shall be made to suit all stakeholders in the appropriate language and form The training concept is tailored to a development of healthy communication channels between the six coastal communities and the extractive industry as an alternatives to other forms of demands of indigenous communities from business developers, which usually results in confrontations, mistrust and business disruption and non-business costs. 1.5 Activities to promote the ten (10) Principles of United Nations Global Compact 1.5.1 Human Rights Our Policy review updated 30th June 2016 prohibits the company to have any professional and business relations with companies with poor human rights records. A comprehensive employee feedback mechanism developed and singed into operational from June 2016, provides for the identification, management and reporting on any form of human rights along both the company’s upstream and downstream supply chain. Green Development Limited provides adequate information to relevant stakeholders on environmental, social and legal issues relevant to our operations and according to legislative framework of Ghana and best industry practices, in appropriate languages and forms to allow for effective participation in decision making. Honest and transparent communications and relation are maintained among all business partners, regulatory agencies and all stakeholders in order to build trust and confidence. The company’s operational alignment supports share vision and value creation between business associates. Records of requests and responses are maintained, and functional Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to respond constructively to stakeholders, including a specific timeframe to respond to requests for information are developed and revised periodically. Green Development Consult respects and complies with The Fundamental Human Right and Freedom` which states that every person in Ghana, whatever their race, place of origin, political opinion, color, religion, creed or gender shall be entitled to the fundamental human rights and freedom of the individual contained in this Chapter but subject to the respect for the rights and P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 10 of 14 freedoms of the others for the public interest. This is supported by the Company’s policy and procedural statements and actions. Green Development Consult provides adequate working environment and appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to its employees and ensures that its contractors provide the same to their workers. The Company also makes adequate provision and budget integrated into all its procurement and Terms of Reference (TOR) for its projects, programmes and activities, in compliance with Ghana Labour Law, 2003 Act 651, which runs concurrently with the provisions of the Factories, Offices and Shops Act, 1970 Act 328 on matters relating to industrial relations and wellbeing of workers at work places. The Act was assented on 8th October, 2003 prescribes the work hours and determination for overtime and holiday compensations for workers. The Factories, Offices and Shops Act, 1970 (Act 328) Part 1 sections one and two of the Factories, Offices and Shops Act, 1970 (Act 328) requires for the registration of Factories, Office and Shops with the Factories Inspectorate. The Act also requires the provision of welfare facilities as well as safety provisions for workers. Green Development Consult complies with all labour laws and regulations and commitment to all international conventions ratified by Ghana, including ILO Convention. The company also ensures that its Clients and Sub-contractors comply with all the relevant labour laws of the country. For the reporting year and since its registration Green Development Consult has not received any labour related complaints. The Company adheres strictly to Children’s Act, No.560 of 1998, which defines a child as a person below the age of eighteen years, and will not engage any person below the said age. Green consult is also solely in compliance with. 1.5.2 Labour The following are the newly endorsed and reviewed corporate policies on labour and employment:  From June first 2016 the Company has further on equal employment opportunity for both sexes to upgrading the skills and knowledge of female employees, to fill the professional development gaps between male and female workers of the company.  Senior management are given the opportunity to apply for and own shares in the company from June 2016 and this opportunity is to be extended to junior workers by June 2018, upon satisfactory impact of the first phase of this venture. P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 11 of 14  Our employees are supported to become trade union memberships, and they are encouraged in many forms to be registered at various professional bodies and institutions.  Both junior and senior employees are supported to enroll on short courses, online facilitated and self-pased courses and distance learning degree programs to enhance their skills and knowledge to be equal to the emerging global challenges especially areas of climate resilient development, Low Emission Development (LED) and energy efficiency, organic agriculture and sustainability management including sustainability reporting in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Green Development Consult has developed and implements strong community relations on all its projects. The company also abides by the provisions of the Client’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Plans for avoidance or mitigation of negative impact are in place and promotion of positive ones are developed in consultation with the business affiliates. This objective is achieved through the use and application of participatory Social Impact Assessment (SIA), which precedes any project development and implementation. Social impacts mitigation plans and strategies are developed, for all projects in association with Clients and Contractors, based on identified aspects. Adequate arbitration and disputes resolution mechanisms are in place, implemented and monitored. 1.5.3 Environmental Management In January 2017 green development consult (GDC) has integrated environmental impact assessment into all it projects and The company provides adequate information to relevant stakeholders on environmental, social and legal issues relevant to our operations and committed Principles, in appropriate languages and forms to allow for effective participation in decision making and the company ensures an implemented management plan that aims to achieve long-term economic and financial viability Green Development Consult is in consultation with Paageorgi Limited, Restoration Ghana, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Water Resources Commission (WRC) of Ghana to design advocacy on the newly launched Riparian Buffer Zone Policy for Managing Freshwater Bodies in Ghana. P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 12 of 14 1.5.4 Anti-Corruption Training and Awareness Creation The company is a regular participant of anticorruption workshops organized by Transparency International and Alliance for Integrity in Ghana. The company benefits from forums on anticorruption and integrity organized by UN Global Compact, Ghana Network. Proceeds from this workshop and other similar anticorruption programmes organized in Ghana have been communicated to the staff of Green Development Consult in the form of internal training and awareness creation. The Company has not recorded any internal or external corrupt practices and no complaints related to corruption have been made against the company, the reporting year. The company has put in place anticorruption measures adequate to safeguarding corporate transactions, procurement and project financial management, in line with Article 35(8) of the1992 constitution of Ghana which forms part of the directive principles of state policy that provides that: the state shall take steps to eradicate corruption practices and abuse of power. This provision empowers Green Development Limited to put effective practices in place to prevent all forms of corruption, including monthly internal audit system and quarterly external audits. Code of ethics are set and supported by our values, constitutional requirements and within the framework of UN convention against corruption, including respect for fair conduct of business. In support of this:  The company considers all forms of corruption, bribery and fraudulent use of funds and resources as a criminal act.  The company has complied with all regulatory, legal and legislative obligations in 1.6 Challenges Green Development Consult faces challenges in capacity building in project management and financial controls. The company is seeking partnerships both locally and internationally to grow its operational networks and capacity. Project procurement and financing has been our problem and this has impacted our growth and long and short term economic viability. P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 13 of 14 The company also faces some degree of challenges from sustainability management of Clients and other business associates. We introduce these business associates to UN Global Compact Principles and encourage these associates to become members of UN Global Compact, Ghana Network. 1.7 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) GDC regularly monitors and reviews their activities and develop and implement action plans that allow demonstrable continual improvement in key operations. The company uses and trains its staff in integrated monitoring and employs result-based M&E which is used as a tool to inform decision making and policy actions 1.8 Conclusion Knowledge and research in sustainability management in Africa, South of the Sahara has raised many relevant questions and Green Development Consult would like to be one of the groups working towards the answers. P. O. Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana +2338823811 greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com Page 14 of 14
