ASLANLI TEKSTİL UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONTENTS United Nations Global Compact – 10 Principles Scope of the Report Corporate Profile / Shortly Aslanlı Tekstil Message of the Chairman of the Executive Board Our Vision and Mission History Our Products Human Rights Workers Environment Society The Fight Against Corruption Contact UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT – 10 PRINCIPLES Human rights Environment Businesses should: Businesses should: Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to Internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote human rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labor Standards Anti-Corruption Businesses should uphold: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 3: The freedom of association and the bribery. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. SCOPE OF THE REPORT AND THE PROMISE OF ASLANLI TEKSTIL This report is Aslanlı Tekstil’s (Aslanlı Uluslararası Tekstil ve Tarım Ürünleri Dış Tic. A.Ş.) first UN Global Compact Progress report. Aslanlı Tekstil has promised to uphold the universally proclaimed principles in the frame of UN Global Compact on human rights, labor rights, environment and the fight against corruption, and notified the Office of UN Secretary-General in written in March 19th, 2015. UN Global Compact Progress Report is done annually, and this report consists information on Aslanlı Tekstil’s social, economic, and environmental activities for the period of January 1st, 2016 and December 31st, 2016. This report has been prepared in accordance with UN Global Compact reporting standards. In this regard, the fundamental principles of the Compact, which are transparency, accessibility, trueness, trustworthiness, and sustainability, has been given the utmost regard. Aslanlı Tekstil has promised that, in view of the articles noted in the UN Global Compact, it has acted, in every phase of production and commerce, according to these articles, and that it has been an implementer and follower of the UN Global Compact. The publication date for this report is March 2017. CORPORATE PROFILE / SHORTLY ASLANLI TEKSTIL Aslanlı Tekstil’s foundation reaches back to 1950s in The bleached absorbent cotton the firm produces has a cotton trade at first, and it has officially started wide range of use in health and medical sector, and cosmetics manufacturing in the year 1997. Aslanlı Tekstil produces and personal care sector, and also in the basic necessities bleached, absorbent, and is a worldwide known used in our daily lives. The bleached absorbent cotton manufacturer and is one of the foremost cotton Aslanlı Tekstil produces is used in the production of such bleaching facilitations in Turkey. The firm has made a materials as the following: difference in its sector of activity with high quality products and increasing customer satisfaction.  sanitary pad, Aslanlı Tekstil has a view that makes no compromises  padding, to institutionalism, transparency, trueness and  diaper, trustworthiness, and as of the end of the year 2015 operates with 65 employees in the Sales Office in  baby cleansing napkin, Istanbul, and Kırklareli Compound.  make-up remover pad, Aslanlı Tekstil carries on its productive activity in the two production lines in the modern compound in Kırklareli,  ear stick, in an area of 45.000 m2 of whose 23.000 m2 is an indoor area.  medical absorbent cotton The Firm’s annual bleached absorbent cotton Aslanlı Tekstil sells 98% of its products to foreign production capacity is 18.000 tons. markets. Aslanlı Tekstil, with an export area ranging from European countries to North and South America, is one of the greatest exporters in its sector today in Turkey and worldwide. Aslanlı Tekstil Factory, Kırklareli-Turkey What is the bleaching process? Bleaching process is a textile finishing process in order to give fibers made from cotton in the first place, and linen, silk, and wool, as well as textile products made from these fibers a bright white color, or to ensure that the textile products can be dyed in lighter and brighter colors. MESSAGE OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Dear Shareholders, In order to eliminate the risks that the climate change causes, we look out for the environment, and thrive to We are proud to share with you the first Progress take the necessary preventive measures in every step Report we have prepared in accordance with the UN of our activities. On one hand, we develop and use methods Global Compact Aslanlı Tekstil has signed on March that consume less natural resources, and on the other hand 19th, 2014. we focus on projects that will increase productivity and Our world and global markets, which are shaped by the effectiveness of resources. We give great importance rapidly evolving technology, increasing population, and to, and look out for the limited and natural resources the increase in competition, impels the corporations to act such as water and energy, and take great care to use them more responsibly; and encourages us to take more in our manufacturing cycle in an effective and sustainable steps. economical way. Aslanlı Tekstil has adopted the 10 universal principles In the context of environment, our goal is to create of the UN Global Compact brought together under the titles a positive effect in the whole of our value chain, not just of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and the Fight in Aslanlı Tekstil. In this regard, we join forces with our Against Corruption, and promised to uphold and apply supplies in potential areas, and take great care in meeting these principles at all times. The progression we have our customers’ expectations in the issues of production made and our goals toward the future are presented here in cycle and environmental standard in relation to our this report to you esteemed shareholders for your productions. Similarly, carry out activities to increase the consideration. awareness levels of our employees that are our social shareholder, about the environment. Our firm is determined to look after the human and employee rights, which is the basis of UN Global Aslanlı Tekstil has acquired crucial gains in its water Compact; manufacture with materials that are ecosaving and energy conservation and efficiency friendly and that do not threat human health; protect studies. and uphold a managing understanding that is both In the textile sector that we carry on our business, one of accountable and transparent. the most essential resources is water. Aslanlı Tekstil continues on with its activities with view of Aslanlı Tekstil, as a result of research and development ethical trade and honest competition, which are both of most study that it has carried out concertedly with İstanbul importance to us since our foundation. Technical University (ITU) on the water consumption, Also, our firm is one of the foremost frontiers in fighting achieves water saving status by the ways that provide corruption and bribery, and lives on as an honest and recovery and re-use of the water used in the production astute merchant. process. Climate change and global warming threatens our As a result of the project named “Water Minimization” done future. in collaboration with the university, in the last two years we managed to save approximately 40% of the water. On We see the climate change and global warming as the most the other hand, our biological treatment system, with its important and common risks that threaten both human 1.600 m3/day capacity, purifies the processed water we use future and the earth’s future that we live on. The in production. adversities that occur in our environment and the human habitat today will affect the future generations greatly, and irrevocably. Our firm concurs that energy management and efficient We use chemicals in accordance with REACH. use of energy is an area of utmost importance in need of improvement. As a result of our endeavors and Being European Union’s policy on chemicals that improvements, we have managed to save 20% of our entered into force in 2007, REACH (European Regulation energy annually. In this regard, the heat exchanger on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction system that enables the heat coming out of processed of Chemicals) is a regulation for chemical substances that water drained as a result of production process has been set aims to protect human health and environment from up, and thus, we have achieved a 10% conservation of hazardous chemicals, and at the same time, encourages natural gas. innovation and competition. The illumination system in our factory in Kırklareli has Aslanlı Tekstil uses chemicals in full accordance with been changed with the new generation LED system. REACH in every phase of its production, and takes all Our illumination infrastructure has been moved out of the kinds of preventive measures in order to protect the factory building within the scope of this project that nature and human health. enables us to conserve our power consumption, and thanks Also, with “Substance of Very High Concern” (SVHC) to this outside illumination infrastructure, we have within the scope of REACH regulation, the list of banned eliminated risk of fire breaking out as a result of power chemicals is being followed, and chemical selection that is consumption. fit for periodical updates is carried out. Bleached absorbent cotton is our foremost We also choose the firms that we supply chemicals contribution to sustainability. used in the production very carefully and in this Aslanlı Tekstil, by evaluating cotton with shorter fibers regard work with suppliers that are in full harmony than a set amount that could not be used in any other with REACH criteria and globally accredited. branch of the textile industry, produces bleached absorbent cotton. Because of its short fibers, the cotton that is generally put aside as a waste in other branches of textile industry, is being used as raw material and brought back into the economy. By this virtue, a product with a high added value that meets its consumers in vastly diverse lands from Canada to Korea is made. Cotton, with its sustainable, renewable, and reusable structure is eco-friendly; being natural, soft, absorbent and hypoallergenic, it is the most favored fiber in almost every sector. Aslanlı Tekstil, by making use of these properties of cotton, and with the knowledge and technology produces bleached absorbent cotton. MESSAGE OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Aslanlı Tekstil has secured its production and We see our Quality Control Laboratory as an important quality of its production that is in line with global element with regards to providing unconditional customer standards with the diverse quality systems it satisfaction, and we aspire to uphold our determination in applies. continuing to invest in this area. Aslanlı Tekstil, in the Quality Management within the Our employees are our most valuable asset. scope of quality management system pursues “ISO 9001:2008”, “ISO 14001:2004” in Environment Since its foundation until this day, Aslanlı Tekstil sees Management, “BRC/IOP Global Standard” in its employees as assets and believes that the lion’s Packaging and Packaging Materials. Moreover, our share in the success of our firm belongs to them. firm owns the usage certification for the logo “Cotton Our 7 0 employees in the Sales Office in Istanbul and USA” that describes products with higher quality and Kırklareli Plantation that know the sector very well, performance. These standards that we apply play a experienced, and competent in their area continue to key role in sustaining Aslanlı Tekstil products’ quality strengthen us. and eco-friendly property on a global scale. We are aware of our responsibilities in the context of human In today’s world, as in many other production branches, resources. In this regard, by; we see that in our sector organic raw materials are more and more favored and its use increasingly becoming providing a healthy and secure working environment, widespread. In this context, our firm, in every phase of production from the picking of the raw material to protecting their individual dignity and rights, production with an eco-friendly approach, has been ensuring an equal opportunity principle on personal working on a project in accordance with “Global Organic development and career, Textile Standard (GOTS)” in order to meet the requirements recognized worldwide, to evaluate the providing training in such diverse areas as quality of organic production, and to present the occupational health and safe consumer with a trustworthy product; and in line with the demands of our consumers, produces organic productions we are focused to improve their satisfaction level, certified internationally. personal development, and belonging to the Aslanlı brand. Another subject that is of notice in regards to the sustainability of the standards is Aslanlı Tekstil’s Quality IN a recent Employee Satisfaction Survey that we had an Control Laboratory equipped with new generation independent research company carry out puts forward technological test equipment. Some of the high-tech that our human resources is happy to be a member of devices we have in the laboratory that are the fruit of our Aslanlı Tekstil. One of the most striking results of the business understanding that comprises working with survey is that the issue of unconditional customer scientific methods can only be found in Aslanlı Tekstil in satisfaction that is the Firm’s one of the strategic goals is our country, Turkey. known and embraced by all the employees. In our Laboratory where 4 technicians work, we If we internalize sustainability in a corporate level, and officiate the duties of supervision and guidance with bring it to the center of our lives it will be possible to look up-to-date methods on from raw material to the final upon the future with more confidence, and we will have production, and customer feedbacks; the quality contributed to the sustainable development goals of our continuity ensured with tests and as the process is country. being recorded, we can manage customer complaints instantly. Customer satisfaction and quality make up the Our goal is to leave a better and more habitable world to the most important elements of Aslanlı Tekstil’s generations to come. For this goal to come true, we believe success. all individuals, NGOs, and institutions has to do their part of the work, as only then will we be able to achieve this. One Aslanlı Tekstil has never given up since its foundation, basic thing we should not forget about is that every little and never will even if years pass and generations come action we take is an investment toward the future, not and go, on two things: customer satisfaction which is an just for today. absolute must for our firm, and the understanding of quality on the international standards that we will never Aslanlı Tekstil is determined to realize these principles sacrifice on any condition. in production-trade-social cycles, and continue to uphold the UN Global Compact with regards to our These two factors were the foremost factors in the success commitment. of our firm that has exported 98% of its production to mostly European countries as of 2016. From the year I am deeply grateful to our fellow employees, 2017 and onward, these two factors will continue to be shareholders on behalf of the Executive Board and our guides. myself for their utmost devotion, efforts and performance. Everything we do is an investment toward the future. It is a key point for us that the UN Global Compact Alp Uysal gets across to every one of our shareholders, from Chairman of the Executive Board employees to our customers, and partners. We present every action we take to our shareholders with the transparency principle on mind, and focus on success in our activities as a Company that respects human rights, and is environmentally-conscious, upholds its employees’ rights, freedom, and security; honest, and also principled. OUR VISION AND MISSION Aslanlı Tekstil; within the scope of its understanding of corporate responsibility gives utmost importance to efficiency, and minimizes the risks. uses resources with our world, environment, people, and future generations in mind, for it believes the success of a firm is not solely based off of financial numbers. Aslanlı Tekstil, because of common use resources, believes that it has responsibility toward the society and people, and its success as a corporation lies in leaving a better world to the future generations to come. In short, Aslanlı Tekstil’s foremost mission is to leave a better world to the future generations. HISTORY The roots of Aslanlı Tekstil, founded by Uysal 2002 In Aslanlı Tekstil that has increased its annual Family, reaches back to 1950s with cotton trade manufacture capacity to 12.000 tons, Willowing and activities. Carding Lines has been employed. The Company, in its journey from trade to 2006 With the renovation efforts in the manufacture production, which afterwards evolved into capacity, the manufacture capacity has increased to corporation has turned to bleached, absorbent 15.000 tons annually. cotton manufacture with the knowledge and 2012 With the acquisition of organic cotton production experience based upon a firm footing, and has license, new products have been taken in on the product become a manufacturer and supplier on a range. worldwide scale. 2013 With regulations and modernization in the 1950s The founder of the Company, father Alparslan production lines, annual production capacity has Uysal has laid the groundwork for Aslanlı Tekstil’s reached 18.000 tons annually. And as a result, cost foundation with cotton trade. saving has been ensured. 1960s The activities began with the purchase of a cotton Uysal Family’s 3rd generation individuals, having finished gin factory in Antalya. their higher education started working at the 1970s By forming an association, it has started Company. manufacturing Absorbent Cotton. 2014 As the Company’s Quality Control Laboratory has 1980s Uysal Family’s second generation individuals, been equipped with new and modern equipment, the having taken engineering training, has started working Company has started working in innovation and fiber in the Company as shareholders. engineering fields. 1996 Uysal Family has withdrawn from the partnership, and founded Absorbent Cotton factory in Kırklareli, a city 2015 The first UN Global Compact Progress Report was to northwest of Turkey. done which consists of information about Aslanlı Tekstil’s human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti1997 Aslanlı Tekstil has started manufacturing with an corruption principles. annual capacity of 5.000 tons. 1998 The Company’s annual manufacture capacity has 2016 With innovations and modernizations in the production reached 8.000 tons. lines, capacity has reached to 21.000 tons annually. Owing to this, the product quality has been increased. OUR PRODUCTS Organic Products Organic cotton is grown without using any kind of pesticide, fungicide or substance that destroys plants. Also, the genes of the organic cotton stay the same (GMO / Genetically – Modified Organism). All of the organic cotton used in the products of Aslanlı Tekstil has been certified by accredited institutions (Organic Content Standard). Benefits of Organic Cotton 100% eco-friendly Natural and soft to touch Much more absorbent Hypoallergenic Standard Products Products such as high quality raw cotton, high quality cotton with short fibers, and recycled cotton with short fibers are bleached in autoclaves depending on demand, and absorbent cotton is manufactured. Also, in Aslanlı Tekstil progress control and technical inspection is carried out in every phase of manufacturing process since 1997. HUMAN RIGHTS Aslanlı Tekstil sees full harmonization with and HUMAN RESOURCES AND GENERAL MATTERS IN maintenance of UN Declaration of Human Rights, ASLANLI TEKSTİL UN Global Compact, and the regulation that promotes human rights and life of the employees in Aslanlı Tekstil sees its human resources as one of the Turkey as the basis of all kinds of activity. most important shareholders. The Company characterizes the human resources as a virtue; gives ASLANLI TEKSTİL CIVIL SOCIETY INITIATIVE AND great significance to the training and gaining technical ITS SCOPE expertise of its employees. Social responsibility is one of the subjects that are As of the end of the year 2016, we have 70 employees in given the utmost importance in Aslanlı Tekstil. total. 6 5 of the employees are in Kırklareli Plant, and the 5 in the Sales Office in Kadıköy, İstanbul. The Company, as well as its financial and operational In Kırklareli plant 3 employees are white-collar, 62 success, carries out activities that strengthens enhances employees are blue collar. 5 of the employees are women social responsibility principles. (technical personnel working at the laboratory), while 6 0 is male. Within this scope, goals of working out beneficial solutions for such wide-ranged subjects as improving the The Company’s employment policy is focused on local lives of the employees, protection of the environment, employment. All of the employees in the factory that are and the issue of HSE has been carried out within the employed live in Kırklareli. scope of Civil Society Initiative. Equal rights to employees Aslanlı Tekstil, in order to make the necessities of social responsibility an internal virtue of the Company, has Aslanlı Tekstil thrives to provide equal rights and prepared Civil Society Initiative, and has applied it in the opportunities to its employees. The Company, on such year 2015. subjects as accounting, distribution of work, setting up professional cadre, training, and progression in career, and The Company, with the Civil Society Initiative, while also on other areas such as the employment phase of providing its customers with products and services, the personnel selection, and in every phase of work protects its employees’ rights within the framework thrives to prevent indiscrimination and takes great care in of related law and legislation. Civil Society Initiative providing equal rights and opportunities to its employees also underlines the importance and necessity of while applying the equality principle. occupational health and safety. In Aslanlı Tekstil within the context of employerThe realization of principles and working principles in employee relations, the protection of the employees’ the Civil Society Initiative in Aslanlı Tekstil is carried individual rights and provision of an environment for the out by Executive Member, in charge of Administration trustworthiness principle to thrive in the work place are and Finance; while the Factory Manager acts as the given the utmost priority. representative of the operation team in the related processes. Aslanlı Tekstil Civil Society Initiative has reached every one of its employees with a contact meeting with the participation of all the personnel, and with the distribution of Aslanlı Tekstil Civil Society Initiative Pocket Book. LABOR STANDARDS The Principle against child labor Disciplinary and maltreatment practices Within the context of Aslanlı Tekstil Civil Society Aslanlı Tekstil, in the context of discipline/maltreatment Initiative, as per the Labor Law numbered 4857, it is promises to respect every one of its employees’ promised that we act according to the methods and character and honor; not to chastise, take a disciplinary principles of employing child and young labor, and action outside of law, not to apply verbal, physical, or not to employ children under 15 and young people mental abuse, or whatever the reason may be not to between the ages of 15 and 18. force them. With this goal in mind, the Company has prepared and Working Principles entered into force a legislation containing a policy for improving child labor. Trueness and trustworthiness are the foremost ethical principles in Aslanlı Tekstil. In the Company, within the As of December 31st, 2016, there is no child labor in any unit context of working principles designated in Civil Society of Aslanlı Tekstil. Initiative, it is of great importance that the activities are done with no interruptions, efficiently and with no Preventing forced labor problems, and with the participation of all employees. Aslanlı Tekstil expects its employees to respect the Principle against forced labor is applied with great care and working principles and adjust to them. devoutness in Aslanlı Tekstil. Workplace and employee satisfaction In the Company, no one in any condition may be forced into labor in any way, and as such; no employee is Aslanlı Tekstil’s goal is to maintain a contemporary and forced into overtime without their consent, and they are decent workplace that fully respects employee rights. employed with their consent into proper positions. The Company’s rudiments it keeps are as follows: Aslanlı Tekstil, determined to fulfill its responsibilities for its employees, expects and encourages its employees The employees in the Company cannot be forced to adopt the work ethic, working principles, and social into labor by indebting them or making them sign a values; and act as individuals that are environmentally bill. conscious and aware of their social responsibilities. Labor force of a convict is never made use of under any In Aslanlı Tekstil, within the framework of employee condition. satisfaction, in order to pursue the social responsibility activities in a more effective way, and to determine the After the overtime, the employee cannot be made to employees’ thoughts and assessment toward the stay. Company, has contacted an independent firm to do an The employees papers (Passport, ID) cannot be Employee Satisfaction Survey. taken to prevent them from getting off the work. Upon the evaluation of survey reports in question, it Privacy of employee information appears that the employees give great importance to customer satisfaction, and also employee satisfaction Confidentiality of personal and private information of level and their devotion to the Company are on very employees is another responsibility of Aslanlı Tekstil, high levels. and is taken great care to fulfill. Accounting and other financial rights The Company prepares a personal file for every one of its employees. The information on employees the In Aslanlı Tekstil, we pursue a just and competitive executive board has is used under the rules of policy with regards to accounting. trustworthiness, and within the framework of law, and in such cases the privacy principle is taken as a basis. LABOR STANDARDS In the Company, twice in a year for summer and Macroeconomic data, the accounting policies currently winter, work shoes, work pants, t-shirts for winter and used in the markets, sector, and competitors, the summer, coat, bonnet, ear protector, work gloves, and Company’s long-term goals, individual’s competence, mask are provided free of charge. and seniority determine our approach to accounting. The Company pays its employees a bonus once The principles Aslanlı Tekstil takes as basis are as every year. follows: In accordance with the applicable law framework in In the Company, a box of provisions in Ramadan, and Turkey, 45 hours of labor is taken as the basis. Work meat distribution in Feast of Sacrifice is provided, and in the New Year cake, nuts and beverages are provided. over 45 hours is considered overtime. For every 1 hour of overtime work, 50% more than a regular Regulations on working hours and day offs hourly wage is paid. Aslanlı Tekstil fully adjusts itself to the laws and The employee’s consent is taken for overtime work. industrial standards on working hours and day offs. In holidays in work days, the full wage of the day is Except for such reasons as condition of the country, paid with no expectations in return. nature of the work, or increasing the production rate, The wages of employees are paid as advance and working hours is 11 hours for a day, and 45 hours salary. In cases of death, bankruptcy, sickness, weekly, while the overtime hours cannot exceed 270 custody, and other such cases, annual salaries are hours annually. paid on the fifth day of every month, while advances It is closely monitored that the overtime work not are paid on 22nd day of every month. exceed a set amount weekly, and the employees are For monthly salaries and overtime work pays the given one day off. personnel is given work slips. In cases of discontinuance due to such cases as death, Aslanlı Tekstil, within its responsibility for its employees sickness, or other reasons, and in cases of leave of personal rights, periodically monitors and applies all the employment, the related representative is informed as updates in the legal legislation regulating working life by soon as possible; while monitoring continuance, and ways of the Company’s financial advisor, treasurers arrival to work on time is done via documents the department, and Administration and Treasurer. Within this employees sign and computer assisted fingerprint context, on subjects of minimum wage, tax brackets, scanners. Social Security Institution subsidies, and other such topics, the updates made by the state and changes Activities on preventing discrimination announced are notified to the employees, and other In Aslanlı Tekstil, in no condition can a person be related parties, and as of the day of entering into force discriminated for such reasons as religious view, they are shown in the pay slips. language, race, sex, political view, and ethnicity. Social Aids Provided to the Employees The reason in question still applies in cases of Aslanlı Tekstil provides diverse social aids to its employment of the worker, compensation, education, employees. In this regard; rewarding, and also breaking the contract of employment, or retirement. The daily commute of the Company employees is provided by a personnel service. Also, the Company does not prevent, or intervene in its employees from becoming members of foundations, The Company provides lunch and tea service daily, unions, associations, organizations or institutions. In the and offers snacks for the overtime workers. freedom of association and membership of nongovernmental organizations adoption of laws and codes of contact is sought. LABOR STANDARDS Aslanlı Tekstil employs handicapped personnel that is A Health and Safety Employee Representative has registered on İŞKUR (Turkish Employment Agency) and been appointed as chosen by the employees of the placed a notice upon, as per the principle of equality and Company, in order to apply the necessities of OHS in within the framework of laws, in order to support the line with law, and to be responsible for the health and handicapped’s participation into the society. occupational safety of all the employees. As of the end of the year 2016, the number of Within the OHS, the Company’s Risk Analysis report handicapped employees in the Company is 1 (one), has been prepared and entered into force. and this personnel works in the internal cleaning department. To all the employees within the Company, trainings on OHS are given, and they are notified on the Freedom of association subject matter. Aslanlı Tekstil recognizes its employees right to form an Within the Company, activities in order to regulate OHS, association and/or sign a collective contract of their and to prevent accidents are carried out. Also, all kinds of own free will. warning signs and documents required by the business branch and equipment used has been prepared, and As of December 31st, 2016, there is no unionization within placed within the production grounds where it can easily Aslanlı Tekstil. be seen/noticed/reached by the employees. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY IN The Company carries out preventive activities in order ASLANLI TEKSTİL to eliminate accidents with a goal of facilitating and Aslanlı Tekstil values the preventive measures and maintaining a safe and healthy working environment, applications toward occupational health and safety and in cases of possible accidents, takes preventive as an essential element of production and working measures to eliminate injuries. process. In order to protect the employees’ health and safety, the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) in Aslanlı Tekstil Company provides the personal protective gear is managed through systematic processes. Within the required by the business branch fully, and distributes to framework of laws, it is of great importance that rules its employees. and principles relating to OHS are applied. Also, within the frame of OHS, accredited firms are The activities of the Company on the OHS subject are being contacted in order to measure the noise, dust, summarized below. illumination in the working environment within the factory, and also to test the employees hearing on an We take action on the subject of OHS within the annual basis. framework of laws, and in this regard make regulations. As is specified in the law, a Board of Occupational The employees in Aslanlı Tekstil are required to use Health and Safety with an OHS advisor has been formed personal protective gear provided to them. The use of in Aslanlı Tekstil. It is ensured that the board carries out aforementioned equipment is periodically monitored its activities competently. and checked, which is done by the Factory Manager and Operating manager. Within the general law of Board of OHS, it is formed by employee representatives that are elected, as is required Should an accident occur, in the evaluations following, the by law. The board periodically convenes every month and causes of the accidents are identified, and necessary meeting minutes are recorded in “Evaluation of and measures and recuperative actions are taken, and it is Suggestions on OHS” and “Occupational Safety” as aimed that the occupational safety has zero risk of proposed by law, and notarized. As well as the agenda accidents. articles on related subjects, employees’ suggestions, As of December 31st, 2016, occupational accidents have complaints, and wishes are delivered to management not happened in Aslanlı Tekstil. through representatives, and taken into consideration. LABOR STANDARDS TRAINING ACTIVITIES IN ASLANLI TEKSTİL The employees file their complaints and suggestions to the upper management through the use of complaints/ Aslanlı Tekstil provides training and catch-up work suggestions box, and they can also contact the in order to improve the Company employees’ Employee Representative, and in this way, the subject technical and occupational competence, and to matter can be discussed in the Board of Occupational Health keep it up to date. and Safety. Within its corporate management understanding, Aslanlı The employees can not only make themselves heard Tekstil regards training activities with utmost either written or verbally, but the complaints/ importance not only because it is valuable for the suggestions and solutions to these are also recorded by employees’ occupational futures, but also because OHS Board. it can improve the efficiency and productivity of the Company. SUPPLIERS OF ASLANLI TEKSTİL The Company provides various trainings on the subject Aslanlı Tekstil’s suppliers are chemical material of OHS on an annual basis, and also at the start of work, the manufacturer and supplier firms, and spinning employee is trained and taught about the general safety factories. rules, the working environment, and the machinery parkour. Aslanlı Tekstil shows regards to such subjects as ethical values, environmental consciousness, and social Apart from these, twice in a year fire and first aid, and responsibility, as well as costs and quality within the consciousness raising trainings are provided to the cooperation with its suppliers. employees on the subject of environment by Aslanlı Tekstil Environment Consultancy. The Company demands the universally acclaimed principles and applications on the subject of sustainability COMPLAINT AND SUGGESTION MECHANISM IN be adopted by its suppliers as a principle, and ASLANLI TEKSTİL encourages them in this context. Aslanlı Tekstil gives utmost importance to its dialogue Aslanlı Tekstil takes extra care in ensuring the materials with employees. All employees are able to get in supplied are eco-friendly, protects human health, and contact with the Company management office through that are manufactured in hygienic conditions, and meets the complaints and suggestions mechanism with either the required quality and standards. written or verbal notifications. ENVIRONMENT Aslanlı Tekstil adopts as a principle that in every Biological purification system and water treatment activity it carries out, it will not harm the environment and protect it meticulously, and aims Since it has started manufacturing activities, Aslanlı to contribute in leaving the future generations a Tekstil has incorporated biological purification; and cleaner and more livable world. started treating the water by purifying the processed water used in the manufacture process. Aslanlı Tekstil is in full harmony with the laws and administrative regulations on environmental regulation, and Within the framework of legal borders specified by the in this legal framework fulfills all of its duties. TR Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, the Company realizes its purification activities, and its total In this regard, the Company promises to; purification rate is 1.600m3/day. Improve in every possible area related to environment Aslanlı Tekstil systematically and in a planned way within the context of its activities, carries out maintenance, repair, and improvement of the Biological Purification System, and by following the Provide its employees to fulfill their duties with an technological developments, implements improvements environmental awareness, and encourage them in this to ensure that the system effectively works at 100% regard, of its capacity. The Company takes extra care in Ensure that the products it develops and manufactures do ensuring that the purification system works without not harm the environment, and they are made with interruptions and continuously. eco-friendly materials, The necessary analyses are made by either authorized Prevent pollution, reduce the wastes in their source, external laboratories that meet the conditions, or by the recycle as much as possible, eliminate wastes that Company laboratories, and thus the purifications cannot be recycled without harming the environment monitoring is regularly ensured. by following the technological developments, Aslanlı Tekstil has achieved to reduce its water Reduce the use of natural resources by continuously consumption in manufacturing process greatly with Developing environmental performance, the activities it has carried out. Water, as is nature of Aslanlı Tekstil’s area of work, is one Fulfill the obligations within the framework of its of the most used natural resources. The Company carries legislation and administrative regulations, out activities in order to save water it uses in manufacturing Provide training on the various subjects of environment processes with the goals of decreasing usage of natural with the aim of raising consciousness of its employees as resources, and increasing productivity. responsible individuals beneficial to the society on Aslanlı Tekstil, as a result of the aforementioned environment protection. projects has achieved to save 40% water in the last Aslanlı Tekstil’s activity cycle is based upon three years. The projects carried out in order to save protection of the environment and respect to the water are listed below. nature. With innovation activities carried out together with Aslanlı Tekstil gives utmost importance to protecting chemical manufacturers and suppliers, we have the environment, and respects the nature and looks out managed to save water greatly. for the nature; in every phase of its activity cycle it Within the context of collaboration with Istanbul approaches the aforementioned values with great care. Technical University (ITU) Environmental Engineering The Company holds meetings and provides training Faculty, a joint research and development project has in order to meet the requirements specified by law, been carried out. As a result of this study, “Water raise awareness on the subject of sustainability and Minimization” project has been incorporated, and water environment from the lowest rank to the highest rank in saving has been achieved by recycling and re-using the its activities. processed water used in manufacturing process. Energy saving and efficiency activities The Company gathers mineral oil, hazardous packaging, accumulator, cell battery, electronics, Aslanlı Tekstil carries out energy saving and efficiency fluorescence, yarn waste, dirty fabrics, and activities in order to protect the environment and nature, purification sludge resulting from the manufacturing and reduce the usage of natural resources. processes, and within the legal framework, delivers In this context, in order to recycle the heat of the them to licensed gatherer firms with national waste processed water that was left out of production in the year transportation documents. 2013, a Heat Exchanger Unit has been installed, and The notifications related to the processes carried out has managed to save up 10% of natural gas. are given to Provincial Department of Environment as Also, the illumination systems in Kırklareli Plantation specified by law. has been completely changed with new generation, QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IN ASLANLI modern LED illumination systems. As a result of this TEKSTİL change, illumination from outside the factory building through the windows has been achieved; as a result Aslanlı Tekstil documents the quality, safeness, and not only have we achieved to save energy, we have compatibility of the manufactured goods within the also eliminated any fire risk that could be caused by Quality Management System with certificates that illumination indoors. are internationally acclaimed. The Company keeps its certificates up to date periodically. Waste management activities The Company’s products and the products it uses in its Aslanlı Tekstil carries out activities in order to protect products do not contain substance that is hazardous to the environment and nature, and to prevent wastes from environment and human health, and is in full harmony harming the environment. with REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), European Union’s policy on chemicals that entered into force in 2007. The summaries of the certificate Aslanlı Tekstil owns can be found in the table below Name of The Certificate Date of Issue Date of Renovation Explanation Global Organic Textile Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) 9 June 2016 9 June 2017 Standard Certificate of Quality ISO 9001:2008 7 November 2016 7 November 2017 Managment System Certificate of Enviroment ISO 14001:2004 3 February 2017 3 February 2018 Managment System Packing and Packing BRC/IOP Global Standard 3 February 2017 3 February 2018 Materials Standard Certificate of Use of Cotton USA 1 January 2017 31 December 2017 Cotton USA Logo SOCIETY Aslanlı Tekstil’s foremost contribution to the society STRUGGLE AGAINST BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION is direct or indirect employment it provides to the society. Aslanlı Tekstil, within its corporate management understanding has adopted the principles of Aslanlı Tekstil, in its Kırklareli Plantation derives most equality, transparency, honesty, equity, and of the employees from the local community. The accountability that are the rising values of today’s Company also gives priority to local firms in selecting business world. suppliers, and in cases where the local firms cannot meet the needs, suppliers from other cities are contacted. In its area of activity, Aslanlı Tekstil has taken upon itself as a principle that it shall act in accordance with legislation As well as the city it carries out its activities in with local and regulations within the context of bribery and employment, Aslanlı Tekstil contributes to Turkish corruption, universal legal rules, and ethical and economy in an increasing rate, and creates added value. occupational principles. Aslanlı Tekstil exports most of its goods to foreign The Company, within the context of this principle acts markets, and in doing so supports the recognition of with a “zero tolerance” approach on the issues of bribery Turkey and Turkish society on international platforms, and corruption, and promises to continue to carry out and helps form new business collaborations, as well as its activities with equity, honesty, and in full harmony supporting the economy with the collaborations it with legal rules and codes of conduct. forms with foreign business partners. Aslanlı Tekstil, within the context of its sensitivity towards work ethic, has prepared and put into action a “Policy Prescription on Struggle Against Bribery and Corruption”. As the subject matter is about work ethic and also an act that requires legal punishment, the Company expects its employees to approach this matter with great care, and evaluate this as part of their individual duty and responsibility outside their work life. Aslanlı Tekstil prohibits bribery and corruption in all of its activities clearly. The Company acts within the borders that the national and international laws have drawn in the period of decision taking and its application, and takes preventive measures for possible corruption cases. Should such cases occur, the case is sorted out as soon as possible, and ensures that the legal procedures begin and the shareholders are informed. CONTACT Aslanlı Uluslararası Tekstil ve Tarım Ürünleri Dış Tic. A.Ş. Sales Office Bağdat Cad. Kılıçoğlu Apt. No: 451 Kat: 4 Daire: 10 Suadiye İstanbul, TURKEY Phone: +90 216 416 18 70 +90 216 416 18 71 +90 216 416 18 74 Fax: +90 216 416 18 89 E-Mail: info@aslanli.com sales@aslanli.com Factory Kavaklı Beldesi Merkezaltı Mevkii, Değirmencik Koyu Yolu Üzeri Kırklareli, TURKEY Phone: +90 288 246 19 31 (4 lines) Fax: +90 288 246 19 25 E-Mail: factory@aslanli.com qualityassurance@aslanli.com www.aslanli.com
