SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ANNEXURES INTRODUCTION Established in 1998 as part of the Tata Group, Trent Ltd. operates Westside, one of India's largest and fastest growing chains of retail stores. The company has established 107 Westside departmental stores measuring 8,000-34,000 sqft in floor space across 58 cities. The Westside format offers a predominantly exclusive brands model across women’s wear, menswear, kids’ wear, footwear, lingerie, cosmetics, perfumes and handbags, household furniture and accessories. Well-designed interiors and prime locations enhance the customer’s shopping experience. In addition, Landmark, one of the largest books, toys, gaming & technology retail chains was acquired by Trent in 2005. Landmark sparked the trend of stocking curios & other gift items. What separates Landmark from other stores of its kind is the range and depth of its stock, i.e chocolates, magazines, bags & travel, sports & stationaries and many more. In 2016 Trent forayed into the value segment of fashion through its brand Zudio with its first standalone store opened in Bangalore. The value format – Zudio offers consumers with an awesome mix of fashionable yet affordable ranges. Areas of Business:  The core area of business of Trent Ltd is: a Retail chain of stores of fashion apparels, entertainment & leisure.  The Westside format offers an exclusive range of its own branded apparel and continues to be the flagship business of the company.  Landmark is a family entertainment format store with a focus on toys, adult and young adult books, sports-related merchandise, tech accessories, gaming and stationery.  Zudio is the value segment of fashion a standalone store in Bangalore with affordable range of apparels SUSTAINABILITY At Trent Limited, sustainability integrates economic progress, environmental concerns and social responsibility with the objective of “Improving quality of life” and building “Leadership with Trust”. We believe in integration of our business values, cultural pillars and operating principles to meet the expectations of our customers, employees, partners, investors, communities and wider society. Trent Limited is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress provides an overview of commitments and activities during 2016-17 in support of the Global Compact's objectives. Our commitment to sustainability drives our environmental endeavor, good corporate citizenship in our workplace, communities, the products and services we provide to customers. Our commitment thus is:  We will uphold the values of integrity, understanding, unity, excellence and responsibility with stakeholders.  We seek to train and recruit a right mix of fresh and experienced people that reflect the diversity of the communities in which we operate, to give equal opportunities to all of our staff, provide decentralized training, and to provide opportunities of learning and development to help them have fulfilling and rewarding careers.  We aspire to create an equal platform of opportunities for the socially and economically disadvantaged sections, specifically for the Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) communities.  We strive to contribute to safeguarding the environment and improving biodiversity.  In accordance with the National Policy on Child Labour, we intend to take proactive steps towards a child-labour free society.  In accordance with other Labour Laws, we seek to identify possible occupational hazards and promote in totality, the health and safety of our employees. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals OUR COMMITMENT Trent Limited acknowledges that every single human being is entitled to enjoy his or her human rights without any distinction of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Trent Limited abides by the Constitution of India and law of the land and levies utmost importance to human rights thereby upholding and safeguarding the same. To translate the above mentioned into actions, the company has adopted a set of standards & codes and adheres to them strictly. Following is an insight into the company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance, and certain other codes that are adhered to with respect to protecting and promoting human rights: Purpose Upholding the Tata group belief, we at Trent are committed to improving the quality of life of the communities we serve. We do this by striving for leadership in the sectors we operate in. Our practice of giving back to the society evokes trust among consumers, employees, shareholders and the community. We are committed to protecting this heritage of leadership with trust. Core values The Tata Group has always been driven by values. These values continue to direct the growth and business of Tata companies. The five core Tata values reinforce the way we do business at Trent. They are as follows: Integrity: We must conduct our business fairly, with honesty and transparency. Everything we do must stand the test of public scrutiny. Understanding: We must be caring, show respect, compassion and humanity for our colleagues and customers around the world, and always work for the benefit of the communities we serve. Excellence: We must constantly strive to achieve the highest possible standards in our day-today work and in the quality of the goods and services we provide. Unity: We must work cohesively with our colleagues across the group and with our customers and partners around the world, building strong relationships based on tolerance, understanding and mutual cooperation. Responsibility: We must continue to be responsible, sensitive to the countries, communities and environments in which we work, always ensuring that what comes from the people goes back to the people many times over. Corporate Governance: Our philosophy on Corporate Governance is to observe the highest level of ethics in all its dealings, to ensure efficient conduct of the affairs of the Company and help the Company achieve its goal in maximizing value for all its stakeholders. The Company’s philosophy is in line with the Tata Group’s long standing tradition of fair and transparent governance. The Company has adopted the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) for its employees including the Executive Directors. In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its NonExecutive Directors. The Company’s corporate governance philosophy has been further strengthened by the Tata Business Excellence Model, a Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading and the Whistle Blower Policy. The Company is in compliance with the requirements of the revised guidelines on corporate governance stipulated under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements with the Stock Exchanges. Tata Code of Conduct: Trent Limited has adopted the Tata Code of conduct (TCoC) which serves as a guide on the values, ethics and business principles. It is a set of 24 principles which enshrine the human rights principles, adherence to labour standards, commitment towards environment protection and anti-corruption. TCoC has been developed to ensure a high standard of corporate and personal behaviour on which the Tata Group’s reputation and respectability has been built over the past years. Trent Limited adheres to TCoC strictly in all its transactions with all the stakeholders thereby embedding the values of the group along with the Leadership’s focus on walking the talk. The 24 TCoC principles in brief: 1. Equal Opportunity employer 13. Conflicts of interest 2. Accurate Financial reporting and records 14. Products and services 3. Dignity & respect 15. Export controls and trade sanctions 4. Human Rights 16. Ethical conduct with value chain partners 5. Bribery and corruption 17. Fair Competition 6. Gifts and hospitality 18. Dealings with customers 7. Freedom of association 19. Communities 8. Working outside employment with us 20. The environment 9. Integrity of information and assets 21. Political non – Alignment 10. Insider trading 23. Government engagement 11. Corporation of Tata Group companies 24. Raising Concerns & accountability 12. Prohibited Drugs and substances The Company has adopted the TCoC for its Executive Directors, senior management personnel and other executives of the Company. The Company has also adopted the Code of Conduct for Non-Executive Directors of the Company. Both the Codes are posted on the website of the Company. Whistle Blower Policy: Trent Limited has adopted the Whistle Blower Policy that is an extension of the Tata Code of Conduct. It provides a formal mechanism for all employees of the Company to approach the Ethics Counselor/ Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Company and make protective disclosure about the unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct. All employees of the Company are eligible to make Protected Disclosures under the Policy. The Tata Code of Conduct states the following: “A Tata company shall be committed to be a good corporate citizen, not only in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, but also by actively assisting in the improvement of the quality of life of the people in the communities in which it operates, with the objective of making them self-reliant. Such social responsibility would comprise initiating and supporting initiatives in the field of community health and family welfare, water management, vocational training, education and literacy, and encouraging the application of modern scientific and managerial techniques and expertise. This will be reviewed periodically in consonance with national and regional priorities. The company shall also not treat these activities as optional ones, but shall strive to incorporate them as integral part of its business plan. The company shall also encourage volunteering among its employees and help them to work in the community. Tata companies are encouraged to develop social accounting systems and to carry out social audits of their operations.” Trent Limited through its Corporate Sustainability department strives to address the concerns of its employees, stakeholders and the community (especially the underprivileged sections of the society). In order to realize the same, we follow a 2 part process: 1. Selecting the Key Communities To ensure that the activities carried out by the Company have an impact, the company follows an exercise of selecting communities based on materiality, prioritization and further outlining action plans for the same. The process of selecting the key communities is as follows: Materiality Identification of Partner Stakeholder Prioritization Assessment Key Communities Identification Engagement SOCIAL POLICY ⇒ India a youthful country with a large percentage of the population being in the younger age brackets. We believe that these young people shall be the backbone of the nation in the coming years. It is therefore our intention to focus on the socially underprivileged children and unemployed youth in order to provide them with a chance to have a better life tomorrow. ⇒ We shall dedicate resource commensurate with our business requirements to community activities that work towards improving the future of socially underprivileged children and unemployed youth. We shall also use our assets and our expertise in the retail business to further the cause of such communities. 2. Deciding the Thrust areas and clearly outlining the Action Plans o For Implementation o For setting up a process to Measure and Review the Results Goals related to human rights: To ensure that 100% of our employees undergo training as part of our Induction program Implementation All employees undergo a one day training program with intent to acclimatize the personnel with the Philosophy of the Tata Group, Vision, Mission and Values of Trent and the various policies and procedures of the company. Measurement of outcomes Target Set Results Achieved 100% Employees 100% of the employees have been trained in respect to the aspects of values, vision and mission of the organization Trent has framed and incorporated the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy under the framework and guidelines of the Companies Act, 2013 and Schedule 7 governing corporate social responsibility initiatives and focus areas. Successive CSR initiatives and projects shall now be implemented basis the Corporate Social Responsibility policy. Based on materiality assessment, the following thrust areas namely Education, Employment, Employability, Health & Safety, Environment and furthering other relevant social endeavours have been identified. An overview of the actions taken, its impact and the plans formulated with regards to the same are as follows: Education As part of our education initiative, we support NGOs by selling items like ‘Diyas’ with a theme ‘Help a Child – Bring a Smile’ during Diwali and ‘Angels Tree’ and Stars during Christmas to generate revenue to help poor children, with the proceeds being given to the NGOs that work in the areas of education & nutrition. For the year 2016-17, we are supporting 18 NGO projects, benefitting approximately 3000 children across India. This year also witnessed a successful launch of the below mentioned projects:  Education sponsorship programme  School Library Project  English Communication Project. Education Sponsorship Programme: This initiative aims at assisting students at National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) Mumbai by providing educational sponsorship, thus providing financial assistance to meritorious and deserving students belonging to the economically weaker sections, specific to Affirmative Action communities. This academic year 2016-17, Trent sponsored 6 eligible students. School Library Project: Trent Limited, under its Corporate Social Responsibility Programme had set up a total of 8 school libraries in English medium Government Municipal schools in Mumbai in 2014-15. Extending this programme in 2015-16, Trent supported 5 municipal school libraries in Delhi and 4 in Pune. This initiative is implemented in partnership with Room to Read India Trust, a public charitable trust that works in collaboration with communities and local governments across Asia and Africa to develop literacy skills and a habit of reading among primary school children. In the forthcoming year, we plan to scale this initiative across multiple cities across India. English Communication Project: This initiative aims at improving English Communication skills of students belonging to municipal schools between the age group of 13-16 years across Mumbai city. The project aims to make a difference in the lives of the students vis-à-vis fluency in their ability to communicate in English. The batch is running in its second year in St. Xaviers College, Mumbai . This initiative is being implemented in partnership with Salaam Bombay Foundation and Step Up Foundation, non-governmental organizations that work in collaboration with communities and local government schools. The project covers 150-200 students in the batch. Employment 712 individuals, which is 24% of the total workforce belonging to the Affirmative Action communities were employed within our organization, last year. This has been a result of our twin pronged strategy of working with NGOs having roots in the communities and our employability initiative. Employability In our endeavor to champion the cause of employability, Trent has been executing a selfdesigned initiative Saksham with the objective of training underprivileged youth from the communities in a vocational course on ‘Retail Operations’ so as to enhance their employability skills and provide opportunities for employment. The course includes a good mix of theory and practical so as to fully equip every aspirant with relevant skills, knowledge and attitude. With the intention of making the above mentioned project sustainable and scalable, Trent has trained 20 trainers so far from the N.G.Os so far and has taken centre stage with regards to updating the trainers on a timely basis, providing certification, an on the job training provision and support in terms of providing employment opportunities. In addition, commensurate to our requirements, we intend to employ as many of these aspirants within our organization. Relevant processes have been set to ensure smooth functioning of the above mentioned. Initiative Beneficiaries Vocational Training on Retail Approximately 846 Operations & English underprivileged youth from the Communication Skills communities till date Affirmative Action Tata Group endorses affirmative action, an initiative relating to endeavors falling under the gamut of: Education, Employability, Employment and Entrepreneurship especially for personnel belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe categories. As part of this initiative, Trent has provided employment to 712 people from the affirmative action communities. This translates to 24 % of Trent’s employee base. Volunteering The leadership team regularly takes initiatives in areas of community development. Employees are encouraged to become members of the professional bodies and volunteer their time, talent and expertise. Senior leaders and employees from Trent Limited are constantly involved in educational activities with student groups from various educational institutions. In addition, Trent has initiated an Award Category for Volunteers who partake in the Corporate Sustainability initiatives. This year, Trent also participated in the Tata Engage Group volunteering program initiated by the Tata group. Around a total of 18983.5 volunteering man hours across various locations participated in this program, thereby contributing their time and skills. Volunteers conducted sessions on “retail as a carrier choice” ProEngage initiated by the Tata group: ProEngage a skill-based volunteering program that enables volunteers to lend their skills & expertise to non-profits and communities for capacity building in specialized functions like HR, Finance, Business Planning, Marketing etc. Volunteering and contributing their skills and time for a project dedicatedly for a span of 2-6 months on a part-time basis. Trent has 11 volunteers as its Pro Engagers. Volunteering has been categorized broadly as follows: Volunteering at our Stores (Stores Staff): Aspirants from NGOs are encouraged to visit the stores as part of the vocational training initiative which provides a unique opportunity for visual and tactical learning Volunteering with NGO's as Guest Lecturers: The staff from our corporate office/ stores visit NGOs to impart knowledge and skills to the aspirants from the organization. Aid to the society Trent Limited collaborates with various NGOs working with Children and blood donation, donation of clothes, books, toys etc. on a periodic basis. Volunteers from within the organization also form part of these donation drives and spend quality time with these beneficiaries through various activities. Trent has also collaborated with a Hospital Guru Nanak Trust and donates unused medicines that are subsequently used by the doctors from the trust to treat the sick and afflicted hailing from underprivileged communities. For the same, Trent encourages their employees and customers to donate unused medicines which are collected through special medicine dropboxes that are placed at the Corporate Office and at the stores. Health and Safety Safety CommitmentSafe practices being a cultural aspect of one’s behavior, Trent’s SLT demonstrates their commitment to Safety largely through the softer aspects of communication and training. An Apex Safety committee consisting of the SLT meets once a month to review the Safety KPIs and ATRs. All major decisions on Safety are taken in this meeting. Constant reinforcement are done through regular mailers, audits, review meets and deployment of planned Safety initiatives. For the last three years separate budgets are allocated for Safety. Over and above this budget, one – time funds are sanctioned in case of Capex spends required as per recommendations of external audits or Safety regulation demands. Safety Policy The organizational Health and Safety Policy has been framed keeping in mind the health and safety needs of all stakeholders, and guiding principles from the Tata Safety and Health Management System. Safety Infrastructure – HO Stores DC Taj Building Pune Srng offices G5 Head Safety Infrastructure at Trent CCTV surveillance Woman’s Y Y Y N N Y Safety 24x7 physical security Y Y Y N Y Y Electronic access Y N Y Y N Y A Helmets for 2 wheeler Travel safety N Y Y N N N Ergonomic cash tills Health & NA Y N N N N wellness A A A A First Aid Box Y Y Y Y Y Y Tie up with nearby hospitals Y Y Y Y Y Y Fire Alarm System Electrical (Fire) Y Y Y Y Y N safety & Fire extinguishers Emergency Y Y Y Y Y Y Response Sprinklers at all floors Y Y Y N N N A A A Fire exit doors push-bar & hooter system Y Y Y N Y N Safety visibility signage and hatchings Y Y Y Y Y Y Emergency Exit Plans, Emergency wardens & Firefighters Y Y Y Y Y N Refuge area Y Y N Y N Y A A Assembly Points Y Y Y Y Y Y Stretchers and wheelchairs for evacuation for those needing special assistance Y Y Y N Y N Safety Hotline and iServe issue reporting & resolution Y Y Y Y Y Y Safety Alert card system Project Safety Y Y Y N Y N PPEs for works Y Y Y Y Y Y Trent Safety Infrastructure Safety CommunicationForum / Mode of Frequency Parameters Audience Channel Communication TownHall One way Monthly Promotion of upcoming Employees Safety H&S activity, Safety Quiz Contact Safety event One way Quarterly Importance and agenda Employees invites of the Safety event Safety Two way Monthly KPI review Apex Committee & Committee Safety Owners meeting ABCD Two way Weekly Safety KPI review, Safety Owners Meeting Activity planning and milestone review Store Two way Weekly Safety findings, Store Staff Briefing awareness Engagement One way Annual Safety Rewards Employees Conclave SQT Meet One way Annual Safety awareness Module Category Teams BAMM Two Way Bi-Annual KPI review and training Store Managers AMO Meet Two Way Bi-Annual KPI review and training Asst Store Managers Times of One Way Quarterly G5 and other safety Employees Trent updates In-Store One Way Ongoing Safety information & Customers & Store signages & Emergency response Employees Notice boards Back office One Way Ongoing Safety information & Store Employees notice boards Emergency response & Posters In-Office One Way Ongoing Safety information & Visitors and Office signages & Emergency response Employees Notice boards Safety Communication at Trent Safety Initiatives – The leadership team at Trent creates focus on safety by translating the guiding principles of the Tata Group Health and Safety Management System into a set of policies and initiatives suitable to the retail industry. It has adopted Give Me 5! (G5) as a prioritized theme for Safety at Trent for all stakeholders. Give Me 5! is a set of promises on Safety between the Leadership team and the employees of Trent. Based on the risks associated in the Retail Industry, Woman Safety, Health & Wellness, Project Site Safety, Electrical Safety and Travel Safety were prioritized and this two-way promise on Safety was launched by the MD in April 2016 Process & Policies Risks Processes & Policies Women’s Safety  Certification course on Women Safety for all lady employees Give Me 5!  POSH Policy and POSH Committee in place  In case of late hours – ladies chaperoned home Travel Safety  Travel Policy tweaked to include cab service at late hours Give Me 5!  Two wheeler Safety Poster Campaign at all locations  Colleague’s Video Messages of personal accident experience  Spare Helmet at stores for colleagues who forget to get their own  Defensive driving lessons for Chauffeurs  Chaperoning (ladies) / Shuttle service / Cab booking for odd hour travel Electrical Safety  Dedicated Maintenance Department manages all equipment Give Me 5!  Regional maintenance teams viz store and cluster maintenance officers reporting into Regional Maintenance Managers with regional budget allocations  Online issue management portal, iServe  SLA led resolution trackedweekly dashboard published and reviewed by the SLT  Equipment AMC with vendor + tracker to up alerts on upcoming maintenance activities  Daily Safety Walks and Quarterly Internal Safety Audits  External electrical audits in sample locations  Major issues identified discussed in the Apex Safety Committee meeting Project Safety  Store/office building received from builder only after the building Safety Give Me 5! Infrastructure is complete as per Developer scope  Non-compliance on Safety Checklist leads to rejection of property by the Property Committee  Safety infrastructure standards followed at project  Safety measures are taken during fit-out stage and a Work Permit system is used to undertake complex works such as working at heights and electrical work  Safety incidents at the project sites reported through iServe special bucket  At handover, operations team inspects the store identifies and uploads a Safety snag listto be resolved before store opening Health & Wellness  Trent has engaged its office employees in a series of Fitness activities Give Me 5! that are branded as G5 Fit and Fun-– Yoga, Zumba, Functional fitness etc  Quarterly Health Talks  Fit & Fun SportsCricket, TT,carom  Nutritionist interventionHealth Breakfast , Healthy menu in cafeteria  Ergonomics @ work – Cashiers, IMT, Office Staff Supply Chain Safety  During Supplier Selectioninspection to evaluate Safety measures in the vendor’s premises  Contract signed only if Safety norms are met – Fire Prevention systems, Fire exit ,Emergency exit plan, First Aid Box & First Aiders, Fire Department NOC, Needle Detector , Broken Needle Policy  Safety infrastructure as per Trent standards is ensured at the warehouse at Pune and Vapi Contractor Safety  Contracted staff ( Housekeeping & Security roles in offices, warehouses and stores) trained by Agency on Safety Awareness quarterly  Training customized as per Trent’s requirement  The contract staff like consultants working in various other line functions attend all the safety trainings  Contractor staff encouraged to participate in the G5 initiatives and contribute through the iServe Safety reporting.  Work permit system available for contract staff coming to Trent premises for works Office Safety  Basic HygieneRequired illumination,Ventilation,Good Housekeeping, Ample Desk Space, Passageways free of clutter  Infrastructure Safety Infrastructure, iServe online portal for issue logging,Trained Emergency wardens, Emergency Exit plans Emergency Preparedness  Induction training & Emergency Drills  Emergency Wardens and Infrastructure LABOUR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, Goals, Implementation and Measurement of outcomes OUR COMMITMENT Trent Limited strictly adheres to the laws of the land with regard to forced and compulsory labour. The operations of the Trent Limited stores are subject to all the statutory regulations, Shops and Establishment Act, the Weights and Measures Act, and the Packaged Commodities Act, etc. All promotional activities are governed by regulations, and the same are strictly adhered to by Trent Limited. The statutory acts related to the management of its employees and their benefits are also adhered to. Trent Limited has a Secretarial and Legal department that ensures the compliance of all legal and regulatory requirements. The internal audit department reports, suggests and facilitates compliance as a proactive measure. The Tata Code of Conduct emphasizes corporate ethical behavior for employees & to other stakeholders thereby ensuring practices that promote fair labour practices, non-discrimination, non-employment of child labour and safeguarding Human Rights at all levels of employment. ACTIVITIES & MEASURES Social Compliance Trent has embarked upon an initiative with vendors on Social Compliance. The objective being, to engage with them in our fight against Child Labor, Forced Labor, Discrimination/ Harassment and to promote Health and Safety thereby aiming at improving the quality of life. The idea was to go beyond the boundary of business and further ‘human values’ along with the vendor fraternity. Social compliance Audits: The company institutes periodic audits on its suppliers, to identify opportunities to enhance the quality of social compliance. The audit is based on ILO conventions mentioned belowTrent has implemented process for partnering with Vendors who holds Social Compliance on Global standards and have valid certification i.e. BSCI , SEDEX etc. These are audited on regular Basis of Yearly / 2 years to retain validity of certification. In addition to above – to support existing small Vendors Trent Limited has engaged Global Agency Intertek to Audit Vendors for Social Compliance. These are Standards on which all International Retailers evaluate their Vendors. Intertek has given their action plan for getting Vendors Socially Compliant which Trent limited has implemented as basic requirements. Forced Labour Child Labour Wages Discrimination Working Health & Safety Freedom of Home workers Hours Association Equal opportunity employer Trent Limited adheres to the TCoC which states the following: “A Tata company shall provide equal opportunities to all its employees and all qualified applicants for employment, without regard to their race, caste, religion, colour, ancestry, marital status, sex, age, nationality and disability. Employees of a Tata company shall be treated with dignity and in accordance with the Tata policy of maintaining a work environment and adheres to POSH Employee policies and practices shall be administered in a manner that ensures that in all matters equal opportunity is provided to those eligible and that decisions are based on merit.” The company adheres to its commitment towards being an equal opportunity employer & recruits & promotes talent on merit, with no discrimination against any caste, creed, race, colour, age, region, religion etc. In addition to this the company promotes diversity of talent. The organization has consciously added international and diverse experience across cultures. During the last few years, Trent has gone beyond geographical boundaries to induct diverse and best in class talent. Trent focuses on having gender diversity across all stores, at all levels. There are 39.20% of women colleagues at sales associate levels across stores and 16.84% women at managerial level across stores. To continue efforts in same direction, a scholarship program in collaboration with NIFT (National Institute of Fashion Technology), wherein Trent absorbs interns on merit base from affirmative action communities, with which may also lead to subsequent job offers. The company understands that cultural diversity is important to address the regional preferences of the customers. Similarly, most of the associates and officers are recruited from the city in which the store is located. Thereby also providing equal opportunity and displaying positive discrimination in recruitment from the socially disadvantaged sections of the society. Employee Welfare Benefits Officers, Associates Managerial ESI, PF, PF, Gratuity, Employee Deposit Linked Health & Accident insurance, Insurance –EDLI , Medical reimbursement , Education allowance, Medicl Medical reimbursements aim policy, AHRA VM allowances for store VM, IMT, Washing allowances ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, Goals, Implementation and Measurement of outcomes OUR COMMITMENT As an organization, we are fully committed towards the environment and intend to take steps in a direction that reduces negative impact on the environment as a result of our business activities. We abide by the TCoC which states the following:“A Tata company shall strive to provide a safe and healthy working environment and comply, in the conduct of its business affairs, with all regulations regarding the preservation of the environment of the territory it operates in. A Tata company shall be committed to prevent the wasteful use of natural resources and minimize any hazardous impact of the development, production, use and disposal of any of its products and services on the ecological environment.” Impacts of products & services The product range of Trent Limited consists primarily of apparel and accessories for ladies, men and children, household, bed and table linen and gift articles. The process of manufacture of these articles adversely impacts the environment through the use of fabric, the chemicals used in the manufacturing process, the materials used in packaging etc. Trent Limited aims to minimize the adverse impact on society to the extent possible right at the source, i.e. the manufacturers and suppliers themselves. Feedback from customers, Industry scan, vendor and consultant interaction have led to the formulation of standards for the products of Trent Limited. Over the years Trent Limited has learnt from its customers of their concerns regarding product safety and added programs to provide greater safety features in our offerings. Running the stores has an impact on the environment due to the usage of energy and modest amounts of water, and the waste produced as a result. Gases used in refrigeration systems can also have significant environmental impacts if allowed to escape. Some stores are located near residential areas. Trent Limited ensures that it does not disturb the surrounding environment by complying with all local zoning and building regulations. Increased traffic to store locations can increase environmental pollution and could also lead to traffic congestion. The Company minimizes impact of traffic by ensuring location of stores in areas, which are easily accessible by public transport, and also provide adequate dedicated parking to reduce congestion in front of stores. The processes adopted for mitigating risks associated with products are as follows:Processes to mitigate impact/ risks Impact on Processes Used Product  Standardise Fits  QC checks upgraded from time to time – Fabric Tests and Garment Tests for 3 washes  Store probe for merchandise recall  Introduction of Inline inspection – Reduce last minute rejections  Reduction in use of carry bags due to government and RAI – mandated sale of plastic bags  Consolidation of fabrics across Categories and nominating fabric suppliers  Vendor Consolidation for consistent delivery and Quality  Minimize Cost of Product in effect Margin Increase  Reduce Mind to Market lead times  Implementation of Critical Path for ensuring appropriate lead time product wise.  Basic Social Compliance of Vendors  Product Design to be as per Safety Norms for Kidswear Target & measures to mitigate impact/ risks Guidelines Impact / risk Target Processes / on product/ Actions taken to services / Improved operation Consumer/ • EPA • Pollution – • 100% • Recall process Society • Proactive use of compliance • Store layout Measures hazardous to law • Training of staff • CPSC data base dyes, use of • Product design • Zoning Laws plastics • Safety policy • Textile Testing • Health – on Zero • VMS Services Consumers Complaints • QC testing through • Safety – Textile committee during Zero labs shopping Accidents Government • Legislation • Legal non • 100% • Legal Cell /regulation compliance compliance to ensures • Income tax • Statutory law • Finance dept. • Wealth tax requirement ensures • Excise rules • Safety policy • Env. Rules • Insurance • Safety rules • Risk • Shops and Assessment Estbtt. Act • Internal audit • External audit During the planning and construction of stores itself, Trent Limited ensures that environmental issues like noise level, vibration level, and light intensity are taken care of. As part of the continuous training provided to the employees, the following aspects are covered:Training Modules Training Focus on Module includes QC training • Environmental issues • Use of QC standards and legal rules – • Vendor management e.g. use of Azo free dyes • QC standards • About VMS, ethical standards, Tata CoC ACTIVITIES & MEASURES  Carbon FootprintAssessment and Abatement As part of furthering a Culture for Energy and Environment Conservation by walking the talk, Trent under the aegis of the Tata Group has completed a ‘Carbon FootprintAssessment and Abatement exercise’. The aim being, “To move towards a carbon neutral platform by measuring the Carbon Emission Performance of the Organization, assessing the future risks and conceiving possible Techno-Financial measures to reduce the Carbon Liabilities. A detailed roadmap has been created to reduce overall energy consumption and promote the gogreen agenda. We have the 2020 Carbon road map in place to reduce the emissions of existing stores by 30% by 2020 and build new stores with 25-30% less carbon foot print. Accordingly, Carbon action plan phase-I, II, II I and sustainable project guidelines are in place and implementing the action plans and project guidelines, we will be able to reduce the cumulative carbon foot print by 30.03% of 2008-09 baseline against targeted 26.5% for the financial year 2016-17. Till date we have achieved an annual savings of 1.49 lakh kWh in the financial year 2016-17 which corresponds to an equivalent carbon emission reduction of 189.23 TCO2 per year. The cumulative CO2 emission reduction from the baseline year is 7,852 TCO2. The major contributing factors to reduction in carbon emission for new stores in the financial year 2016-17 is due to the installation of LEDs in all new stores which is one strategy of designing the new stores with at least 25-30% carbon emission reduction apart from installation of energy saving equipment like lighting energy saver, VFDs for AHUs and pumps, Energy Efficient chillers by design etc. The retrofitting of LEDs in the existing stores which account to more than 25% energy savings compared to the stores with metal halide and halogen lamps are the initiatives to reduce the carbon emissions of the existing stores. The other major contributing factor in emission reduction in existing stores are the tuning of energy saving equipment like the VFDs for AHUs, retrofit of automatic sensors for escalators and improved operational efficiency ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, Goals, Implementation and Measurement of outcomes Trent has adopted an AntiBribery & Corruption Policy, the purpose of this AntiBribery & Corruption Policy (“ABAC Policy”) is to ensure that our company sets up adequate procedures in order to prevent our company’s involvement in any activity relating to bribery, facilitation payments, or corruption, even where the involvement may be unintentional. It requires employees, directors, officers of the company and third parties subject to this ABAC Policy to recognize questionable transactions, behavior or conduct, and to take steps to record, comply and follow procedures set in place to deal with such behavior or conduct. OUR COMMITMENT As per the Tata Code of Conduct, the company adheres to a strict policy against any corrupt practices. The policy on gifts and donations, as explicitly mentioned in the TCoC is reproduced below: “A Tata company and its employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits that are intended to, or perceived to obtain business or uncompetitive favours for the conduct of its business. However, a Tata company and its employees may accept and offer nominal gifts which are customarily given and are of commemorative nature for special events.” As part of our financial accountability, the Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer of the company certify to the board that the accounts of the company present a true and fair view of the business of the company. This certification is based on the Compliance certificate furnished by each of the HOD’s. The compliance certificate is as provided in a clause of the Internal Customer Satisfaction Agreement. Any complaints regarding corrupt practices (made under the well established Whistle Blower Policy), are processed through the Ethics Counselor. An environment of legal behavior is ensured by identifying all the applicable legal norms and ensuring their compliance through regular reviews and process audits. The Internal Audit department strengthens the process of legal compliance by carrying out periodic audits, reporting shortcomings and also suggesting means for improvements. Ethical behavior is reinforced by adoption of the TCoC, Values and their deployment through the various approaches related to Communication and Training. The key processes adopted in carrying the message of ethical conduct and desired behavior is as follows: KEY PROCESSES/ INDICATORS OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR Stakeholders Key Processes Key Measures Suppliers/Vendors • Vendor Selection VSS feedback • Interactions • Complaints • Communication on TCoC Employees • TCoC / Values • Complaints implementation • Protected declarations • Training • Act of misconduct • Communication by EC • ESS feedback • Concern handling • Shrinkage • Insider Trading Landlords/ Property Contracts signed Informal feedback Dealers Brand Owners • Communication Deviation from clause / contract terms Customers Operations and • CSS services offered • Customer tracking thru’ CFTS• Informal feedback • Customer Feedback Management System The ethical environment is reinforced by the following practices.  Each employee is explained the TCoC at the time of appointment, and is a signatory to the code.  All suppliers sign Purchase Orders which mandate adherence to the TCoC.  Training programs and leadership briefings are done to increase awareness of the code.  A corporate ethics counselor who, along with local counselors at offices and stores, act as listening posts and assist in resolution of concerns. Each unit has a lady ethics counselor to make employees comfortable.  A monthly ethics and incidents reports is submitted to the Chief Ethics Counselor by all stores. He analyses the report and takes necessary action, including escalating to SLT and Board wherever required.  The TCoC is prominently displayed in all employee operating areas at Stores and Offices.  Employees are actively encouraged by the leadership to understand the code and to contact their Local Ethics Counselor to report any concerns.  An email account to capture employee concerns.  Employee & Vendor surveys to assess ethical environment.  The Tata Group MBE documents guide the process of concern resolution.  Annual corporate compliance report to the Group. Trent Limited has nominated Location Ethics Counselor in Stores across the nation. Concerns at stores levels are first raised to the LEC and then escalated to the EC. Actions taken at locations are communicated to EC. All property dealings are carried out with the highest ethical standard. The senior leaders stand the test of scrutiny in every situation in which they lead the business transactions of the company, by virtue of an environment of openness and equal participation. Their words, actions and behaviors are visible to other colleagues in the organization, and are subject to evaluation in the periodic employee surveys. The senior leaders have established a mechanism consisting of a Chief Ethics Counselor reporting to the Ethics Committee of the Board that that reviews and addresses breaches in ethical conduct within the organization, to provide recourse to anyone wanting to report breaches of the code. The senior leaders communicate the Tata Code of Conduct and organizational Values during their employee interactions and meetings with stake holders (E.g.: Vendor meets). The implementation of TCoC process is as follows: Implementation of ethical process ADOPTION OF TATA TCOC EMPLOYEE TRAINING IMPROVEMENTS COMMUNICATION WITH VENDORS & OTHER STAKEHOLDERS MONITORING THROUGH REPORTING OF CONCERNS Trent Limited monitors the effectiveness of the ethical behavior at different levels using a strong feedback process. As an E&I this year it was decided to get the feedback from Vendors on ethical dealings and transparency. ANNEXURE 1 ANNEXURE 2 Contact us Neha Pandey Corporate Social Responsibility T: (022) 67008056 E: neha.pandey@trent-tata.com
