UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JUNE 2017 Allens is an independent partnership operating in alliance with Linklaters LLP. > STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT As the Managing Partner of Allens, I am proud to have the opportunity to lead a firm that has a strong commitment to responsible corporate citizenship and to taking a leading role in our profession in upholding the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In the increasingly globalised context in which we and our clients operate, the UN Global Compact identifies best practice in corporate responsibility. Allens was the first organisation in Australia to sign the Compact and since signing in 2001, we have continued to develop, implement and promote activities within our business that enable us to uphold the Compact’s 10 principles. This report outlines some of the practical actions we took during 2016 to implement the principles across the four areas of the Compact. We have included measures of our outcomes in relevant areas. Richard Spurio Managing Partner, Allens 2 > ABOUT ALLENS Allens is a leading law firm with partners, lawyers and corporate services staff across Australia and Asia and, through our alliance with Linklaters, has a global network spanning 39 offices and 28 countries. Our clients recognise us for our commerciality, professionalism, integrity and technical expertise. We have some of the world’s longest ongoing client relationships, stretching back more than 175 years, and we work with many of the world’s leading organisations – including 55 of the world’s top 100 companies and more than 75 of Australia’s top 100 companies. We see our extensive client relationships as an important component of our corporate responsibility and aim to support our clients and the market in moving towards a sustainable economy. 3 > HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMMITMENT Every human being is entitled to basic human rights – that is, freedom, equality, justice and the right to life. However, not everyone has access to the help or resources required to uphold these rights. Allens has developed lasting relationships with non-government organisations and others within the community who are working to advance human rights. We recognise that these groups are often in the best position to identify the issues, while we have the resources and expertise to assist. Allens works hard to achieve its human rights-related goals, as set out by the firm’s various community committees. Allens demonstrates our commitment to supporting and respecting human rights through our commitment of extensive pro bono work and the ongoing implementation of our Reconciliation Action Plan, as well as through our philanthropic support for community organisations. PRO BONO Allens is proud of our longstanding commitment to our pro bono practice and we work to make the most meaningful contribution possible within the communities in which we work and live. By working directly for disadvantaged individuals and also for non-governmental organisations that work to protect human rights, we are able to strengthen the impact of our work. The largest focus of our pro bono practice is human rights work. Helping asylum seekers navigate the law Preparing applications for refugee visas and attending interviews with the Department of Immigration and Border Protection are daunting tasks for asylum seekers. The forms and interviews are highly complex and technical. Having a qualified lawyer to assist with this process can significantly increase the chances of a successful process. However, over the last two years, almost all federally funded legal assistance for asylum seekers has been withdrawn. The hugely overworked specialist refugee community legal centres 4 are relying on a great deal of volunteer assistance from the legal profession to meet these clients’ needs. Alongside many other firms, approximately 40 Allens lawyers in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth have been specially trained and many registered as migration agents to attend legal clinics and provide assistance to asylum seekers. RAP The work of the Allens RAP committees in each local office continued in 2016, with a focus on building the engagement of our staff in the reconciliation conversation, and in delivering on the firm’s commitment to our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). We are proud of the relationships we have built with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities, particularly since the launch of our first RAP in 2011. Through the five pillars of our RAP, we continue to seek opportunities to strengthen those relationships and to engage our people and others in the business community to influence social and economic change for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and communities. Following are some highlights of our RAP contributions in 2016. Pro bono support to the Outback Academy The Outback Academy is an Indigenous run organisation established for the purpose of accelerating economic freedom, employment and well-being for Indigenous Australians through strategic joint business ventures; job creation and local jobs for local people; relevant training; and targeted social investments. Allens provides ongoing pro bono legal advice to the Outback Academy to assist it to create opportunities within the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities in which it operates. Pro Bono support to Ngaimpe Aboriginal Corporation Located on the Central Coast of New South Wales, the Ngaimpe Aboriginal Corporation runs The Glen, a drug and alcohol rehabilitation and treatment centre, predominantly for Aboriginal men. Allens is assisting The Glen in securing freehold title to the property they currently lease on a long-term basis, to allow them to develop the site, provide services to a larger portion of the community, and to move away from a reliance on government funding. Empowered Communities Allens continues to support the Empowered Communities project including through the provision of a senior level secondee to one of the regions taking part in the project, for a 12-week period. The project seeks to bring together Indigenous leaders from across eight regions of Australia, to build the capacity of government and communities to work together to improve services, increase funding effectiveness and make better decisions for Indigenous Australians. In 2016, one of our Managing Associates worked with Aarnja, the regional body for Kimberley Aboriginal People, in Broome, to progress the Empowered Communities work being done in the West Kimberley. In particular, she worked with the Kimberley Aboriginal Children in Care Committee, which was highlighted in the Federal Government’s recent Closing the Gap report. 5 In early 2017, we provided additional support to Empowered Communities through the establishment of data rooms for the project. This enables secure document sharing between the stakeholders and will support the progression of the project and better communication and knowledge transfer between the regions. Jawun A partner of Jawun since 2011, Allens was proud to continue our commitment in 2016, with a total of 26 staff now having undertaken secondments to one of the nine regions around Australia supported by Jawun. Jawun partners government and corporate organisations with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses and leaders to support the development and long-term sustainability of their communities. Several senior leaders have also taken part in executive visits to Jawun regions, providing them with an opportunity to experience the impact being made by corporate secondees and to learn first-hand from the communities about how we can work better together to improve relationships between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and all other Australians. Our pro bono practice also provides ad hoc assistance to Jawun and Empowered Communities across the year, including to a number of the Indigenous organisations Jawun supports in the regions. Supplier Diversity As a founding member of Supply Nation, we work with other corporate organisations and government to progress the development of supplier diversity opportunities, including through our membership of the Business Council of Australia’s Business Indigenous Network. This forms part of our broader sustainable procurement efforts across the firm in which we are working with our staff and our service providers to reduce environmental impact while improving the diversity and sustainability of our supply chain. ASIA Challenging disadvantage in Vietnam The Lifestart Foundation is a charity that helps disadvantaged Vietnamese people and their families to become self sufficient. Among many programs and services, the Lifestart Foundation Free Rehabilitation Centre in central Vietnam provides assistance to adults with complex disabilities. The Allens’ philanthropic grants program provided the Lifestart Foundation with a grant that helps support a physiotherapist position in the centre, who treats people with disabilities caused by polio, war injuries, stroke, cerebral palsy and accidents. 6 > LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. COMMITMENT Allens maintains employment arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit or discourage freedom of association or collective bargaining. The firm opposes all forms of forced and compulsory labour and seeks to abolish child labour. Allens is also active in working to eliminate all forms of discrimination in the workplace. ACTIVITIES Equal Employment Opportunity Allens is committed to the principles of Equal Employment Opportunity and takes a zero tolerance approach to discrimination, harassment and bullying in the workplace. Providing a safe and supportive workplace that values difference is critical to the engagement of our employees and the sustainability and growth of our business. Our Equal Employment Opportunity, Bullying and Harassment Policy is supported by: • a Grievance Policy that details the steps an employee can take if they feel they have been bullied, discriminated against or harassed; • access to an independent, free and confidential counselling service for all staff and their immediate family members; and • compulsory online EEO training upon commencement with the firm and every two years thereafter. 7 Allens reports annually to, and is compliant with, the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012. This legislation is overseen by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) and aims to improve and promote equality for both women and men in the workplace. Inclusion and diversity at Allens We are committed to providing an inclusive workplace that celebrates diversity and values the contribution that different backgrounds and life experience bring to our firm. We recruit, develop and promote talented people, and we – and our clients – benefit from the different backgrounds, experiences and points of view that shape their thinking. Our diversity and inclusion strategy is built on seven segments: gender, flexibility, reconciliation, cultural competency, relationships (including family), Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI), and disability. Our Inclusion and Diversity Council is chaired by our Managing Partner and oversees Allens’ inclusion and diversity strategy and progress. We are one of 106 organisations in Australia recognised by WGEA as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality – a citation we have held continuously since 2005 and that recognises our active commitment to gender equality and our sustained focus on removing the structural and cultural barriers that prevent the full participation of women at work. Our approach to flexibility is broad and recognises that employees’ flexibility needs will be different for each individual, and vary at different life stages and ages, particularly when family commitments change. In 2016, we worked to build the capability of partners and people managers enabling them to skilfully manage flexible teams through job redesign, team-based approaches to flexibility and promoting flexibility through regular career discussions. Currently, more than 25 per cent of the Allens workforce use formal flexible work arrangements, including 10 partners (one man and nine women) with many more accessing informal flexibility. Celebrating Women at Allens We are committed to building a culture of genuine diversity to support the success of women in the firm. We are proud of our policies and initiatives that support this commitment, including our career model, our approach to flexibility, parental leave transition program and development programs – all of which have a strong emphasis on the engagement, career and professional development and promotion of women in the firm. Our Women at Allens committees believe in the importance of fostering and assisting the firm to build a culture that supports the success of women, drives the engagement and promotion of talented women and harnesses their capability to achieve their full potential. We were one of the first organisations in Australia to become a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. These principles provide the reporting framework for the firm’s annual Equality and Diversity Report. 8 Our Equitable Briefing Policy aims to achieve equal access as a barrister for women and men by eliminating briefing practices that consciously or unconsciously limit opportunities for female barristers. Mental health Allens recognises that mental illness is one of the most significant problems confronting the legal profession and is committed to raising awareness and understanding of mental health. We play an active role in the legal profession group Resilience@Law, which is a collaboration between the Managing Partners and Chief Executive Partners of some of Australia’s largest law firms and professional training college, The College of Law. The group aims to build resilience and raise awareness and understanding of the nature and impact of stress, depression and anxiety across the legal profession. In 2016, Resilience@Law collaborated with RUOK? To develop a ‘Look Deeper’ awareness campaign and they are currently collaborating on the design of some programs for firms to use in the orientation of new lawyers. Since 2015, we have offered Mental Health First Aid for our people leaders and HR business partners. The 12-hour Mental Health First Aid program teaches how to provide initial support to colleagues who are developing a mental illness or experiencing a mental health crisis. LGBTI rights Our LGBTI network, ALLin, is for all partners, employees and clients who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or intersex, as well as their allies within the firm. We were the first law firm to partner with Pride in Diversity, Australia’s first and only national not-for-profit employer support program. We entered the Australian Workplace Equality Index for the second time in 2016 and were ranked the 1st placed law firm and 10th overall, the first time a law firm has reached the top 10. We also launched our Transgender Policy in 2015 and have worked to ensure our Domestic and Family Violence policy is inclusive to LGBTI identifying people. Creating opportunities for Indigenous students Our Indigenous Legal Internship program commenced in 2006 and, since then, 95 Indigenous law students have had the opportunity to experience life at a commercial law firm. Three alumni of the program have obtained graduate roles at the firm. We continue to refine the program for better impact, in line with our commitment to diversity and an inclusive culture across the firm. Last year, our Corporate Services Cadetship provided an opportunity for a promising Indigenous university student to undertake work with us while completing his studies. Supported by the Government’s Indigenous Cadetship Support program, the opportunity allowed the student to gain experience in a corporate environment, to build skills and networks while in his final year at university and preparing to seek full time work opportunities. 9 > ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMITMENT Allens has a long standing focus on environmental sustainability and we have committed to reducing our material environmental impacts and striving for continuous improvement in our firm-wide Sustainability Policy. Allens has implemented an Environmental Management System (EMS) in our Australian offices. Through our EMS we have assessed our environmental risks and identified and assessed our most significant environmental impacts as the emission of greenhouse gases through energy use and business travel, use of resources (specifically paper) and the generation and disposal of waste. For each of these impact areas, we set reduction targets, implement mitigation measures and monitor and report on our progress. We also report on our progress publicly through the Australian Legal Sector Alliance annual sustainability report, and through the Australian Government’s Carbon Neutral Program. ACTIVITIES Climate action In 2016, Allens maintained certification as carbon neutral under the Australian Government’s Carbon Neutral Program for our Australian offices. Cutting the firm’s emissions remains our priority and last financial year we reduced greenhouse gas emissions in our Australian offices by 9.7 per cent. 10 We purchase our carbon offsets through the Qantas Future Planet Program which enables us to access high-quality carbon offsets from domestic and international projects that deliver not just emissions reductions activity but also environmental, social and economic benefits for local communities. One of the projects we supported in 2016 was a savanna fire management program established by North Kimberley Traditional Owners. The program reduces greenhouse gas emissions by conducting strategic early season burning, to reduce the intensity of late dry season fires. The project provides employment and an income stream to local Aboriginal communities, while at the same time strengthening connections with the land and allowing the traditional owners to fulfil cultural responsibilities. It also helps to conserve biodiversity and provides various substantial social benefits within the local community. Our support for the Kimberley region also includes pro bono assistance from Emily Gerrard, Allens’ Co‑Head of Climate Change, to one of the Aboriginal groups involved in the North Kimberley fire management projects. In August 2016, Emily and Partner Tim Stewart, who leads the firm’s sustainability efforts, attended the Healthy Country Forum in the Kimberley to learn first-hand about the project and the social, cultural and economic benefits for the local communities. ‘The forum was a great opportunity to learn how traditional fire management techniques are solving modern environmental problems, and to see the cultural, economic and social benefits of the fire abatement projects in the community,’ Tim Stewart said. Energy and resource efficiency In 2016, we implemented a number of initiatives to reduce our energy use and environmental impacts, including: • upgrading to more energy efficient laptops and dual screens in our Brisbane and Sydney offices, to reduce energy and paper use; and • moving to premises with a more energy-efficient footprint in Brisbane. In 2017 we plan to continue the roll-out of energy efficient laptops and dual screens across all of our offices, and implement Nightwatchman to reduce desktop power usage outside business hours. We will also continue to focus on improvements to our electronic document management systems and processes, which we expect to lead to ongoing reductions in paper use. Waste management and recycling We encourage our staff to reduce the use, reuse and recycle and we provide employees with a suite of recycling options, ranging from organic to battery recycling. In 2016, we ran a campaign to reduce paper cup waste and more than 250 reusable coffee cups were distributed to staff to reduce the use of takeaway coffee cups. We also celebrated National Recycling week in our Australian offices by running a campaign to recycle and reuse excess and disused stationery . 11 In 2016 Allens signed up to participate in a collaborative legal sector initiative to provide Community Legal Centres with access to free high-quality donated office products and technology through a partnership with Good360. Environment and Pro Bono Allens provides assistance to environmental organisations, including Bush Heritage and WWF Australia, through our pro bono program. In 2016 we assisted Bush Heritage to enter into an innovative partnership with South Endeavour Trust, to protect and conserve an area of nationally important wetlands and woodlands in New South Wales. Jody Gunn, Executive Manager South East, Bush Heritage Australia, said the partnership made sense as it more than doubled the conservation footprint of the area. ‘This is a new and unique approach to jointly manage the conservation of land. Allens’ willingness to partner with us and its ability to develop creative legal solutions has been invaluable,’ Jody Gunn said. The Great Barrier Reef Foundation (GBRF) is also one of the firm’s long-standing pro bono clients. Last year, in addition to providing ongoing pro bono support, one of our Associates participated in the GBRF Corporate Reef Blitz event. As part of this event, teams of volunteers contributed to research about reef health and conservation by surveying and recording information about the species of marine and bird life on the reef. Partnerships Allens promotes greater environmental responsibility through our Sustainable Procurement Policy, our participation in industry groups, and our staff education and awareness raising events. In 2016, Allens became an active member of the Australian Government’s Carbon Neutral Program network. Through this network, we contributed to case studies and participated in carbon neutral information sessions held in Brisbane, Perth and Sydney, to promote carbon neutrality and provide information to other organisations interested in achieving carbon neutral status. Staff engagement and education is an important part of our environmental sustainability program. In 2016, our staff participated in Earth Hour, Ride to Work Day and National Plant a Tree Day and attended seminars about the circular economy and sustainability and innovation. The firm has a sustainable procurement policy and guidelines, with the aim of reducing our indirect environmental and social impacts and encouraging our suppliers to adopt practices to minimise their impacts. Allens’ in-house catering team strives to source ingredients from Australian producers, incorporating sustainable food products and ethical farming practices, where possible, and is committed to purchasing FairTrade certified products. FairTrade supports marginalised farmers, workers and the environment 12 in developing countries, enabling them to build a better and more secure life for themselves. Last year, through our catering function, we also supported Two Good, a social enterprise that donates a meal to domestic violence refuges for every meal purchased, and The Bread & Butter Project that reinvests 100 per cent of its profits into baker training and employment pathways for refugees and asylum seekers. 13 > ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COMMITMENT As a leading law firm, Allens is committed to ensuring that our employees abide by the law. This includes laws that prohibit corruption in all its forms. ACTIVITIES Allens has a range of policies that aim to prevent corruption in all its forms, including a Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy. Two of the firm’s anti-corruption activities are outlined below. Office of General Counsel Allens’ Office of General Counsel continue to help our people deal with ethical issues encountered during the course of their work. The Office of General Counsel is closely involved in a wide range of training at the firm, covering issues of ethical conduct, professional responsibility and anti-corruption. Anti-Corruption Policy The Anti-Corruption Policy aims to ensure that Allens personnel, as well as third parties that act on behalf of Allens, do not engage in corruption and aims to minimise the risk of Allens breaching anti-corruption laws. All Allens partners, employees and contractors are responsible for the prevention of corruption when acting on behalf of Allens, and must ensure their own actions do not result in corruption. Additionally, all personnel have an obligation to report suspected corruption. Our work with clients Given the rise in anti-corruption monitoring and enforcement at both a domestic and international level, coupled with increased opportunities for investment in foreign and emerging markets, there is a need for clients to ensure robust compliance programs and due diligence tools are in place to respond to these risks and Allens has developed a well-recognised expertise in providing this. Our tools include: • Tailored jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction geographic and activity risk analysis. We have conducted antibribery risk assessments for clients across the Asia-Pacific. • Development and implementation of recommendations and internal policies following a risk assessment including tailored anti-bribery and corruption training programs. For example, we have advised on, prepared and implemented global anti-bribery policies, compliance and training programs for a range of companies in the energy and resources, agriculture, technology and other sectors. These training programs are designed so the clients can undertake the training on an annual basis. More broadly, we continue to run ethics sessions across our Australian offices as part of the Corporate Counsel Seminar Series, our continuing professional development program for clients. 14 www.allens.com.au Allens is an independent partnership operating in alliance with Linklaters LLP. 16434D
