For the Year Ended March 31, 2017 1 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website OUR HISTORY In 1952, based on the strong belief of our founder, Matsutaro Shoriki, that “the restructuring of postwar Japan would not be complete without the development of the television industry,” Nippon TV acquired Japan’s first commercial television broadcasting license and started airing in 1953. The Nippon TV Group will mark the 65th anniversary of its establishment in 2018. During this time, 1952 1953 Started analog terrestrial broadcasting 1959 Listed on Tokyo Stock Exchange 1960 Started broadcasting in color 1966 Started broadcasting Shoten leveraging our content creating capabilities, we have entered various businesses on different broadcasting platforms, including BS, CS Terrestrial and the internet, with terrestrial television broadcasting as our core. Going forward, as a company that provides enriching experiences, we will continue producing content that will win the Acquired the first TV support of numerous generations. broadcasting license in Japan and founded company TV was employed on the streets shortly after starting broadcasts. 2 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Established CS Nippon Corporation 2001 1988 1978 Live broadcast from summit of Mt. Everest 2002 Acquired license and started pilot station of Started CS Nittele, CS communications satellite the world’s first audio multiplex broadcasting for broadcasting at 110 degrees practical application east longitude Started broadcasting 24-Hour Television 1987 Began relaying Hakone Ekiden from the 63rd tournament 2000 Started BS Nittele, BS BS digital broadcasting 1998 Established BS Nippon Corporation Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 3 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website 2005 Started NTV2 fee-based content distribution service 2015 centered on original programs Reached over 100 million views on Nittele TADA! 2014 by Nippon TV On-Demand 2010 Started Nippon TV On-Demand Acquired Hulu’s Japan service and Established joint venture 2016 2017 Internet 2008 fee-based content started SVOD services HAROiD Inc., which expands Established joint venture Capital and business Made all content distribution service centered the business for smart TV and JOCDN Inc. with video alliance with free on NTV2 on program content smart devices streaming CDN services All About, Inc. 2014 2017 Started free content distribution Subscription for Hulu membership service Nittele TADA! by Nippon reached 1.55 million users TV On-Demand centered on program content 2003 2007 2012 Started digital Restructured five Transferred to a certified terrestrial production subsidiaries broadcasting holding broadcasting by function company structure 2011 Fitness Discontinued analog terrestrial broadcasting and made a full-scale shift to digital broadcasting 2014 Entered comprehensive fitness club business with share acquisition of TIPNESS Ltd. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 4 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Ability to transmit information Content creation capabilities Comprehensive planning Prediction capabilities Ability to transmit information Content creation capabilities Comprehensive Strength of Nippon Television Holdings planning as seen from “Our History” Prediction capabilities Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 5 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Ability to transmit information Content creation capabilities Comprehensive planning Prediction capabilities Broadcasting Overseas Established jointly with Sony Pictures Television Ability to transmit information We share information effectively and efficiently by Networks in October 2015, GEM started broadcasting in several Asian countries. GEM leveraging our domestic and overseas networks. has expanded its broadcast region to include Cambodia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, enabling subscribers to enjoy Japanese dramas and variety shows with minimal delay after their broadcast in Japan. We STV will continue working to incorporate the demands Establishing a Nationwide Network of the region to develop, promote and expand in Japan Nationwide ABS RAB TVI Network Japan broadcasting regions. Commercial terrestrial television broadcasters YBC MMT TeNY FCT Additionally, the format for Dragons’ Den in Japan have broadcasting regions that KTK KNB TSB NKT FBC YBS has been screened as Dragons’ Den in the United are specified by prefectural and regional YTV CTV NTV KRY HTV RNC SDT Kingdom and Shark Tank in the United States, and authorizations, as defined under the FBS RNB JRT RKC NIB TOS sold to at least 27 countries. The first remake in Broadcast Law licensing system. Therefore, KKT UMK KYT Turkey of the Japanese drama Mother has been a company cannot broadcast nationwide aired, and the Group has been actively expanding on its own. This situation has led to the operations overseas in other ways. development of a network comprising 29 Hong Kong commercial terrestrial television broadcasters throughout Japan, with Nippon Television Network Corporation as a key station. Stations in this network enable nationwide broadcasts Thailand and facilitate cooperation on news, programs and other business. Establishing a nationwide Philippines Cambodia network allows us to become the most influential advertising platform, while also being a medium for communicating news accurately and an important source of Singapore information in times of emergency. ANNE (Turkish version of Mother) Indonesia Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 6 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Ability to transmit information Content creation capabilities Comprehensive planning Prediction capabilities Content creation capabilities Aiming to Be the Strongest Production Group by Creating and Delivering Enriching Content Content production capability is a top priority not only in television, but also in video distribution and the film industry. We will continue working to create content that is valued by consumers. Lifestyle Video Content Example 1 The Quest The strength of Nippon TV’s timetables lies in strong viewer support for its regular programs. This program is hugely popular among all generations, always evolving and developing, We understand that especially on Sundays during Golden and in the 10th year since its first airing, has reached record-high monthly viewer Time, the three-hour airing of THE TETSUWAN DASH, The Quest, ratings of more than 20%. The resources underlying its content capabilities are in its and LINE-UP LAW OFFICE have become a weekly activity for unique programming and the superb staging capabilities of its creators. We will continue families to watch Nippon TV together on Sunday nights. challenging ourselves through large-scale variety programs such as The Mt. McKinley All three programs have aired for more than 10 years, but Summit Project and 52 Year-Old Uchimura’s High Bar Challenge and by fostering even so, the creators are not satisfied. It is their creativity to keep popular TV personalities such as Imoto and Miyazon, leading the television industry with evolving the programs that allows us to maintain high viewer ratings. formidable content. We value “viewers first” and think of their lifestyles when deciding how to formulate the programs. By appealing to people’s emotions on certain occasions and by providing them with Example 2 ZIP! trustworthy, timely information on others, we believe that we are enriching viewers’ experiences. This program has increased viewer ratings since April 2017, when it entered its seventh Going forward, we plan to improve content production by year on the air. Visualization of the weather and news that are necessary for morning focusing on personnel development, content development and shows and studio staging using virtual cameras make it easier for viewers to watch improving the working environment. The Programming Department and understand the show. Furthermore, as original content other than information, and the Multi-Platform Programming Department will collaborate an entertainment section is aired during busy times in the morning. For example, to leverage not only terrestrial television but BS, CS, Hulu, video “Narabero!” is a new segment in which viewers guess the top three news items of the packages and overseas video channels to formulate and provide day, differentiating ZIP! from other programs and leading to higher viewer ratings. value-rich content throughout Japan. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 7 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Ability to transmit information Content creation capabilities Comprehensive planning Prediction capabilities Comprehensive planning Newly Established Multi-Platform Programming Department, a Comprehensive Media Strategy Command Center The newly established Multi-Platform Programming Department uses terrestrial broadcasting, BS, CS and internet distribution channels to propose and conduct strategies that maximize content value. representatives of Nippon TV, BS Nippon, CS Nippon and HJ Stock content including animations, dramas, movies and Holdings and to propose, decide and conduct general programming music are also expected to increase long-term earnings. For Comprehensive Design Strategy for Content that utilizes distribution platforms. example, we have collaborated with LDH JAPAN Inc. in the HiGH & Amid a decline in the number of households using television (HUTs) Content that is highly valued live, such as sports and news, LOW Project to develop terrestrial broadcasting programs, movies, in terrestrial broadcasting and a rise in mobile phone use among is programmed via terrestrial broadcasting, BS and CS, distributed concerts, events and other content. In animations, AnichU corner young people, the Multi-Platform Programming Department was freely through Nittele TADA! by Nippon TV On-Demand, and was newly founded on Tuesday midnights in July. Centered on established to leverage the platforms of Nippon Television Holdings distributed through Hulu subscriptions to reach a wider audience terrestrial TV broadcasting, we will distribute the programs through and maximize the value of high-quality content in order to prepare and drive earnings growth. This includes the 2017 FIVB Volleyball BS, CS, on the internet, DVDs and even overseas where there for a drastically changing TV industry environment. World Grand Champions Cup in September and 2017 FIFA Club is significant demand. In the drama segment, original, special Its aim is to organize programming strategy meetings with World Cup at the end of the year. episodes will be distributed on Hulu. Content Multi-Platform Distribution channels Conventional Structured through Programming terrestrial broadcasting terrestrial TV viewers Sports Department Terrestrial broadcasting News BS Utilizes various distribution channels CS Structured through various Maximize content Animations distribution platforms value Free streaming Dramas Hulu Wider total reach Movies Movies Music Live Expand viewer reach and maximize profit opportunities Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 8 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Ability to transmit information Content creation capabilities Comprehensive planning Prediction capabilities Prediction capabilities Supporting the Group’s Strategy-Building, Information Collection and Analysis, the Nippon TV Research Lab Continues to Evolve A year since its founding, the lab analyzes the world’s present and future from various perspectives to see what the Nippon TV Group needs to do to keep leading the industry. The lab continues to contribute its findings. Sharing Information with the Nippon TV Group’s Future in Mind Example Hosting CREATIVE TECHNOLOGY LAB Television is a media where it is possible to reach all of Japan’s 120 million people. The lab keeps this in mind when tackling urgent problems and long-term issues by contributing facts gained On March 7 and 8, 2017, we hosted the CREATIVE TECHNOLOGY LAB to discuss the use of cutting-edge through extensive research into strategies and business segments. Daily terrestrial TV viewer ratings technology, such as 4K HDR, artificial intelligence (AI), robots and virtual reality (VR), in creative work and are analyzed to ascertain changes in viewers’ lifestyles and the evolving, surrounding environment, businesses. Lectures by Osaka University Professor Hiroshi Ishiguro, who devised the “MATSUKO-ROID,” including the latest global technology. These are all shared within the Nippon TV Group. panel sessions by AI and VR experts and Nippon TV employees to discuss the use of these technologies, Information is mainly shared through Nippon TV lab seminars. In the fiscal year ended demos of an android announcer and first-hand VR experiences were conducted, and a total of 2,300 March 31, 2017, the seminar was conducted 14 times. Themes vary from “What Changes people attended the event from inside and outside the Company. Households Using Television,” which links directly to TV programming, to “Youths and Social Learning from Nippon TV’s first VR drama, The Detective Invisible Media,” which analyzes the most recent customer lifestyle changes, with speakers ranging from (Left: Rhizomatiks Co., Ltd. Representative Director and CEO Seiichi Sato) outside experts to lab members. Furthermore, the lab teamed up with the Sports Division to host the NTV SPORTS LAB in November and with Engineering & Technology to host the CREATIVE TECHNOLOGY LAB in March as major events. Both events had many attendees from inside and outside the Company, boosting contact with Nippon TV Group companies centering on leading technology and program production. We hope to continue sharing information with the Nippon TV Group’s future in mind. Special lab seminar Talking with android announcer ERICA “Thinking Beyond the Paralympics with Ms. Mayumi Narita” Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 9 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Management Policy “Four Creations” As the top company in the media and content industry Create high-quality content with the ability to utilize its unparalleled creativity Create a new culture and communication capacity, Nippon TV Group will strive to continue delivering news accurately and Create a prosperous society expediently. Further, Nippon TV Group will achieve and finally... the following “Four Creations” through its relentless Create a bright future pursuit of innovation and opportunities. Nippon Television Holdings Group Companies (As of July 1, 2017) Public Interest Consolidated Subsidiaries Non-Consolidated Subsidiaries Affiliated Companies Incorporated Foundations NIPPON TELEVISION NETWORK Nippon Television Network Europe B.V. NIKKATSU CORPORATION Yomiuri Nippon Symphony CORPORATION NTV Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. All About, Inc. Orchestra BS Nippon Corporation MADHOUSE Inc. All About Navi, Inc. Nippon Television Kobato CS Nippon Corporation MADBOX Co., Ltd. CNplus Production, Inc. Cultural Foundation NTV Technical Resources Inc. NTV Personnel Center Corp. SUN ARROWS INVESTMENT CO., LTD. 24-Hour Television Charity AX-ON Inc. LogicLogic, inc. GEM Media Networks Asia Pte. Ltd. Committee NTV EVENTS Inc. HAROiD Inc. Nishi Nihon Eizo Corporation The Tokuma Memorial Cultural Nippon Television Art Inc. NTV Group Planning Inc. KKT Innovate Corporation Foundation for Animation Nippon Television Music Corporation Rights Inn Corporation Nagasaki Vision Corp. VAP Inc. VAP Music Publishing Inc. Kagoshima Vision Corporation TIPNESS Limited SOUND INN STUDIOS INC. Kanazawa Eizo Center Corporation NTV Service Inc. J.M.P CO., LTD Promedia Co., Ltd. Nippon Television Work 24 Corporation SANEIWORK CORPORATION Cosmo Space Co., Ltd. Forecast Communications Inc. IKAROS CO., LTD. Art Yomiuri Co., Ltd. NTV IT Produce Corporation RF Radio Nippon Co., Ltd. Shiodome Urban Energy Corporation NitteleSeven Co., Ltd. RF Music Publisher Inc. TATSUNOKO PRODUCTION Co., Ltd. ForGroove, Inc. HJ Holdings, Inc. MEGASOLAR GENERATION NI GK ACM CO., Ltd. NTV America Company NTV International Corporation Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 10 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Contents 01 04 09 09 11 13 Our History Keywords of Management Nippon Television Message from Business Domain Our Strength Policy Holdings Group Management Strength of Nippon Companies Television Holdings “Four Creations” as seen from “Our History” 14 15 Media and Content Business Life and Health-Related Business Segment 19 22 23 Snapshot Overview Corporate Board of Directors CSR at Nippon TV of Business Real Estate Rental/ Governance and Auditors Holdings Leasing Business Segments  anagement’s Discussion and Analysis M Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income 27 28 29 59 60 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes Eleven-Year Financial Financial in Equity Investor Website Summary Highlights Data Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Information Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Caution with Respect to Forward-Looking Statements: Statements made in this annual report with respect to Nippon TV’s plans and benefits, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Potential risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, general economic conditions in Nippon TV’s markets, exchange rates and Nippon TV’s ability to continue to win customers’ acceptance of its products, which are offered in highly competitive markets characterized by continual new product introductions and rapid developments in technology. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 11 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Message from Management Strengthening Our Content Creation Capabilities to Focus on Internet Business, Starting from Video Streaming Services, and Diversifying Our Portfolio Overview of the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2017 For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Company initially anticipated lower earnings due to an increase in program production costs in line with the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games and ongoing upfront investments for business expansion. However, earnings for the fiscal year were on a par with the previous year. Thanks in part to the “Triple Crown*” title in the 2016 annual average household viewer ratings (January 4, 2016, to January 1, 2017) and strong fiscal year average household viewer ratings (April 4, 2016, to April 2, 2017) for the third year running, and also to high individual viewer ratings—with high client needs—that led to a record-high spot share in Tokyo key stations, television broadcasting revenue significantly contributed to earnings. In addition, HJ Holdings, Inc., which operates Hulu, steadily increased its number of subscribers, improving profits significantly. TIPNESS, which became a consolidated subsidiary in December 2014, also contributed to earnings with new openings of the 24/7 training gym FASTGYM24. *Top household viewer ratings in all the day (6 a.m. to midnight), golden time (7 p.m. to 10 p.m.), and prime time (7 p.m. to 11 p.m.) slots. Anticipated Future Changes in the Market Environment Currently, television broadcasting revenue is posting solid growth, against a backdrop of robust viewer ratings in the mainstay Media and Content Business. However, we would be quickly left behind in a world of ever-changing technology if we failed to continuously “destroy and create.” The fast-paced development of information and communications technology (ICT) has led to the so-called “Fourth Industrial Revolution” where everything and everyone can connect through the Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI) and big data usage. These technological innovations impact not only the socioeconomic system, but also people’s values and lifestyles. Issues including the declining birthrate and aging population, urbanization of population and industries, and economic globalization have shaped Japanese society. In particular, the 5G mobile telecoms system enables much faster communication and, combined with the Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 12 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website surge in smartphone and smart TV usage, allows a wider variety of services linking broadcasts and networks. Medium-Term Management Plan When this occurs, it is hard to think that we will be able to survive with the existing business model. The fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, is the second year of the Nippon TV Group Medium-Term Given the accelerating societal and lifestyle changes toward the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, we will respond to Management Plan 2016–2018 Change65. these changes and focus on measures that will change these crises into an opportunity to move forward. In the television broadcasting business, depreciation and amortization is expected to rise in line with increasing capital expenditures from the renewal of broadcast facilities in the Nippon TV Shiodome Key Measures television tower and the construction of the new Kojimachi studio building, which is scheduled to start Our utmost priority is to strengthen content. To continuously design high-quality content is a lifeline for operation in 2018. However, these are investments that will lead to stable broadcasts and improvement in us, as content providers, to gain the support of viewers and sponsors. In order to maximize media synergy the quality of content to gain the support of viewers and sponsors, as part of our aim to achieve the “Triple between the terrestrial, BS, CS and internet distribution channels, quality content is a necessity. We will Crown in Viewer Ratings” in terrestrial broadcasting. continue strengthening our Group’s core competence in content production. We believe that the video distribution business, with Hulu as its core, and overseas businesses Further, amid an expanding domestic video distribution market, the Nippon TV Group has also are fundamental to diversifying our earnings base for mediumto long-term growth. We will continue to accelerated measures towards online distribution. Subscription video service Hulu fully upgraded its actively invest in new businesses to diversify our business portfolio. We will also undertake measures to distribution structure in May 2017. Search engines, live streaming on smartphones and tablets and app adapt to the changing market environment and technological innovations. functions have all improved significantly in terms of functionality and services. As of end-March 2017, the number of subscription memberships had increased steadily to 1.55 million users, but we believe it is Returns to Shareholders crucial to achieve 2 million users as soon as possible to ensure stable, long-term growth. The Group recognizes the return of profits to shareholders as an important management priority. For the In December 2016, Internet Initiative Japan Inc. (IIJ) founded the joint venture JOCDN Inc., which fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we awarded dividends of ¥34 per share, including an interim dividend. provides the domestic video streaming platform CDN (Content Delivery Network). In April 2017, the business We plan to continue awarding stable ongoing dividends, while seeking a balance between strengthening platform was strengthened and given capital and business tie-ups with 14 commercial television stations our profit base, ensuring the company is adaptable to the changing business environment and maintaining based in Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya, laying the foundation to expand CDN services to all of Japan. We will a certain degree of internal reserves for aggressive future expansion. provide high-quality and efficient CDN services to broadcasting stations and video streaming companies that are looking to expand the video distribution market and tackle issues regarding simultaneous airing of We would like to thank our shareholders and investors for their continued understanding and terrestrial television broadcasts. With the help of commercial television broadcasters and IIJ, we will continue cooperation and we look forward to your support. developing technology that supports the Japanese broadcasting infrastructure. In March 2017, we signed a capital and business affiliation agreement with All About, Inc., turning July 2017 it into an affiliate. We aim to develop new content, provide information services, and expand e-commerce business by mutually leveraging each other’s resources. As part of the business strategy to expand Yoshio Okubo earnings opportunities, Facebook navi, operated by subsidiary All About, Inc., and citrus began airing Representative Director, President Nippon TV programs in May 2017. In addition, we decided to establish a joint venture for business collaboration, including events, to sell Nippon TV merchandise. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 13 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Business Domain Snapshot Business Domain Box office Other Real Estate revenue Rental/Leasing 3.0% 2.9% Revenue from ¥11.0 billion Life and 0.6% ¥2.6 billion merchandise sales ¥11.2 billion Health-Related Business 6.8% ¥25.5 billion 9.0% ¥37.6 billion Other 0.5% ¥2.3 billion Content sales Time revenue advertising 14.9% Composition of Sales in the 32.6% ¥122.0 billion ¥55.6 billion Media and Content Business (For the fiscal year ended Other advertising March 31, 2017) revenue 0.3% ¥1.2 billion ¥374.2 billion Composition of Net Sales (For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017) ¥416.7 billion Advertising sales from BS and Spot advertising 35.6% ¥133.2 billion CS platforms Media and Content Business 3.9% ¥14.5 billion 89.7% ¥374.2 billion Television broadcasting 68.2% ¥255.2 billion Note 1: Figures indicate sales to outside customers. Intersegment sales and transfers are not included. Note 2: The “Other” classification represents business segments not included in reporting segments and includes operations such as retail businesses and IT services. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 14 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Business Domain Snapshot Snapshot Top Annual Viewer Ratings Household viewer ratings for the 2016 calendar year captured the Triple Crown title for the third year running, with top ratings for all day, golden time and prime time. Top Fiscal Year Viewer Ratings Household viewer ratings for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, captured the Triple Crown title for the third year running, with top ratings for all day, golden time and prime time. Top Television Broadcasting Revenue For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we earned the top television broadcasting revenue among the key stations in Tokyo for the third year running. Top Time and Spot Shares Our share increased significantly among the key stations in Tokyo, maintaining both top time and spot shares. Around Hulu Membership TIPNESS Members Around 1.55 Subscribers to the Hulu fee-based online video service exceeded 1.55 million as of March 31, 2017. Users are now able to watch 300,000 In addition to 61 fitness clubs, FASTGYM24, which is open 24/7 and 365 days a year, has significantly increased its number of branches, million real-time broadcasting of sports and news on their smartphones, to 64*. Total TIPNESS membership has grown steadily to reach improving convenience. approximately 300,000 members*. * Both figures are as of March 31, 2017. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 15 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Overview of Business Segments Life and Health-Related Business Segment Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business Overview of Business Segments * In the fiscal year ended March 31, Spot advertising grew significantly, with 2.8% Trends in terrestrial television-related Media and Content 2017, we renamed the Contents Business the Media and Content growth from the previous year. From January to advertising expenditures (Billions of yen) Business Business. There is no change in the segment itself. March, advertising expenditures were robust thanks 1,834.7 1,808.8 1,837.4 to solid Company earnings. In the second half, In addition to a surge in television broadcasting revenue attributable to high ratings, Nippon TV saw an although there was a boost in discount smartphones increase in content sales revenue from the uptrend in the number of Hulu subscription memberships. and gaming app advertisements, spot advertising Sales increased ¥530 million year on year, or 0.1%, to ¥374,501 million, including intersegment sales declined as people minimized expenditures due to the and transfers. However, operating income fell ¥534 million year on year, or 1.1%, to ¥48,263 million. strong yen, and program (time) sponsors of Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games affected expenditures during July to September. In contrast, advertising related to Sales Operating Income (Calender Year) 2014 2015 2016 (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 48,798 48,263 cosmetics and smartphones rose during October and Source: Dentsu Inc., Advertising Expenditures in Japan 373,970 374,501 348,733 December, making spot advertising increase overall. 321,835 336,294 38,890 36,059 33,210 Overview of Results The time advertising revenue portion of terrestrial broadcasting revenue for the fiscal year under review increased ¥3,681 million, or 3.1%, from the previous fiscal year to ¥122,034 million, attributable in part to revenue from 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games, a large-scale single-episode program, and an increase in revenue from regular program slots. Spot advertising revenue grew ¥3,674 million, or 2.8%, to ¥133,151 million. This reflects growth in Nippon TV’s viewer share among the key Tokyo broadcasters (Years Ended 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Years Ended 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 March 31) March 31) on the back of brisk ratings, despite a year-on-year increase in spending for regionally targeted spot advertising. As a result, television broadcasting revenue grew ¥7,355 million, or 3.0%, to ¥255,185 Television Broadcasting Revenue, Advertising Sales from million. BS and CS Platforms Operating Environment Viewer Rating Trends Within total advertising expenditures in Japan (calendar-year basis), terrestrial television-related advertising Household viewer ratings for fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, ranked top in all three time slots: all day expenditures increased 1.6% from the previous year to ¥1,837.4 billion, trending positively during the year. (6 a.m. to midnight), golden time (7 p.m. to 10 p.m.), and prime time (7 p.m. to 11 p.m.) in both the 2017 Program (time) advertising declined 0.2% from the previous year. During the first half (January to June), even calendar year and fiscal year. Nippon TV also ranked top in two original indicators of platinum time (11 p.m. with sports programs such as 2016 AFC U-23 Championship (Qatar) and Rio de Janeiro Olympics Volleyball to 2 a.m.) and non-prime time (6 a.m. to 7 p.m.; 11 p.m. to midnight), earning us a “Quintuple Crown.” World Qualification Tournament, advertising expenditures were down 0.7%. However, these expenditures We have also isolated and tracked ratings of men and women ages 13 to 49 as core target viewer exceeded the previous year’s figure by 0.3% in the second half (July to December) with Rio de Janeiro ratings. As a result of focusing on regular programs, we ranked top in all target viewer demographics, Olympic and Paralympic Games and 2018 FIFA World Cup Final Asian Qualifiers. reflecting the results of a successful timetable. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 16 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Overview of Business Segments Life and Health-Related Business Segment Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business LINE-UP LAW OFFICE Shoten NEWS ZERO Sekai Maru Mie! TV Special Investigative Unit Future Initiatives Box Office Revenue In terrestrial television broadcasting, by strengthening the content of regular programs, we will continue Box office revenue decreased ¥2,078 million year on year, or 15.7%, to ¥11,159 million. Although aiming to achieve the “Triple Crown in Viewer Ratings” and the top core target viewer ratings. Japan’s first mega entertainment show, Dragon Quest Live Spectacle Tour, contributed to profits, these The Nippon TV Group will also leverage diverse transmission platforms—BS, CS and internet—to revenues declined due to comparison with the previous year, which featured a Nippon TV-financed hit film, maximize content value from the multi-platform convergence strategy. The Boy and The Beast. Furthermore, JOCDN Inc., which configures networks to efficiently distribute video over the internet, For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, we are planning to release mainstay films such as Mary will provide CDN services to broadcasting businesses and video distributing companies in line with and the Witch’s Flower and DESTINY Kamakura Monogatari. We will also host The Art of Disney: The the expanding Japanese video streaming markets amid a boost in smart devices and faster telecoms Magic of Animation and Brueghel: 150 Years of an Artistic Dynasty. infrastructure. It will also support the growth of Japanese market for streaming videos through fresh technological innovations that will uphold future broadcasting and telecommunication infrastructure. We are working to collaborate in existing and new business with All About, Inc., through a capital and business alliance, and aim to develop new content, provide information services and expand the e-commerce business. Advertising Sales from BS and CS Platforms Advertising sales from BS and CS platforms decreased ¥42 million year on year, or 0.3%, to ¥14,498 million. Content Sales Revenue Mary and the Witch’s Flower Brueghel: 150 Years of an Artistic Dynasty Content sales revenue increased ¥3,549 million year on year, or 6.8%, to ¥55,637 million due to the rise ©2017 Mary and the Witch’s Flower Production Committee in the number of Hulu subscribers. Please see page 17 for details on Hulu. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 17 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Overview of Business Segments Life and Health-Related Business Segment Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business Initiatives for Hulu We have conducted measures aimed at improving customer satisfaction, steadily increasing memberships. Nippon TV NEWS 24 Began live streaming timely Memberships for fee-based monthly streaming site Hulu numbered more than 1.55 million as of news programs end-March 2017, showing stable growth. In addition to creating and streaming special episodes of dramas that were originally broadcast on terrestrial television, Hulu streams popular overseas dramas including The Walking Dead. Hulu took its May 2017 service renewal as an opportunity to enable real-time viewing of transmitted sports events such as Giants games (Giants-hosted games only); worldwide news such as Nippon TV NEWS 24, CNN and BBC; and MTV MIX, MTV’s first channel in Asia on smartphones, tablets and other devices, thereby enhancing service and convenience. Going forward, Hulu will continue collaborating with Nippon TV to distribute appealing content, gaining more users, and grow to become one of the Nippon TV Group’s mainstay businesses. Number of Hulu memberships (unit: users) 155 2,000,000 million 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 Giants Game Live Streaming Streamed all 71 games hosted by the Giants on PCs, smartphones, tablets 0 and other devices 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q Fiscal Year Ended March 31 2015 Fiscal Year Ended March 31 2016 Fiscal Year Ended March 31 2017 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 18 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Overview of Business Segments Life and Health-Related Business Segment Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business Future Initiatives Life and Health-Related * The Life and Health-Related Business is a reporting segment General fitness clubs including TIPNESS started a “1 WEEK CONDITIONING” service from April 2017. Business Segment newly established in response to the consolidation of TIPNESS Ltd. as a Customers are able to “see” their mental and physical health on an app and, depending on their subsidiary on December 25, 2014. measurement results, the app will suggest a week’s worth of exercise, recovery and meals to support the Sales of the Life and Health-Related Business segment, including intersegment sales and transfers, customer’s overall lifestyle. Going forward, we will continue improving the brand value of “CONDITIONING” advanced ¥1,243 million, or 3.4%, from the previous year, to ¥37,604 million, owing in part to a rise in as a new aspect of people’s lifestyles. fitness facility usage revenue. Operating income after goodwill amortization rose ¥111 million year on year, The majority of FASTGYM24 users are joining a or 9.3%, to ¥1,308 million. (Operating income before goodwill amortization was ¥3,090 million.) fitness club for the first time. We will therefore continue opening new branches to expand the fitness-oriented Sales 37,604 Operating Income population and broaden the variety of services offered. (Millions of yen) 36,361 (Millions of yen) 1,308 1,197 8,566 -131 Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business (Years Ended 2015 2016 2017 March 31) (January–March) (April–March) (April–March) (Years Ended 2015 2016 2017 March 31) (January–March) (April–March) (April–March) Sales at the Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business, which includes rental and leasing income from tenants in the Shiodome and Kojimachi areas, decreased ¥177 million, or 1.8%, to ¥9,711 million, including Initiatives for This Period intersegment sales and transfers. Operating income decreased ¥198 million, or 5.3%, to ¥3,525 million. TIPNESS operates 61 general fitness club branches*, including the TIPNESS franchise, in the Kanto, Kansai, and Tokai areas. It also operates 64 branches* of the 24-hour training gym, FASTGYM24, mainly Sales Operating Income in the Tokyo area. These directly operated outlets reached a total membership of 297,000, increasing (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 3.1% from the previous year. Additionally, the number of facilities on consignment rose by one year on 10,703 10,376 9,889 9,711 4,258 4,015 year, to 13 facilities*. 8,535 3,723 3,525 We have worked towards designing new services to foster synergy among Nippon TV Group 3,046 companies. We will maintain programs such as Oha! TIP 1 min. exercise corner within Nippon TV’s news and information program and Karada Week where programs approach the theme “Karada” (body) from different perspectives like health, beauty, and diet. In November 2016, we launched the TIPNESS Channel on Hulu, offering viewers a chance to improve their health in a short time, anytime and anywhere. (Years Ended 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Years Ended 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 March 31) March 31) * As of March 31, 2017. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 19 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Corporate Governance Basic Concepts Corporate Governance Framework As a certified broadcasting holding company, Nippon Television Holdings and the Nippon TV Group are The Company has an Audit & Supervisory Board with a management structure under which the Board of committed to remaining a corporate group that provides enriching experiences by producing new media Directors oversees the operational execution of the directors. Meanwhile, the Audit & Supervisory Board and content as well as influencing life and culture, while fulfilling their social responsibilities as media members and Audit & Supervisory Board audit the operational execution of the directors. organizations. The Company appoints several highly independent outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory The Nippon TV Group will strive to be continuously selected as the “First Choice Nippon TV” by Board members. The governance framework is designed to ensure effective supervision over the execution having the entire Group’s employees work together to pursue the Group’s growth and take preemptive of duties by directors. Outside directors help to provide appropriate supervision, thereby enhancing the actions in response to ever-changing environments. management oversight function. We expect efforts to promote business based on our business plans to lead to stable growth over The Company has also emphasized the external monitoring of management, incorporating four the long term and increase our contribution to society. We also believe that prioritizing our relationship with outside directors pursuant to Article 2, Paragraph 15, of the Companies Act into the 10-member Board of stakeholders enhances the corporate value of the company and of the Group. Directors for greater management integrity and more transparent decision-making processes. The fourThe Company strives to further augment its corporate governance to ensure swift decisionmember Audit & Supervisory Board includes three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members pursuant to making and operational execution in response to changes in the business environment, and to facilitate Article 2, Paragraph 16, of the Companies Act for greater independence from the Board of Directors and transparent and sound management. stronger auditing functions related to the execution of duties. Standing Audit & Supervisory Board member Yasuhiro Nose has considerable experience in finance and accounting, having been in charge of these (As of July 1, 2017) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Dismissal Reporting Appointment/Dismissal Reporting Appointment/Dismissal Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board 10 directors (including four outside directors) Audit Reporting Opinions/Reporting Four-member Audit & Supervisory Board Compliance Committee (including three outside auditors) Independent Auditors Concerns (Supervision of operational execution) Reporting Reporting Selection/Supervision Reporting Audit Reporting Selection/Supervision Independent audit Business Execution Framework Direction Full-Time Directors’ Council Nippon TV Holdings Hotline Business Audit Committee Five directors Reporting Direction Reporting (Decision-making regarding execution of operations) Assignment Reporting Direction/Supervision Direction/Supervision Business Audit Department Counsel Group Management Council Law Offices Audit/Evaluation Establishment of internal control systems Internal Control Committee Direction/Supervision Establishment of Notification internal control systems Notification Business Divisions Affiliated Companies Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 20 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website operations at the company for many years. Additionally, outside Audit & Supervisory Board member Kenji Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors Kase is a certified public accountant and is endowed with a considerable degree of finance and accounting Independent Name Reasons of Appointment Officer knowledge. To reflect in management his insightful opinions based on his extensive experience Tsuneo Watanabe During the year under review, the Board of Directors met seven times to decide important duties as a manager of a newspaper company and a journalist and to supervise the execution of directors’ duties. Also, the Audit & Supervisory Board met eight times To reflect in management his insightful opinions based on his extensive experience Takashi Imai  as a corporate executive and as a business leader to audit the directors’ execution of duties. Each Audit & Supervisory Board member, in conformance with Through his extensive contacts in a variety of fields in Japan and overseas through the auditing standards determined by the Audit & Supervisory Board, attends Board of Directors and other Tadao Kakizoe  his commitment to medical science, to reflect his wide range of insights, which important meetings, inspects important end-of-period financial documents and carries out investigations extend beyond the medical community To reflect in management his considerable experience at a government agency and into the state of business operations and finances. Yasushi Manago  extensive range of insightful opinions on fiscal and monetary affairs, the economy Nippon TV Holdings has in place a Business Audit Committee to conduct internal audits of corporate and legal affairs activities and evaluate the internal control system. The Company has additionally set up a Compliance Committee to reinforce corporate governance and ensure thorough compliance and a high degree of Progress on Implementation of Initiatives to Enhance Corporate Governance in the transparency in Nippon TV Holdings’ activities, thus striving to reinforce society’s trust and earn its Past Year support. In keeping with the purport of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code, on December 1, 2015, we formulated The Company has also put in place an Internal Control Committee, which periodically checks and and publicized our Corporate Governance Guidelines. These guidelines contain chapters on “Basic Policy promotes operational controls. for Corporate Governance,” “Ensuring the Rights and Equality of Shareholders,” “Appropriate Cooperation Concerning third-party contributions to Nippon TV Holdings corporate governance framework, with Stakeholders other than Shareholders,” “Responsibilities of the Company’s Board of Directors, etc.” the Company has reinforced its legal risk management system by concluding advisory agreements and “Dialogue with Shareholders.” pertaining to corporate management and daily business tasks with multiple law offices, and by seeking advice as necessary. We have also concluded audit agreements concerning audits relating to the http://www.ntvhd.co.jp/ir/governance Companies Act and the Securities and Exchange Act with audit corporations, which conduct audits from an independent standpoint. In response to the Personal Information Protection Act and as part of its efforts to enhance information security measures, in June 2015 Nippon TV Holdings established the Information Protection Board of Directors Promotion Secretariat and the Cyber-Security Promotion Secretariat to protect information assets on both The main roles of the Board of Directors are to establish a corporate philosophy and to decide strategic the tangible and intangible fronts. We also advance daily information management by designating a person directions, including the allocation of management resources, to promote continuous growth and enhance responsible for the management of information assets in each department. In addition, concerning the corporate value over the medium to long term. The Board of Directors also holds constructive discussions Subcontract Act, we have made subcontracting more appropriate and legally compliant. on the formulation and revision of corporate strategies and management plans, deciding important matters We have reorganized and renamed our reporting hotline, the Nippon TV Holdings Whistle, as for operational execution. the Nippon TV Holdings Hotline. Inaugurated in April 2016, this hotline enables Company and Group employees and others to report directly on legally doubtful acts and behaviors inside and outside the Independent Outside Directors Company and request investigations. Standards regarding the independence of independent outside directors are in accordance with those Among other compliance efforts, the Group conducts training programs on insider trading specified by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In the selection of independent outside directors, we take into regulations, both as group training and as a Web-based program, for all officers, employees and other account that the business operations of Nippon TV Holdings and the Group center on the television staff. These programs are intended to boost awareness with an aim toward preventing insider trading, broadcasting business, which provides many opportunities to come into contact with a wide range of ensure a thorough awareness of internal rules and confirm everyone’s understanding of regulatory fields. In Board of Directors’ meetings, we appoint several directors who have the high levels of expertise changes in the revised Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. and the extensive experience to provide open and constructive advice and supervision. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 21 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website As a media and content company centered on broadcasting, which has a decidedly public nature, we Executive Remuneration have formulated the Nippon TV CSR Proclamation to spearhead our proactive efforts to play a useful role in Executive remuneration for the Company’s directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members in the fiscal society through our broadcasts and business. We are putting every effort into environmental conservation, year ended March 31, 2017, was as follows. disaster reconstruction and other contribution activities in ways unique to a media company. Total Remuneration, by Category Number of Total Remuneration Organization of Internal Audits and Mutual Cooperation with Independent Auditors (Millions of Yen) Basic Retirement Officers Bonuses Remunerated Audit & Supervisory Board members receive explanations from independent auditors on the outline of the Compensation Benefits audit plan before an independent audit is carried out. Audit & Supervisory Board members also exchange Directors (Excluding Outside Directors) 361 361 — — 9 information with independent auditors on the progress of audit procedures and issues arising during the Audit & Supervisory course of the audits performed by the independent auditors, and they receive explanations on the results of Board members 26 26 — — 1 the independent audit following completion of the audit. (Excluding Outside Auditors) Audit & Supervisory Board members can order employees who belong to the Audit & Supervisory Outside Directors and Outside Auditors 118 118 — — 8 Board Management Office to investigate matters necessary for auditing duties. Employees working for the Audit & Supervisory Board Management Office concurrently work for the Business Audit Department and Notes: 1. The number of officers as of March 31, 2017, was 12 directors and four Audit & Supervisory Board members. assist the Audit & Supervisory Board members with their duties. The Audit & Supervisory Board members 2. The remuneration amounts listed above do not include the employee portion of salary or bonuses for those officers maintain close contact with the members of the Business Audit Committee, which is an internal audit who are also employees. department. 3. At the 75th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 27, 2008, a resolution was passed that revised the yearly limit on the amount of remuneration to ¥950,000,000 for directors (of which, up to ¥110,000,000 may be paid to outside directors) and ¥72,000,000 for Audit & Supervisory Board members. Independent Auditing Nippon TV Holdings has concluded an audit agreement with audit corporation Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Regarding executive remuneration, according to a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders, limits to have independent audits carried out pursuant to the Companies Act and the Securities and Exchange Law. are imposed on the total compensation for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. The accounting audit structure for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, was as shown below. Each director’s remuneration is determined each year by the representative director, having been Names of Certified Public Accountants Executing Operations, Number of Successive Years Inauthorized by a decision of the Board of Directors attended by multiple external directors, in consideration volved, and Accounting Auditor to Which They Belong of business conditions and the Company’s performance. Remuneration for full-time directors comprises a fixed portion, an evaluated portion, a Company performance-linked portion and a stock value-linked Names of Certified Public Accountants Accounting Auditor to Which They Belong portion. The fixed portion depends upon the individual’s post, the evaluated portion is based upon the Tsutomu Hirose individual’s performance, and the company performance-linked portion is linked to a set figure against Designated and Executive the net income for that period. The stock value-linked portion is fixed cash remuneration with the aim of Tomoya Noda Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Partners increasing stock holdings in the Company and the Company shares are purchased through an executive Kenji Akiyama stock ownership association. Remuneration for non-full-time directors, including outside directors, is Note: As all have been involved in these operations for seven or fewer years, details are omitted here. composed only of a fixed portion. Remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Board members is determined through consultation with Assistants assisting in audit activities Audit & Supervisory Board members and is within the limits for remuneration resolved by the General Certified public accountants: 9 Others: 10 Meeting of Shareholders. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 22 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Board of Directors and Auditors (As of July 1, 2017) Directors Note: Titles prior to September 2012 reflect the former Nippon Television Network Corporation, which switched to a holdings company structure in the following month. Kenichi Hirose Kimio Maruyama Yoshio Okubo Yoshinobu Kosugi Akira Ishizawa Board Director Senior Executive Board Director Representative Director, President Senior Executive Board Director Executive Board Director President, Financial Management Corporate Administration & Human Chairman of Business Audit Committee Programming Strategy Acting Chairman of Business Audit Following appointments as Director General, Resources, Labor Relations Nippon TV Group Management Strategy Following appointments as Director General of Committee Sports, and Divisional President, Multi-Platform Executive Manager of Information Security Committee Sales and Programming, and as Representative Executive Auditor of Information Security Convergence Strategy, appointed Board Director Management Office Corporate Strategy Executive Management Director and President of AX-ON Inc., appointed Management Office in 2016. Following appointments as Director General of Served as Director and Director General, Media Board Director and Operating Officer in 2011 Following appointments as head of Executive Sports and Sales, appointed Board Director and Strategies, at The Yomiuri Shimbun. Appointed and Board Director and Managing Officer in Administration, Corporate Administration, Operating Officer in 2011 and Board Director Board Director and Operating Officer in 2010, 2012. Appointed Managing Director in October Programming, President’s Office and and Managing Officer in 2012. Appointed and Representative Director and President in 2012 in line with the transition to a certified Management Strategy, appointed Board Director Executive Board Director in October 2012 in line 2011. Appointed Representative Director and broadcasting holding company. Appointed in 2013 and Executive Board Director in 2015. with the transition to a certified broadcasting President October 2012 in line with the transition Senior Executive Board Director in 2013. holding company. Appointed Senior Executive to a certified broadcasting holding company. Board Director in 2015. Tsuneo Watanabe Takashi Imai Ken Sato Tadao Kakizoe Yasushi Manago Board Director* Board Director* Board Director Board Director* Board Director Representative Director, Honorary Chairman, and Colleague of President, President, Japan Cancer Society Attorney at Law Chairman and Chief Editor, Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation Institute for International Policy Studies The Yomiuri Shimbun Holdings (formerly Nippon Steel Corporation) * Outside directors pursuant to Article 2.15 of the Companies Act Auditors Yasuhiro Nose Kojiro Shiraishi Norio Mochizuki Toshinori Kanemoto Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member** Audit & Supervisory Board Member** Audit & Supervisory Board Member** ** Outside auditors pursuant to Article 2.16 of the Companies Act Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 23 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website CSR at Nippon TV Holdings Nippon TV Holdings’ CSR Proclamation Nippon TV Holdings is a media and content company centered on broadcasting, which has a decidedly public nature. Therefore, we have formulated four promises that we aim to fulfill as we aggressively promote activities intended to be useful to society through our broadcasting and operations. 1 2 For a society filled with smiles For heartwarming culture and well-being Through trustworthy broadcasts and The Four By increasing the opportunities to come into contact with heartwarming programs and businesses, we will strive to make life bountiful. Promises various types of culture and arts, we will strive to foster welfare that is considerate and offers peace of mind. 3 4 For a life-supporting environment For a future where dreams come true By protecting our irreplaceable world, As a leader in the broadcasting industry, we consistently we will strive to pass on a good living environment strive to develop technologies, provide new experiences and for future generations. build a future where dreams come true. Signatory to the UN Global Compact Nippon TV signed the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in January 2011. Formally launched by UN Headquarters in July 2000, the UNGC was first announced by then Secretary-General Kofi Annan in a speech to The World Economic Forum in January 1999 at a conference in Davos, Switzerland, in which he expressed the importance of meeting the needs of people who are in weak positions and addressing issues that concern the world’s future. Among the companies and organizations that are signatories to the UNGC, corporate top management pledges to uphold 10 principles related to the protection of human rights, the elimination of unjust labor practices, environmental responsiveness and the prevention of corruption and to conduct corporate activities to achieve these aims. As of June 2017, more than 12,500 organizations (including more than 9,400 companies) in 162 countries are included as signatories on the UN’s official website. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 24 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Nippon TV Holdings’ Original Social Contribution Activities 24-Hour Television: “Love Saves the Earth” Welfare Support Activities This year marked the 40th annual broadcast of Donating special vehicles for public service activities is an this charity program since its inception in 1978. ongoing activity that started from the first 24-Hour Television The main mission of this program is to maximize broadcast, and as of March 2017, we have donated a total of the media power of television to contribute to 10,648 vehicles, including vehicles that help people bathe, and welfare activities in Japan and overseas and to rescue dog transport vehicles for use in searching disaster areas. communicate the importance of support to society Additionally, since 2014 we have provided assistance to people in at large. adaptive sports. As support for patients with intractable diseases, The theme of this year’s program, which we have donated a solar-powered eco-system that converts sunlight into electricity and supplies hot water was broadcast August 26–27, was “Confession: for lodging facilities, and have donated Braille book transport trucks to the Japan Braille Library to help Getting up the Courage to Speak Out.” Donations provide information accessibility for people with special needs. collected from numerous viewers were used in their entirety—without any deductions to defray costs— Activities to Support Environmental Preservation to support works in the three areas of welfare support activities, activities to support environmental preservation and activities to support disaster recovery through the 24-Hour Television Charity Committee. In 2004, we began supporting environmental The committee comprises 31 commercial television broadcasters throughout Japan. The cumulative total preservation activities as a central part of our of contributions for the 39 years from 1978 through 2016 is ¥36,554,802,350. assistance activities, with the “Mt. Fuji Beautification Project.” With the cooperation of volunteers and many others, we are carrying out cleanup activities around Japan’s waterfront and mountain areas, as Individual contributions (donations) well as environmental conservation initiatives, and are continuing with environmental activities to support the 24-Hour Television Charity Committee* region affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. The 31 commercial television broadcasters throughout By members of the media like ourselves proactively working to raise awareness, we aim to foster wider Japan broadcasting 24-Hour Television environmental activities. Activities to Support Disaster Recovery Welfare Support Activities Activities to Support Activities to Support We engage in activities to support the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster recovery and provide emergency Assistance for the elderly and Environmental Preservation Disaster Recovery assistance for natural disasters. In April 2016, we donated ¥5 million to people in Kumamoto Prefecture who people with special needs, including Assistance in cleaning and Providing emergency assistance were affected by the earthquakes in their region. In the day following the earthquake, we also launched an donations of special vehicles for environmental conservation activities for natural disasters, supporting emergency fundraising activity that succeeded in generating more than ¥70 million in additional donations. public service activities nationwide recovery in disaster-hit areas In September 2016, Hokkaido and Iwate prefectures suffered major damage due to torrential rains, as * The 24-Hour Television Charity Committee received public interest certification by the Japanese Cabinet Office on December 1, 2013, thereby becoming a successive typhoons made landfall. Also, the city of Itoigawa, Niigata Prefecture, suffered a large-scale fire public interest incorporated association. The association received certification for new social contribution activities in areas of support, including patients with in January 2017. We donated ¥5 million to the people affected by these disasters. intractable diseases, information security for people with disabilities (people with visual disabilities) and sports for people with disabilities. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 25 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website 7 days TV What is a Family? GO! Nittele WALK 7 days TV What is a Family? is GO! Nittele WALK, a program for touring our facilities designed for a special campaign to coincide students, aims to encourage an affinity for television. The program provides with the annual International Day participants with the opportunity to look behind the scenes of the television of Families, on May 15. Many business as they tour live broadcast facilities and learn how television programs from Nippon TV were programs are produced. This program targets children from the fifth year represented, and content centered of elementary school through to the third year of high school, and many on a family theme. students take part in these tours as free-themed school excursions and as a part of their independent studies. Mother and Child Initiative (mama mo como) Yomihito Shirazu Workshops The Mother and Child Initiative is a child-rearing assistance project Under the Yomihito Shirazu program, announcers and newscasters from started in 2010 and hopes to make Nippon TV loved by families Nippon TV and network stations visit schools, temporary housing and other with children nationwide. In October 2016, the Sorajiro character meeting places in areas affected by the disasters, holding workshops and participated in the Beautiful Mother Park event, which included a other activities focused on the Japanese language. In October 2016, we stage and hand-shaking event for getting close to the character. held a Japanese language workshop at a temporary housing complex in Kumamoto Prefecture. We also collaborated with TIPNESS to have trainers conduct health and exercise sessions to encourage the mental and physical health of people affected by the disaster in their region. Nippon TV Forum External Class Terakoya SENSORS Nippon TV Experience Classroom Producers, directors, news reporters Under the theme of combining In this classroom, technical staff and announcers who work at Nippon technology and entertainment, the members who are at the forefront TV and who are intimately involved SENSORS media project introduces of program production interact 日テレ 体験教室 with production visit elementary, top leaders, products and services with children who have expressed junior high and high schools, where that will build the future in a range an interest in learning more about they explore the fun and appeal of the of fields. In addition to programs, television, and Nippon TV employees television industry, and at times even the project uses Web media and let them experience for themselves tell the students a few inside stories. events to contribute to the future of how programs are made. entertainment. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 26 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Cultural Activities In line with our CSR motto of “expanding opportunities to enjoy art and culture in various ways,” we supported the Louvre Museum’s repairs of the Mona Lisa room (completed in 2005), and restoration of classical Greek and Hellenistic art, including Venus de Milo (completed in 2008). Additionally, under the strong relationship we built with the Louvre Museum in assisting in the restoration of the Mona Lisa and Venus de Milo, we also cooperated in restoring the area surrounding the Winged Victory of Samothrace (completed in 2015). These masterpieces are considered the museum’s three “crown jewels.” ©2008 Musée du Louvre / Cécile Dégremont ©Musée du Louvre, dist. RMN / Daniel Lebée et Carine ©RMN (Musée du Louvre) / Gérard Blot / Hervé Lewandowski ©Antoine Mongodin, Pierre Philibert / Conception graphique: Buro GDS / Musée du Louvre ©Victoire de Samothrace, Musée du Louvre Social Activities Corporate Ethics Human Resource Development Having established a Compliance Committee in December 2003, Nippon TV strives to promote compliance Nippon TV believes the further enrichment of content is indispensable for the continuation of a broadcast and highly transparent corporate activities. In June 2004, we established a Compliance and Standards station supported by many people. Office, strengthened our operational audit system and, on July 1 of that same year, formulated and People are the driving force behind our content creation capabilities. Nippon TV strives to foster a put into effect The Nippon TV Compliance Charter. The Compliance Charter defines the basic internal working environment where employees can maximize their potential by hiring and employing a diverse standards that must be observed by all Nippon TV Group full-time executives and employees. The Nippon array of talented new graduates and experienced mid-career personnel. We have also introduced an TV Group pledges to observe the Compliance Charter and strives to ensure that all full-time executives and employee evaluation system to provide a fair assessment of job performance, as well as career design and employees read, understand and observe all the standards contained therein. job request systems to ensure appropriate employee training. In August 2003, we revised our salary system from one based on age and job seniority to a performance-based structure focused on employee achievements. Through a “cafeteria-style” welfare system, we enable personnel to select from a menu of measures that target self-development and are designed to help them achieve enjoyable lifestyles. In our view, this approach is a way to truly build corporate value. Nippon Television Kobato Cultural Foundation In 1974, we established the NTV “Dove of Love” Public Welfare Foundation to support people with seeing Cultural Foundation with the aim of promoting financial and operational efficiency and generating synergy and hearing disabilities that rendered them unable to enjoy television. The Nippon Television Network between the two entities. The foundation is active in providing sign language interpretation of news Cultural Foundation was set up in 1976 for the promotion, interaction and advancement of culture in areas broadcasts and distributing Braille calendars. inaccessible via television. On April 2, 2012, we merged the two entities into the Nippon Television Kobato Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 27 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Eleven-Year Summary Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries*1 (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars*2) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 Years ended March 31: Net sales ¥ 343,652 ¥ 342,188 ¥ 324,563 ¥ 296,934 ¥ 297,895 ¥ 305,460 ¥ 326,423 ¥ 341,720 ¥ 362,497 ¥ 414,781 ¥ 416,705 $ 3,714,279 Operating income 30,344 23,077 12,215 23,563 31,670 32,249 35,429 40,089 42,383 53,178 52,527 468,197 Net Income Attributable to Owners of 18,332 10,625 5,622 16,595 21,049 22,729 25,284 27,828 30,468 36,884 40,787 363,553 the Parent Comprehensive income*3 — — — — 18,352 25,597 37,701 35,145 64,255 32,362 58,822 524,307 Depreciation and amortization 14,361 12,939 11,528 9,622 8,456 7,071 6,573 7,149 8,481 11,641 12,484 111,276 Capital expenditures 6,043 5,200 5,491 26,809 4,614 3,802 5,596 9,236 20,370 16,562 36,949 329,343 At March 31: Total assets ¥ 529,265 ¥ 512,507 ¥ 498,457 ¥ 513,788 ¥ 528,398 ¥ 543,228 ¥ 598,075 ¥ 645,363 ¥ 755,127 ¥ 769,864 ¥ 848,630 $ 7,564,221 Total equity*4 411,995 407,668 400,417 416,367 427,496 446,038 488,120 523,904 578,479 603,178 655,772 5,845,191 Cash flows: Cash flow from operating activities ¥ 31,458 ¥ 26,791 ¥ 23,948 ¥ 40,131 ¥ 23,433 ¥ 25,274 ¥ 29,099 ¥ 35,157 ¥ 33,237 ¥ 40,762 ¥ 60,135 $ 536,011 Cash flow from investing activities (24,596) (17,301) (28,331) (46,847) (28,181) (8,968) (7,369) (4,367) (17,942) (26,820) (111,348) (992,495) Cash flow from financing activities (4,714) (4,124) (4,803) (5,697) (7,132) (6,420) (7,073) (7,175) (6,243) (11,276) (10,967) (97,754) Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 61,524 66,863 57,630 45,219 33,312 43,190 63,806 87,453 96,539 99,205 37,029 330,056 Per share data (Yen, U.S. dollars): Net Income*5 ¥ 741.60 ¥ 430.27 ¥ 22.77 ¥ 67.64 ¥ 85.97 ¥ 92.85 ¥ 101.39 ¥ 109.58 ¥ 120.08 ¥ 145.38 ¥ 160.78 $ 1.43 Equity*5 16,363.52 16,153.34 1,585.36 1,666.10 1,711.39 1,785.58 1,879.89 2,023.59 2,240.64 2,337.58 2,533.88 22.59 Cash dividends*6*7 170.00 180.00 180.00 290.00 290.00 290.00 110.00 34.00 30.00 34.00 34.00 0.30 Ratios (%): Return on assets (ROA) 3.5 2.0 1.1 3.2 3.9 4.2 4.2 4.5 4.0 4.8 4.8 Return on equity (ROE) 4.6 2.6 1.4 4.2 5.1 5.3 5.5 5.6 5.6 6.4 6.6 Operating margin 8.8 6.7 3.8 7.9 10.6 10.6 10.9 11.7 11.7 12.8 12.6 Equity ratio 76.3 77.8 78.5 79.4 79.3 80.5 80.0 79.6 75.3 77.0 75.7 Others Total shares issued*8 25,364,548 25,364,548 25,364,548 25,364,548 25,364,548 25,364,548 263,822,080 263,822,080 263,822,080 263,822,080 263,822,080 Employees 2,886 3,126 3,291 3,339 3,262 3,218 3,259 3,471 4,115 4,170 4,368 Notes *1. Owing to the Company’s transition to a certified broadcasting holding company system, effective October 1, 2012, figures for Nippon Television Network Corporation are shown for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 through 2012. *2. The translations of Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts are included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan and have been made at the rate of ¥112.19 to $1, the approximate rate of exchange at March 31, 2017. Such translations should not be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts could be converted into U.S. dollars at that or any other rate. *3. From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, Nippon TV adopted the Accounting Standard for Presentation of Comprehensive Income (Accounting Standards Board of Japan Statement No. 25, June 30, 2010). *4. From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, Nippon TV adopted the Accounting Standard for Presentation of Net Assets in the Balance Sheet (Accounting Standards Board of Japan Statement No. 5) and the Guidance on Accounting Standards for Presentation of Net Assets in the Balance Sheet (Accounting Standards Board of Japan Guidance No. 8). *5. The Company’s common stock underwent a 10-for-1 stock split, effective October 1, 2012. However, figures for net income per share and equity per share are calculated as if the stock split had occurred at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. *6. Dividends per share of ¥110 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, correspond to ¥90 in dividends per share prior to the stock split plus ¥20 per share on shares after the stock split. Taking the stock split into account, annual dividends per share would have been ¥29 per post-split share (¥290 per share on pre-split shares). *7. The ¥34 dividend per share amount for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, includes a ¥5 dividend to commemorate the Company’s 60th year since the start of broadcasting. *8. In addition to introducing a 10-for-1 stock split on common stock, effective October 1, 2012, a share exchange took place in which Nippon TV was the wholly owning parent company in a share exchange, and BS Nippon Corporation and CS Nippon Corporation were wholly owned subsidiaries in a share exchange. The total increases in the number of shares of issued stock were 228,280,932 shares as a result of the stock split and 10,176,600 shares in newly issued stock in accordance with the share exchange. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 28 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Highlights Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Net Sales Operating Income Parent and ROE (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent (Millions of yen) ROE (%) 53,178 52,527 6.4 6.6 414,781 416,705 362,497 5.5 5.6 5.6 341,720 42,383 326,423 40,089 40,787 35,429 36,884 30,468 27,828 25,284 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Equity Ratio Total Assets and Amortization (%) (Millions of yen) Capital Expenditures (Millions of yen) Depreciation and Amortization (Millions of yen) 36,949 848,630 80.0 79.6 75.3 77.0 75.7 755,127 769,864 645,363 598,075 20,370 16,562 11,641 12,484 9,236 8,481 7,149 5,596 6,573 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 29 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Management’s Discussion and Analysis Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years Ended March 31 Overview Income before Income Taxes During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Japanese economy was on a mild recovery path, with During the year, the Group recorded a ¥369 million loss on valuation of investment securities and a corporate earnings improving due to improvements in the employment and income environment and ¥253 million loss on step acquisitions, countered by compensation income of ¥1,616 million. As a result, the effect of various governmental policies, although there was risk of impact due to uncertainties in income before income taxes was up 6.0% year on year, or ¥3,362 million, to ¥59,161 million. economies outside of Japan and owing to fluctuations in financial and capital markets. Given this economic environment, total advertising expenditures in Japan totaled ¥6,288.0 billion Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent in 2016 (calendar-year basis, according to Dentsu Inc.), up 1.9% from the previous year, achieving a Income taxes fell 4.3%, to ¥17,936 million, and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was year-on-year increase for the fifth consecutive year. Of this total, terrestrial television spending amounted ¥438 million. to ¥1,837.4 billion, for a 1.6% increase. Consequently, net income attributable to owners of the parent grew ¥3,902 million, or 10.6%, to ¥40,787 million. Net Sales The Nippon TV Group recorded a ¥1,924 million increase in consolidated net sales for the fiscal year Segment Information ended March 31, 2017, or a 0.5% increase from the previous year, to ¥416,705 million. In the core Media and Content Business Media and Content Business segment, revenue from merchandise sales, including package media sales, During the fiscal year under review, the Group renamed the Contents Business reporting segment the and box office revenue from Nippon TV-financed films decreased. However, this was offset by an increase Media and Content Business. This segment does not affect segment reporting. in revenue from television broadcasting owing to 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games, a large-scale In the Media and Content Business segment, revenue from merchandise sales, including package single-episode program, and regular program slots with brisk ratings. Contributing to this result, in the media sales, and box office revenue from Nippon TV-financed films decreased. However, this was offset average viewer ratings among the key Tokyo broadcasters for terrestrial broadcasting in calendar 2016 by an increase in revenue from television broadcasting owing to 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games, (from January 4, 2016, to January 1, 2017) and fiscal 2016 (from April 4, 2016, to April 2, 2017), the a large-scale single-episode program, and regular program slots with brisk ratings. In addition, revenue Nippon TV Group ranked top in all three time slots: all day (6 a.m. to midnight), golden time (7 p.m. to 10 growth was posted for content sales, reflecting an expansion in online video services. p.m.) and prime time (7 p.m. to 11 p.m.), which meant winning the “Triple Crown in Viewer Ratings” on As a result, sales of the Media and Content Business, including intersegment sales and transfers, both a calendar-year and fiscal-year basis for the third consecutive year. In addition, revenue growth was grew ¥530 million, or 0.1%, from the previous year, to ¥374,501 million. Operating expenses grew posted for content sales, reflecting an expansion in online video services, and a rise in facilities usage fees ¥1,065 million, or 0.3%, to ¥326,237 million, due to factors including investment in programming revenue from the fitness club in the Life and Health-Related Business segment. production costs for the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games. As a result, segment profit decreased ¥534 million, or 1.1%, from the previous year to ¥48,263 million. Operating Income Operating expenses—cost of sales combined with selling, general and administrative expenses— Life and Health-Related Business increased ¥2,575 million, or 0.7%, year on year, to ¥364,178 million, due in part to an increase in Sales at the Life and Health-Related Business, including intersegment sales and transfers, advanced expenses in tandem with revenue growth, and production costs for the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic ¥1,243 million, or 3.4%, from the previous year, to ¥37,604 million, owing in part to a rise in fitness Games programming. facilities usage fee revenue. Reflecting this, segment profit increased ¥111 million, or 9.3%, from the As a result, the Group’s operating income decreased ¥651 million, or 1.2%, year on year, to previous year, to ¥1,308 million. ¥52,527 million. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 30 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year Sales at the Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business, which includes rental and leasing income from tenants Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities (Billions of yen) 100 in the Shiodome and Kojimachi areas, decreased ¥177 million, or 1.8%, to ¥9,711 million, including Net cash provided by operating activities amounted intersegment sales and transfers. Segment profit decreased ¥198 million, or 5.3%, to ¥3,525 million. to ¥60,135 million, compared with ¥40,762 million 75 in the previous year. Principal sources of cash were Financial Results income before income taxes of ¥59,161 million and 50 Assets depreciation and amortization of ¥12,484 million, 37.0 Current assets as of March 31, 2017, were ¥305,280 million, up ¥44,360 million from a year earlier, due versus ¥15,269 billion in income taxes paid. 25 to such factors as an increase in cash and cash equivalents and a rise in marketable securities, stemming from the acquisition of public bonds. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Property, plant and equipment was up ¥22,583 million compared with the previous year-end, to Net cash used in investing activities came to ¥111,348 ¥249,064 million, owing to a rise in construction in progress at the Kojimachi studio building. million, compared with ¥26,820 million in the Investments and other assets were up ¥11,823 million compared with the previous year-end, to previous year. The main uses of cash were ¥79,999 million for purchases of marketable securities and ¥294,286 million, owing to an increase in investment securities, stemming from mark-to-market gains; ¥17,475 million in purchases of property, plant and equipment. Meanwhile, proceeds from redemption of and the conversion during the year of NTV IT Produce Corporation and ACM CO., Ltd., to consolidated investment securities provided ¥26,516 million. subsidiaries. As a result, total assets amounted to ¥848,630 million, up ¥78,766 million from the previous fiscal Net Cash Used in Financing Activities year-end. Net cash used in financing activities was ¥10,967 million, compared with ¥11,276 million in the preceding year. Dividends paid were the primary use of cash. Liabilities Current liabilities came to ¥111,501 million as of March 31, 2017, up ¥16,571 million from a year earlier. Financing and Capital Expenditure Policy This rise was due to higher facility-related payables, owing to an increase in construction in progress. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Group’s capital expenditures (investments in property, The Group’s deferred tax liabilities grew, due to a upturn in the market value of its holdings of plant and equipment and software) came to ¥36,949 million. This amount was due mainly to capital investment securities. This and other factors caused long-term liabilities to grow ¥9,601 million, to investments in the Media and Content Business segment. ¥81,357 million. Capital expenditure by segment during the year under review is outlined below. Equity Media and Content Business During the year, net income attributable to owners of the parent exceeded the decrease in retained We invested in the renewal of broadcast facilities to ensure greater stability of broadcasting at the Nippon earnings due to payments for shareholder dividends, and rising market prices on holdings of investment TV television tower. Specifically, in the consolidated fiscal year under review, we completed upgrades of: a securities caused the unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities to increase. These and other factors news broadcasting studio; a studio that produces informational programming; radio transmission facilities caused total equity to rise ¥52,594 million, to ¥655,772 million as of March 31, 2017. and wireless microphone facilities in response to the frequency reallocation by the Ministry of Internal Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 31 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Affairs and Communications; a vehicle used to broadcast long-distance relay races and marathons; and In accordance with this policy, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Group awarded an an uninterruptible power-supply for broadcasting in case of blackouts. In addition, we are proceeding with interim dividend of ¥10 per share and a year-end dividend of ¥24 per share. renewal work of the media center, which is scheduled to be replaced in the next consolidated fiscal year. We are also making progress with construction of the new Kojimachi studio building, which is scheduled to Business Risks start operation in 2018. Furthermore, we are upgrading our power-supply and ventilation facilities at Ikuta The risks described below are some of the risks the Nippon TV Holdings Group faces. Many of these risks Studio to ensure stable operation. relate to the future; the information stated here is based on the Group’s judgments as of March 31, 2017. Recognizing that these risks exist, the Group aims to avoid such risks and to minimize their impact Life and Health-Related Business if they do materialize. Note that the following statements do not comprehensively identify all possible risks During the year, we opened 27 new FASTGYM24 clubs, which are available 24 hours a day. related to investing in the Company’s stock. Real Estate Rental/Leasing Business Risks Related to the Television Broadcasting Business During the year, we made no capital expenditures of note in this business. Dependence on Television Advertising Revenues and Television Broadcasting Media Prices The Media and Content Business, which forms the core of the Group’s operations, is dependent on We are also moving ahead with the development of a sales broadcast system, which is scheduled to television advertising revenue generated through the sales of television advertising time slots. Such operate in tandem with the revamped media center. revenues comprised approximately 64.7% of total net sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. In general, advertising prices are linked with macroeconomic trends. Furthermore, advertising media The Group has a seven-year capital investment plan that comprehensively takes into account are growing more diverse, owing to the proliferation of smartphones and tablet computers. anticipated earnings and cash flows. Group companies formulate their own capital plans, but Nippon TV The Group recognizes the continued dominance of the media value of television broadcasting and Holdings makes adjustments to ensure there is no overlap among plans. remains committed to enhancing that value, as well as to cultivating new sources of revenue. However, As of March 31, 2017, the Group plans capital expenditures of ¥27,826 million in the fiscal year future macroeconomic trends in Japan and shifts in the advertising market could impact the Group’s ending March 31, 2018, which we plan to fund out of retained earnings. business performance and financial position. Dividend Policy Competition with Other Forms of Media Nippon TV Holdings recognizes the return of profits to shareholders as an important task of management. Given that analog terrestrial broadcasting in Japan ended in March 2012, the transition to digital terrestrial Our basic policy is to make continuous and stable returns to shareholders, build a corporate structure broadcasting is now complete. However, during this period, the three-wavelength tuners that enable able to flexibly adapt to changes in the business environment and strengthen our revenue base, while viewing of terrestrial, BS digital and CS digital broadcasts have steadily gained popularity. Furthermore, the harmonizing these endeavors with the maintenance of internal reserves for aggressive future expansion. establishment of a telecommunications environment featuring the Internet and mobile phones, as well as Our basic policy is to pay dividends twice each year, once at midterm and once at year-end. The General the widespread adoption of smartphones, tablets and other devices, is driving an increase in the number Meeting of Shareholders determines the year-end dividend, while interim dividends are resolved each year of subscribers to video distribution services using these terminals. This popularization of digital media is by the Company’s Board of Directors, as provided for by the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, with a drawing the interest of many people, rapidly raising the advertising value of such forms of media. record date of September 30. The Nippon TV Holdings Group has decided to counter the increasing diversification of digital media Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 32 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report by stepping up its activities involving three-wavelength operations. To achieve this, in line with our October event that the Group fails to properly accommodate the authors, etc., it may face broadcast cancellation 1, 2012, transition to a certified broadcasting holding company, we converted BS Nippon Corporation and orders or claims for damages. In such cases, the Group’s business performance and financial position may CS Nippon Corporation, which broadcast “BS Nittele” and “Nittele Plus,” respectively, to wholly owned be affected. subsidiaries. In Internet media, in addition to continued efforts involving NTV On Demand, in April 2014 we acquired the Japan business of Hulu, LLC, a U.S. video distribution company. In addition to entering the Risk Related to Legal Restrictions video subscription service, we have converted to a Nippon TV Holdings Group subsidiary HJ Holdings LLC Legal Restrictions on Certified Broadcasting Holding Companies (now HJ Holdings, Inc.), a joint company that operates this business. A certified broadcasting holding company approved under the Broadcast Law is allowed to hold multiple However, this proliferation of digital media may cut into viewing time for terrestrial broadcasts, terrestrial broadcasters, BS broadcasters and CS broadcasters as subsidiaries. Nippon TV Holdings, thereby lowering their advertising value. In such cases, the Group’s business performance and financial which is approved as a certified broadcasting holding company, has as its subsidiaries Nippon Television position may be affected. Network Corporation, BS Nippon Corporation and CS Nippon Corporation. In the event that Nippon TV Holdings failed to satisfy the standards provided by the Broadcast Law, such as those related to a certified Copyrights and Other Intellectual Property Rights broadcasting holding company’s assets, the Company’s certification could be rescinded (Broadcast Law The television programs produced by the Nippon TV Group closely combine copyrights and neighboring Article 166). If certification were to be rescinded, the Group’s business performance and financial position rights that represent the results of the creative, intellectual and cultural efforts of authors, screenwriters, could be seriously affected. musical lyricists and composers, record producers, performers and many others (hereinafter “authors, etc.”). Legal Regulations for Television Broadcasters Japan’s Copyright Act states in its first Article that it is intended to spell out the rights of such The Nippon TV Holdings Group’s core Media and Content Business is regulated by Japan’s Broadcast Law authors, etc., who engage in creative activities, protect the rights of such authors, etc., and contribute to and Radio Law. cultural development, while giving due regard to fair use. The objective of the Broadcast Law is to promote robust development of broadcasting by stipulating Television programming the Group produces is used in multiple ways. It is distributed as content freedom of program editing, establishing broadcast program deliberative bodies and providing standards via terrestrial broadcasting, BS and CS satellite broadcasts, and via cable television and the Internet. It is for certification in the satellite broadcasting business, including BS and CS broadcasting. With regard to packaged in the form of DVDs, Blu-ray Discs and other physical media, deployed globally through overseas terrestrial broadcast licenses, the Radio Law also aims to enhance public welfare by ensuring the fair and programming and it is also provided via merchandising and publishing related to program characters. When efficient usage of the airwaves. Article 4 of the Radio Law stipulates that parties seeking to open radio using content in these ways, we give due consideration to rights, including various copyrights, etc. However, stations for the transmission of radio waves must receive a license from the Minister of Internal Affairs and as a general rule obtaining the copyrights, etc., to use television programs in Japan produced by the Group Communications. Article 13 of the Radio Law specifies that the validation period of such a license shall be from the authors, etc., are premised on terrestrial and satellite broadcasting usage, leaving the Group with not more than five years and is determined by the Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications. numerous television programs for which rights premised on other uses have not been adequately obtained. On July 31, 1952, the Company was the first in Japan to be authorized for television broadcasting. In deploying television programs for multiple uses on the Internet and in other new media, as well as for We have subsequently continued to receive renewed authorization as a licensed broadcasting company. overseas development, it is therefore essential to re-acquire permission from the authors, etc., in advance Nippon TV has renewed and currently holds a terrestrial broadcasting license in the place of Nippon of such use either in parallel with or subsequent to broadcasting. Television Network Holdings Corporation, which transitioned to a certified broadcasting holding company Such rights handling could require large amounts of time and expenditures. At the same time, in the on October 1, 2012. Subsidiaries BS Nippon Corporation and CS Nippon Corporation are licensed for their Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 33 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report respective basic satellite broadcasting businesses. VOD Business Under the authority of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications, in the event of In October 2005, the Group launched Japan’s first Internet-based video on demand (VOD) business prescribed circumstances in relation to satellite broadcasting, the Broadcast Law provides stipulations for operated by a television broadcaster. In December 2010, we launched Nittele On Demand as a fee-based the “discontinuance of operations” (Article 174) and the “cancellation of certification, etc.” (Article 103 Internet content distribution service that currently utilizes the transactional video on demand (TVOD) and Article 104). With regard to terrestrial basic broadcasting the Radio Law provides stipulations for approach. The service is steadily increasing viewer numbers through its distribution of dramas, animated “discontinuance of radio transmissions” (Article 72) and “revocation of status as a licensed broadcasting series, variety shows, sports and other program content. In April 2014, Nippon TV acquired the Japan company” (Article 75 and Article 76). Continued television broadcasting business is the linchpin for the business of Hulu, LLC, a U.S. video distribution company, embarking on the subscription video on demand Nippon TV Holdings Group’s future existence, so the Group is ever-conscious of and vigilant toward the (SVOD) business. The SVOD business is presently in an expansionary phase. Accordingly, with the aim emergence of such circumstances in the fulfillment of its social mission of broadcasting. However, if the of expanding the video distribution market and increasing the number of subscribers in this business Company’s licenses and permissions to conduct broadcasting businesses were revoked under the Radio we intend to run promotions to enhance recognition of the Hulu name and extend the range of content Law, the Group’s business performance and financial position could be seriously affected. to appeal to a broad range of age groups and tastes. As the SVOD business utilizes a fixed rate system, revenues may not increase unless subscriber numbers increase in line with expectations. Internet-based Risk Related to Businesses Other Than Television Broadcasting businesses, and specifically VOD businesses, may be affected by major fluctuations in market demand, Film Business owing in particular to the increasing sophistication of network infrastructure and mobile terminals. These The Nippon TV Group is actively engaged in the film business and contributes capital to approximately 10 factors may result in the business being unable to recover its expenses, thereby affecting the business films each year. Our capital participation in the film business is determined based on careful simulations of performance and financial position of the Group. potential income and outlay during the planning stages of each film. However, there is no guarantee that actual box office receipts and secondary usage revenues after theatrical release will generate the projected Risks Related to the Acquisition and Holding of the Company’s Shares earnings. Failure to secure the amount of revenue initially planned may impact the Group’s business Handling of Shares Purchased by Foreign Entities performance and financial position. Nippon TV’s status as a licensed broadcasting company under the Radio Law will be revoked if the voting rights held by foreign entities [defined as (1) an individual without Japanese citizenship, (2) a foreign Media Commerce Business government or its representatives, (3) a foreign juridical person or organization or (4) a juridical person or To expand its earnings base, the Group is actively engaged in the media commerce business. We select organization, the ratio of voting rights of which to be held directly by the entity described in items (1) to products carefully, using a thoroughly comprehensive checking system. Sale by the Group of defective (3)]. In the event that foreign entities described as (1) through (3) above directly hold 20% or more of the or faulty products could result in the obligation to accept returns of or replace such products. Also, Company’s voting rights, or if such rights are indirectly held by an entity described in (4), as prescribed by increasingly stringent competition with other companies could cause the Group to lose its competitive edge Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Ordinance, the Company could lose its certification as a in sourcing hit products and obtaining them at favorable prices. Furthermore, chronic worker shortages in certified broadcasting holding company. the logistics sector could cause distribution costs to rise. In such cases, the inability to secure the amount In this event, when the foreign ownership ratio approaches 20%, the Company may, in accordance of revenue initially planned may impact the Group’s business performance and financial position. with Broadcasting Law Articles 116-1 and 116-2, deny requests from foreign entities for registration of shares in the shareholders’ registry, while Broadcasting Law Article 116-3 restricts the use of voting rights. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 34 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Large-Scale Acquisitions of Nippon TV Holdings’ Shares corporate value of the Company and would ensure and enhance these elements over the medium to long Many large-scale acquisitions of shares benefit neither the corporate value of the target company nor term, the corporate value of the Company and, in turn, the common interests of its shareholders would be the common interests of its shareholders. Such large-scale acquisitions include those with a purpose harmed, which could have a considerable impact on the Company’s management. that would obviously harm the corporate value of the target company and the common interests of its shareholders; those with the potential to substantially coerce shareholders into selling their shares; those that do not provide sufficient time or information for the target company’s Board of Directors and shareholders to consider the details of the large-scale acquisition, or for the target company’s Board of Directors to make an alternative proposal; and those that require the target company to discuss or negotiate with the acquirer in order to procure more favorable terms for shareholders than those presented by the acquirer. Nippon TV Holdings obtained approval for and carried out a renewal of its plan for countermeasures to large-scale acquisitions of shares in the Company with necessary amendments (takeover defense measures) at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on May 13, 2016, and its 83rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 29, 2016, as a measure (Article 118, Item (iii) (b) of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act) to prevent decisions on the Company’s financial and business policies from being controlled by persons viewed as inappropriate under the basic policy regarding persons who control decisions on the Company’s financial and business policies (defined in the main clause of Article 118, Item (iii) of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act). The Group strives to ensure and enhance its corporate value, source of which lies in particular in its superior content development capability. As a certified broadcasting holding company, the bedrock of our content development capability via our Group companies, including subsidiaries and affiliates, is founded mainly on the acquisition and development of high-caliber personnel, preservation of mutual trust relationships with external parties involved in content production, sustainment of relationships of cooperation and mutual trust with network companies, maintenance of a corporate culture with a mediumto long-term outlook that encourages the development of high-quality content, assurance of stable business results and financial structure, and fulfillment of the Company’s public responsibilities as a certified broadcasting holding company with multiple subsidiaries that are broadcasters. Unless the acquirer of a proposed large-scale acquisition of shares in the Company understands the source of the Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 35 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Balance Sheet Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries March 31, 2017 Millions of Yen Thousands of U.S. Dollars (Note 1) ASSETS 2017 2016 2017 Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents (Note 14) ¥ 37,029 ¥ 99,205 $ 330,056 Marketable securities (Notes 3 and 14) 121,000 26,000 1,078,527 Short-term investments (Notes 4 and 14) 15,364 808 136,946 Receivables (Note 14): Trade notes 80 84 713 Trade accounts 96,688 95,676 861,824 Other 5,246 4,426 46,761 Allowance for doubtful accounts (94) (98) (838) Inventories (Note 5) 10,398 11,044 92,682 Deferred tax assets (Note 12) 5,172 5,435 46,100 Prepaid expenses and other (Note 13) 14,397 18,340 128,327 Total current assets 305,280 260,920 2,721,098 Property, Plant and Equipment (Notes 7 and 8): Land (Note 6) 153,688 147,620 1,369,890 Buildings and structures 114,662 109,740 1,022,034 Machinery, vehicles and equipment 95,377 91,998 850,138 Lease assets (Note 13) 22,929 22,709 204,377 Construction in progress 26,399 14,453 235,306 Total property, plant and equipment 413,055 386,520 3,681,745 Accumulated depreciation (163,991) (160,039) (1,461,726) Net property, plant and equipment 249,064 226,481 2,220,019 Investments and Other Assets: Investment securities (Notes 3 and 14) 171,614 167,861 1,529,673 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and associated companies 69,778 71,003 621,963 Goodwill 10,885 11,676 97,023 Deferred tax assets (Note 12) 986 889 8,789 Other assets (Note 13) 41,880 31,907 373,295 Allowance for doubtful accounts (857) (873) (7,639) Total investments and other assets 294,286 282,463 2,623,104 Total ¥ 848,630 ¥ 769,864 $ 7,564,221 See notes to consolidated financial statements. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 36 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Millions of Yen Thousands of U.S. Dollars (Note 1) LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2017 2016 2017 Current Liabilities: Short-term borrowings (Note 9) ¥ 7,172 ¥ 7,841 $ 63,927 Payables (Notes 14) Trade accounts 57,121 53,303 509,145 Other 22,443 7,598 200,046 Income taxes payable 11,585 11,853 103,262 Accrued expenses and other (Notes 9 and 13) 13,180 14,335 117,479 Total current liabilities 111,501 94,930 993,859 Long-Term Liabilities: Liabilities for retirement benefits (Note 10) 12,304 11,594 109,671 Guarantee deposits received (Notes 7 and 14) 20,226 20,058 180,283 Lease obligations 15,089 15,479 134,495 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 12) 30,675 23,612 273,420 Other (Notes 9 and 13) 3,063 1,013 27,302 Total long-term liabilities 81,357 71,756 725,171 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (Notes 13, 15 and 16) Equity (Notes 11, 17 and 18): Common stock—authorized, 1,000,000,000 shares in 2017 and 2016; 18,600 18,600 165,790 issued, 263,822,080 shares in 2017 and 2016 Capital surplus 29,622 29,587 264,034 Retained earnings 543,310 511,202 4,842,768 Treasury stock—at cost, 10,171,834 shares in 2017 and 10,126,920 shares in 2016 (13,419) (13,371) (119,610) Accumulated other comprehensive income: Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities 64,664 46,962 576,379 Foreign currency translation adjustments (66) 46 (588) Deferred gain on derivatives under hedge accounting 9 6 80 Total 642,720 593,032 5,728,853 Noncontrolling interests 13,052 10,146 116,338 Total equity 655,772 603,178 5,845,191 Total ¥848,630 ¥769,864 $7,564,221 See notes to consolidated financial statements. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 37 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Statement of Income Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year Ended March 31, 2017 Millions of Yen Thousands of U.S. Dollars (Note 1) 2017 2016 2017 Net Sales ¥416,705 ¥414,781 $3,714,279 Cost of Sales 270,430 269,914 2,410,464 Gross profit 146,275 144,867 1,303,815 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 93,748 91,689 835,618 Operating income 52,527 53,178 468,197 Other Income (Expenses): Interest and dividend income 3,010 3,006 26,829 Interest expense (613) (609) (5,464) Gain on sales of investment securities 207 43 1,845 Loss on devaluation of investment securities (369) (3,289) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and associated companies 2,495 1,982 22,239 Gain on investment in partnership 591 225 5,268 Gain from bargain purchases 366 3,262 Compensation income (Note 2. m) 1,616 923 14,404 Loss on step acquisitions (253) (2,255) Extra retirement payments (265) Impairment loss (152) (2,322) (1,355) Other—net (264) (362) (2,352) Other income—net 6,634 2,621 59,132 Income Before Income Taxes 59,161 55,799 527,329 Income Taxes (Note 12): Current 18,378 20,003 163,811 Deferred (442) (1,261) (3,939) Total income taxes 17,936 18,742 159,872 Net Income 41,225 37,057 367,457 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests (438) (173) (3,904) Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent ¥ 40,787 ¥ 36,884 $ 363,553 Yen U.S. Dollars 2017 2016 2017 Per Share of Common Stock (Note 2. q): Basic net income ¥160.78 ¥145.38 $1.43 Cash dividends applicable to the year 34.00 34.00 0.30 See notes to consolidated financial statements. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 38 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year Ended March 31, 2017 Millions of Yen Thousands of U.S. Dollars (Note 1) 2017 2016 2017 Net Income ¥41,225 ¥37,057 $367,457 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Note 17): Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities 17,711 (4,439) 157,866 Foreign currency translation adjustments (44) 1 (392) Share of other comprehensive loss in unconsolidated subsidiaries and associated companies (70) (257) (624) Total other comprehensive income (loss) 17,597 (4,695) 156,850 Comprehensive Income ¥58,822 ¥32,362 $524,307 Total Comprehensive Income Attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥58,380 ¥32,187 $520,367 Noncontrolling interests 442 175 3,940 See notes to consolidated financial statements. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 39 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year Ended March 31, 2017 Thousands Millions of Yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Number of Number of Shares of Shares of Common Retained Treasury Foreign Deferred Gain NoncontrolTotal Capital Surplus Unrealized Gain Total Common Treasury Stock Earnings Stock Currency on Derivatives ling Interests Equity on Available-forStock Issued Stock Translation under Hedge Sale Securities Adjustments Accounting Balance, April 1, 2015 263,822 10,108 ¥18,600 ¥29,587 ¥481,914 ¥(13,331) ¥51,599 ¥ 93 ¥ 19 ¥568,481 ¥ 9,998 ¥578,479 Net income attributable to owners of 36,884 36,884 36,884 the parent Cash dividends, ¥30 per share (7,596) (7,596) (7,596) Increase in treasury stock—net 17 (40) (40) (40) Change in equity in associates accounted for by the equity 1 method—treasury stock Net change in the year (4,637) (47) (13) (4,697) 148 (4,549) Balance, March 31, 2016 263,822 10,126 18,600 29,587 511,202 (13,371) 46,962 46 6 593,032 10,146 603,178 Net income attributable to owners of 40,787 40,787 40,787 the parent Cash dividends, ¥34 per share (8,679) (8,679) (8,679) Increase in treasury stock—net 18 (36) (36) (36) Change in equity in associates accounted for by the equity 27 (12) (12) (12) method—treasury stock Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with 35 35 35 non-controlling interests Net change in the year 17,702 (112) 3 17,593 2,906 20,499 Balance, March 31, 2017 263,822 10,171 ¥18,600 ¥29,622 ¥543,310 ¥(13,419) ¥64,664 ¥ (66) ¥ 9 ¥642,720 ¥13,052 ¥655,772 Thousands of U.S. Dollars (Note 1) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Common Capital Retained Treasury Foreign Deferred Gain NoncontrolTotal Unrealized Gain Total Stock Surplus Earnings Stock Currency on Derivatives ling Interests Equity on Available-forTranslation under Hedge Sale Securities Adjustments Accounting Balance, March 31, 2016 $165,790 $263,722 $4,556,574 $(119,182) $418,593 $ 410 $53 $5,285,960 $ 90,436 $5,376,396 Net income attributable to owners of 363,553 363,553 363,553 the parent Cash dividends, $0.30 per share (77,359) (77,359) (77,359) Increase in treasury stock—net (321) (321) (321) Change in equity in associates accounted for (107) (107) (107) by the equity method—treasury stock Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions 312 312 312 with non-controlling interests Net change in the year 157,786 (998) 27 156,815 25,902 182,717 Balance, March 31, 2017 $165,790 $264,034 $4,842,768 $(119,610) $576,379 $(588) $80 $5,728,853 $116,338 $5,845,191 See notes to consolidated financial statements. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 40 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year Ended March 31, 2017 Millions of Yen Thousands of U.S. Dollars (Note 1) 2017 2016 2017 Operating Activities: Income before income taxes ¥ 59,161 ¥ 55,799 $ 527,329 Adjustments for: Income taxes—paid (15,269) (23,606) (136,099) Depreciation and amortization 12,484 11,641 111,276 Impairment loss 152 2,322 1,355 Increase in liabilities for retirement benefits 647 558 5,767 Gain from bargain purchases (366) (3,262) Loss on step acquisitions 253 2,255 Gain on sales of investment securities (207) (43) (1,845) Loss on devaluation of investment securities 369 3,289 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and associated companies (2,495) (1,982) (22,239) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Increase in trade notes and accounts receivable (769) (4,552) (6,855) Decrease (increase) in inventories 754 (279) 6,721 Increase in trade notes and accounts payable 3,148 1,156 28,060 Other—net 2,273 (252) 20,259 Total adjustments 974 (15,037) 8,682 Net cash provided by operating activities 60,135 40,762 536,011 Investing Activities: Increase in long-term deposits (13,834) (778) (123,309) Decrease in long-term deposits 751 933 6,694 Purchases of marketable securities (79,999) (713,067) Proceeds from redemption of marketable securities 15,999 142,606 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (17,475) (20,270) (155,763) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 10 226 89 Purchases of intangible assets (6,939) (2,075) (61,850) Purchases of investment securities (44,568) (44,770) (397,255) Proceeds from sales of investment securities 5,495 61 48,979 Proceeds from redemption of investment securities 26,516 40,960 236,349 Proceeds from purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation 1,954 17,417 Payments of loans receivable (861) (1,443) (7,674) Payments for investments in capital of subsidiaries and affiliates (1,042) Other—net 1,603 1,378 14,289 Net cash used in investing activities (111,348) (26,820) (992,495) Financing Activities: Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings–net 72 (2,330) 642 Repayments of finance lease obligations (1,379) (1,317) (12,292) Dividends paid (8,678) (7,600) (77,351) Payments from changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in change in scope of consolidation (912) (8,129) Purchases of treasury stock (2) (2) (18) Other—net (68) (27) (606) Net cash used in financing activities (10,967) (11,276) (97,754) Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments on Cash and Cash Equivalents (10) (89) Net (Decrease) Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (62,190) 2,666 (554,327) Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year 99,205 96,539 884,259 Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents Resulting from Change of Scope of Consolidation 3 27 Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents Resulting from Merger with Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 11 97 Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year ¥ 37,029 ¥ 99,205 $ 330,056 See notes to consolidated financial statements. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 41 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year Ended March 31, 2017 1. Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Statements Japan (“ASBJ”), clarifies how the control and influence concepts should be practically applied to the The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the consolidation scope of collective investment vehicles, such as limited partnerships, Tokumei-Kumiai, provisions set forth in the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and its related accounting and other entities with similar characteristics. The Company applied PITF No. 20 and consolidated 15 regulations and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”), such collective investment vehicles in 2017 (11 in 2016). which are different in certain respects as to the application and disclosure requirements of International The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of an acquired subsidiary or affiliate at the Financial Reporting Standards. date of acquisition is amortized within 20 years on a straight-line basis. However, if the amount is In preparing these consolidated financial statements, certain reclassifications and rearrangements minor, it is fully amortized in the fiscal year in which it occurs. have been made to the consolidated financial statements issued domestically in order to present them in a All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. All form which is more familiar to readers outside Japan. In addition, certain reclassifications have been made material unrealized profit included in assets resulting from transactions within the Group is also eliminated. in the 2016 consolidated financial statements to conform to the classifications used in 2017. b. Unification of Accounting Policies Applied to Foreign Subsidiaries for the Consolidated The consolidated financial statements are stated in Japanese yen, the currency of the country in Financial Statements—Under ASBJ PITF No. 18, “Practical Solution on Unification of Accounting which Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. (the “Company”) is incorporated and operates. The translations of Policies Applied to Foreign Subsidiaries for the Consolidated Financial Statements,” the accounting Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts are included solely for the convenience of readers outside policies and procedures applied to a parent company and its subsidiaries for similar transactions and Japan and have been made at the rate of ¥112.19 to $1, the approximate rate of exchange at March 31, events under similar circumstances should in principle be unified for the preparation of the consolidated 2017. Such translations should not be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts could financial statements. However, financial statements prepared by foreign subsidiaries in accordance with be converted into U.S. dollars at that or any other rate. either International Financial Reporting Standards or generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification) 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies tentatively may be used for the consolidation process, except for the following items that should be a. Consolidation—The consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2017, include the accounts of adjusted in the consolidation process so that net income is accounted for in accordance with Japanese the Company and its 20 (18 in 2016) significant subsidiaries (together, the “Group”). GAAP, unless they are not material: (a) amortization of goodwill; (b) scheduled amortization of actuarial Under the control and influence concepts, those companies in which the Company, directly or gain or loss of pensions that has been recorded in equity through other comprehensive income; (c) indirectly, is able to exercise control over operations are fully consolidated, and those companies over expensing capitalized development costs of R&D; and (d) cancellation of the fair value model of which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for by the equity accounting for property, plant and equipment and investment properties and incorporation of the cost method. model of accounting. Investments in 28 (27 in 2016) unconsolidated subsidiaries and 28 (27 in 2016) associated c. Unification of Accounting Policies Applied to Foreign Associated Companies for the Equity companies are accounted for by the equity method. Method—ASBJ Statement No. 16, “Accounting Standard for Equity Method of Accounting for Practical Issues Task Force (PITF) No. 20, “Practical Solution on Application of Control Criteria and Investments,” requires adjustments to be made to conform the associate’s accounting policies for Influence Criteria to Investment Associations,” which was issued by the Accounting Standards Board of similar transactions and events under similar circumstances to those of the parent company when the Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 42 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report associate’s financial statements are used in applying the equity method unless it is impracticable to e. Cash Equivalents—Cash equivalents are short-term investments that are readily convertible into determine such adjustments. In addition, financial statements prepared by foreign associated cash and that are exposed to insignificant risk of changes in value. companies in accordance with either International Financial Reporting Standards or generally accepted Cash equivalents include time deposits and mutual funds investing in bonds, all of which mature or accounting principles in the United States of America tentatively may be used in applying the equity become due within three months of the date of acquisition. method if the following items are adjusted so that net income is accounted for in accordance with f. Inventories—Program rights (costs incurred in connection with the production of programming and the Japanese GAAP, unless they are not material: (a) amortization of goodwill; (b) scheduled amortization of purchase of rights to programs that are capitalized and amortized as the respective programs are actuarial gain or loss of pensions that has been recorded in equity through other comprehensive broadcast) and most of work in process are stated at the lower of cost, determined by the specific income; (c) expensing capitalized development costs of R&D; and (d) cancellation of the fair value identification method, or market. Finished merchandise, products, raw materials, and supplies are model of accounting for property, plant and equipment and investment properties and incorporation of mainly stated at the lower of cost, determined by the first-in, first-out method, or market. the cost model of accounting. g. Marketable and Investment Securities—Marketable and investment securities are classified as d. Business Combinations—Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. trading securities, held-to-maturity debt securities, or available-for-sale securities depending on Acquisition-related costs, such as advisory fees or professional fees, are accounted for as expenses in management’s intent. The Group only had held-to-maturity debt securities and available-for-sale the periods in which the costs are incurred. If the initial accounting for a business combination is securities as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the business combination occurs, an acquirer Held-to-maturity debt securities are reported at amortized cost. shall report in its financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is Marketable available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, incomplete. During the measurement period, which shall not exceed one year from the acquisition, the net of applicable taxes, reported in a separate component of equity. The cost of securities sold is acquirer shall retrospectively adjust the provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date to reflect determined based on the moving-average method. new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and that Nonmarketable available-for-sale securities are stated at cost determined by the moving-average would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. Such adjustments method. For other-than-temporary declines in fair value, nonmarketable available-for-sale securities are shall be recognized as if the accounting for the business combination had been completed at the reduced to net realizable value by a charge to income. acquisition date. The acquirer recognizes any bargain purchase gain in profit or loss immediately on the h. Property, Plant and Equipment—Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is acquisition date after reassessing and confirming that all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities computed by the declining-balance method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets, while the assumed have been identified after a review of the procedures used in the purchase price allocation. A straight-line method is applied to buildings acquired after April 1, 2000, and to building improvements parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary might change if the parent purchases or sells ownership and structures acquired on or after April 1, 2016 and to lease assets. The range of useful lives is from interests in its subsidiary. The carrying amount of noncontrolling interest is adjusted to reflect the 3 to 50 years for buildings and structures and from 2 to 20 years for machinery, vehicles and change in the parent’s ownership interest in its subsidiary while the parent retains its controlling equipment. The useful lives for lease assets are the terms of the respective leases. interest in its subsidiary. Any difference between the fair value of the consideration received or paid and Pursuant to an amendment to the Corporate Tax Act, the Company adopted ASBJ PITF No. 32, the amount by which the noncontrolling interest is adjusted is accounted for as capital surplus as long “Practical Solution on a Change in depreciation method Due to Tax Reform 2016” and changed the as the parent retains control over its subsidiary. depreciation method for building improvements and structures acquired on or after April 1, 2016, from Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 43 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report the declining-balance method to the straight-line method. This amendment did not have no material reasonable estimate can be made. If a reasonable estimate of the asset retirement obligation cannot impact to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2017. be made in the period the asset retirement obligation is incurred, the liability should be recognized i. Long-Lived Assets—The Group reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or when a reasonable estimate of the asset retirement obligation can be made. Upon initial recognition of changes in circumstance indicate the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be a liability for an asset retirement obligation, an asset retirement cost is capitalized by increasing the recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or asset group carrying amount of the related fixed asset by the amount of the liability. The asset retirement cost is exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the continued use and subsequently allocated to expense through depreciation over the remaining useful life of the asset. eventual disposition of the asset or asset group. The impairment loss would be measured as the Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period. Any subsequent revisions to the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher timing or the amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash flows are reflected as an of the discounted cash flows from the continued use and eventual disposition of the asset or the net adjustment to the carrying amount of the liability and the capitalized amount of the related asset selling price at disposition. retirement cost. j. Other Assets—Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization, which is m. Compensation Income—The consolidated subsidiaries have received the compensation for spectrum calculated by the straight-line method. Software for internal use is amortized over 5 years, its estimated reallocation. useful life. Trademarks are amortized over 16 years. Customer-related assets are amortized over 8 to n. Income Taxes—The provision for income taxes is computed based on the pretax income included in 16 years. the consolidated statement of income. The asset and liability approach is used to recognize deferred k. Retirement and Pension Plans—A consolidated subsidiary of the Company has a defined tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between contribution pension plan, an unfunded lump-sum retirement benefits plan, and a prepaid retirement the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes are measured by plan. The other subsidiaries have a defined contribution pension plan and an unfunded lump-sum applying currently enacted income tax rates to the temporary differences. retirement benefits plan. The Company applied ASBJ Guidance No. 26, “Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets,” The Company accounts for the liability for retirement benefits based on the projected benefit effective April 1, 2016. There was no impact from this for the year ended March 31, 2017. obligations and plan assets at the balance sheet date. The projected benefit obligations are attributed o. Foreign Currency Translations—All short-term and long-term monetary receivables and payables to periods on a benefit formula basis. Actuarial gains and losses and past service costs are recognized denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Japanese yen at the exchange rates at the in the period in which they occur. The discount rate is determined using a single weighted-average balance sheet date. The foreign exchange gains and losses from translation are recognized in the discount rate reflecting the estimated timing and amount of benefit payment. consolidated statement of income. l. Asset Retirement Obligations—An asset retirement obligation is recorded for a legal obligation p. Foreign Currency Financial Statements—With the exception of equity, which is translated at the imposed either by law or contract that results from the acquisition, construction, development, and historical rate, the balance sheet and revenue and expense accounts of the consolidated foreign normal operation of a tangible fixed asset and is associated with the retirement of such tangible fixed subsidiaries are translated into Japanese yen at the current exchange rates as of the balance sheet asset. The asset retirement obligation is recognized as the sum of the discounted cash flows required date. Differences arising from such translation are shown as “Foreign currency translation adjustments” for the future asset retirement and is recorded in the period in which the obligation is incurred if a under accumulated other comprehensive income in a separate component of equity. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 44 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report q. Per Share Information—Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income attributable 3. Marketable and Investment Securities to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the Marketable and investment securities as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, consisted of the following: period, retroactively adjusted for stock splits. Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Diluted net income per share is not disclosed because the effect of including potential common 2017 2016 2017 shares is anti-dilutive for the year ended March 31, 2017. Current—Government and corporate bonds ¥121,000 ¥ 26,000 $1,078,527 Diluted net income per share is not disclosed because the Group has no issued dilutive securities Noncurrent: Equity securities ¥143,081 ¥117,780 $1,275,345 for the year ended March 31, 2016. Government and corporate bonds 22,947 47,953 204,537 Cash dividends per share presented in the accompanying consolidated statement of income are Trust fund investments and others 5,586 2,128 49,791 dividends applicable to the respective fiscal years, including dividends to be paid after the end of the Total ¥171,614 ¥167,861 $1,529,673 year, retroactively adjusted for stock splits. The costs and aggregate fair values of marketable and investment securities as of March 31, 2017 r. Accounting Changes and Error Corrections—In December 2009, the ASBJ issued ASBJ Statement and 2016, were as follows: No. 24, “Accounting Standard for Accounting Changes and Error Corrections” and ASBJ Guidance No. Millions of Yen Unrealized Unrealized Fair 24, “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Accounting Changes and Error Corrections.” Accounting March 31, 2017 Cost Gains Losses Value treatments under this standard and guidance are as follows: (1) Changes in Accounting Policies— Securities classified as: Available for sale: When a new accounting policy is applied following revision of an accounting standard, the new policy is Equity securities ¥40,887 ¥91,600 ¥132,487 applied retrospectively unless the revised accounting standard includes specific transitional provisions, Government and corporate bonds 1,000 ¥68 932 in which case the entity shall comply with the specific transitional provisions. (2) Changes in Trust fund investment and others 4,000 4,000 Held to maturity 143,015 364 372 143,007 Presentation—When the presentation of financial statements is changed, prior-period financial statements are reclassified in accordance with the new presentation. (3) Changes in Accounting March 31, 2016 Securities classified as: Estimates—A change in an accounting estimate is accounted for in the period of the change if the Available for sale: change affects that period only, and is accounted for prospectively if the change affects both the period Equity securities ¥41,194 ¥65,835 ¥107,029 of the change and future periods. (4) Corrections of Prior-Period Errors—When an error in prior-period Government and corporate bonds 6,000 83 ¥ 130 5,953 Held to maturity 68,000 24 1,607 66,417 financial statements is discovered, those statements are restated. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 45 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Thousands of U.S. Dollars 4. Short-Term Investments Unrealized Unrealized Fair Short-term investments as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, consisted of the following: March 31, 2017 Cost Gains Losses Value Thousands of Securities classified as: Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Available for sale: 2017 2016 2017 Equity securities $ 364,444 $816,472 $1,180,916 Time deposits ¥15,364 ¥808 $136,946 Government and corporate bonds 8,913 $ 606 8,307 Trust fund investments and others 35,654 35,654 5. Inventories Held to maturity 1,274,757 3,245 3,316 1,274,686 Inventories as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, consisted of the following: The information for available-for-sale securities which were sold during the years ended March 31, Thousands of Millions of Yen 2017 and 2016, is as follows: U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen 2017 2016 2017 Realized Realized Program rights ¥ 6,589 ¥ 7,444 $58,730 March 31, 2017 Proceeds Gains Losses Finished products and merchandise 2,117 2,384 18,870 Available for sale—Equity securities ¥ 495 ¥207 Work in process 626 149 5,580 Other 5,000 Raw materials and supplies 1,066 1,067 9,502 Total ¥5,495 ¥207 Total ¥10,398 ¥11,044 $92,682 March 31, 2016 Available for sale—Equity securities ¥61 ¥43 6. Long-Lived Assets Total ¥61 ¥43 There was no material impairment loss recognized for the year ended March 31, 2017. The Group reviewed its long-lived assets for impairment as of March 31, 2016. As a result, the Thousands of U.S. Dollars Group recognized an impairment loss of ¥2,322 million as other expense related to an investment property Realized Realized March 31, 2017 Proceeds Gains Losses disposed of in Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo. The carrying amount was written down to the recoverable amount, which Available for sale—Equity securities $4,412 $1,845 was measured at its net selling price at disposition. Other 44,567 Total $48,979 $1,845 7. Collateralized Property The impairment losses on available-for-sale equity securities for the years ended March 31, 2017 At March 31, 2017, land of ¥101,031 million ($900,535 thousand) was pledged as collateral for guarantee and 2016, were ¥368 million ($3,280 thousand) and nil, respectively. deposits received of ¥19,000 million ($169,356 thousand). Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 46 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report 8. Investment Property 10. Retirement and Pension Benefit Plans The Group owns certain rental properties such as office buildings and land in Tokyo. The net of rental The consolidated subsidiaries have severance payment plans for employees. income and operating expenses for those rental properties for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, Retirement benefits for employees are determined on the basis of length of service, basic rate of was ¥318 million ($2,834 thousand) and ¥406 million, respectively. pay at the time of termination, and certain other factors. If the termination is involuntary, the employee is In addition, the carrying amounts, changes in such balances and market prices of such properties usually entitled to a larger payment than in the case of voluntary termination. are as follows: Millions of Yen (1) ‌The changes in defined benefit obligation for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, were Carrying Amount Fair Value as follows: April 1, 2016 Increase/Decrease March 31, 2017 March 31, 2017 Thousands of Millions of Yen ¥84,529 ¥78 ¥84,607 ¥91,406 U.S. Dollars 2017 2016 2017 Millions of Yen Balance at beginning of year ¥8,089 ¥7,589 $72,101 Carrying Amount Fair Value Current service cost 599 596 5,339 April 1, 2015 Increase/Decrease March 31, 2016 March 31, 2016 Interest cost 63 59 562 ¥87,133 ¥(2,604) ¥84,529 ¥87,911 Actuarial gains 136 30 1,212 Benefits paid (260) (185) (2,317) Thousands of U.S. Dollars Balance at end of year ¥8,627 ¥8,089 $76,897 Carrying Amount Fair Value April 1, 2016 Increase/Decrease March 31, 2017 March 31, 2017 (2) ‌The changes in liabilities for retirement benefits of unfunded retirement benefit plans for the years $753,445 $695 $754,140 $814,743 ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: Notes: 1. The carrying amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheet is net of accumulated depreciation, Thousands of if any. Millions of Yen 2. Increase during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, primarily represents the acquisition of certain U.S. Dollars properties of ¥815 million ($7,264 thousand). 2017 2016 2017 3. The fair value of major properties owned by the Group as of March 31, 2017, is measured by outside real estate appraisers in accordance with the Real Estate Appraisal Standard (including adjustments Balance at beginning of year ¥3,505 ¥3,447 $31,242 made by using indexes). The fair value of other properties is measured by the Group using indexes that Periodic benefit costs 319 279 2,842 are believed to approximate their market values appropriately. Benefits paid (210) (279) (1,872) Others 63 58 562 9. Short-Term Borrowings Balance at end of year ¥3,677 ¥3,505 $32,774 Short-term borrowings at March 31, 2017 and 2016, consisted of bank overdrafts and were collected from unconsolidated subsidiaries using a cash management system. The interest rate applicable to the shortterm borrowings was 0.24% and 0.30% at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 47 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report (3) ‌Reconciliation between the liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet and the balances 11. Equity of defined benefit obligation and plan assets for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was Japanese companies are subject to the Companies Act of Japan (“the Companies Act”). The significant as follows: provisions in the Companies Act that affect financial and accounting matters are summarized below: Thousands of a. Dividends Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 2017 2016 2017 Under the Companies Act, companies can pay dividends at any time during the fiscal year in addition to Unfunded defined benefit obligation ¥12,304 ¥11,594 $109,671 the year-end dividend upon resolution at the shareholders’ meeting. Additionally, for companies that Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation ¥12,304 ¥11,594 $109,671 meet certain criteria, such as having (1) a Board of Directors, (2) independent auditors, (3) an Audit & Supervisory Board, and (4) the term of service of the directors being prescribed as one year rather than (4) ‌The components of net periodic benefit costs for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, were as the normal two-year term under its articles of incorporation, the Board of Directors may declare follows: dividends (except for dividends-in-kind) at any time during the fiscal year if the company has prescribed Thousands of Millions of Yen so in its articles of incorporation. The Company meets all the above criteria and, accordingly, the Board U.S. Dollars 2017 2016 2017 of Directors may declare dividends (except for dividends-in-kind) at any time during the fiscal year. Service cost ¥ 599 ¥ 596 $5,339 The Companies Act permits companies to distribute dividends-in-kind (non-cash assets) to Interest cost 63 59 562 shareholders subject to a certain limitation and additional requirements. Recognized actuarial gains 136 29 1,212 Cost of the unfunded retirement benefit plans 319 279 2,842 Semiannual interim dividends may also be paid once a year upon resolution by the Board of Other* 265 Directors if the articles of incorporation of the Company so stipulate. The Companies Act provides Net periodic benefit costs ¥1,117 ¥1,228 $9,955 certain limitations on the amounts available for dividends or the purchase of treasury stock. The * Other is the extra retirement payments. limitation is defined as the amount available for distribution to the shareholders, but the amount of net (5) Assumptions used for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, were set forth as follows: assets after dividends must be maintained at no less than ¥3 million. 2017 2016 b. Increases/Decreases and Transfer of Common Stock, Reserve and Surplus Discount rate 0.6%–0.8% 0.6%–0.8% The Companies Act requires that an amount equal to 10% of dividends must be appropriated as a legal reserve (a component of retained earnings) or as additional paid-in capital (a component of capital (6) Defined contribution plan surplus) depending on the equity account charged upon the payment of such dividends until the The amount of contribution required for the defined contribution plan that the subsidiaries of the Company aggregate amount of legal reserve and additional paid-in capital equals 25% of the common stock. paid for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, was ¥915 million ($8,156 thousand) and ¥952 Under the Companies Act, the total amount of additional paid-in capital and legal reserve may be million, respectively. reversed without limitation. The Companies Act also provides that common stock, legal reserve, Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 48 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report additional paid-in capital, other capital surplus, and retained earnings can be transferred among the Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars accounts within equity under certain conditions upon resolution of the shareholders. 2017 2016 2017 c. Treasury Stock and Treasury Stock Acquisition Rights Current–Deferred tax assets: The Companies Act also provides for companies to purchase treasury stock and dispose of such Devaluation of program rights ¥ 2,956 ¥ 3,181 $ 26,348 Accrued enterprise taxes 903 984 8,049 treasury stock by resolution of the Board of Directors. The amount of treasury stock purchased cannot Accrued bonuses 882 741 7,862 exceed the amount available for distribution to the shareholders which is determined by a specific Other 614 698 5,472 Less valuation allowance (183) (169) (1,631) formula. Under the Companies Act, stock acquisition rights are presented as a separate component of Total ¥ 5,172 ¥ 5,435 $ 46,100 equity. The Companies Act also provides that companies can purchase both treasury stock acquisition Non-current: rights and treasury stock. Such treasury stock acquisition rights are presented as a separate Deferred tax assets: component of equity or deducted directly from stock acquisition rights. Tax loss carryforwards ¥ 2,292 ¥ 1,928 $ 20,430 Retirement benefits 3,772 3,552 33,622 Devaluation of property, plant and equipment 1,830 1,632 16,312 12. Income Taxes Lease obligations 2,093 2,330 18,656 Devaluation of investment securities 1,294 1,272 11,534 The Company and its domestic subsidiaries are subject to Japanese national and local income taxes which, Unrealized loss on available-for-sale securities 21 14 187 in the aggregate, resulted in normal effective statutory tax rates of approximately 30.9% and 33.1% for the Other 1,192 1,093 10,625 Less valuation allowance (5,573) (5,150) (49,676) years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total 6,921 6,671 61,690 The tax effects of significant temporary differences that resulted in deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax liabilities: as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Lease assets (1,598) (1,801) (14,244) Tax benefit from deferred gain on sales of property, plant and equipment (4,364) (4,371) (38,898) Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities (27,499) (19,737) (245,111) Intangible assets acquired in a business (3,009) (3,373) (26,820) combination Other (140) (112) (1,248) Total (36,610) (29,394) (326,321) Net deferred tax liabilities ¥(29,689) ¥(22,723) $(264,631) For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the difference between the statutory tax rate and effective tax rate is less than 5% of the statutory tax rate; therefore, a tax rate reconciliation is not disclosed. At March 31, 2017, certain subsidiaries have tax loss carryforwards aggregating approximately ¥7,436 million ($66,280 thousand), which are available to be offset against taxable income of such subsidiaries in future years. These tax loss carryforwards, if not utilized, will expire in 2027 and thereafter. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 49 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report 13. Leases Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars a. Finance Lease Transactions Investment in Direct Finance Leases 2017 2016 2017 The Group leases certain buildings and structures, machinery, vehicles, and equipment. Current assets ¥ 517 ¥ 272 $ 4,608 Total rental expenses including lease payments under finance leases for the years ended March 31, Investment and other assets 3,089 2,407 27,534 2017 and 2016, were ¥1,630 million ($14,529 thousand) and ¥1,612 million, respectively. Lease Obligation Obligations under finance leases as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: Current liabilities ¥ 556 ¥ 291 $ 4,956 Thousands of Millions of Yen Noncurrent liabilities 3,319 2,580 29,584 U.S. Dollars As Lessee 2017 2016 2017 Due within one year ¥ 1,439 ¥ 1,354 $ 12,826 Annual maturities of long-term debt, excluding finance leases, at March 31, 2017, were as follows: Due after one year 11,770 12,899 104,911 Thousands of Year Ending March 31 Millions of Yen Total ¥13,209 ¥14,253 $117,737 U.S. Dollars 2018 ¥ 1,996 $ 17,791 2019 1,875 16,713 b. Operating Lease Transactions 2020 1,740 15,509 The minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases as of March 31, 2017 and 2021 1,659 14,787 2016, were as follows: 2022 1,593 14,199 Thousands of 2023 and thereafter 8,222 73,287 Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Total ¥17,085 $152,286 As Lessee 2017 2016 2017 Due within one year ¥ 2,569 ¥ 2,430 $ 22,899 Due after one year 14,941 14,367 133,176 14. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures Total ¥17,510 ¥16,797 $156,075 (1) Group Policy for Financial Instruments The Group uses financial instruments, primarily its own funds, based on its capital financing plan. Cash As Lessor Due within one year ¥ 257 ¥ 256 $ 2,291 surpluses are invested in financial assets, mainly marketable securities, for the purpose of appropriate Due after one year 4,655 4,806 41,492 and safe fund management. Total ¥4,912 ¥5,062 $43,783 (2) Nature and Extent of Risks Arising from Financial Instruments Receivables, such as trade notes and trade accounts, are exposed to customer credit risk. Marketable c. Sublease Transactions and investment securities, mainly held-to-maturity securities and equity instruments of customers and The amounts recorded on the consolidated balance sheet related to sublease transactions, including suppliers of the Group, are exposed to the risk of market price fluctuations. the amount equivalent to interest, are as follows: The payment terms of most payables, such as trade notes and trade accounts, are less than one year. Such payables, lease obligations, and guarantee deposits received are exposed to liquidity risk. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 50 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report (3) Risk Management for Financial Instruments (a) Fair value of financial instruments Credit risk management Millions of Yen Carrying Fair Unrealized Credit risk is the risk of economic loss arising from a counterparty’s failure to repay or service debt March 31, 2017 Amount Value Gain/Loss according to the contractual terms. The Group manages its credit risk from receivables on the basis of Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 37,029 ¥ 37,029 internal policy and guidelines, which includes the monitoring of the payment terms and balances of Marketable securities 121,000 121,213 ¥ 213 Short-term investments 15,364 15,364 major customers by each business administration department to identify the default risk of customers Receivables 102,014 102,014 at an early stage. With respect to held-to-maturity financial investments, the Group manages exposure Investment securities 159,434 159,213 (221) to credit risk by limiting investments to high credit rated bonds in accordance with its internal Investments in associated companies 2,190 2,562 372 guidelines. Long-term loans 4,656 Allowance for doubtful accounts* (756) The maximum credit risk exposure of financial assets is limited to their carrying amounts as of 3,900 3,960 60 March 31, 2017. Total ¥440,931 ¥441,355 ¥424 Market risk management (interest rate risk) Short-term borrowings ¥7,172 ¥7,172 Market risk of marketable and investment securities is managed by monitoring market values and the Payables 79,564 79,564 Guarantee deposits received 20,226 17,111 ¥ 3,115 financial position of issuers on a regular basis. Lease obligations 17,085 18,295 (1,210) Liquidity risk management Total ¥124,047 ¥122,142 ¥ 1,905 Liquidity risk comprises the risk that the Group cannot meet its contractual obligations in full on their March 31, 2016 maturity dates. The Group manages its liquidity risk by holding adequate volumes of liquid assets, along Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 99,205 ¥ 99,205 with adequate financial planning by the corporate treasury department. Marketable securities 26,000 25,502 ¥ (498) (4) Concentration of Credit Risk Short-term investments 808 808 Receivables 100,186 100,186 As of March 31, 2017, 73.7% of total receivables are from two major advertising agencies of the Group. Investment securities 154,982 153,897 (1,085) (5) Fair Values of Financial Instruments Long-term loans 9,900 Fair values of financial instruments are based on quoted prices in active markets. If a quoted price is Allowance for doubtful accounts* (860) not available, another rational valuation technique is used instead. 9,040 9,088 48 Total ¥390,221 ¥388,686 ¥(1,535) Short-term borrowings ¥ 7,841 ¥ 7,841 Payables 60,901 60,901 Guarantee deposits received 20,058 16,512 ¥ 3,546 Lease obligations 17,124 18,614 (1,490) Total ¥105,924 ¥103,868 ¥ 2,056 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 51 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Thousands of U.S. Dollars using an interest rate that would be applied to a new loan made on similar terms, the amount of the Carrying Fair Unrealized loan on the balance sheet on the closing date less the current estimate for default is similar to its fair March 31, 2017 Amount Value Gain/Loss value; therefore, the book value is deemed to be its fair value. Note that the amount of long-term loans Cash and cash equivalents $ 330,056 $ 330,056 Marketable securities 1,078,527 1,080,426 $ 1,899 receivable due within one year is included. Short-term investments 136,946 136,946 Lease Obligations and Guarantee Deposits Received Receivables 909,298 909,298 The fair values of guarantee deposits received are determined by discounting the cash flows related to Investment securities 1,421,107 1,419,137 (1,970) the debt at the Group’s assumed corporate borrowing rate. Note that the amount of lease obligation Investments in associated companies 19,520 22,836 3,316 Long-term loans 41,501 due within one year is included. The amount of lease obligations is also included in lease obligations Allowance for doubtful accounts* (6,739) for sublease, and the fair value is approximately equal to the carrying value because this recorded 34,762 35,297 535 amount is equivalent to the remaining lease payments before deducting the portion of payments Total $3,930,216 $3,933,996 $ 3,780 equivalent to interest. Short-term borrowings $63,927 $63,927 Payables 709,191 709,191 Guarantee deposits received 180,283 152,518 $ 27,765 (b) Carrying amount of financial instruments whose fair value cannot be reliably determined Lease obligations 152,286 163,071 (10,785) Thousands of Millions of Yen Total $1,105,687 $1,088,707 $ 16,980 U.S. Dollars * Allowance for doubtful accounts associated with long-term loans receivable is deducted. 2017 2016 2017 Investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries Cash and Cash Equivalents, Short-Term Investments, Receivables, Payables, and Short-Term Borrowings and associated companies ¥52,798 ¥51,571 $470,612 The carrying values of these instruments approximate fair value because of their short maturities. Other investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in Marketable Securities, Investment Securities and Investments in Associated Companies an active market 12,180 12,879 108,566 The fair values of marketable and investment securities are measured at the quoted market price on the stock exchange for the equity instruments, and at the quoted price obtained from the financial institution for certain debt instruments. Fair value information for marketable and investment securities by classification is included in Note 3. Long-Term Loans Long-term loans receivable with variable interest rates, which reflect short-term market interest rates, are presented at book value unless the borrower’s creditworthiness changes significantly because the fair value of the loan approximates its book value. Regarding long-term loans receivable with fixed interest rates, because the fair value is calculated by discounting the sum of principal and interest Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 52 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report (6) Maturity Analysis for Financial Assets and Securities with Contractual Maturities instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts to hedge exchange rate risk associated with Millions of Yen certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Due after Due after Due in 1 Year 5 Years 1 Year through through Due after 16. Contingent Liabilities March 31, 2017 or Less 5 Years 10 Years 10 Years Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 37,029 The Group’s contingent liabilities as guarantor of indebtedness as of March 31, 2017, were as follows: Short-term investments 15,364 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Receivables 102,014 Employees ¥ 91 $ 811 Investment securities: Kobe ANPANMAN Museum and Mall Limited Liability Partnership 2,521 22,471 Held-to-maturity securities 117,000 ¥26,000 Total ¥2,612 $23,282 Available-for-sale securities with contractual maturities 4,000 ¥1,586 ¥1,000 Long-term loans 288 2,502 1,172 695 17. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Total ¥275,695 ¥28,502 ¥2,758 ¥1,695 The components of other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Dollars Thousands of Due after Due after Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Due in 1 Year 5 Years 2017 2016 2017 1 Year through through Due after March 31, 2017 or Less 5 Years 10 Years 10 Years Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 330,056 Gains (losses) arising during the year ¥25,589 ¥(8,074) $228,086 Short-term investments 136,946 Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss (123) (1,096) Receivables 909,297 Amount before income tax effect 25,466 (8,074) 226,990 Investment securities: Income tax effect (7,755) 3,635 (69,124) Held-to-maturity securities 1,042,874 $231,750 Total ¥17,711 ¥(4,439) $157,866 Available-for-sale securities with contractual maturities 35,654 $14,139 $ 8,913 Foreign currency translation adjustments— ¥ (44) ¥ 1 $ (392) Adjustments arising during the year Long-term loans 2,564 22,298 10,446 6,191 Total ¥ (44) ¥ 1 $ (392) Total $2,457,391 $254,048 $24,585 $15,104 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) Please see Note 13 for obligations under finance lease. in unconsolidated subsidiaries and associated companies: Gains (losses) arising during the year ¥ 42 ¥ (157) $ 374 15. Derivatives Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss (112) (100) (998) The Group does not use any derivative financial instruments. Total ¥ (70) ¥ (257) $ (624) One of the associated companies accounted for by the equity method enters into derivative financial Total other comprehensive income (loss) ¥17,597 ¥(4,695) $156,850 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 53 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report 18. Subsequent Event From the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group created the “Life and Health-Related Business” Appropriation of Retained Earnings segment due to the acquisition of TIPNESS Limited. The following appropriation of retained earnings as of March 31, 2017, was approved at the Company's Therefore, the Group’s reportable segments consist of the Media and Content Business, Life and shareholders’ meeting held on June 29, 2017: Health-Related Business and Real Estate Rental/Leasing. Thousands of The Media and Content Business segment consists of television broadcasting; program sales, which Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Year-end cash dividends, ¥24 ($0.21) per share ¥6,037 $53,811 generate royalty income from the commercialization and sale of package media, and from exhibiting movies; and events and other performances. 19. Segment Information The Life and Health-Related Business segment runs general fitness clubs. Under ASBJ Statement No. 17, “Accounting Standard for Segment Information Disclosures,” and ASBJ The Real Estate Rental/Leasing segment leases owned real estate and manages buildings. Guidance No. 20, “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Segment Information Disclosures,” an entity is Change in the segment name required to report financial and descriptive information about its reportable segments. Reportable segments The reportable segment, “Contents Business,” has been renamed as the “Media and Content Business.” are operating segments or aggregations of operating segments that meet specified criteria. Operating Segment information from the year ended March 31, 2016 has been described using the new segment segments are components of an entity about which separate financial information is available and such name. information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate (2) Methods of Measuring Amounts of Sales, Profit (Loss), and Depreciation for Each Reportable resources and in assessing performance. Generally, segment information is required to be reported on the Segment same basis as is used internally for evaluating operating segment performance and deciding how to The accounting policies of each reportable segment are consistent with those disclosed in Note 2, allocate resources to operating segments. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” (1) Description of Reportable Segments Reportable segment profits represent operating income. Intersegment sales and transfers are based The Group’s reportable segments are those for which separate financial information is available and on prevailing market prices. regular evaluation by the Company’s management is being performed in order to decide how resources are allocated among the Group. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 54 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report (3) Information about Sales, Profit (Loss), and Depreciation Millions of Yen 2017 Reportable Segment Media and Content Life and HealthReal Estate Business Related Business Rental/Leasing Total Other Total Reconciliations Consolidated Sales: Sales to external customers ¥374,194 ¥37,594 ¥2,638 ¥414,426 ¥2,279 ¥416,705 ¥416,705 Intersegment sales or transfers 307 10 7,073 7,390 2,304 9,694 ¥(9,694) Total ¥374,501 ¥37,604 ¥9,711 ¥421,816 ¥4,583 ¥426,399 ¥(9,694) ¥416,705 Segment profit ¥ 48,263 ¥ 1,308 ¥3,525 ¥ 53,096 ¥ 117 ¥ 53,213 ¥ (686) ¥ 52,527 Other—Depreciation 8,367 3,138 776 12,281 203 12,484 12,484 Millions of Yen 2016 Reportable Segment Media and Content Life and HealthReal Estate Business Related Business Rental/Leasing Total Other Total Reconciliations Consolidated Sales: Sales to external customers ¥373,554 ¥36,357 ¥2,849 ¥412,760 ¥2,021 ¥414,781 ¥414,781 Intersegment sales or transfers 416 4 7,040 7,460 1,185 8,645 ¥(8,645) Total ¥373,970 ¥36,361 ¥9,889 ¥420,220 ¥3,206 ¥423,426 ¥(8,645) ¥414,781 Segment profit (loss) ¥ 48,798 ¥ 1,197 ¥3,723 ¥ 53,718 ¥ (25) ¥ 53,693 ¥ (515) ¥ 53,178 Other—Depreciation 7,822 2,974 814 11,610 31 11,641 11,641 Thousands of U.S. Dollars 2017 Reportable Segment Media and Content Life and HealthReal Estate Business Related Business Rental/Leasing Total Other Total Reconciliations Consolidated Sales: Sales to external customers $3,335,360 $335,092 $23,514 $3,693,966 $20,313 $3,714,279 $3,714,279 Intersegment sales or transfers 2,736 89 63,045 65,870 20,537 86,407 $(86,407) Total $3,338,096 $335,181 $86,559 $3,759,836 $40,850 $3,800,686 $(86,407) $3,714,279 Segment profit $ 430,190 $ 11,659 $31,420 $ 473,269 $ 1,042 $ 474,311 $ (6,114) $ 468,197 Other—Depreciation 74,579 27,970 6,917 109,466 1,810 111,276 111,276 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 55 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Related Information Millions of Yen (1) Information about Products and Services 2016 Millions of Yen Life and Media and HealthReal Estate 2017 Content Related Rental/ Life and Sales to External Customers Business Business Leasing Total Media and HealthReal Estate Television broadcasting: Content Related Rental/ Sales to External Customers Business Business Leasing Total Time advertising ¥118,353 ¥118,353 Television broadcasting: Spot advertising 129,477 129,477 Time advertising ¥122,034 ¥122,034 Total 247,830 247,830 Spot advertising 133,152 133,152 Advertising sales from BS and CS platform 14,540 14,540 Total 255,186 255,186 Other advertising revenue 610 610 Advertising sales from BS and CS platform 14,498 14,498 Content sales revenue 52,087 52,087 Other advertising revenue 1,188 1,188 Revenue from merchandise sales 34,004 ¥ 1,274 35,278 Content sales revenue 55,637 55,637 Box office revenue 13,238 13,238 Revenue from merchandise sales 25,517 ¥ 859 26,376 Facilities usage fee revenue 30,445 30,445 Box office revenue 11,160 11,160 Real estate leasing ¥1,741 1,741 Facilities usage fee revenue 31,636 31,636 Other 11,245 4,638 1,108 16,991 Real estate leasing ¥1,507 1,507 Total ¥373,554 ¥36,357 ¥2,849 ¥412,760 Other 11,008 5,099 1,131 17,238 Total ¥374,194 ¥37,594 ¥2,638 ¥414,426 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 56 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Thousands of U.S. Dollars (3) Information about Major Customers 2017 No customer represented more than 10% of the consolidated sales for the year. Accordingly, information Life and about major customers is not disclosed. Media and HealthReal Estate Content Related Rental/ (4) Impairment Losses Sales to External Customers Business Business Leasing Total Millions of Yen Television broadcasting: 2017 Time advertising $1,087,744 $1,087,744 Life and Spot advertising 1,186,844 1,186,844 Media and HealthReal Estate Total 2,274,588 2,274,588 Content Related Rental/ ReconciliaBusiness Business Leasing tions Total Advertising sales from BS and CS platform 129,227 129,227 Impairment losses of assets ¥152 ¥152 Other advertising revenue 10,589 10,589 Content sales revenue 495,918 495,918 Millions of Yen Revenue from merchandise sales 227,445 $ 7,656 235,101 2016 Box office revenue 99,474 99,474 Life and Facilities usage fee revenue 281,986 281,986 Media and HealthReal Estate Real estate leasing $13,433 13,433 Content Related Rental/ ReconciliaBusiness Business Leasing tions Total Other 98,119 45,450 10,081 153,650 Impairment losses of assets ¥2,322 ¥2,322 Total $3,335,360 $335,092 $23,514 $3,693,966 Thousands of U.S. Dollars (2) Information about Geographical Areas 2017 a. Sales Life and Media and HealthReal Estate Sales of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, Content Related Rental/ Reconciliarepresented more than 90% of the consolidated sales for the year. Accordingly, information about Business Business Leasing tions Total Impairment losses of assets $1,355 $1,355 geographical areas is not disclosed. b. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, represented more than 90% of the property, plant and equipment in the consolidated balance sheet for the year. Accordingly, information about geographical areas is not disclosed. Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 57 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report (5) Goodwill (6) Information about Bargain Purchases by Reportable Segments Millions of Yen In the Media and Content Business segment, ¥366 million ($3,262 thousand) of gain from bargain 2017 purchases for the year ended March 31, 2017 was recorded by acquiring all of the new shares by the Life and Media and HealthReal Estate third-party allotment of ACM Co., Ltd. Content Related Rental/ ReconciliaBusiness Business Leasing tions Total There was no gain from bargain purchases for the year ended March 31, 2016. Amortization of goodwill ¥ 792 ¥ 792 Goodwill at March 31, 2017 10,885 10,885 Millions of Yen 2016 Life and Media and HealthReal Estate Content Related Rental/ ReconciliaBusiness Business Leasing tions Total Amortization of goodwill ¥ 792 ¥ 792 Goodwill at March 31, 2016 11,676 11,676 Thousands of U.S. Dollars 2017 Life and Media and HealthReal Estate Content Related Rental/ ReconciliaBusiness Business Leasing tions Total Amortization of goodwill $ 7,059 $ 7,059 Goodwill at March 31, 2017 97,023 97,023 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 58 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Eleven-Year Summary Financial Highlights Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the Board of Directors of Nippon Television Holdings, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Nippon Television Holdings, that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017, and the related consolidated on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for the year then appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, all made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated expressed in Japanese yen. financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements a basis for our audit opinion. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, and Opinion for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud material respects, the consolidated financial position of Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. and its or error. consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally Auditor’s Responsibility accepted in Japan. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan. Convenience Translation Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about Our audit also comprehended the translation of Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. and, in our opinion, such translation has been made in accordance with the basis stated in Note An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Such U.S. dollar amounts are presented solely for the and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on convenience of readers outside Japan. the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures June 29, 2017 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 59 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Investor Information (As of March 31, 2017) Corporate Name Major Shareholders Distribution of Shares Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. Number of Percentage of total Office Location Shareholders (Top 10) shares held shares issued (%) 1-6-1 Higashi Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7444, Japan Tel: +81-3-6215-4111 The Yomiuri Shimbun Holdings 37,649,480 14.27 Individuals and others Financial institutions 10.81% 18.42% YOMIURI TELECASTING CORPORATION 16,563,160 6.27 Date of Establishment The Yomiuri Shimbun 15,939,700 6.04 October 28, 1952 Securities Effective October 1, 2012, Nippon Television Network Corporation Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Foreign entities firms 10,327,700 3.91 changed its trade name to Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. upon (Trust Account) 19.46% 0.86% transitioning to a certified broadcasting holding company structure. Teikyo University 9,553,920 3.62 NTT DoCoMo, Inc. 7,779,000 2.94 Capital The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 18.6 billion yen 7,657,500 2.90 (Trust Account) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. 6,454,600 2.44 Common Stock Authorized 1,000,000,000 shares CBNY-ORBIS SICAV 6,307,223 2.39 Other domestic firms Issued 263,822,080 shares Yomiuri Land Co., Ltd. 5,236,000 1.98 50.45% Note: The “Percentage of a Total Shares” above is calculated deducting the Company’s treasury stock Number of Shareholders (5,991,348 shares). 27,598 Stock Exchange Listing Network First Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange (Code 9404) The Sapporo Television Broadcasting Co., Ltd. (STV)* Hiroshima Telecasting Co., Ltd. (HTV) Overseas Consolidated NNN Overseas News Fiscal Year-End RAB Aomori Broadcasting Corporation (RAB) Yamaguchi Broadcasting Co., Ltd. (KRY) Subsidiaries Bureaus March 31, annually TV IWATE CORPORATION (TVI) JRT Shikoku Broadcasting Co., Ltd. (JRT) NTV International Corporation London MIYAGI TELEVISION BROADCASTING CO., LTD. (MMT) NISHINIPPON BROADCASTING CO., LTD. (New York) Paris Number of Employees Akita Broadcasting System (ABS) (RNC) ‌ Nippon Television Network Moscow 183 Yamagata Broadcasting Co., Ltd. (YBC) Nankai Broadcasting CO., LTD. (RNB) Europe B.V. (Amsterdam) Cairo Fukushima Central Television CO., LTD. (FCT) Kochi Broadcasting Co., Ltd. (RKC) Beijing NTV ‌ Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Transfer Agent and Registrar TELEVISION NIIGATA NETWORK (TeNY) Fukuoka Broadcasting Corporation (FBS)* (Singapore) Shanghai Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited TV.Shinshu Broadcasting Co., LTD. (TSB) NAGASAKI INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION Seoul Yamanashi Broadcasting System (YBS) BROADCASTING, INC. (NIB) Bangkok 4-1, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Shizuoka Daiichi Television Corporation (SDT) KKT Corporation (KKT) * New York Japan KITANIHON Broadcasting CO., LTD. (KNB) Television Oita System Co., Ltd. (TOS) Washington, D.C. TELEVISION KANAZAWA Corporation (KTK) Miyazaki Telecasting Co., ltd. (UMK) Los Angeles FUKUI BROADCASTING CORPORATION (FBC) Kagoshima Yomiuri Television Corporation CHUKYO TV BROADCASTING CO., LTD. (CTV)* (KYT) YOMIURI TELECASTING CORPORATION (YTV)* * A ffiliates accounted for under the equity NIHONKAI TELECASTING CO., LTD. (NKT) method Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 60 62 Keywords of Management Policy/ Message from Business Domain/ Overview of Corporate Governance/ CSR at Investor Information/ OUR HISTORY Financial Section Our Strength Group Companies Management Snapshot Business Segments Board of Directors and Auditors Nippon TV Holdings Website Website Please visit our website for details. About Nippon Television Holdings IR Information CSR Japanese Japanese Japanese http://www.ntvhd.co.jp http://www.ntvhd.co.jp/ir http://www.ntv.co.jp/ntvcsr English English http://www.ntvhd.co.jp/english http://www.ntvhd.co.jp/english/ir Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 61 62 Nippon Television Holdings, Inc. | Annual Report 2017 62 62
