Global Compact: Communication On Progress, 2017 Page |1 Page |2 Commitment to Global Compact: Communication on progress at Oil India Limited, 2017 Oil India Limited is a Navaratna Company under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of India. It is engaged in the business of Exploration, Production and Transportation of crude oil and natural gas and production of LPG. OIL is the second largest national upstream oil and gas Company in India as measured by total proved plus probable reserves and production. With a glorious legacy of hydrocarbon exploration spanning over five decades and with the Core Purpose of becoming “The fastest growing Energy Company with Global presence providing value to stakeholders” OIL has carved a niche as a premier national oil Company in the upstream sector with a share of over 8.8% of the country’s total crude oil and natural gas production. The Authorized share capital of the Company is Rs. 2000 Crores. The Issued, Subscribed and Paid share capital of the Company is Rs. 801.51 Crores. At present, the Government of India, the Promoter of the Company is holding 66.89% of the total Issued & Paid-up Capital of the Company. The balance 33.11% of the Equity capital is held by Public and others including Corporate Bodies, Mutual Funds, Banks, FIIs, Resident Individuals etc. Oil India Limited (OIL) is committed to the principles of Global Compact. The policies followed by OIL support and respect these principles which also form a part of the Company’s vision statement, thereby integrating them into its short term and long term goals and objectives to: Ø Inculcate high standards of business ethics Ø Involve participation and support innovation for employee growth and satisfaction Ø Care for the community, ecology and environment. Page |3 During the year 2015-16, OIL carried out its policies confirming commitment to the following ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption: 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights OIL has always subscribed to the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. It ensures that its employees and communities living in and around its operational areas are not adversely affected by its operations and that there is no danger to life or damage to the environment in any way. It deploys technology which is safe, efficient and employee friendly. Its work and maintenance programmes ensure safety and security of its employees and people living in and around its operational areas. The Company organizes safety training courses and health check-ups round the year to ensure a fit and healthy staff. Officials from State & Central Pollution Control Board, MOEF(Ministry of Environment & Forest), DGMS(Director General Mines Safety) authorities, OISD(Oil Industry Safety Directorate) External Safety Audit team members (under MOP&NG) inspect OIL’s installations from time to time. Institution / No. of No. of Audits/ No. of Audits/ Govt. Agency Audits/Inspections Inspections during Inspections during during 2014 2015 2016 State Pollution Over 8 8 Inspections 3 Inspections Control Board Inspections Over 3 Inspections 1 Inspection 2 Inspections MOEF DG MS 13 Inspections 97 Inspections 71 9 Audits NIL 5 Audits OISD 2. Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses We at OIL believe that employees are not to be subjected to forced or compulsory labour which is also a fundamental provision of the principle of human rights. The same is also in accordance with UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is subject to ILO Core Conventions 29 & 105. We prohibit the deployment of forced labour across our entire operations. For the current reporting period we did not have a single operation or any significant suppliers exposed to the risk of forced or compulsory labour. 3. Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective Bargaining Collective bargaining is the protection of the right of workers to organize collectively in organizations of their own choice. We uphold and support the freedom of association of our employees by recognizing and encouraging the right to collective bargaining. The employees’ union engages with Page |4 the management through structured as well as informal mechanisms. We also keep a close eye on the operations in which the freedom of association might be at risk. For the last three years we have not been able to identify a single such instance and it speaks volumes about the efficiency of our control system. We have organized discussion sessions with the officers’ association for understanding their basic needs and developing plan of action for acting on those requirements. We ensure all around participation in the events of workers union. 4. Organization supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour OIL believes in voluntary labour and right to work. As per directives of the Government of India, the Company ensures payment of minimum wages to labour. The Company also abides by the strict statutory guidelines laid down by the Mines Safety Directorate, the Industrial Act and other statutory regulations of the Government of India. We prohibit the deployment of forced labour across our entire operations. For the current reporting period we did not have a single operation or any significant suppliers exposed to the risk of forced or compulsory labour. 5. The organization supports effective abolition of child labour OIL ensures that every single one of its installations is routinely monitored to ensure that no child labour is employed at any of them. We strongly condemn the use of child labour and the nature of our operations that require years of training and experience to carry out are a natural barrier to prevent child labour. We also perform a rigorous process of due diligence before employing suppliers to ensure that there is no incidence of child labour in their operations among other ills. 6. Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment The Company is an equal opportunity employer. There is no discrimination for employment or career progression on the basis of caste, gender, colour or religion. Government guidelines are strictly followed for employment of scheduled castes/scheduled tribes and physically challenged persons. 7. The organization adopts a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges OIL is well aware of the myriad impacts that its operations have on the Environment. Our business operations by their very nature are prone to negative environmental impacts. We take this fact very seriously and have therefore made a commitment to ourselves and our stakeholders to ensure that we mitigate our environmental impacts to the greatest extent possible. OIL follows the precautionary approach to manage its environmental challenges. We also put a lot of emphasis on control of environmental pollution and conservation of energy and have always adopted a proactive approach to the conservation of the environment. This endeavour of the Company is reflected in the vision of the Company which clearly mentions OIL’s commitment to Safety, Health & Environment. Following are the existing environmental standards/rules acts enforceable under mandatory regulations and strictly followed by the organization: ü Tolerance Limits prescribed by State Pollution Control Board, Assam and Central Pollution Control Board for effluent discharge. ü Environmental Protection Act, 1986 & Rules. Page |5 ü Water A ct & Rules. ü Air Act & Ru l es. ü The Batteries (Management & Handling) Rules, 2001. ü The Municipal Solid Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2000. ü The Bio-Medical Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 1998. ü Noise Pollution (Regulation or control) Rules. ü Public Liability Insurance Act & Rules, 1991. ü The Ozone Depleting substances (Regulation & control) Rules, 2000. ü Hazardous Waste (management, handling, & trans boundary movement) rules, 2008 8. The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility OIL has adopted key environmental management practices, pollution control measures and environmental management systems as crucial mitigation measures. Several Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies have been carried out for all its upcoming projects. The social issues and societal impacts are assessed & measured and mitigation measures are implemented as per the recommendations of the EIA studies. Some of the key Environment Mitigation Measures Adopted in OIL are detailed below: Ø As a measure of safeguarding the environment a policy decision has been taken for mandatory use of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody Certified Paper and Print Products in all sphere of OIL, w.e.f. 12.09.2012 and same is followed. Ø For judicious use of paper, OIL has adopted a policy wef 18.12.2014 on “Economic Use of Paper in Offices” in all spheres of OIL, as the trees are considered the major source of paper pulp production and injudicious use of paper would create bad impacts on the environment. The basic guidelines of the policy are – To use both side of the paper, Single spacing typings, Policy or other circulars through website instead of paper circulation, switching over to eform system than manual submission of returns etc and recasting of proforma etc in a Simplified & shortened format. Ø Rain Water Harvesting has been made mandatory for all upcoming projects. Ø OIL has carried out a full-fledged study on effect of gas flare on surrounding paddy crop and initiated mitigation measures accordingly. Ø Green belts are developed and maintained around major installations. Annually 7,000-8,000 trees are planted in different operational areas, survival rate of which is about 80-90%. OIL’s endeavor to harness Non-conventional Energy sources: Ø We, at OIL have installed 13.6 MW & 54 MW Wind Power plants in Jaisalmer district, Rajasthan, which are supplying power to Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd (RRVUNL). Ø The other major Wind Energy project of OIL is of 54 MW, which is a split project between the states of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh (16 MW Wind Farm at Patan in Gujarat and 38 MW Wind Farm at Chandgarh in Madhya Pradesh). Page |6 Ø We also installed mega Solar Power Plants of capacity 9 MW and 5 MW in Ramgarh, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan. Ø The total installed capacity of OIL’s Wind Energy and Solar Energy projects stands at 135.6 MW. OIL generated revenue of Rs. 105.50 Crore in FY 2015-16 from Renewable Sources. Other initiatives: ü OIL has Installed Solar Power Plants of various ratings – 100 KW at Joypur OCS 100 KW at Tanot Village Complex, Jaisalmer, 30 KW at Corporate Office, 20 KW at Jagi Road Repeater Stations in PipelineWe have plans to install more such solar plants at various locations including Gujrat & Madhya Pradesh. ü Replacement of conventional Generator Sets with a 30 KVA Solar Generator Set in FHQ for night illumination purpose at Work-over locations has been carried out and is proposed for more locations ü OIL has carried out installation of Solar Lighting Systems, Solar Lanterns & Solar Photo-Voltaic cells atTanot-GGS , Baghewala (Rajasthan), Security Camp at Well279. It is also used for MART Communication system at Fields Head Quarters of OIL, and in OIL’s pipeline systems. Its use is proposed for more similar locations. In addition to having a sound Environment Policy, the Company also has a robust Sustainable Development Policy. The Sustainable Development Policy of OIL outlines its commitment towards reducing its carbon footprint. The Company calculates the carbon footprint and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission level of various operational units. To reduce GHG emissions, a Low Carbon Strategy is evolved as part of which OIL has identified opportunities for reducing GHG emissions through technology, process improvement levers and a strategic implementation plan. This strategy is then extended in initiating projects such as the proposed 5.0 MW Kumchai Power Plant (KPP), which was inaugurated in November, 2013. The proposed site of power plant is in the Changlang District of Arunachal Pradesh and is about 450 Kms from Itanagar. The power plant is to be fed with the associated gas production (presently approximately of 30,000 SCMD) for running this KPP. It is proposed that the existing 11 KV line would be converted to 33 KV line for evacuation of power. The project will lead to a reduction in GHG emissions because of a reduction in the flaring of gas. It will also lead to the utilisation of high calorific value gas, which is presently flared as a substitute for higher carbon intensive fuels. Finally it is set to have the beneficial impact towards conservation of depleting non-renewable natural resources and thus the promotion of sustainable Page |7 economic growth via the implementation of an environment friendly technology. Presently the Project is under Environmental Clearance State . OIL aims at reduction of Gas Flaring through initiatives such as the one mentioned above The Company has also planned a project on mass tree plantation in degraded forest landscapes in and around its operational areas, which is set to provide a solution to combat Climate Change through sequestration of GHGs through the plantation of trees with high carbon absorption potential. As such, OIL carries out compensatory & obligatory tree plantation in its operational areas. The Company has taken many other proactive measures on the front of environmental management and Sustainable Development, including initiation of projects on conservation of endangered biodiversity in and around its operational areas in India. The company has adopted Rhino calves after the devastating floods during the last monsoon in the Kaziranga Tiger Reserve and is providing support for their rearing and reintroduction in the wild in the next 3 years. The company has also in the past provided financial support for procurement of Solar lanterns for the forest guard posts in the Kaziranga Tiger Reserve. Secondly, the Company has also provided support for wetland conservation through eco-tourism in its operational areas in Assam, by aiding the Sasoni Merbeel Eco-tourism project. The company has provided for a Solar Power Plant, Pedal Boats, Eco-friendly vehicles, bio-digester plant, etc. for Page |8 making this eco-friendly tourism project a success in this remote part of the country. Shri Utpal Bora CMD, OIL inaugurating ecoA view of the wetland, Sasoni friendly green vehicles at Sasoni Merbeel Merbeel, in Dibrugarh district, Eco-Tourism Project in Assam on 14th Assam December, 2016 9. Organization should encourage development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies In the above context, the following Environment Mitigation Measures have been adopted in OIL: Ø Pilot project of using Bio Diesel fuel in Diesel Engines, is an initiative of OIL towards implementation of Bio-fuel policy of Govt. of India. Ø OIL in collaboration with TERI has taken up bioremediation project for treating the hazardous waste. In the year 2013-14, 9,028 m3 of oily sludge was bio remediated. The said project is taken up for different applicable cases. Ø In collaboration with Institute of Advanced studies in Science & Technology, Guwahati OIL had taken up a Pilot Project on Phytoremediation, where selected species of plants were planted in oil contaminated plot of land size (30m X 20m) near Jorajan OCS. These plants degraded the hydrocarbon and heavy metal content of the contaminated area was restored to its normalcy – considering the success, OIL is planning to take out more such projects in other areas. Ø OIL has undertaken various environmental projects such as bioremediation, GHG emission & carbon footprint mapping, E-Waste management, Integarted Waste Mangement etc in all spheres of OIL . Ø Proper enclosures around the flare pits are provided, which helps in combating the effect of heat & light on the crops/environment Ø Flare pits are properly designed with multi burner facilities with arrangement of abundant supply of air for proper combustion Ø 95% of the Produced Formation Water is Recycled to Subsurface for the purpose of maintaining formation pressure Ø Water oil clarification plants are installed wherever necessary to restrict the oil content less than 10 ppm Page |9 Ø Solid waste and biomedical waste are disposed as per Municipal Solid Waste Rules & Biomedical Waste Rules . Ø OIL has disposed of 38 tonnes of E waste through Certified Recyclers from different spheres of its activities. Ø Hazardous wastes are treated as per “The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling and Trans boundary Movement) Rules, 2008, and sent to TSDF facilities (Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facilities), for which OIL has taken Membership Ø Oily sludge is recycled through registered recyclers. Ø OIL has installed a sludge treatment and recovery plant. Ø Lining of drill site waste pits with High Density Poly Ethylene Sheets(HDPE) is carried out Ø All Oil Collecting Stations, Gas Collecting Stations and LPG plant are connected with Flare Systems and Closed Blow Down Vessels & safety release flare systems for arresting hydrocarbon emissions Ø Floating Roof Tanks are used for Crude Oil Storage Tanks of the Pipeline Department, in order to minimize emission of hydrocarbons Ø Noise attenuators/barriers are provided at the source Ø Acoustic enclosures are provided around gen sets to reduce noise pollution. Ø Personnel Protective Equipments (PPE) like ear muff/plugs are provided to personnel working in noise prone areas. Ø Environmental protection measures are safe guarded by monitoring the Environmental parameters with the process of their continual improvement Ø Oil India Limited has established a state-of-the-art research facility in its Fields Headquarters in Duliajan, for application of Biotechnology in E&P thrust areas. The Centre, by the name of, “Jaivalaya”, was inaugurated and inducted into the service of the Company on 26th September, 2014. In addition, a number of OIL’s facilities are certified by ISO and other certifier agencies. The detailed list is given below. OIL Installations Certified with [ISO-9001:2008, ISO-14001:2004, OHSAS-18001:2007 & ISO/IEC 17025 :2005]: The following installations/ departments of the Company are ISO/OHSAS/IEC certified ü Pipeline Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü LPG Plant: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Fire Service Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Power House: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Water Treatment Plant: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Transport Maintenance Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Medical Deptt. : (ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Well Logging Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008) P a g e | 10 ü Central Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008) ü Chemical Deptt.: (ISO 9001:2008) ü ER Deptt.: (ISO 9001:2008) ü L&D Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008) ü Kolkota Office: (ISO 9001:2008) ü R&D Centre of OIL: ISO/IEC 17025 :2005 (NABL Accreditation) OHSAS-18001: Occupational Health & Safety Management System ISO-9001: Quality Management System ISO: 14001: Environment Management System ISO/IEC 17025: Competency of Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL: National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) 10. Organization should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Oil India Limited is a signatory to Integrity pact with Transparency international for following strict & transparent policies. OIL endeavors to work against corruption in all its forms through well-defined Whistle Blower Policy. The policy provides all the employees with free access to the Management in case they observe unethical and improper practices or any other wrongful conduct in the Company and to prohibit managerial personnel from taking any adverse personal action against those employees. Oil India Limited has also adopted a Conduct Discipline & Appeal Rules and any unethical behaviour is construed as misconduct. An employee violating these codes is subjected to investigation and appropriate action. Vigilance cell of the Company looks into any such misdoings for investigations. Care for the Community: OIL as a Responsible Corporate Citizen The CSR vision statement is embedded as one of the core vision statements of the Company which mandates OIL to operate in a legal, ethical and economic environment, committed towards the society, to contribute to sustainable socio-economic development in its areas of operations for the community, employees and their families, shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders in ways that enhance the value for both the business and society. Every single one of our spheres of operations carries out some form of CSR. The Vision statement reads as under: OIL’S CSR Vision Statement “OIL is a Responsible Corporate Citizen deeply committed to socioeconomic development in its areas of operations.” The core philosophy on corporate social responsibility in Oil India Limited (OIL) is the firm conviction that islands of prosperity cannot survive in a sea of poverty. This is a typical scenario in the oil and gas Exploration and Production industry in developing countries, where companies operate in P a g e | 11 populated remote rural locations. As mandated by guidelines of Department of Public Enterprise on CSR for CPSEs as well as the provisions under the new Company’s Act 2013, OIL’s CSR projects and initiatives are carried out in different thrust areas such as Health, Education, Sustainable Livelihood generation, Rural development, Skill development, Augmentation of Rural infrastructure etc. in its operational areas in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh. Key CSR projects of Oil India Limited: HEALTH Project SparshaThe Mobile Dispensary Services It has always been one of the most significant community welfare projects of the Company. Started way back in the early eighties, the mobile health care project “Sparsha” covers OIL operational areas of Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. This effort of OIL caters to the primary health care needs of the people in OIL operational areas. The project is conducted through St. Luke’s Hospital in addition to OIL’s in-house Mobile Health Care team. In 2015-16, 1600 health camps were conducted, screening and primary healthcare services were extended to around 2,50,000 patients. Mobile Dispensary services under Project Sparsha, being provided to local people of OIL operational areas of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh Project Arogya: Reduction of Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) & Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) Project ‘Arogya’, is an initiative with an umbrella focus on reduction of IMR and MMR in and around OIL’s operational areas in the states of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh in the North East. The Program aims at caring for the new born, as well as addressing maternal and adolescent health issues at various stages of life. Since the beginning, the program has been spreading awareness on prenatal and postnatal healthcare, sanitation, hygiene and cleanliness, which has led to reduced maternal and child mortality and better health for women and children across the targeted villages of OIL’s operational areas, in the last few years. During 2015-16, 510 nos. of pregnant women were tracked and counseled. Around 2270 nos. of women were sensitized on maternal and child health. 997 nos. of people were sensitized on various issues like hygiene and sanitation. 2 Girls’ Schools with around 900 students from classes VIII to XII, were adopted under the project. P a g e | 12 In all, the project has touched the lives of more than 15,000 individuals in one form or the other since inception. Glimpses of Project Arogya on reduction of IMR/MMR in OIL’s operational areas SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD GENERATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT Project Rupantar : OIL with the partnership of the State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), Assam, started Project Rupantar in 2003, which is a sustainable livelihood generation project based on the self-help group (SHGs) and joint liability group (JLG) model in the agro based sector. It has a central focus to assist SHGs for development of agro based industries like bamboo cultivation, floriculture, fishery, sericulture, organic farming, etc. and other allied activities like duck farming, pig rearing, goat farming, dairy farming, handloom, small business, etc. along with a Computer Centre thereby help the unemployed youths to find alternate employment providing a scope for entrepreneurship (55,000 students trained till date since 2004). Keeping in perspective the visible success of the project and the requests from the local residents of OIL operational areas for enlarging the project, OIL had supported another 500 SHGs/JLGs under CSR in the financial year 2015-16. Left: Women participants at the training session for SHGs under the project Right: Students taking classes at the Computer Centre under the project P a g e | 13 Handicraft Training & Production Centre (HTPC): OIL’s Handicraft Training and Production Centre, located at Duliajan, Assam has been imparting nine-month stipendiary training in Weaving, Cutting & Tailoring, Embroidery & Knitting to young girls from OIL operational areas. The students are selected through written test and viva-voce. During 2014-15, a total of 42 Nos. of rural women were imparted such training. In the current year a total of 42 nos. of women are undergoing similar training in the training centre. Post training assistance are also provided to the trainees. Since 1984, more than 900 women have been trained. Trainees at the HTPC centre, practising the art of weaving General Nursing Midwifery (GNM) training: The nursing school in OIL Hospital Duliajan conducts 3 years General Nursing Midwifery (GNM) training course, which is recognized by the Directorate of Medical Education, Government of Assam. Stipend is paid to the students in addition to limited hostel accommodation, uniform and protective clothing. Started in 1991, the school has provided training to more than 300 candidates, who have also been employed in different health institutions across the state. RURAL DEVELOPMENT Agriculture Project under Oil India Rural Development Society: The primary objective of Agriculture Project is to introduce modern methods of cultivation to generate large scale production and thus provide an opportunity to the unemployed youth to adopt agriculture as a means of earning livelihood and thereby attain economic empowerment. While doing so, maximum emphasis is given in extending in-field training by experts from Agriculture Department, Government of Assam & Assam Agriculture University for proper and adequate use of technology. To boost the encouragement of the farmers, the Oil India Rural Development Society (OIRDS) introduces high yielding paddy seeds specially collected from Regional Agriculture Research Centre, Titabor and organic manure to revitalize the paddy fields. Till date, OIRDS has adopted more than 115 villages, covering more than 15,500 farm families under its Agriculture Project. In 2015-16, 16 villages were adopted under the project. P a g e | 14 A glimpse of the beneficiary farmers under the Agriculture Project of OIRDS SKILL BUILDING Project Swabalamban on Skill Building: Under the project, OIL provides skill based placement oriented training to youth from its operational areas, by focussing on various employable skills in sectors like Hospitality & House Keeping Management, Industrial Sewing, Construction Industry, Electrician, besides setting up of livelihood clusters in areas like handloom & handicrafts, etc.. The project was started in 2013-14 and over 6062 candidates have been trained and over 4590 candidates have been successfully placed in various organisations across the country, till date. In FY 2015-16, 2,650 candidates were trained, out of which 2024 have been placed. Candidates of Project Swabalamban undergoing training in various vocations EDUCATION Oil India Ltd.’s commitment to socio-economic development in its areas of operations encompasses education as one of the most important areas indispensable for the overall development of an individual and well-being of the society at large. OIL Super 30: OIL India Super 30 which started in July 2010, is an 11 months completely residential coaching program for IIT-JEE & other Engg. entrance examinations, for the meritorious students from backward sections of the society. Presently there are 5 OIL Super 30 centres at Guwahati, P a g e | 15 Jorhat and Dibrugarh in Assam, Jodhpur in Rajasthan and Itanagar in Arunachal Pradesh (started in 2015-16). Students have been admitted in various engineering institutes like IIT, ISRO, NIT, State Engineering colleges, Medical institutes and leading Engineering Colleges. Glimpses of the OIL Super 30 Project Oil Awards and Merit Scholarships: Every year OIL rewards meritorious students of operational areas passing class X & XII with OIL Awards and OIL Merit Scholarships which go a long way in encouraging the students to perform better. Till date around 10,000 students have benefited through merit scholarships (inclusive of students from BPL families). Computer Education under Project Dikhya : {Project on imparting mobile computer education to school students, through innovation teaching and learning methodologies.} The computer literacy programme is being implemented in eighteen schools within OIL’s operational areas in the districts of Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Sivasagar. The project is being implemented through State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), Assam and IL&FS Education & Technical Services via mobile education vans/buses which visit each of the areas and schools. Since 2012-13, 12,310 school children from classes V-VIII have been provided computer education through mobile computer labs (buses). In 2015-16, 7104 students benefitted from the project. Students actively participating in the Computer Bus learning sessions under Project Dikhya P a g e | 16 Project Dikhya on Adult Literacy: Under the project, adult literacy classes are held across OIL’s operational areas in the districts of Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Sivasagar in Assam. The project is implemented through State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), Assam. The course content has been developed as per the Sarva Siksha Mission of the Government. Till date over 1000 adults have been covered under the program. In 2015-16 number of adult beneficiaries was 1500. Adult Literacy classes under Project Dikhya in session in villages of OIL operational areas in the Assam OIL Shikshya Ratna Puraskar: Oil India Limited introduced “OIL Shikshya Ratna Puraskar” for recognizing the all-round contribution of the teaching fraternity from provincialised schools and colleges under Dibrugarh University within the districts of Tinsukia and Dibrugarh. The awards consist of cash incentive of Rupees One Lakh and a citation to each awardee presented on the occasion. 5. SPORTS Promotion of Sports as a CSR initiative apart from providing a platform and motivating the budding talent from the rural parts of OIL’s operational areas, plays the role of uniting the communities, mobilizing, inspiring and instilling responsible behavior among the children and youth. OIL’s contribution and collaboration with the social groups, district administration and sports bodies, has helped in making rural sports as one of the most popular sports event in the rural areas creating social advantage, over the years. P a g e | 17 Young children participating in the OIL Rural Sports initiative Project Sakshyam for the differently abled: Every year as a special gesture under the OIL Merit Scholarship Scheme, OIL provides scholarship in the form of monetary support to students with disabilities and special needs, studying in two special schools of Mrinaljyoti Rehabilitation Centre and Moran Blind School. The two schools visibly located in the OIL’s operational areas of Upper Assam in Duliajan and Moran respectively cater to students not only from Upper Assam but also from far flung areas of North East. The Project was initiated with the prime objective of catering to the needs of the two schools whether in terms of infrastructure development, running costs or any special project which will act as a support base for enabling the students as productive and independent citizens of the mainstream. Swachh Bharat Abhiyan: OIL has undertaken the implementation of the Swachha Bharat Abhiyan of the Government of India through a number of activities and projects. The company has undertaken the following initiatives in and around its offices and spheres in the country, namely Rajasthan, KG basin project in Andhra Pradesh, Kolkata, and Corporate office at NOIDA. The details of the initiatives under the programme are given below. Ø Construction of 1471 school toilets in the 7 (seven) districts of Assam, namely, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Jorhat, Sivasagar, Barpeta, Bongaigaon and Dhubri. Ø Installation of 20 nos. of RO/UV drinking water plants in villages of East Godavari District, in the operational area of the Issuer's KG Basin project. Ø Construction of 2 nos. of separate toilet for men & women in Ranau and Ramgarh villages of Jaisalmer district in the OIL’s operational area of Rajasthan, which did not have such facilities Ø Cleaning and maintenance of Bondajan water body within the periphery and campus of the Issuer's Pipeline Headquarters, at Narangi, Guwahati, Assam Ø Providing garbage bins & garbage disposal trucks to Guwahati Municipal Corporation for garbage collection and cleanliness in different locations of Guwahati city 1000 nos. of garbage bins & 2 nos. of garbage disposal trucks. Ø Undertaking Project Anubhav, a program for training and sensitisation of the company’s sanitation workers. Ø Providing financial assistance for development of digital applications (both mobile & web based) for implementation of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan objectives in the city of Varanasi, etc. Ø The company’s employees have been regularly participating in cleanliness drives P a g e | 18 (Shramdaan) and walkathons in and around its offices and operational sites, to spread awareness regarding the campaign across its various spheres of operations and particularly in and around its Fields Headquarters in Duliajan, Assam. -----------------------------------------------------x---------------------------------------------------P a g e | 19
