2017 Communication on progress For a better World SOLYSTIChaslongbeen awareofitssocial,societal andenvironmentalresponsibilities. This seventh COP is a new opportunity to report on our actions in respect of our commitments and is intended for all stakeholders (current and future employees, new recruits, suppliers, customers, industrial partners, etc.). This year, we have opted to present various initiatives which actualise 6 of the 10 UN Global Compact principles. This COP also provides a forum to hear feedback from stakeholders who have worked alongside us. Those who are accustomed to reading our COPs will recognise continuity in our actions and our commitments. First-time readers should feel free to review our previous COPs. You will learn about how our approach is guided by long-term interests and continuous improvement. Finally, this year, we felt it was important to establish the link with the Sustainable Development Goals, and to highlight how SOLYSTIC contributes to this global initiative. Happyreading. Formoreinformation: www.unglobalcompact.org/ what-is-gc/participants/ 8682#cop 02 Thekeyphasesofourapproach TableofContents ISO 9001 1st CSR policy and 02 Good to know Northrop Grumman 04 Edito certification 1st Carbon assessment 1st Ecovadis Business Ethics 1st external assessment charter CSR diagnosis and updating of the CSR policy 05 SOLYSTIC’s presentation 1995 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2016 2017 06 Our CSR commitments 08 Chapter 1: Human Rights Membership Updating of the Carbon 10 ISO 14001 of the Global assessment and certification Compact the Sustainable Chapter 2: Procurement charter Labour New Northrop Grumman Business Ethics charter, 12 Chapter 3: 1st Sustainable Environment Procurement charter 14 Chapter 4: Anti-corruption 03 Edito Dear Mr Secretary-General, SOLYSTIC decided to embrace and support the values of the United Nations Global Compact in October 2009. I am pleased to confirm and reiterate our commitment to support and promote the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our action in favour of human rights, good working conditions, protection of the environment and fight against corruption is fully in line with my vision of SOLYSTIC. A clear vision expressed to SOLYSTIC’s employees and within our sphere of influence, customers, partners, suppliers and all our stakeholders. For SOLYSTIC, respecting the principles of the Global Compact is more than a simple commitment. It is to adhere to a social model based on mutual respect and dialogue. It is to share “For SOLYSTIC, our values and to commit to continuous progress and improvement the respect of the Global within transparency. Compact principles This annual communication is the testimony of this commitment. is more than just As President and CEO, I have made it my priority to implement a commitment.” this policy on a daily basis and to involve all my staff. Pierre IGOU  I am proud that SOLYSTIC, through its support, helps to further President and CEO the initiative launched by the United Nations. Yours sincerely. Pierre IGOU President and CEO 04 SOLYSTIC, solutions and services  for the mail and parcel industry SOLYSTIC is a French subsidiary of the Northrop Grumman group that designs, manufactures and maintains mail  and parcel equipment throughout their life-cycle. The SOLYSTIC solutions used by the key French  3 activity centres and international postal and logistics operators (25 countries, 5 continents) make it possible to: • adapt the process to market Bagneux developments and opportunities, (head office) • remain competitive while preserving high-quality service, • improve working conditions and respect the environment. Bourg-lès-Valence (industrial site) The company leverages on simulation  and modelling tools to provide customers  Kontich (Belgium) with innovative and tailor-made solutions such as: (service expertise centre) • automated letter sorting, with the latest XMSTM machine designed to sort and combine large-sized mail and letter flows, optimisation of the overall process and adaptation to changing flows, 500 employees 97.6% •a utomated sorting of e-commerce flows, with parcel sorting equipment integrating IT systems, address €100M on indefiniteterm contracts 2016 sales 2.7% recognition systems and SolyTM mobile robots 6 to prepare mail delivery, • s pares supply, maintenance, support services. % of the sales of payroll dedicated dedicated to R&D to training 05 OurCSRcommitments AsasubsidiaryoftheNorthropGrummangroup,SOLYSTIChasadoptedmanyofthe Measuring Group’sCSRcommitments.However,giventhespecificbusinessandcountrycontext ofthecompany,wehavealsodevelopedsomeCSRcommitmentsofourown. ourperformance andprogress As part of our drive for continuous improvement, we regularly submit our CSR approach to ECOVADIS for assessment. ECOVADIS is an independent organisation which measures our CSR performance. Four themes are analysed: the environment, social policy, business ethics and sustainable procurement. Respecttheinterest Attract,retainanddevelop Reduceourimpacts The result of this assessment ofcustomersandendusers highlyskilledstaff • Prevent all forms of pollution is transmitted to all interested customers on request. • Offer high-quality products • Guarantee safety and security, • Reduce our waste and service preserve health and improve the quality and consumption Sinceourfirstassessment • Innovate to meet customer needs of life at the workplace in2013,wehavealways • Combat climate change receivedaGoldstatus,i.e. • Advocate diversity and equal • Purchase responsibly and locally opportunities thehighestlevelofrecognition. • Respect human rights • Organise constructive and high-quality This year, we received an overall and sell with ethics social dialogue rating of 71%.This ranks us at an “advanced” level amongst the top 3% • Ensure pro-active management of the most high-performing suppliers of our talents and promote agility Formoreinformationabout of the thousands of companies theNorthropGrummangroup’s assessed. CSRpolicy: Thisresultistherecognition www.northropgrumman.com/ CorporateResponsibility/Pages/default.aspx ofourcommitmentandthe culminationofourefforts andthegoodpractices implementedonadailybasis byallouremployees andpartners. The detail of this rating based on the themes can be consulted on our website. 06 Sustainable DevelopmentGoals: ourcontribution InterviewwithJean-PierreBaiardi totheworld! SOLYSTIC CSR Manager TheSustainableDevelopmentGoals Whatistheconnectionbetween for an international company like SOLYSTIC (SDGs)cameintoeffectin theCSRapproach,theCOP to see how we contribute to each September2016andareaglobal andtheSDGs? of the 21st-century stakes wherever calltoactiontoendpoverty,protect In 2008, SOLYSTIC commissioned we operate through our partners theplanetandensurethatallpeople an external agency to perform a CSR and installations teams. The SDGs also give enjoypeaceandprosperity. diagnosis and thereby triggered a process meaning to our actions and establish the link Forthegoalstobereached,everyone of proactive action. As part of its between the global and local levels, hasaroletoplay,Governments, commitment, the signature of the UN Global such as to combat climate change. businesses,associationsandeveryday Compact in 2009 confirmed top Stakes to which the young generation citizensalike. management’s desire to contribute and many stakeholders are more to sustainable development and incorporate and more receptive. the 10 principles in the daily life of employees. Joining the UN Global HowcanSOLYSTICcontribute Compact gave us the opportunity totheSDGsviaitsoperations? to structure our process of actions We have identified 8 of the 17 SDGs to which via a formalised CSR policy incorporated we directly contribute. These include local “At present, the SDGs allow into the management system. At present, employment via our network of partner us to broaden our thinking the SDGs allow us to broaden our thinking and demonstrate how SOLYSTIC contributes suppliers, training, hiring new staff (refer to page 10), gender equality and demonstrate how to key global challenges. (refer to page 08) and employee health SOLYSTIC contributes and wellbeing. In terms of the environment WhymakethelinkwiththeSDGs? some other examples are responsible to key global challenges.” production and consumption via our work SDGs are a global benchmark which is increasingly recognised by businesses to reduce the energy consumption of our and in particular the signatories of the machines (refer to page 12) as well UN Global Compact. As such, it is vital as climate change via our mobility plan (refer to page 12). 07 Human Rights Principle No. 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Principle No. 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. SOLYSTIC operates internationally with facilities located in France and Belgium.  We place great emphasis on respecting human rights within and outside  of the company. In light of our economic model, our organisation and geographic location, respect of human rights is an issue that essentially arises upstream  of our value chain, with our suppliers, and downstream of this value chain  with our installers. As a result, this concern is incorporated into our sustainable 19 employees procurement policies as well as our ethics and anti-corruption commitments.  telecommute French legislation sets out a strict labour framework. Within this context,  on a regular basis 10 employees we consider respect of human rights via a constructive and high-quality social  (1 day per week) telecommute on an dialogue to be of paramount importance. occasional basis 1 2 3 Collective bargaining, from Reducing gender pay gaps Updates to the telecommuting signature of the agreement  agreement to its assessment SOLYSTIC has been deeply committed to gender equality in the workplace for many COP 16 reported on our agreement to introduce A few examples of agreements which have years and has accordingly set the goal telecommuting on a trial basis. As this trial been signed with social partners include of reducing eventual gender pay gaps. yielded positive results, we have signed agreements on professional equality, quality As a result, the gender equality agreement an indefinite-term agreement with all social of life at the workplace, the right to disconnect, includes specific commitments in this respect. partners. teleworking, on-call duties and cycling-related Each gap of more than 5% must be analysed via the annual comparative status report. The arrangement takes into consideration mileage allowance. the requests of employees (managers and staff), A dedicated budget allows the HRD to counter Some of these agreements have been renewed the effect of maternity leave for example as well as the individual circumstances as a means of fostering their improvement. or to bridge an unjustified pay gap. of our company and the requirements In addition to negotiations, we have embarked of the position or the department. upon a constructive collaboration and steering Eligibility criteria such as length of service approach with trade union organisations. in the company, knowledge of the position, This is achieved through the concrete targets autonomy and frequency of customer that we have set and specific indicators whose relations are analysed by the manager progress we assess together during an annual to make his or her decision. Since the start meeting to follow-up the agreements. of the experiment, 90% of the requests have been accepted. 08 8 Assessmentofthe “Good dialogue requires each agreements party to put aside its individual In keeping with its readiness to have position, with due regard to a constructive and high-quality dialogue, the interests of each party, the SOLYSTIC Human Resources Department the company and the employees.” also soughttoenhancejointmonitoring ofthesignedagreements.Therefore, all Marie-PierreHOMBERG agreements with the trade union organisations Human Resources Director contain quantified targets, monitoring indicators and are regularly assessed in particular during an annual meeting. The November 2016 meeting served to address the following agreements: InterviewwithMarie-PierreHOMBERG, and anticipation of legislations. In conjunction Sometimes, the issues which secure rapid generation contract, gender equality Human Resources Director, shares her vision with staff representatives, we create consensus are the ones which consolidate and quality of life at the workplace, and her experience for good social dialogue. the conditions for company success the relationship through calm discussions, telecommuting, on-call duties and and performance. Our objective is to support and sometimes the more difficult topics cycling-related mileage allowances. Whatisyourvisionofsocialdialogue the transformation of SOLYSTIC by taking are the ones for which we try to find common 70%ofthetargetshavebeen atSOLYSTIC? into account the development of the company ground. Finally, an overall approach reachedorexceededand15% It is primarily a collaborative effort. and the expectations of our employees. is needed. For example, the gender equality Negotiating also involves making use of your agreement has been broadened to include havebeenpartiallyreached. Whatareyourformulasforsuccess? senses in a human-based process. diversity (gender, age, disability, work-life Progress must still be made in various Holding a dialogue does not mean that you Good dialogue is time-consuming. balance), which is an essential factor aspects such as skills development, have to agree on everything, it means that you Three ten-minute meetings are not enough for managing our skills. disability, the employment of older have to discuss everything. This is not always to understand each other, find new solutions, workers or apprentices. easy, however by listening attentively, showing think outside of the box and make mutual Arethereanyforthcomingareas respect, trust and using common sense, concessions. To make good progress, forimprovement? Staff representatives view this process of transparency as a means of making we move forward together. I work with I systematically draw up a written report. There is always room for improvement! the dialogue more concrete one fundamental principle in mind: say what It reflects the position of each party and is We still have a lot of ground to cover with and fact-based. I am going to do and do what I said I would. distributed in a transparent and open manner regard to gender equality, integration at each meeting. This creates a climate and the training programme in order Inaddition,itisaconstructive Whatarethebenefitsofgoodsocial of trust and confidence. Then, you have to develop the skills of our employees. andcollaborativeapproach dialogueforSOLYSTIC? to listen to employees who can report certain Employability and change management whichcombinesdecisionThere are many benefits, including trust, issues that are important for them. are essential components of agile companies makingandaction. sharing key issues affecting the company Even if they are lower on the priority scale against the backdrop of a constantly-changing to increase its attractiveness, loyalty, for management, they deserve our attention. economy. The recognition and involvement professional development, wellbeing This was the case for telecommuting. of employees also play a key role. 09 Labour Principle No. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The social issues of SOLYSTIC are inter alia developing an employer brand,  attracting new future recruits, their wellbeing and retention.  We are an IT and innovation company. We abide by the laws and we strive on a daily basis to take care of our staff, provide them with an environment that is conducive  “We develop many actions to fulfilling their potential and performing to the best of their abilities.  and services to foster  We encourage the diversity of our teams, equal opportunity and skills development. their integration  SOLYSTIC receives all future new recruits, without distinction. and make the everyday  life of our employees easier.” 1 2 3 France engagement survey Gender equality Induction of new employees The annual engagement survey was The industrial and engineering sectors have We develop many actions and services to foster initiated by the group and implemented been identified as short-staffed, especially their integration and make the everyday life in all countries as a way of enlisting feedback in relation to female professionals. of our employees easier. A few examples from employees. It is carried out on In connection with our diversity policy, are the orientation day for new recruits, an anonymous basis by a specialist external we have set up a number of positive initiatives health, safety and environment training, agency. Our analysis of the results (partnerships with schools, integration action, visit of customer sites or sorting centres, per country, site and department allows us internships, work study programs). the “live my life” organisation, informal develop improvement plans. Our gender equality agreement has been breakfast meetings for interns or work-study The 2017 survey highlights an 80% broadened to diversity and includes the quality students, an intercompany day-care at our participation rate. Amongst the good points of life in the workplace. This agreement Bourg-lès-Valence facility, a company gym are team work, working conditions is monitored on an annual basis and at our Bagneux facility, in addition to the and work-life balance. we convene a Gender Equality Commission employee representative committees, (see insert). Some levers of change their media library as well as the services include training provided to managers provided by our “1% logement” (employer on non-discrimination, the organisation contribution to government housing scheme) of awareness raising actions and the promotion provider which has been described as of socially responsible suppliers. “reactive and making interesting proposals” by the beneficiaries. 10 FocusontheGenderEquality “The issue is not deciding which gender Commission makes more contribution than the other. Gender equality is a crucial issue This Commission’s core functions are toassistmanagement for a contemporary industry seeking initsdecisionmaking andprovideconcreteandoperational recommendationsin light of the annual comparative situation to be successful.” report. Therefore, the Commission took part in the collective FatouSY introspection initiated during the negotiations for the gender Software Development Engineer at SOLYSTIC, equality agreement. Consequently, it can legitimately make member of the Gender Equality Commission contributions regarding the other discrimination criteria (age, gender, disability, trade union membership, work-life balance and the quality of life at the workplace). The 7-member commission, three of whom were appointed by the Staff Representative Bodies, is comprised of four women InterviewwithÉlianeDEJOUX, at a restaurant once per month to share and three men from the Bagneux and Bourg-lès-Valence sites. SOLYSTIC Project Manager our views and get away from the office The chairman convenes the commission at least twice per year new recruit environment. We do not talk about work to a meeting attended by management. Members speak freely in the cafeteria, it is an opportunity to without censorship. The commission may select an annual work At SOLYSTIC, treating people with respect discover others and get to know them better. theme and request explanations from management on specific is not merely a declaration, it is a reality. aspects such as gender pay gaps or access to training After graduating with an engineering At SOLYSTIC, there is a positive professional for women. degree in Grenoble, I worked in industrial requirement. This means that we are and service companies in the region before focused on the quality of our work, Thisapproachconfirmsthequalityofthesocial joining SOLYSTIC last June. I was looking the products and customer satisfaction. dialogueandthehighlevelofcooperation. for an internationally-minded company This makes all the difference! We can give with a strong local presence; an industrial the best of ourselves in a professional company where the products use and caring environment. technology. I wanted a company that was I believe that SOLYSTIC combines a great place to work. the innovative spirit of a start-up with Engagement Employees’satisfaction levelassessedat I was immediately struck by the work environment! The Bagneux facility is modern 60 years of history and an agility, whereby it is constantly developing at the cutting edge survey 93% team work you are well treated by others. At SOLYSTIC, of technology. There is a genuine corporate you can express your views and concerns, social responsibility. I have been here 80% 89% working conditions there is no disregard, everyone is important for a little over a month and I am really and that is really a wonderful thing. enjoying it. Participationrate 85%work-life balance. Since my very first day on the job, everybody have really taken good care of me. In my department, we have lunch 11 Environment Principle No. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle No. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. SOLYSTIC has been an ISO 14001-certified company for 10 years. Accordingly,  it has developed various tri-annual action plans to reduce its impacts.  Amongst its environmental commitments, combatting climate change is of special MARS machine power  significance. This company voluntarily carried out its first carbon emission assessment consumption trend  (bilan carbone®) in 2010 and this gave us an idea of our CO2 emissions.  2012 et 2015 The assessment was updated in 2016 and served to measure the progress made  as well as set new priorities and determine new areas of action. for a target of -10% -17% 1 2 3 Mobility plan Reduction of machine energy Raising awareness among consumption employees The update of the carbon emission assessment showed that the company needs Since 2010, the design office teams SOLYSTIC conducts regular awareness to take action in respect of the home-work have been innovating to reduce the power raising actions for its employees in keeping commute which is the second highest source consumption of machinery. Most letter with its strong commitment to preserve of emissions behind work-related travel. sorting machines are operated more than the environment. Therefore, as part of the To this end and in anticipation of the Energy twenty hours per day and have a service life integration process for each new recruit, Transition law, SOLYSTIC signed a mobility of over fifteen years. The reduction actions he or she receives safety and environment plan. This plan was negotiated with target in particular the conveyor system training. Moreover, a brochure regarding the Valence-Romans Conurbation as part through the use of low-consumption shifts good environmental practices (energy, water, of a collective action (see insert). and motor replacements as well as travel, waste, chemicals) is distributed to all It brings together all steps to reduce the use optimisation of power supply units. employees. Finally, various theme-based of a private car by offering alternative For example, with regard to the MARS events are organised. For example, each solutions (public transportation, cycling, machine, these changes helped to reduce year since 2013, the Bourg-lès-Valence walking, and carpooling) both for energy consumption by 17%, whereas SOLYSTIC site takes part in the Auvergne the home-workplace commute and the initial aim was 10%. We are continuing Rhône-Alpes mobility challenge. This year, work-related travel (see testimonial). this process of ongoing improvement the employees were able to try out e-bikes, in conjunction with our suppliers. mark their own bicycles free of charge and learn more about the company agreement on cycling-related mileage allowance. With a participation rate of 32%, the company was rewarded for its efforts. This is an excellent opportunity for employees to change their habits and to travel to work otherwise than in their 12 private vehicle. Mobilityworkgroup “This day shows that there are other ways to travel In connection with its goals to reduce CO2 emissions, the Valence Romans to work. Since the event, conurbation has implemented I bought an e-bike for anurbantravelplan. This plan is designed to bring about my 10-km journey.” a 4.7% reduction in the share of car NicolasSORBÉ traffic by 2025. Accordingly, Purchasing Agent Valence-Romans Déplacement, the transport authority, has implemented an action programme to promote soft mobility in the region. Itinvolvesmeetingthechallenges andneedsofthepopulationaswell asbusinesses. Consequently, anintercompanywork groupwassetup in partnership with the Drôme Chamber of Commerce InterviewwithAgnèsBALOGNA, work commuting time. There is also a need • The second theme relates to the use and Industry. Therefore, some fifteen Environment Policy Officer at the Drôme for regulatory compliance with the Energy of public transportation by covering companies or facilities with a workforce Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Transition Act. This also ties in with the issue the costs of bus passes and tickets of trains. of more than 100 employees, including co-coordinator alongside VRD of the mobility of wellbeing at the workplace: commuting steering group ecobiz. • The next two themes focus on cycling SOLYSTIC, were invited to share times generate stress and naturally cause (parking facilities, mileage allowance) and discuss their good practices. accidents. Mobility is therefore both an WhatdoyouthinkabouttheSOLYSTIC and carpooling. This experience, which is free of charge, opportunity and a means of reducing risks. for the company also provides CSRapproach? • The last theme is dedicated to limiting the opportunity to express its mobility SOLYSTIC is a socially responsible Whatactionsarebeingimplemented travel, in particular through the use expectations and needs. corporation. The company is very involved bySOLYSTIC? of video-conferencing rooms as well This group also givesus the chance in local activities and our contacts are Firstly, the company has officialised as the implementation of specific tools to attend information meeting reactive and readily respond to our requests. its commitment through the Partnership such as simulators or remote maintenance on diverse themes such as: In terms of mobility, SOLYSTIC has anticipated Agreement. This agreement sets out services for customer equipment. •theEnergyTransitionAct, legal requirements. the work framework between SOLYSTIC •availabletoolsandservices, and Valence-Romans Déplacements. Inyouropinion,whatarethechallenges This plan is comprised of five themes. •bicyclemileageallowance, relatedtomobilityforbusinesses? •carsharingandthemobilityplan. • Raising the awareness of employees First and foremost, an economic challenge, It is a true forum for emulation which given the time spent and lost by employees which is conveyed for example through simplifies things for companies in their vehicles. In a number of their participation in the regional mobility and allows them to save time municipalities, we have noted an increase challenge, organisation of an information by building on the feedback received in traffic jams and an extension of the home stand and regular dissemination to avoid the pitfalls that others of information. have experienced. 13 Anti-corruption Principle No. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In light of our operations and our value chain, responsible procurement plays a pivotal role in our CSR policy. Being a member of the Northrop Grumman group allows  us to stay one step ahead in the fight against corruption. In 2011, we were already implementing the commitments of the group in France. The group’s ethics charter  15 suppliers audited was reviewed in 2016 and was associated with the development of an updated implementation plan that also included practical tools. It should be noted that 75%  of our customer portfolio is located in France, 15% in Europe and 10% in the rest  Amount of purchases of the world. The Rhône-Alpes region alone represents 36% of French purchases  to institutions of for all product groups combined. insertion by work (ESAT) € 27,400 1 2 3 Ethics training Group’s ethics charter Denied Party Screening (DPS) The update of the group’s ethics charter was Over the past few years, there have been In a global world, there are increasingly accompanied by a training programme that many changes in anti-corruption legislation. high risks of trading with companies was organised last June. This programme Therefore, the group’s ethics charter needed that have received sanctions for corruption is designed for the departments that work to be updated and its implementation or the infringement of human rights. with suppliers and customers (the entire associated with a new action plan. Although SOLYSTIC has little exposure purchasing department received training). Each Ethics Officer was thus asked to help to this risk (most orders are sent to EuropeIts aim was to update the knowledge of the with coordination of the process. based entities), it nonetheless exists. teams exposed to the risks of corruption The group has therefore updated its and remind them of the good ethical The charter covers themes such as business procurement practices to include this issue. practices that they are expected to gifts, data protection, compliance with At present, purchasing agents check implement when conducting business. intellectual property rights. The group’s the “ethics classification” of each supplier internal control structure regularly checks with a dedicated Denied Party Screening It was also an opportunity for some its enforcement. The most recent “supply tool. employees to become aware of these new chain” audit confirmed and recognised risks in particular in our relations with conformity of SOLYSTIC in respect In July 2016, all suppliers earning a turnover customs commissioners, intermediaries of responsible purchasing and good ethics of more than � 15,000 from SOLYSTIC and public authorities. “Although our sector when conducting business. were checked. No alert was reported. is less exposed to this risk, it nonetheless We also carry out supplier Quality audits exists and it is important to be able to update involving an examination of compliance our knowledge”, confided one purchasing with CSR commitments. In the event agent at the end of the day. of non-compliance, the purchasing agent may request an additional audit conducted by the SOLYSTIC CSR department. 14 Guy VOISIN  At present, we are involved at a much earlier CEO of Voisin, stage in the value chain, from the design Better knowledge of SOLYSTIC supplier for over 25 years phase to the assembly instructions. our specific purchasing “Voisin has been a partner of SOLYSTIC for many years. This “win-win” relationship entails obvious benefits for both SOLYSTIC and our company. requirements SOLYSTIC has always stood by us in difficult Our counterparts are demanding times going so far as to review the delivery and we work in complete trust with them. SOLYSTIC designs, assembles, installs schedule for the sheet metal components We are confident that this trust is mutual. and maintains bespoke sorting solutions and the modules that we assemble in order We have established a collaborative, (postal and parcels). to facilitate our cash flow management. innovative and respectful partnership. Our teams can deliver high performance.” The Procurement function  is incorporated into the Industrial and Purchasing Directorate. It is driven by a team of nine individuals including six purchasing agents. Interview with Patrick HOURS, What impact does CSR have on your A cross-cutting multi-disciplinary relationship The Procurement function, with equivalent Head of Industrial Operations and Purchasing relationship with your suppliers? between the design offices, purchasing economic performance, fosters the local agents and our best suppliers helps operations. We build long-standing relationships How long ago did you include CSR  to stimulate collaborative work. with our suppliers. It is vital that they The total amount of purchases, in your purchasing policy? understand that the design-marketing-use Moreover, SOLYSTIC has always “offered for all suppliers combined, is over As a member of the group, we had already cycle of a postal solution covers a period € 40 million. We make purchases support” to any partner supplier experiencing incorporated a number of CSR themes of over twenty years. Compliance with from businesses of all sizes, selected difficulties: production forecasts, increase such as business ethics and anti-corruption. the commitments made by SOLYSTIC based on detailed specifications. of down payments, guarantee (security) In 2011, we decided to officialise our entails long-term quality. This particularity Our supplier assessment procedure of business for banking procedures, etc. responsible procurement approach stimulates innovation and may provide involves environmental and social information. via a specific charter appended to the a high volume of activity for efficient partners. contracts. This requires our suppliers Breakdown of suppliers  and subcontractors to comply with legal And in more concrete terms? per geographic area obligations and adhere to the UN Global The commitments we have made in terms Compact principles. All employees who work of noise reduction, energy consumption with the suppliers must check the sound or improving recyclability is the driving force Europe France adoption of this policy and, as applicable, behind new technological solutions. 15% 75% ensure that they make progress on this theme. Rest of the world 10% 15 Head office 152 160 avenue Aristide Briand CS 80013 92227 Bagneux Cedex FRANCE Tel. +33 (0)1 49 08 41 00 solystic.com ginette. 10/17. Redaction: ORAVEO. Photos: J. Robert, R. Pack, all rights reserved, Shutterstock. For more information: contact.rse@solystic.com
