United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress December 2016 HASSELL Systems, Policies, Initiatives and Progress relative to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles UN Global Compact Principles HASSELL Systems and Policies HASSELL Initiatives and Progress in 2016 Principle 1 Businesses should support and Management and Human Resources procedures respect the protection of HASSELL is currently reviewing and updating the including; international proclaimed human community support and corporate social  Equal Opportunity Policy; responsibility programs to achieve greater impact rights  Discrimination and Harassment Policy; and alignment with HASSELL and UNGC goals.  Bullying policy; Principle 2 Businesses should make sure HASSELL participates in the JobSupport program  Code of Ethics Policy; and they are not complicit in human for intellectually disabled persons (Sydney studio) rights abuses  Whistle Blower Protection Policy Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the HASSELL is now a signatory to the Australian freedom of association and the Management and Human Resources procedures Institute of Architects Champions of Change effective recognition of the right to including; program and commits to advancing gender collective bargaining  Equal Opportunity Policy; equality across our studios.  Discrimination and Harassment Policy; HASSELL reports annually to the Workplace Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the  Bullying policy; Gender Equality Agency in Australia, and is elimination of all forms of forced  Code of Ethics Policy; currently compliant with all requirements. and compulsory labour Qualitative and quantitative measure for gender  Whistle Blower Protection Policy; and equality are reported biannually to the HASSELL  Parental Leave policy; and Board. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the  Breast Feeding Policy effective abolition of child labour Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment training HASSELL does not use or employ forced, bonded conducted has occurred during 2016, via Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the information sessions and during staff inductions. elimination of discrimination in or child labour. HASSELL abides by all legislation respect of employment and and regulations in the countries in which we are HASSELL has increased the amount of paid based. parental and partner leave available to employees occupation. in Australia. This is above what is required by Australian legislation. 1 of 2 UN Global Compact Principles HASSELL Systems and Policies HASSELL Initiatives and Progress in 2016 The principal objective of the HASSELL Environmental Policy is to support sustainable development and reduces the environmental Principle 7 Businesses should support a Environmental and Management procedures impact of our projects and the operation of our precautionary approach to including; studios. environmental challenges  Environmental Policy; In 2016 the HASSELL Environmental  Project Sustainability guide; Management System was independently  Studio Sustainability guide; and certificatied to ISO14001.  Opportunities and Risk Register. HASSELL has now designed over 1,300,000 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake The HASSELL Knowledge and Sustainability square metres of buildings certified or registered initiatives to promote greater team supports, undertakes and promotes; under sustainable building rating systems environmental responsibility including LEED, Green Mark and Green Star.  Studio sustainability teams;  Sustainable design training; In 2016 the HASSELL Studio was certified 4 Star  Green Star and LEED accreditation; Interiors under the Green Star sustainable  Interaction with Green Building Councils in building rating system. This is our 4th studio to Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Australia, China, Hong Kong and United achieve a certified sustainable building rating. development and diffusion of States; and HASSELL continues to be a key participant in the environmentally friendly  Participation in university and industry Cooperative Research Centre (CRC) for Low technologies research programs. Carbon Living, which brings together over 40 research institutions, government and industry organisations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the built environment. Principle 10 Businesses should work against Management and Human Resources procedures In 2016 HASSELL introduced an Anti Bribery corruption in all its forms, including including; Policy and an updated Code of Ethics Policy. The extortion and bribery  Anti Bribery Policy Anti Bribery Policy applies globally but references  Code of Ethics Policy; the Bridery Act (UK) as it is considered to be the  Whistle Blower Protection Policy; and relevant and appropriately high standard to which  Benefits, Taking Advantage, Business HASSELL will comply. Commission and Presents_China 2 of 2
