Integrated Report 2017 Year ended March 31, 2017 Management Philosophy Marubeni’s Founding Spirit Lives on Our Company Creed, “Fairness（正）, Innovation（新）, and Harmony（和）,” dates back to Marubeni’s first president, Shinobu Ichikawa. Mr. Ichikawa encouraged employees to act fairly with dignity befitting a large company, to continuously foster an enterprising culture in the aim of innovation and, most of all, to work harmoniously with each other. His encouragement lives on to this day as core principles for Marubeni employees. Marubeni Corporation Company Creed “Fairness” Act with fairness and integrity at all times. “Innovation” Pursue creativity with enterprise and initiative. “Harmony” Give and earn the respect of others through cooperation. Management Philosophy In accordance with the spirit grounded in “Fairness, Innovation and Harmony,” the Marubeni Group is proudly committed to social and economic development and safeguarding the global environment by conducting fair and upright corporate activities. Corporate Principles Marubeni Corporation, as a business enterprise, will actively pursue its business interests through the exercise of fair and lawful competition. As a company, Marubeni will also continue to play its part in the growth of the global economy, while always striving to enrich the society within which it operates. In order to achieve these goals, Marubeni is committed to the following six basic principles of business: 1 Conduct Fair and Open Business Activities 2 Develop a Globally Connected Company 3 Create New Value Through Business Vision 4 Respect and Encourage Individuality and Originality 5 Promote Good Corporate Governance 6 Safeguard Ecological and Cultural Diversity Integrated Report 2017 1 Our History Challenge and Transformation in Pursuit of New Value Creation Throughout its history, Marubeni has created new value while transforming itself through repeated challenges. Such challenges and transformation have fundamentally built Marubeni into the general trading company it is today. Marubeni is committed to continue evolving by unremittingly tackling all manner of challenges in pursuit of societal and industrial progress. 1858 Founded Marubeni’s founder Chubei Itoh 1872 Opened Benchu in Osaka Benchu storefront C.Itoh & Co., Ltd. Kishimoto Shoten, Ltd. 1918 1941 Established Sanko Kabushiki Kaisha Ltd. Established Itochu Shoten, Ltd. 1921 Established Marubeni Shoten, Ltd. Daido Boeki Kaisha Ltd. Itoh Chobei Shoten 1944 Established Daiken Company, Ltd. Kureha Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd. 2 Marubeni Corporation The Road to 2020 Combining all our individual strength to create a more powerful Marubeni Group The Marubeni Group aims to be a true global company that contributes to both society and regional economies while outcompeting top rivals across all sectors and markets in which it operates. Marubeni in Fiscal Year Ended March 2017 Net Profit : ¥155.4 billion Total Equity : ¥1,742.8 billion Number of Employees : 4,458 at parent company : 39,952 on consolidated basis Number of Branches and Offices : 131 locations in 66 countries and regions (As of April 1, 2017) 2016 Mid-term management plan Global Challenge 2018 started 2013 Consolidated net profit surpassed ¥200 billion 1981 Equity surpassed ¥100 billion Nanyo Bussan Co., Ltd. 1972 Changed trading name to Marubeni Corporation 1951 First overseas subsidiary was established in New York Totsu Co., Ltd. C.Itoh & Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Nail Works, Ltd. 1955 Kureha Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd. Changed trading name to Marubeni-Iida Co., Ltd. following the merger of Marubeni Co., Ltd. and Iida & Co., Ltd. 1950 Listed shares on the Tokyo 1949 Stock Exchange. Established Marubeni Co., Ltd. 1958 Celebrated its centennial Integrated Report 2017 3 Contents Management Philosophy Our History Chapter 1 Management Strategies Chapter 2 Management Foundation 5 Message from the CEO 4 6 Our Corporate Governance 1 0 Business Models 4 6 Members of the Board and 10 Marubeni’s Value Creation Process Audit & Supervisory Board Members 12 Management Policies by Business Model 4 9 Message from the Chief Independent Director 14 Sustainability—Targeting Sustained Growth 5 0 Corporate Governance System 16 Together with Our Stakeholders 18 Distribution Businesses (Helena Chemical Company) Chapter 3 Operating Activities 20 Finance Businesses (MAC Trailer Leasing) 6 2 Organization 22 Stable Earnings-Type Businesses (IPP Business) 6 4 At a Glance 24 Natural Resource Investments (Roy Hill Iron Ore Project) 6 6 Business Groups 2 6 Performance Highlights 66 Food & Consumer Products Group 28 Financial Data 70 Chemical & Forest Products Group 29 Non-Financial Data 74 Energy & Metals Group 3 0 Message from the CFO 78 Power Business & Plant Group 3 4 Sustainability 82 Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group 34 CSR Management 35 Environmental Protection Chapter 4 Corporate Information 36 Supply Chain 38 Contribution to the Community 8 6 Financial Information / Corporate Profile 39 Utilization of Diverse Human Resources 87 Financial Information 43 External Recognition 184 Corporate Profile 44 CSR Action Plan and Targets 19 4 Independent Assurance of Environmental and Social Data Editorial Policy Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements about the performance and management plans of Marubeni Integrated Report 2017 is meant to serve as a tool for communicating with stakeholdCorporation and its Group companies based on management’s assumptions in light of current information. The ers and gaining the trust of greater society. To provide a systematic explanation of the following factors may therefore influence actual results: consumer trends in Japan and in major global markets, Marubeni Group’s corporate value, this report is compiled in the form of an integrated private capital expenditure, currency fluctuations, notably against the U.S. dollar, materials price changes, political turmoil in certain countries and regions, etc. report that describes our quest to create both corporate and social value. We hope that this report will give readers an understanding of our business strategies as well as our Note Regarding Accounting Standards commitment to helping resolve social issues through our business activities. The Company adopted U.S. GAAP up until the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, and IFRS from the fiscal year ended Furthermore, this report has a notation of fiscal years of the reporting period March 31, 2014. 2017.3 (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017). “Profit attributable to owners of the parent” is described as “Net profit” in this report. 4 Marubeni Corporation Chap. Management Strategies 1 Message from the CEO Chap.1 Management Strategies Making a Consistently Growing Marubeni Group a Reality The Marubeni Group, by contributing to societal progress and regional economic development, will realize sustainable growth and maximize its corporate value. Fumiya Kokubu President and CEO Integrated Report 2017 5 Solidifying our global footprint through deep local roots as a locally focused global company. Armed with unrivaled strengths, upgrading our network of localized businesses. The Year in Review — A Crucial Moment for Marubeni our net debt/equity ratio as of March 31, 2017 dramatically The fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 was a crucial one improved to 1.20 times. This outcome was better than our for the Marubeni Group. Having incurred large impairinitial target, and offers clear evidence of steady progress ment losses in the two preceding fiscal years, we made in building a strong financial foundation. approached last fiscal year as a key turnaround year, placAt the same time, we worked on strengthening our ing top priority on improving our financial condition. To earnings foundation by growing businesses in which we this end, we conducted management that pivoted on our possess competitive advantages and shoring up existing efforts to maximize cash flow. businesses. As a result, our consolidated net profit in the Accordingly, we set minimum targets for free cash flow fiscal year ended March 2017 increased ¥93.1 billion for each business group and drove ahead with strengthenyear on year to ¥155.4 billion, reversing its two-year ing cash flow management at the business site level. We decline to end the year with earnings growth. also rigorously screened and narrowed down new projects, all while expediting return on investment. As a result, free Major Societal Changes Constitute New Business cash flow for the fiscal year ended March 2017 was ¥370.8 Opportunities billion, a dramatic and positive improvement that marked With society currently in the midst of a major transformaa historic record high for Marubeni. Assisted by our protion, we realize that age-old conventional wisdom may no curement of perpetual subordinated loans in August 2016, longer hold true. International political uncertainties have been increasing, as exemplified by Brexit and the 2016 US presidential election outcome. Such political developments’ impact, including potential disruption of supply chains predicated on free trade, is a concern. Financial conditions, hitherto marked by globally ultralow interest rates and a global savings glut, are also distinctly changing in response to the United States’ incipient exit from its accommodative monetary policies. We recognize that the financial environment in which our Group funds its operations is set to change markedly, partly as a result of the Basel III regulatory regime’s impact on international financial institutions. In industry, IT innovations such as the Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence and Big Data analytics are evolving faster than we had envisioned. Their impacts are starting to change business practices. Various new businesses are emerging while inter-industry boundaries are disappearing. For general trading companies, such changes and innovations are a great chance to create new business opportunities. Today, we are directly confronted with changes driven by international politics, finance and IT innovations. I sense 2017 will likely be seen as a major turning point. 6 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Aspire to Be a True Global Company by 2020 The revised GC2018’s core policy and primary pillar is By 2020, the Marubeni Group aspires to be a true global to continue to strengthen our financial foundation as our company that contributes to society and regional econoutmost priority. We will improve our net debt/equity ratio to mies while outcompeting top rivals across a broad swath around 0.8 by March 31, 2021 at the latest. To achieve of sectors and markets. In our eyes, a true global comthis target, we aim to maximize adjusted operating cash pany has strong, locally rooted operational foundations flow* by upgrading our cash flow management. We will and an on-the-ground presence as a leading player in also expedite asset turnover by strategically exiting or othoverseas markets. We will become stronger overseas by erwise recouping previous investments. building robust businesses integrated into local markets The revised GC2018’s second key pillar is business and communities, solidifying our global footprint through strategy evolution. We will strategically select investee deep local roots as a locally focused global company. businesses in pursuit of competitive advantage in individWe seek to develop unrivaled strengths by concentratual business domains, thereby maximizing our busiing on and deeply immersing ourselves in selected marnesses’ value. Particularly high-priority businesses are kets and products. ones likely to yield synergies once linked to our platforms and network. A case in point is Orffa International Holding Pursuing Competitive Advantage with Evolving B.V., one of Europe’s largest livestock feed additive disBusiness Strategies tributors. In February 2017, we announced plans to Faced with accelerating change and the advent of a acquire an equity stake in Orffa. We aim to maximize momentous new era as I mentioned previously, we reaffirm Orffa’s business value by, for example, exploring options that the Marubeni Group needs a strong financial foundafor developing the US market by leveraging the feed sales tion as the cornerstone of its future growth into the Group network of the Group’s US subsidiary Gavilon. Going forwe aspire to be. In May 2017, we revised our Global ward, we intend to invest more selectively than in the past. Challenge 2018 (GC2018) mid-term management plan to We plan to tighten new investments that are solely conclarify that our commitment to further strengthening our cerned with immediate returns. We seek to invest in more financial foundation is our top priority while updating our Orffa-like companies that will expand our Group’s combusiness strategies. petitive advantages over the medium to long term. GC2018 Quantitative Targets GC2018 Revised GC2018 2018 (FYE 3/2019) ¥250.0 billion 2018 (FYE 3/2019) ¥200.0 billion Consolidated Net Profit (Non-natural resources ¥230.0 billion or more) (Non-natural resources ¥180.0 billion or more) Cumulative total for 2016-2018 Cumulative total for 2016-2018 Free Cash Flow (FYE 3/2017-FYE 3/2019) (FYE 3/2017-FYE 3/2019) (after dividends) Positive free cash flow Free cash flow (after dividends) of ¥400-500 billion (Approximately a net D/E ratio of 1.3 times as of March 31, 2019) (Approximately a net D/E ratio of 1.0 times as of March 31, 2019) ROE 10% or more 10% or more 2016-2018 (FYE 3/2017-FYE 3/2019) ¥1 trillion 2016-2018 (FYE 3/2017-FYE 3/2019) ¥400-500 billion (Breakdown) New Investments Distribution Businesses 30% Strictly evaluate new investments in strong Finance Businesses 20% strategic terms mainly in non-natural resources Stable Earnings-Type Businesses 40% Natural Resource Investments 10% Consolidated Dividend 25% or more of consolidated net profit 25% or more of consolidated net profit Payout Ratio * Adjusted operating cash flow: Operating cash flow net of changes in working capital, a measure of cash-basis earnings power Integrated Report 2017 7 We are also pursuing business-model innovations target for the fiscal year ending March 2019 is around 1.0, through digital technologies. This initiative is spearrevised from around 1.3 initially. headed by the IoT/Big Data Strategy Department we With GC2018’s foremost objective being to generate recently established as a corporate function. We aim to positive FCF, we initially intended to limit new investments develop innovative business models unique to a general planned during its three-year term to a cumulative ¥1 triltrading company active across a vast multitude of prodlion at most. We have now lowered this three-year cumulauct markets. tive maximum to ¥400-500 billion in conjunction with our FCF target’s upward revision. GC2018’s ROE and dividend Revised GC2018 Quantitative Targets payout ratio targets remain unchanged at their initial levels. In the initial GC2018, we set our consolidated net profit For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, we have set a target for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 at ¥250 consolidated net profit target of ¥170 billion, a ¥14.7 billion billion. Non-natural resource businesses’ share of this iniyear-on-year increase. On our balance sheet, we plan to end tial target was “at least ¥230 billion or more.” In the revised the fiscal year with a net debt/equity ratio of around 1.1, a GC2018, we lowered this target and non-natural resource year-on-year improvement of 0.1 points, by maintaining posibusinesses’ share thereof by ¥50 billion apiece to ¥200 tive FCF after dividends. By doing so, we aim to further billion and “at least ¥180 billion or more,” respectively. strengthen our financial foundation. We will steadily achieve For free cash flow (FCF), our initial GC2018 target was these quantitative targets as a stepping-stone toward our to achieve a cumulative FCF surplus after dividends consolidated net profit target of ¥200 billion (and non-natural during GC2018’s three-year term. In the revised GC2018, resource businesses’ corresponding target of at least ¥180 we raised this target in response to accelerated improvebillion) in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. ment in cash flow. We are now targeting a three-year cumulative FCF surplus of ¥400-500 billion after diviShareholder Returns dends. We are treating this target as a minimum goal. We Under GC2018, our basic policy is to pay dividends plan to expedite fortification of our financial foundation by equivalent to at least 25% of consolidated net profit. surpassing our FCF target. Our new net debt/equity ratio Based on this policy, we raised our annual dividend in the Capital Allocation (GC2018 Three-Year Cumulative Totals) Further Strengthen Debt repayment: Recoupment of Financial ¥400-500bn previous investments Foundation Dividend payouts Capex* Adjusted operating cash flow Strategically New investments: ¥400-500bn Select Investments Cash In-Flow Capital Allocation * Capex: Additional capital spending to maintain/improve business values of existing projects 8 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Leveraging the Marubeni Group’s mega-platform as a sturdy launchpad for realizing dreams. fiscal year ended March 2017 to ¥23 per share from ¥21 amid change. This power stems from expertise and human in the previous fiscal year. While endeavoring to enhance networks amassed over decades and the corporate funcour corporate value, we plan to continue to augment tions that support our businesses in addition to our diverse shareholder returns based on a comprehensive assessbusiness models, ample financial resources and informament of our annual earnings performance, financial contion capabilities. The Marubeni Group is in effect a megadition, dividend payout ratio and other relevant factors. platform endowed with such tangible and intangible assets and functions. By fully leveraging this mega-platform, all The Marubeni Group Is Embracing the Future as a Group personnel can challenge themselves to achieve their Mega Dream-Realization Platform respective dreams. As Marubeni’s CEO, I encourage every class of new recruits As CEO, I always want our Group’s personnel to dream by saying, “The most important thing as a member of a big. I believe that the Marubeni Group must serve as a general trading company is to have big dreams. Through sturdy launchpad that enables our personnel to achieve your jobs, I want you to have a strong drive to not only their dreams. I hope that each and every Marubeni Group achieve your dreams but also contribute to your customemployee realizes his or her dreams by leveraging the ers’ businesses and local communities.” mega-platform that is the Marubeni Group. By realizing The world today faces many societal challenges related our individual dreams through operational management to sustainability, including environmental, food, energy tailored to regions, markets and businesses, we will help and other resource issues. As a general trading company, solve societal problems and contribute to local communithe Marubeni Group is always proactively addressing ties’ development. these issues. Additionally, we look upon recent major The Marubeni Group aims to maximize its corporate changes in our business environment as a tremendous value by contributing to societal progress and regional chance for general trading companies to create new higheconomic development together with all of our stakeholdgrowth business opportunities. ers. In this way, we will keep growing over the coming We in the Marubeni Group have the power to resolve years and decades. such societal issues and create new business opportunities Integrated Report 2017 9 Business Models Marubeni’s Value Creation Process Marubeni creates new value by deploying various forms of capital in its business activities in pursuit of unrivaled strengths. The economic value and societal value (resolution of societal problems) thus created are shared broadly among stakeholders and reinvested in Marubeni’s operations, leading to medium-to long-term growth in corporate value. Our activities Food & Consumer Products Group The Food & Consumer Products Group operates a wide range of busiOur Inputs nesses related to food, shelter and clothing. It aims to create and maximize business value by capturing demand growth driven by global population growth and providing high-added-value services that meet Financial Capital changing consumer needs reflective of increasingly diverse lifestyles. Strong financial foundation Chemical & Forest Products Group The Chemical & Forest Products Group operates within the range of agricultural materials, chemicals and paper pulp. The Agri-Input Division Intellectual Capital has built up a platform providing various commodities and services, whereas the Chemicals/Paper Pulp Division responds swiftly to the Operational know-how and brands needs of the market, to provide added value to the customers. amassed over decades Human Capital Together with Energy & Metals Group The Energy & Metals Group operates in a wide range of businesses throughOur Stakeholders out the supply chain, including resource development, smelting, recyDiverse, professional workforce cling, and trading raw materials and refined products. It continues to strengthen its earnings foundation by improving operational efficiency while helping to ensure stable resource supplies. Social and Relationship Capital Partnerships/relationships of trust Power Business & Plant Group The Power Business & Plant Group runs a diversified collection of ecowith local communities nomically and societally foundational infrastructure businesses, including power plants, water and sewage utilities, transportation systems and industrial plant businesses. It continues to accumulate stable, prime Natural Capital assets while enhancing its existing assets’ value on an ongoing basis. Global environment and natural resources underpin all businesses Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group The Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group is active in a broad range of businesses involving aircraft, ships, automotives, leasing, construction machinery and industrial machinery. While strengthening its operating companies’ management, it is also strategically investing in new businesses with the potential to generate stable earnings. 10 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Our OutcOmes As of March 31, 2017 (*as of April 1, 2017) Financial capital Value drivers environment/ society customers/ Business Free Cash Flow: ¥370.8 Consolidated Net Profit: ¥155.4 billion billion Partners Net D/E Ratio: 1.20 Times Total Annual Dividends Paid: g Risk P ro j ec tM ¥34.7 billion in Management et t a rke h Fin an Intellectual capital Ma earc rk na Ma ce ge s Re me nt History: 159 years since founding ce Consolidated Subsidiaries plian employees Environment shareholders/ Governance Audi and Associates: 438 Com Investors ting Sites*: 131 locations in 66 countries/regions Human capital 39,952 Group Workforce: Infor [ customers/Business Partners ] Tra Com de (consolidated-basis) personnel We are committed to providing highly satisfying products and services, promoting fair mati plian dealing and upgrading our service functions with the aim of gaining customers’ and busice 16.6 Employees’ Average Tenure: Ope on ness partners’ trust and confidence. We constantly endeavor to better satisfy and win the (parent company) years trust of customers and business partners rat Socialby responding sincerely to their needs as we +50 develop and offer Women in Management Positions: in g L safe products and services useful to society. eg al (relative to 2014) % HR Co Aff [ shareholders/Investors ] s mp irs a tic We strivenyto ensure management is practices and transparency, upgrade our disclosure og social and relationship capital a Ma Group governance. tingaim to enhance our Lcorporate strengthen our na Accoun We also value by gem in our operating environment, earning stable profits and being adapting to changes Net Power Generation Capacity: ent environmentally and socially conscious. 11,765 (53 overseas projects in 22 countries + 18 domestic projects) MW [ environment/society ] We are committed to helping to create thriving local communities and coexisting as a Marubeni Fund’s Cumulative member of local society. Overseas, we respect local culture and customs, and pursue ¥4.2 Charitable Contributions: management that contributes to local communities’ development. We resolutely oppose (1975-2016) billion antisocial forces Marubeni or organizations creates new value that threaten in accord order the publicwith society’s or civilspirit ofsafety. its We voluntarily and proactively act to mitigate environmental problems in the belief Natural capital Company that doing Creed, “Fairness, so is an essential Innovation condition for corporate Harmony,” andexistence by capiand activities. We also help to preserve the global environment through environmental businesses and efforts Population Served by Water Business: talizing on the core functions, expertise, know-how and other to reduce our environmental impact. strengths it has amassed over its long history. (7 countries) approx. 8 million [ employees ] Tree Plantations’ Area: We endeavor to treat Group employees adequately and provide them with suitable workplaces while respecting their individual values and lifestyles. Additionally, we aim to approx. 210,000 ha create discrimination-free workplaces where everyone can work comfortably. Integrated Report 2017 11 Integrated Report 2017 17 Business Models ainability rgeting Marubeni’s Sustained Value D Creation Growth DistributionProcess Businesses Marubeni creates new value by deploying various forms of capital in its business activities in pursuit of g its business activities, Marubeni identifies hrough Marub of societal problems) thus unrivaled strengths. the economic value and osocietal mental, social and governance) issues S ciety tvalue (resolution eni’s to Buoperations, created are shared broadly among stakeholders hly material to sustained growth. b u te Marubeni’s Focus on suchindomestic-demand-oriented and reinvested sin businesses leading as to r i value-added distribution and agri-relatedsbusinesses e medium-to long-term growth in corporate nt value. se worldgrated business activities that o wide (food, chemicals, transport). s C Strengthening supply chain y on ESG objectives such as Promote platform-type business models in regions, fields competitiveness tal problems, Marubeni OuR aCtIvItIeS and product areas that are expecting growth through M&A and organic growth to expand earnings and improve profitonly enhance its value ability over the long term. Food & Consumer Products Group conomic activities but Primarily take majority investment. The Food & Consumer Products Group operates a wide range of busiOuR INPutS keholders’ trust in its Developing businesses that solve nesses related to food, shelter and mize business value by capturing clothing. towards Contributing create and maxiIt aims tocommunity development and strengtheningby global demand growth driven on process. social and environmental issues population growth and providing ourhigh-added-value operating base services that meet Financial Capital changing consumer needs reflective of increasingly diverse lifestyles. Strong financial foundation Chemical & Forest Products Group Environment Management Governance Policies The Chemical & Forest Products Group operates within the range of agricultural materials, chemicals and paper pulp. The Agri-Input Division Intellectual Capital has built up a platform providing various commodities and services, Protecting To globally whereas Chemicals/Paper for lay thethegroundwork Pulp long-term Division responds earnings swiftly corporate Strengthening to the Operational know-how and the global environment brands needs of the market, to provide added value to the governance customers. amassed over decades strategies tailored to individual businesses’ operating Strengthening internal controls Social energy & Metals Group Human Capital The Energy & Metals Group operates in a wide range of businesses throughPromoting supply chain Strengthening compliance Respect out the supply humanincluding forchain, rights resource development, smelting, recyDiverse, professional workforce management Stable Earnings-Type S cling, and trading raw materials and refined products. It continues to Promoting social contribution strengthen Promotingits earnings foundation by improving operational efficiency human resources activities Businesses whiledevelopment helping to ensure stable resource supplies. The (Infrastructure, R etc.) Social and Relationship Capital Bas is fPower i ’s C S or Ma ruben& Plant Group Business Partnerships/relationships of trust The Power Business & Plant Group runs a diversified collection of ecowith local communities nomically and societally foundational infrastructure businesses, includFocus ingon new powerinvestment plants, water in stable-earnings and sewage utilities,infrastructure transportation systems businesses that areplant and industrial backed by long-term businesses. contracts, It continues such asstable, prime to accumulate Natural Capital assetsMaterial IPP*1 with Issuestreatment while*2enhancing PPAs , water its existing and sewage assets’ value onservices an ongoing basis. and other PPPs*3 to grow earnings. Global environment and natural • Strengthening corporate governance As investments in these businesses • Strengthening internalrequire large amounts of controls resources underpin all businesses transportation capital, have & Industrial a limited • Strengthening upside Machinery Group payout and high dividend compliance ratios,The minority investment takeTransportation stakes as a matter Machinery Groupofispolicy. • Respect for& human Industrialrights active in a broad range of businesses involving aircraft, ships, automotives, leasing, conTake active •role struction in projects machinery human Promoting evenresources when machinery. and industrial in a minority development investWhile strengthening its ment position. • Promoting operating companies’supply chain management management, it is also strategically investing in new businesses • Protecting with the the potential to generate stable earnings. global environment • Promoting social contribution activities The Marubeni Group fulfills its responsibility *1 IPP: Independent Power Producer toward the environmental and social impact *2 PPA: Power Purchase Agreement *3 PPP: Public-Private Partnership of its businesses. tion 10 Marubeni Corporation 12 Marubeni Corporation Material Issues Chap.1 Management Strategies • Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues • Strengthening supply chain competitiveness • Contributing towards community development and strengthening F our operating base Finance Businesses The Marubeni Group solves social and environmental issues while strengthening its Our OutcOmes competitiveness, leading to sustainable growth. As of March 31, 2017 (*as of April 1, 2017) Concentrate on leasing and sales finance businesses. Financial capital Promote platform-type business models in regions, fields environment/ customers/ and product areas that are expecting growth through M&A Free Cash Flow: ¥370.8 billion Business and organic growth to expand earnings and improve profitsociety ability over the long term. Consolidated Net Profit: ¥155.4 billion Partners Primarily take majority investment. However, allow for minority investment stakes when large-scale investment Net D/E Ratio: 1.20 Times is required. Total Annual Dividends Paid: ¥34.7 billion Intellectual capital History: 159 years since founding Consolidated Subsidiaries by Business Model employees shareholders/ Investors and Associates: 438 Sites*: 131 locations in 66 Courtesy of Fukushima Offshore Win countries/regions (Project sponsored by Ministry of Ec growth, Marubeni is pursuing business and investment Trade and Industry’s Agency for Nat Human capital environment, business models and other attributes. Identification and Review Process of Material Issues in Our Sustainability 39,952 Group Workforce: [ customers/Business Partners ] (consolidated-basis) personnel We are committed to providing highly satisfying products and services, promoting fair Selection and prioritization of issues dealing and upgrading our service functions with the aim of gaining customers’ and busi16.6 Employees’ Average Tenure: ness partners’ trust and confidence. We constantly endeavorDialoguetowith stakeholders better satisfy and win the Confirm expectations from (parent societycompany) Analysis and consideration years of the i trust of customers and business partners by responding sincerelyandtobusiness their needs as we • Dialogue with CSR experts on Marubeni N • Customers partners Natural Resource develop and offer safe products and services useful to society. • Shareholders Women in Management Positions: • Expectations from NGOs / (relative NPOs to 2014) +50 • Company Creed, Management% Philo [ shareholders/Investors ] Investments We strive to ensure management transparency, upgrade • Employees • Localour • Requests disclosure practices and organizations communities from SRI research social and relationship Corporate • Management Principles capital plan strengthen our Group governance. We also aim to enhance our corporate value by • Grasping of international treaties • Business growth and continuity po adapting to changes in our operating environment, earning stable profits and being and the trends of each country Net Power and Generation• Capacity: Risk management environmentally and socially conscious. 11,765 (53 overseas projects in 22 countries industry • Strengthening of legal regulations, + 18 domestic projects) MW [ environment/society ] Maintain assets based on a long-term perspective. Focus • Creation of new business We are committed to helping to create thriving local communities and coexisting as a Marubeni Fund’s Cumulative efforts on an early start of production for projects that are member of local society. Overseas, we respect local culture and customs, and pursue ¥4.2 already in the process of being implemented. At the same Charitable Contributions: management that contributes to local communities’ development. We resolutely oppose Selection of real and potential(1975-2016) social and environmental issues billion time, center on long-term projects with a high level of cost antisocial forces or organizations that threaten public order or civil society’s safety. competitiveness when making new investments. We voluntarily and proactively act to mitigate environmental problems in the belief Natural capital that doing so is an essential condition As the dividend payout corporate for ratio is highexistence and activities. amounts We also and investment help to preserve the are global environment large, through environmental make participation as a Identify minorityissues businesses with highand stakeholder in effortswithin materiality Population Served by Water Business: Approve to reduce our environmental projects impact. with operators that are reliable forMarubeni’s investing.Sustainability (7 countries) approx. million 8 [ employees ] Establish a framework to balance the Group’s cumulative Tree Plantations’ Area: CSR & Environment Committ Group employees We endeavor to treat investment adequately in order and fluctuating provide them to stabilize with suitable at a workprofits places while respecting their certain individual level due to volatile andunstable values and lifestyles. Additionally, prices.we aim to resource Instruct / Advise approx. 210,000 (Directed by the CEO) ha create discrimination-free workplaces where everyone canImplement business activities with work comfortably. goals and purposes Report result Annual review Integrated Report 2017 13 Integrated Report 2017 17 Integ Sustainability —Targeting Sustained Growth In conducting its business activities, Marubeni identifies hrough Marub ESG (environmental, social and governance) issues S o ciety t eni’s to Bus that are highly material to sustained growth. b u te i ne tri ss Through integrated business activities that o n es C Strengthening supply chain place priority on ESG objectives such as competitiveness solving societal problems, Marubeni aims to not only enhance its value through its economic activities but also gain stakeholders’ trust in its Developing businesses that solve Contributing towards community development and strengthening value creation process. social and environmental issues our operating base Environment Governance Strengthening corporate Protecting the global environment governance Strengthening internal controls Social Promoting supply chain Strengthening compliance Respect for human rights management Promoting social contribution Promoting human resources activities development The R Bas is for Marubeni’s CS Material Issues • Strengthening corporate governance • Strengthening internal controls • Strengthening compliance • Respect for human rights • Promoting human resources development • Promoting supply chain management • Protecting the global environment • Promoting social contribution activities The Marubeni Group fulfills its responsibility toward the environmental and social impact of its businesses. 14 Marubeni Corporation Material Issues • Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues • Strengthening supply chain competitiveness • Contributing towards community development and strengthening our operating base The Marubeni Group solves social and environmental issues while strengthening its competitiveness, leading to sustainable growth. Courtesy of Fukushima Offshore Wind Farm Consortium (Project sponsored by Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Agency for Natural Resources and Energy) Identification and Review Process of Material Issues in Our Sustainability Selection and prioritization of issues Dialogue with stakeholders Confirm expectations from society Analysis and consideration of the impact • Customers and business partners • Dialogue with CSR experts on Marubeni • Shareholders • Expectations from NGOs / NPOs • Company Creed, Management Philosophy, and • Employees • Requests from SRI research Corporate Principles • Local communities organizations • Management plan • Grasping of international treaties • Business growth and continuity potential and the trends of each country and • Risk management industry • Strengthening of legal regulations, etc. • Creation of new business Selection of real and potential social and environmental issues Identify issues with high materiality within Approve Marubeni’s Sustainability CSR & Environment Committee (Directed by the CEO) Instruct / Advise Implement business activities with goals and purposes Report result Annual review Integrated Report 2017 15 Business Models Marubeni’s Value Creation Process Marubeni creates new value by deploying various forms of capital in its business activities in pursuit of unrivaled strengths. the economic value and societal value (resolution of societal problems) thus created are shared broadly among stakeholders and reinvested in Marubeni’s operations, leading to medium-to long-term growth in corporate value. OuR aCtIvItIeS Food & Consumer Products Group The Food & Consumer Products Group operates a wide range of busiOuR INPutS nesses related to food, shelter and clothing. It aims to create and maximize business value by capturing demand growth driven by global population growth and providing high-added-value services that meet Financial Capital changing consumer needs reflective of increasingly diverse lifestyles. Strong financial foundation Chemical & Forest Products Group The Chemical & Forest Products Group operates within the range of agricultural materials, chemicals and paper pulp. The Agri-Input Division Intellectual Capital has built up a platform providing various commodities and services, whereas the Chemicals/Paper Pulp Division responds swiftly to the Operational know-how and brands needs of the market, to provide added value to the customers. amassed over decades Human Capital Together with energy & Metals Group The Energy & Metals Group operates in a wide range of businesses throughOur Stakeholders out the supply chain, including resource development, smelting, recyDiverse, professional workforce cling, and trading raw materials and refined products. It continues to strengthen its earnings foundation by improving operational efficiency while helping to ensure stable resource supplies. Social and Relationship Capital Partnerships/relationships of trust PowerGroup’s The Marubeni Businessoperations & Plant Group are supported by diverse The Power Business & Plant Group runs a diversified collection of ecowith local communities stakeholders throughout the world. nomically and societally We infrastructure foundational accordingly recognize businesses, includthe importance of always listening to our stakeholders’ opinions, ing power plants, water and sewage utilities, transportation systems and industrial plant businesses. It continues to accumulate stable, prime Natural Capital putting our heads assetstogether with while enhancing andvalue theirsassets’ its existing advancing asbasis. one. on an ongoing Global environment and natural Cognizant of our Group business activities’ societal and resources underpin all businesses environmental impacts,& we createMachinery and offerGroup new value to help transportation Industrial solve societal issues together The Transportation with our & Industrial stakeholders. Machinery Group is active in a broad range of businesses involving aircraft, ships, automotives, leasing, constakeholders We believe ourstruction areindustrial machinery and all equally machinery.important. We doitsnot While strengthening operating companies’ management, it is also strategically investing in give any one stakeholder constituency precedence over any other. new businesses with the potential to generate stable earnings. 10 Marubeni Corporation 16 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Our outcomes As of March 31, 2017 (*as of April 1, 2017) Financial Capital Environment/ Customers/ Free Cash Flow: ¥370.8 billion Business Society Consolidated Net Profit: ¥155.4 billion Partners Net D/E Ratio: 1.20 Times Total Annual Dividends Paid: ¥34.7 billion Intellectual Capital History: 159 years since founding Consolidated Subsidiaries Employees Shareholders/ and Associates: 438 Investors Sites*:  131 locations in 66 countries/regions Human Capital 39,952 Group Workforce: [ Customers/Business Partners ] (consolidated-basis) personnel We are committed to providing highly satisfying products and services, promoting fair dealing and upgrading our service functions with the aim of gaining customers’ and busi16.6 Employees’ Average Tenure: ness partners’ trust and confidence. We constantly endeavor to better satisfy and win the (parent company) years trust of customers and business partners by responding sincerely to their needs as we +50 develop and offer safe products and services useful to society. Women in Management Positions: (relative to 2014) % [ Shareholders/Investors ] We strive to ensure management transparency, upgrade our disclosure practices and Social and Relationship Capital strengthen our Group governance. We also aim to enhance our corporate value by adapting to changes in our operating environment, earning stable profits and being Net Power Generation Capacity: environmentally and socially conscious. 11,765 (53 overseas projects in 22 countries + 18 domestic projects) MW [ Environment/Society ] We are committed to helping to create thriving local communities and coexisting as a Marubeni Fund’s Cumulative member of local society. Overseas, we respect local culture and customs, and pursue ¥4.2 Charitable Contributions: management that contributes to local communities’ development. We resolutely oppose (1975-2016) billion antisocial forces or organizations that threaten public order or civil society’s safety. We voluntarily and proactively act to mitigate environmental problems in the belief Natural Capital that doing so is an essential condition for corporate existence and activities. We also help to preserve the global environment through environmental businesses and efforts Population Served by Water Business: to reduce our environmental impact. (7 countries) approx. 8 million [ Employees ] Tree Plantations’ Area: We endeavor to treat Group employees adequately and provide them with suitable workplaces while respecting their individual values and lifestyles. Additionally, we aim to  approx. 210,000 ha create discrimination-free workplaces where everyone can work comfortably. Integrated Report 2017 17 Management Policies by Business Model inputs Helena Chemical Company Financial Capital: Create value by maximizing farming business Wholly owned by the Marubeni Group production from the customer’s viewpoint and Human Capital: Helena Chemical Company employees 5,160 profitability, and grow to become among the largest (As of March 31, 2017) agricultural input retailers in the U.S. Social and Relationship Capital: U.S. domestic network of 495 sales locations Distribution D Businesses Helena Chemical Company’s Strengths and Competitive Edge Provides customers with all materials at every stage of farming from tilling through harvesting based on strategic partnerships with major suppliers Deeply rooted in each region with geographic diversity Possesses exclusive product line including crop protection products and fertilizers Employees well-versed in soil conditions, agricultural methods, and regulatory systems of individual regions Proposes consulting services leveraging technology of precision farming Accumulated understanding of customers’ needs and sales people who provide solutions representing growers’ interest 18 Marubeni Corporation Value drivers Outcomes Chap.1 Management Strategies Knowledgeable Helena’s exclusive Consulting service / experienced product line including representing growers’ As the distributor of choice, has the sales people crop protection prodinterest including 2nd largest U.S. share (market share capable enough to ucts and fertilizers utilization of informaapproximately 8%) understand real tion systems such as needs of the growers AGRIntelligence Provides optimal solutions through multi-faceted analyses of soil and crop using IT Deeply rooted in each region having a U.S. nationwide network The Marubeni Group, through its consolidated subcompany further enhanced its competitive edge and sidiary Helena Chemical Company (Helena), is accelerated growth. Now, in addition to the agriculengaged in the agricultural inputs retail business in tural inputs and consulting service, Helena is the United States, the world’s foremost agricultural expanding business further through the developsuperpower. US agri-inputs business, in which needs ment of new products and services, including the have become extremely diversified, is leading the AGRIntelligence (precision farming service) cuttingworld. Therefore, developing the business in the edge IT service. United States is key to the success of Marubeni’s The success of Helena, which always pursued agri-inputs business in the global market. value creation from the customer’s perspective, Marubeni and Helena incorporated innovations makes it a model case of the Distribution Businesses, to create Helena’s current original business model; the first of the Management Policies by Business up until the time it was acquired, the company’s Model, through seeking differentiation in the prodbusiness model had been mainly crop protection ucts, services, functions and other factors that sales. Firstly, the two companies took Helena’s investment recipients possess to create added value. strength in region-linked consulting sales and The basis of this success lay in Helena leveraging its expanded this to a nationwide network across the powerful regional network, providing customers with United States to create further growth. By having its exclusive product line and consulting services to built this network, Helena could gain a deep carve out new markets to further accelerate growth. understanding of the needs of those in the farming Looking ahead, Marubeni will learn from Helena’s business throughout the United States, and expandinnovations as a model case to disseminate knowling its product line to seeds and fertilizers, the edge and expertise globally to create further value. Integrated Report 2017 19 Finance F Businesses inputs Financial Capital: MAC Trailer Leasing Wholly owned by the Marubeni Group Intellectual Capital: • Highly specialized expertise in products and services • Marketing capabilities based in all regions of the US MAC Trailer Leasing, Inc. (PLM): • Localized management with local human resources Redefining the company’s strengths to innovate its Social and Relationship Capital: business model. Creating new value by focusing on Over 7,000 owned trailers and 28 sales locations within the US customer-centric products and services. Marubeni’s Automotive & Leasing Division engages in 7,000 trailers and 28 sales locations, and strive for a wide array of efforts, from general leasing to prodeven further growth. ucts specialized leasing and sales financing. Among PLM’s success is a model case for Finance these, MAC Trailer Leasing, Inc. (PLM), a products Businesses, the second management policy by busispecialized leasing company in the US, is a company ness model outlined in Marubeni’s mid-term plan. that actively seeks new value creations and consisPLM thoroughly confronted its own strengths, and in tently delivers great results. Since joining the doing so it gradually clarified the direction of its new Marubeni Group in 2000, PLM has worked on busibusiness model by redefining those advantages. In ness model renovation through several discussions focusing on its strengths, it pursued economies of with Marubeni on new value creations. In 2005, PLM scale by increasing its high-quality assets, such as decided to focus on refrigerated trailer leasing and refrigerated trailers and locations. Those assets were rental business, in which PLM saw the potential effectively utilized through asset financing to secure long-term growth based on the US demographic funding. This led PLM to build a virtuous cycle: accutrend. The execution of this change included improvmulate further quality assets, improve its products ing its financial structure, such as replacing assets and services, then expand these throughout the US. and cost reductions, in the face of the economic In Finance Businesses, Marubeni adopts a basic recession. It also included working toward improvestrategy of improving on its strengths through accuments in products and services to penetrate the mulating its assets and improving its efficiency in the market deeper. Presently, PLM is expanding its busiequipment leasing and sales financing business area ness to provide fleet management services that in the transportation industry, and will invest in busiinclude maintenance, GPS-enabled location and nesses which could be a potential platform for temperature monitoring, and consulting services for Marubeni to expand the businesses geographically. refrigerated trailers. At the same time, PLM continMoving forward, Marubeni will strive to use PLM’s ues to develop its refrigerated trailer leasing business successful case to create even further value around to cater to a wide variety of clients. PLM will continue the world. to make effective use of its assets, consisting of over 20 Marubeni Corporation Value drivers Outcomes Chap.1 Management Strategies Leasing company GPS-enabled fleet Maintenance focusing on management Number one refrigerated trailer leasrefrigerated trailers ing company in the US Control of trailer interior temperatures Enabling high-quality fresh and frozen food transportation throughout the US Reducing food spoilage Expanding its business as total fleet management provider for refrigerated trailers PLM’s Strengths and Competitive Advantages Fleet management in pursuit of ideal refrigerated transport • Trailer lifecycle management • Data-driven analysis • Residual risk strategy • Consumption-based modeling for optimal asset life Fleet Planning • Lease vs. ownership analysis Po Ap • Optimizing trailer design lic • Cash flow management y n& • Lower lifecycle maintenance cia tio ca gn • Tax advantage modeling an l pli esi • Damage-resistant specifications D • Leasing options to prevent residual risk Fin • Maximizing loading capabilities Competitive Advantages Insight and know-how Disposition grounded in ample Maintain • Nationwide remarketing program experience • Trailer and refrigerated unit care • End-of-term solutions and repair Reductions in client labor • Eliminate disposal time and cost • Emergency breakdown service and costs • PLM pre-owned equipment available • Disciplined preventative maintefor sale or finance Client focused nance plan Re • Onsite mobile service – we come to you al t nt en An por Re ipm aly ts • Locations throughout US u sis & • Web-based reporting capabilities Eq • 28’ to 53’ trailer availability Safety & • Asset lifecycle cost analysis • Single-temp, multi-temp and Compliance • Benchmarking by segment and electric-only equipment type • Flexible rental solutions as little • Food Safety Modernization Act compliance • Temperature reporting with real as one day • SmartWay® EPA certified equipment time alerts and push notifications • Electronic data retention • ColdLink® temperature documentation Integrated Report 2017 21 inputs IPP Business Financial Capital: Project financing composed from various funding sources, such as the Company and its investment Realizing stable and sizable profits in the IPP*1 partners, domestic and foreign export credit agencies, and banks, both in Japan and abroad business through project development ability and Intellectual Capital: asset management capabilities backed by results • Local sales presence from overseas power projects. • Know-how cultivated from power plant EPC*2 projects *1 IPP: Independent Power Producer Social and Relationship Capital: Regional development offices (Singapore, Dubai, Johannesburg, London, New York), Asset Management Offices (Hong Kong, Abu Dhabi, Lisbon) Stable Earnings*2 EPC: Engineering, Procurement, and Construction S Type Businesses (Infrastructure, etc.) Strengths and Competitive Advantages of IPP Business Local sales presence • Solid reputation through the reliable execution of contracts and competitiveness in EPC and IPP business EPC project management capabilities and synergy with IPP business • Cost competitiveness and ability to complete contracts in a stable manner in the EPC business, our core competency • Synergy effects in construction management for power plants Competitiveness and development capabilities in the IPP business, backed up by actual results • Business development capabilities that leverage strong competitive position in international bidding • Ability to solve problems in the development of IPP projects Business management capabilities • Demonstration of leadership and independent involvement in business • Asset management system covering all owned assets • Long-term market analysis problem-solving abilities, built by grasping decentralization and deregulation of energy and trying for new business models 22 Marubeni Corporation Value drivers Outcomes Chap.1 Management Strategies Project Development and Asset management development construction • Safe, secure, and Leading IPP business player in Japan • Regional sales • Negotiating with stable operations with net capacity of 11 gigawatts • Sourcing governments and clients • Increasing value of • Partner selection • Power plant construcassets Global expansion with 71 projects in tion contracts (EPC 23 countries, well distributed between contracts) • Financing composition developed and emerging countries • Project management Expanding business across diversified power sources, from large thermal and Project development ability and portfolio management hydroelectric plants to eco-friendly renewable energy Marubeni’s involvement in power began with trade in customers’ needs have grown to include financing electrical power equipment, and in the 1960s it through private companies and power generation moved on to EPC business overseas. In the 1990s, asset management, we have continued to achieve when privatization for infrastructure projects opened results with our project financing structure through up worldwide, business expansion into foreign IPPs domestic and foreign financial institutions, and with began, which was determined to have the potential maintenance and operation work alongside partner for long-term, stable profits. In the 2000s, work electric companies in Japan and the West. Marubeni’s began in the power and water business (IWPP*3) in power business has an ultimate goal of contributing the Middle East. Ever since then, we have promoted by providing safe, stable, and secure power over the diversification in our power business, growing and long term of 20 to 30 years, based on a key infraevolving into a global general power contractor, dealstructure business that aims for sustainable growth ing in areas such as power wholesalers in the UK, along with local communities, as Marubeni strives for the renewable energy business, the domestic power even greater value creation in the future. supplier business (PPS* ), and power distribution. 4 IPP is the core business within Stable EarningsWith a net worldwide capacity of 11 gigawatts across Type Businesses, the third management policy by 23 countries, we have become Japan’s leading IPP business model outlined in our mid-term plan. These business player. businesses mainly target the infrastructure business, Marubeni’s continuous effort to satisfy its clients’ which can yield stable profits backed by long-term high demand has led to its strength in power project contracts. Moving forward, we will continue to work businesses around the world. Starting as a trade proactively toward expanding profits while keeping business that delivered individual parts for facilities, an eye on the risks and trends of the times. For new such as turbines, we have moved on to become a investments, focus will be placed on capital effiprime contractor for power plant construction, coverciency, seeking to increase profits through the use of ing everything from design, to commissioning and new technologies, such as the Internet of Things, plant maintenance training after construction, accuand to further build our portfolio of businesses that mulating successful results as we propose the opticontinually generate stable income. mum solutions with our full turnkey contracts. *3 IWPP: Independent Water and Power Producer Furthermore, within the IPP business, where *4 PPS: Power Producer and Supplier Integrated Report 2017 23 Natural Resource N Investments inputs Financial Capital: Large-scale project with a total development cost of Roy Hill Iron Ore Project approximately ¥1 trillion (Marubeni Group has 15% stake) Intellectual Capital: • Strong marketing experience and sales network covering Asia Fully exerting capabilities as a general trading • Excellent insight related to formation of project financing company to create cost competitiveness based on a Social and Relationship Capital: long-term outlook, while contributing to the steel Supply capabilities of the Marubeni Group, supporting procurement of construction materials and heavy equipment industries in Japan and the rest of Asia through a Natural Capital: stable supply of quality iron ore. Abundant resources of quality iron ore The Roy Hill Iron Ore Project, in which Marubeni fine-tuned investment plan and steadily execute that holds a 15% stake, is a large-scale project with inteplan. While the procurement of development funds grated infrastructure, including mine, railway, and was extremely difficult, Marubeni and its partners port, all owned in-house. The total development cost succeeded in securing a project financing package for the project is about ¥1 trillion. The annual productotaling US$7.2 billion after about a year and a half tion and shipment capacity of 55 million tonnes is the of negotiations with banks. Construction included largest for any single iron mine in the Pilbara region of not only the mine, but also a 344-km* railway from Western Australia. The majority of the production the mine to the port, as well as port facilities capable volume is accounted for in long-term sales contracts, of handling large transport ships. All of those faciliwhich have been signed with steel companies in ties take advantage of the latest technologies and Japan and throughout Asia, and shipments began in products, with the Marubeni Group’s broad business December 2015. In preparation for the move to full network also contributing to the procurement of production, efforts with project partners Hancock materials and equipment. Over the long term, this Prospecting (Australia), POSCO (South Korea), and project will create new value by utilizing large comChina Steel Corporation (Taiwan), are presently under petitive advantages in production and shipping costs. way with production ramping up steadily according The Roy Hill Iron Ore Project is a model case of to plan. the fourth management policy by business model, The Roy Hill Iron Ore Project is an example of a Natural Resource Investments, which strives for longnatural resource project, in which decisions of initial term creation of value through held assets. The expeinvestment based on a long-term outlook are vital. By rience and know-how obtained through this project making full use of its capabilities as a general trading will continue to be used in Marubeni’s future Natural company, such as its strong ability to raise funds, Resource Investments. highly experienced personnel, and wide-ranging * About the same as the distance between Tokyo and Nagoya business network, Marubeni was able to develop a 24 Marubeni Corporation Value drivers Outcomes Chap.1 Management Strategies Highly experiState-of-the-art Long-term sales enced manageproduction managecontracts with major ment team with ment system making steel companies in Annual production of up to 55 million track record of use of IT features Japan and throughout tonnes of ore from a single iron mine in realizing quick such as remote Asia startup of production operation the Pilbara region of Western Australia Creation of 2,000 jobs during the operation phase Fully integrated project with all infrastructure, Maintaining cost competitiveness that from the mine to the railway and port, owned in-house ranks with major resource companies Strengths and Competitive Advantages of the Roy Hill Iron Ore Project Strengths of the iron ore resources • Abundant resources of about 2.3 billion tonnes • High-grade iron ore • Supply source of lump ore which is expected to become increasingly rare Strengths of operational capabilities • Cost competitiveness that ranks with major resources companies • Fully integrated operation with all infrastructure, from the mine to the railway and port, owned in-house • State-of-the-art production management system Strengths of human resources • Strong partnership between project owners • Managed by a highly experienced management team • Broad marketing network which enabled settlement of long-term sales contracts with steel companies in Japan and Asia Integrated Report 2017 25 Performance Highlights Mid-Term Management Plan “G” PLAN SG2009 U.S. GAAP 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 For the year: Total volume of trading transactions*1 ¥9,554,943 ¥10,631,616 ¥10,462,067 ¥7,965,055 Gross trading profit 531,171 596,916 644,803 491,673 Operating profit*2 165,020 200,153 234,065 118,926 Dividend income 20,705 23,645 27,719 23,561 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures 44,880 55,661 21,973 28,864 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent (Net profit) 119,349 147,249 111,208 95,312 At year-end: Total assets ¥4,873,304 ¥5,207,225 ¥4,707,309 ¥4,586,572 Net interest-bearing debt 1,843,445 2,001,977 1,911,607 1,706,397 Total equity 820,839 860,581 623,356 799,746 Amounts per share (¥, US$): Basic earnings*5 ¥72.41 ¥84.93 ¥64.04 ¥54.89 Cash dividends 10.00 13.00 10.00 8.50 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 152,075 ¥ 235,290 ¥ 343,618 ¥ 280,610 Net cash used in investing activities (135,147) (306,855) (387,069) (35,207) Free cash flow 16,928 (71,565) (43,451) 245,403 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 24,819 65,865 257,608 (254,655) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 414,952 402,281 573,924 570,789 Ratios: ROA (%) 2.52 2.92 2.24 2.05 ROE (%) 16.94 19.31 16.51 14.52 Shareholders’ equity ratio (%)* 6 15.3 15.0 12.0 16.2 Net debt–equity (D/E) ratio (Times) 2.25 2.33 3.07 2.13 Notes: *1 “Total volume of trading transactions” includes all transactions involving the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries regardless of transaction type. “Total volume of trading transactions” and “operating profit” are presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practices for investors’ convenience and are not required by IFRS. *2 Operating profit = Gross trading profit + SGA expenses + Provision for doubtful accounts *3 U.S. dollar amounts above and elsewhere in this report are converted from yen, for convenience only, at ¥112 to US$1, the exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2017. *4 Including financing through perpetual subordinated loans in the amount of ¥ 250.0 billion in August 2016. The loans are classified as Total equity (other equity instruments) under IFRS. *5 “Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent” is based on “Profit attributable to owners of the parent” excluding the amount not attributable to ordinary shareholders. *6 Shareholders’ equity = Total equity – Non-controlling interests – Perpetual subordinated loan-related items 26 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies SG-12 GC2015 GC2018 IFRS (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2017.3*3 ¥9,020,468 ¥10,584,393 ¥10,509,088 ¥13,633,520 ¥13,925,339 ¥12,207,957 ¥11,134,169 $99,412 522,152 541,454 528,194 651,063 707,318 670,086 613,880 5,481 145,774 157,315 122,932 157,462 160,688 104,231 91,597 818 19,200 27,351 30,112 34,917 34,957 18,555 17,512 156 71,452 81,528 87,790 99,405 89,919 31,824 114,725 1,024 136,541 172,125 205,696 210,945 105,604 62,264 155,350 1,387 ¥4,679,089 ¥5,129,887 ¥5,965,086 ¥7,256,085 ¥7,673,064 ¥7,117,686 ¥6,896,733 $61,578 1,615,634 1,755,705 1,785,247 2,491,043 2,887,608 2,762,453 2,099,939 18,749 4 831,730 915,770 1,188,379 1,531,231 1,678,713 1,415,202 1,742,758* 15,560 ¥78.63 ¥99.13 ¥118.48 ¥121.52 ¥60.85 ¥35.88 ¥88.08 $0.79 12.00 20.00 24.00 25.00 26.00 21.00 23.00 0.21 ¥ 210,044 ¥ 172,599 ¥ 295,734 ¥ 291,188 ¥ 170,943 ¥ 359,132 ¥ 324,263 $2,895 (128,495) (273,689) (210,878) (706,585) (331,411) (174,596) 46,504 415 81,549 (101,090) 84,856 (415,397) (160,468) 184,536 370,767 3,310 (17,010) 171,913 129,030 196,779 (70,705) (36,268) (258,123) (2,305) 616,003 677,312 919,475 665,498 469,106 600,840 704,972 6,294 2.95 3.51 3.71 3.15 1.41 0.84 2.22 17.98 21.17 20.74 16.67 7.28 4.39 11.09 16.5 16.6 19.0 19.1 19.8 18.5 20.9 1.94 1.92 1.50 1.63 1.72 1.95 1.20 Integrated Report 2017 27 Financial Data Net profit / Total assets / ROA Total equity / Net interest-bearing debt / Net debt–equity (D/E) ratio (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Times) 3.71% 7,673.1 2,887.6 400 7,256.1 7,117.7 8,000 3,000 2,762.5 3 6,896.7 3.15% 2,491.0 5,965.1 300 6,000 2,099.9 1,785.2 1,742.8 2.22% 2,000 1,531.2 1,678.7 2 205.7 210.9 1.95 1.72 1,415.2 200 1.41% 4,000 1,188.4 1.50 1.63 155.4 105.6 0.84% 1.20 1,000 1 100 62.3 2,000 0 0 0 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 Net profit (Left scale) Total assets (Right scale) ROA Total equity (Left scale) Net interest-bearing debt (Left scale) Net debt–equity (D/E) ratio (Right scale) ROE Net profit per share (basic) (%) (Yen) 25 150 20.74 118.48 121.52 20 16.67 100 88.08 15 11.09 60.85 10 7.28 4.39 50 35.88 5 0 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 Operating cash flow / Investing cash flow / Free cash flow Total equity / Risk asset / Risk buffer* (Billions of yen) 370.8 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 359.1 324.3 400 295.7 291.2 2,000 800 184.5 1,742.8 170.9 1,678.7 84.9 1,531.2 46.5 1,415.2 1,500 1,306.6 600 601.6 (160.5) 1,188.4 1,137.0 1,173.1 0 1,141.2 (174.6) 853.6 (210.9) 1,000 394.2 400 372.1 (331.4) 334.8 ‒400 (415.4) 242.1 500 200 (706,6) ‒800 0 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 Operating cash flow Investing cash flow Free cash flow Total equity (Left scale) Risk asset (Left scale) Risk buffer (Right scale) * Risk buffer = Total equity – Risk asset Cash dividends (Yen) 30 26 24 25 23 21 20 10 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 28 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Non-Financial Data Environmental Data*1 Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Emissions (energy-related) Energy Consumption (t-CO2)(kiloton-CO2) Electricity consumption (MWh) Energy Consumption (TJ) 8,000 904 1,000 15,000 15,000 12,740 11,221 6,000 5,386 750 9,554 4,978 9,473 9,167 4,619 4,515 10,000 10,000 4,000 3,466 500 5,000 5,000 2,000 250 0 0 0 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices Scope1 (Left scale) Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices Scope2 (Left scale) Electricity consumption of Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices (Left scale) Marubeni Corporation’s other offices + consolidated subsidiaries Scope1 (Right scale) Marubeni Corporation’s other offices + consolidated subsidiaries Scope2 (Right scale) Energy consumption of Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries (Right scale) Water Consumption Waste Generated (m3) (thousand m3) (t)(kiloton) 150,000 60,000 900 108 120 791 50,985 706 108,107 96,105 97,143 580 100,000 91,382 40,000 600 531 80 432 50,000 40,357 20,000 300 40 0 0 0 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices (Left scale) Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices (Left scale) Others of Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries (Right scale) Others of Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries (Right scale) Social Data No. of employees (Consolidated)*2 / No. of employees (Non-consolidated)*3 /Percentage of male and female*4 Usage of annual paid leave*4 (People)(People) (%) 45,000 39,914 39,952 5,000 60 39,465 38,830 50.4 48.8 45.6 46.1 33,566 75.5% 74.7% 74.1% 73.7% 73.2% 44.0 4,437 4,458 30,000 4,379 4,500 40 4,289 4,166 15,000 4,000 20 25.3% 25.9% 26.3% 26.8% 24.5% 0 0 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 No. of employees (Consolidated) (Left scale) No. of employees (Non-consolidated) (Right scale) Percentage of males Percentage of females *1 Data collected from the following offices: No. of employees who took maternity leave*5 / No. of employees who took childcare leave*6 For fiscal years 2013-2016 (People) Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices (Tokyo Head Office, and Hokkaido, Nagoya, Osaka, Kyushu, and 60 Shizuoka Branches). Due to the relocation of the Osaka Branch in July 2015, the energy consumption of the 51 office in July is calculated based on figures at both its previous and current sites for FY 2016 data. 47 For FY 2017: 45 42 Marubeni Corporation and its domestic and international consolidated subsidiaries, excluding the grain 37 procurement and export company based in northern U.S., Helena Chemical, and the subsidiaries that are 40 designated to be liquidated or sold. 28 27 28 Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions (energy-related): 24 25 • Emission factors stipulated by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures are used for fuel and steam. • Emission factors for electricity: 20 Emission factors for each electric power provider released by the Ministry of the Environment (actual emission factors) are used for Marubeni Corporation. International Energy Agency (IEA) 2014 emission factors by country (CO2 emissions per kWh from electricity generation) are used for the domestic and international consolidated subsidiaries. • Emission factors for city gas: 0 For fiscal years 2013-2015, emission factors released by the gas companies in each location of the six 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 principal offices are used. From FY 2016, the emission factor stipulated by the Act on Promotion of Global No. of employees who took maternity leave No. of employees who took childcare leave Warming Countermeasures is used. *2 As of March 31. *3 Total figures include the number of Marubeni employees assigned to other companies and exclude secondees to Marubeni from other companies (as of March 31). *4 Figures for Marubeni Corporation (non-consolidated basis as of March 31). *5 Figures for Marubeni Corporation indicate the total number of people who used leave in the fiscal year, including those who used the leave continuously from the previous fiscal year. *6 Figures for Marubeni Corporation indicate the total number of people who started using leave in the applicable fiscal year. Integrated Report 2017 29 Message from the CFO We aim to continue strengthening our financial foundation to achieve sustainable growth. Nobuhiro Yabe The Highest Level of Free Cash Flow Managing Executive Officer, Member of the Board In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we endeavored CFO; Chief Operating Officer, Investor Relations and Credit Ratings; to solidify our balance sheet and upgrade our cash flow Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee; Chairman of CSR & Environment Committee; Chairman of Disclosure Committee management in accord with our top priority of improving our financial condition. In addition to steadily ratcheting up operating cash flow, we selectively invested in strategic growth opportunities while recouping some ¥300 billion of invested funds. We consequently achieved positive free cash flow (FCF), the sum of operating and investment cash flows, of ¥370.8 billion, our biggest FCF surplus since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001. I believe we fulfilled our commitment to improve our financial condition. 30 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Strong Financial Foundation Is the Cornerstone ¥400-500 billion. Having generated over ¥300 billion of of Marubeni’s Growth FCF after dividends in the fiscal year ended March 31, Given our business models’ objective of earning ade2017, we regard our revised three-year cumulative postquate returns within predetermined risk limits amid dividend FCF surplus target of ¥400-500 billion as a miniaccelerating change in our operating environment, mum goal. We intend to surpass it with expediting maintaining financial soundness is fundamental to our progress in strengthening our financial foundation. business operations. We believe we have to further By doing so, we will improve our net debt/equity ratio solidify our financial condition. In May 2017, we unveiled to around 1.0 times by March 31, 2019, and to the vicinity a revised GC2018 plan to clarify the utmost priority we of 0.8 times by no later than March 31, 2021. Even after place on further strengthening our financial foundation reducing our net debt/equity ratio to 0.8 times, we will as a springboard for growth. maintain financial discipline to keep the cornerstone of In the initial GC2018 plan, we were targeting positive our growth solid. We recognize that reducing financial FCF after dividends on a three-year cumulative basis. To leverage is of crucial importance from the standpoint of better improve our financial condition, we have raised this maintaining and improving our credit ratings as a comtarget to a cumulative post-dividend FCF surplus of pany that obtains financing globally. Cash Flows / Net D/E Ratio Operating cash flow (Left scale) Investing cash flow (Left scale) Free cash flow (Left scale) Net D/E Ratio (Right scale) (Billions of yen) (Times) 600 4.00 3.07 ¥370.8 billion 359.1 Approx. 1.0 343.6 2.13 Approx. 0.8 1.94 1.92 295.7 291.2 1.95 324.3 280.6 1.63 1.72 300 245.4 1.50 2.00 210.0 1.20 172.6 170.9 184.5 81.5 84.9 46.5 0 0 (43.5) (35.2) (128.5) (101.1) (160.5) (174.6) (210.9) –300 (273.7) (331.4) (387.1) (415.4) (706.6) SG2009 SG-12 GC2015 GC2018 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 19.3 21.3 (Forecast) (Forecast) Integrated Report 2017 31 While our top priority is strengthening our financial that are past their prime, cannot independently manage condition, we must also allocate capital to new investthemselves or cannot adequately control their cash flows. ments in the aim of sustained earnings growth. During the Those measures are critical components of maximizing revised GC2018 plan’s three-year term, we aim to allocate cash flow while also efficiently utilizing limited managea cumulative ¥400-500 billion to new investments. We ment resources. plan to strategically invest in carefully selected opportunities, mainly in non-resource businesses, in accord with Proactively Preparing for Future Changes management policy by business model. The external environment is relentlessly changing. Most By investing in new businesses, we will generate addinotably, fiscal and monetary policy normalization is acceltional cash flow that increases our capacity to invest in erating globally in the wake of the global economy’s ongogrowth. Meanwhile, we will use cash generated by busiing gradual recovery. Meanwhile, financial institutions are nesses without promising growth prospects to fund new facing regulatory tightening in the form of Basel III*. We investments in next-generation growth businesses. expect such changes to affect our funding environment Through such an approach, we aim to maximize cash flow before long. and, in turn, corporate value. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we reduced Moreover, we will decisively divest assets that lack a our net interest-bearing debt by roughly ¥660 billion by clear strategic rationale and strategically exit businesses not only running a large FCF surplus but also financing Management Cognizant of Cost of Capital We manage our operations with a risk/return mindset using our proprietary PATRAC metric in pursuit of returns in excess of our cost of capital. Since adopting PATRAC, we have been better allocating management resources by replacing unprofitable and inefficient assets. PATRAC (Profit After Tax less Risk Asset Cost) Risk asset amount Risk asset costs PATRAC Consolidated net profit (Necessary shareholders’ 10% (objective is long-term growth) equity) (Cost of capital) 32 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Upgrading cash-flow control in anticipation of medium-to long-term changes in our funding environment. ¥250 billion of perpetual subordinated loans. While our * Basel III is a new set of capital adequacy regulations intended to keep internationally active banks financially sound. It was issued in 2010 by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, financial foundation is thus getting steadily stronger, we a body comprising representatives of major countries’ financial regulatory authorities. will proactively strengthen it further to achieve sustainable growth irrespective of how our environment changes going forward. Under GC2018, we are targeting ROE of at least 10%. We aim to continue to boost capital efficiency through such means as improving profitability via asset reallocation. Risk / Reward Ratio Consolidated Risk / net profit Net sales Total assets = × × reward ratio Net sales Total assets Risk asset amount Consolidated net profit Risk / reward ratio (%) = ROA Risk asset amount Risk / Accumulate reward ratio Increase Improve asset quality assets improvement profit margins turnover rate through measures replacement Integrated Report 2017 33 Sustainability CSR Management The Marubeni Group strives to grow sustainably while coexisting and prospering together with the environment and society, and this cannot be accomplished by pursuing profit alone. We must adopt perspectives based on the environment and society as well as business profit, and strike a balance between creating value and evaluating ourselves based on these three perspectives. The Group believes that it is this practice that constitutes CSR management. The Marubeni Group is committed to earning the trust of all its stakeholders by practicing CSR management as a highly ethical corporate group in accordance with the spirit of its Company Creed, “Fairness (正), Innovation (新), and Harmony (和).” Marubeni has established the CSR & Environment Committee within the business execution system portion of its corporate governance structure as an organization for sharing and promoting CSR activities throughout the Company. By reporting on its initiatives to the Corporate Management Committee, the CSR & Environment Committee improves coordination with business groups while working to enhance CSR activities in various fields. CSR Fulfilled Together with Stakeholders The Marubeni Group conducts its business with the environment and society, the Group is building a support of various stakeholders from around the world. sustainable corporate foundation by always listening to In consideration of the expectations and concerns of the opinions of the stakeholders and advancing ideas the stakeholders, as well as its own impact on the together with them. Participation in Global Initiatives The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of The Marubeni Group defined its goal of becoming a Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and true global company in its GC2018 mid-term Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. management plan. CSR activities have been judged to Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the be of incredible importance in accomplishing this effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; goal, and we thus feel it is vital for Marubeni to view its Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; CSR activities from a global perspective amid the Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and worldwide development of its business. Based on this Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment recognition, we have declared our support for the and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to international initiative that is the United Nations Global environmental challenges; Compact. Accordingly, we endeavor to be always Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental mindful of the relationship between its 10 principles responsibility; and and the Group’s businesses, and will continue striving Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. to conduct CSR activities through this business. AntiBusinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 10 Corruption including extortion and bribery. Relationship with the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) In promoting CSR management, the Marubeni Group economics, and the environment. Based on this refers to international standards and clarifies which recognition, we associate our CSR Action Plans and challenges it should address as it confirms the direction Targets with the SDGs and disclose them, and we refer for its activities. As part of that, the Group recognizes to the SDGs when considering the state of our efforts SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals), which are toward resolving social and environmental issues from common goals toward sustainable development for the a mediumto long-term perspective. international community in the areas of society, * Refer to page 44 for “CSR Action Plan and Targets”. 34 Marubeni Corporation Environmental Protection Chap.1 Management Strategies Policies and Approach With the entry into force of the Paris Agreement in 2016, there is a strengthening of the international framework for reducing greenhouse gases that goes beyond the regulations of individual nations. The Marubeni Group is seeing global demands for efforts related to issues that are materializing around the world, such as climate change and biodiversity, and the Group recognizes that there are expectations for companies to demonstrate creativity, innovation, and leadership in the Group resolution of such global concerns. Based on this recognition, the Group works toward reducing environmental risks through activities such as measures targeting climate change, protection of biodiversity and ecosystems, environmental conservation and protection that includes the development of a recycling-oriented society, and prevention of pollution. The Group continually considers its impact on the environment within its business activities, and works together with its stakeholders to carry out these efforts. EMS Strengthening The Marubeni Group has introduced an EMS based on The EMS utilizes a plan–do–check–act (PDCA) ISO 14001 as a tool to assist employees in addressing cycle to ensure ongoing improvement. environmental issues based on a common understanding. With regard to Group companies that have not received Marubeni obtained ISO 14001 certification in 1998, ISO 14001 certification, we still expect these companies and as of December 31, 2016, 54 Marubeni Group to understand and cooperate with environmental companies have been certified. preservation activities conducted in accordance with the Marubeni Group Environmental Policy. On-Site Inspections at Group Companies without ISO 14001 Certification The Marubeni Group identifies and conducts on-site designed to ensure compliance with environmental inspections of subsidiaries that have yet to acquire ISO regulations related to work procedures and confirm 14001 certification and that are engaged in activities compliance status. They also examine the site’s enviwith a relatively high risk of exerting a significant environmental risk control status with regard to such areas ronmental impact. For these on-site inspections, as the operation and management of facilities and the Marubeni personnel visit the plants and offices of the disposal of waste. In the fiscal year ended March 31, applicable companies together with auditors special2017, a total of 29 operating sites of 22 companies izing in environmental audits from an independent around the world were inspected. No significant enviassessment agency. There, they check the systems ronmental issues were identified. Environmental Evaluations of Development Projects and Financing and Investment Before launching a development project or financing or Follow-up evaluations are also conducted for investing in a new business, Marubeni assesses the projects considered to have potential environmental project’s conformity with environmental laws and the risks as a result of the initial assessment. Follow-ups possibility of adverse impact on the environment in the are continued until all concerns have been dispelled. event of an accident or other emergency using the In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we assessed Company’s Environmental Evaluation Sheet. The com73 projects with environmental risks related to water pleted evaluation sheet is used as a factor when pollution, noise pollution, and global warming. making the final decision on whether or not the project should be implemented. Integrated Report 2017 35 Expansion of Environmental Data Collection and Disclosure In order to increase the reliability of the Group’s efforts Corporation (Tokyo Headquarters, Hokkaido, Shizuoka, toward environmental protection, it publishes group-level Nagoya, Osaka, and Kyushu Branches) to all domestic information, and it aims to get independent assurance and foreign consolidated subsidiaries. We will continue for information for at least part of that information. to drive environmental protection initiatives forward, as As part of this effort, from the fiscal year ended we redouble our efforts toward realizing a lowMarch 31, 2017, the Group will expand the range of carbon society. information to be disclosed with independent assur* Refer to page 194 for “Independent Assurance of Environmental and ance from the main six sites of the Marubeni Social Data.” Supply Chain Policies and Approach Promoting CSR management throughout the supply chain is an important aspect of CSR activities. To help address these issues, Marubeni has formulated the Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy, which we transmit to all suppliers, requesting that they understand and cooperate with the enforcement of this policy. Furthermore, Marubeni conducts on-site inspections of suppliers, and will continue these activities so as to maintain an understanding of the social issues faced in different regions and work toward their resolution. Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy ① Marubeni does not stop at achieving strong CSR • Respect employees’ right to unionize for the purresults for itself, but also supports the achievement pose of negotiations between labor and manageof strong CSR results throughout its supply chain, ment and to bargain collectively. with the objective of building an environmentally 3. Preservation of the Environment friendly, healthy, and sustainable society. • Protect nature. ② Marubeni requests the understanding and cooper• Minimize environmental impact, ation of its business partners in the observance of and prevent pollution. the Supply Chain CSR Guidelines set forth below, 4. Fair Transactions so that Marubeni, together with its business part• Conduct fair transactions, and do not inhibit free ners, can facilitate highly efficient CSR results. competition. ③ Supply Chain CSR Guidelines • No bribery or illegal contributions, and 1. Observance of Laws prevent corruption. • Observe the applicable laws of each relevant 5. Safety and Health country and the various countries affected by the • Secure safety and health in the workplace, and transaction. maintain a good working environment. 2. Respect for Human Rights 6. Quality Control • Respect human rights, without discrimination, • Maintain the quality and safety of products and physical, verbal, sexual, and other forms of services. harassment or inhumane treatment. 7. Disclosure of Information • No child labor, forced labor, inappropriate wage • Including the items mentioned above, abatement, or excessive working hours. appropriately disclose company information. 36 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Implementation of CSR On-Site Inspections for the Supply Chain In regions centered on developing countries, there are inspection to the visited site and shares information latent problems, such as forced labor, child labor, and that can be used for future improvement. local environmental pollution. For suppliers in countries Furthermore, as part of the Basic Supply Chain CSR and industries where there are concerns about the risk Policy, Marubeni has formulated measures and of human rights violations or worker safety, Marubeni procedures for contract noncompliance with the labor conducts site visits to related companies and checks standards set forth in the Basic Supply Chain CSR that there are no violations of the Basic Supply Chain Policy, and encourages suppliers to effect improvements. CSR Policy. The Company then reports the results of its Human Rights Risks in the Supply Chain Under the UK Modern Slavery Act enacted in October with some of the Group's UK-based companies, and 2015, companies with annual sales over 36 million Marubeni Corporation, which has a certain degree pounds sterling that do business within the UK are of control over those companies, published these required to take gradual measures toward confirming statements in September 2016. that there are no instances of human rights violations, Additionally, in regard to human rights violation such as slavery or human trafficking, within their risks in its business, the Company is advancing efforts company or supply chain. They must also give a toward early prevention of the spread and expansion statement about those measures the following fiscal of risks, including lectures by outside experts and year. Within the Group, Marubeni Europe plc, along identification of risks related to human rights. Integrated Report 2017 37 Contribution to the Community Policies and Approach The Marubeni Group’s business is supported by its stakeholders around the world. Accordingly, the Group believes that contributing to society is important in ensuring continued sustainable growth. We are therefore conducting social contribution activities while also giving back to local communities by resolving social issues through our business. The Group has a long history of conducting social contribution activities, which include the Marubeni Foundation and overseas scholarship funds. We also actively encourage all employees to participate in volunteer activities. Our commitment to building a better relationship with society, based on coexistence, and being an organization trusted by all stakeholders will remain firm into the future. The Basic Policy on Social Contribution Activities will guide us on this quest. Marubeni Foundation Funded by Marubeni, the Marubeni Foundation was Club, consisting of concerned present and former established in 1974 as a private support organization executives and employees who make fixed monthly for social welfare activities. The Foundation celebrated donations in multiples of ¥100, with matching contriits 40-year anniversary in 2014. Every year, it continues butions by Marubeni. its tradition of providing ¥100 million in annual In addition to the efforts of the 100 Yen Club, volundonations to aid welfare facilities and organizations teers from among the Group's employees have been across Japan. It has given a total of 2,425 grants totaling participating in the grant certificate presentation cere¥4.2 billion up to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. mony from the fiscal year ended March 2016. More In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the than 100 employees participated in the fiscal year foundation received grant applications from 563 ended March 31, 2017. The Foundation is adding welfare programs, 64 of which were selected to receive further support for grant recipients from the fiscal year funding. Funding for the grants includes contributions ending March 31, 2018, such as a system for providfrom Marubeni, provided partially as a means of ing physical support. utilizing earnings, and contributions from the 100 Yen Overseas Scholarship Funds To support the education and development of young As of March 31, 2017, efforts to support the people in emerging economies, Marubeni has set up education and development of young people in scholarship funds, mainly in the ASEAN region. developing nations have spread to eight countries. Specifically, scholarship funds have been established in Each year, we provide support to meet the local the Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Cambodia, Laos, communities’ needs in accordance with the and Myanmar, as well as in South America, principally educational circumstances in each country, including Brazil. Additionally, scholarships were awarded in India scholarships for students from elementary through to in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. university level and vocational training, as well as material assistance such as PCs and stationery. Volunteer Activities Marubeni cooperates with NGOs and NPOs in planning and running volunteer activities for employee participation. The goal is to encourage employees to participate in volunteer activities and thereby develop an understanding of what social contribution entails and the need for the Group to make ongoing efforts as a good corporate citizen. Also, the Company has introduced the Volunteer Leave System (five days per year) to support employees who wish to participate in volunteer activities. Forest thinning activities in the Okutama region 38 Marubeni Corporation Utilization of Diverse Human Resources Chap.1 Management Strategies Policies and Approach The Marubeni Group views human resources (HR) as its most valuable asset. For this reason, we strive to create a stronger Marubeni Group in which a diverse range of individuals play an active role. The Group’s basic policy for HR systems is to develop a framework that allows employees to utilize their skills and capabilities to the fullest extent while providing an environment in which every employee can create the most value possible by drawing on their strengths. We are instituting various measures aimed at realizing this vision. Group HR Strategy within the GC2018 Mid-Term Management Plan The basic HR policy for the Marubeni Group in its midqualifications, compensation, and evaluation with the term management plan, GC2018, consists of two goal of identifying, developing, and rewarding talented points. First is the promotion and training of talented and achievement-oriented individuals who take a and achievement-oriented personnel that can win in a central role in the creation of business and growth. global environment. Second is to further promote These individuals should embody and demonstrate diversity within the Group through appointment and the spirit of Marubeni and the focused determination placement practices. Efforts are under way to promote required of all employees through their daily actions, and train the best personnel for maximizing the value exhibiting advanced professionalism, innovation, of the Group. Further, we have reviewed our hiring and commitment. strategy, assignment policies, and system for Basic HR Strategy for GC2018 – Promotion and training of talented personnel that can win in a global environment – Further promotion of diversity within the Group through appointment and placement practices The Image of Ideal Personnel Talented and achievement-oriented individuals with an advanced degree of professionalism, innovation, and commitment, who take a central role in the creation of business and growth. Professionalism Innovation Commitment • Knowledge and personal connections • Pursues innovation without fear of failure • Has a strong will and the ability to in the industry, business skills, general • Sees the coming of change and think and act independently and specialized abilities required for takes initiative • Aims for the best results and follows sales or customer service roles • Prompts growth and development for through to the finish both themselves and the organization • Takes responsibility for their results Reorganization and Enhancement of Training Systems From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, companywide training systems are being revised and an off-the-job Examples of MGA Programs •M anagement School for the Next Generation training* platform, Marubeni Global Academy (MGA), is of Management being established and enhanced to provide functions for • Dispatch to short-term executive programs supporting the advancement of the Marubeni Group’s HR • Work on mergers and acquisitions strategy, which is defined in GC2018. Moving forward, the • Fundamentals of investment analysis Group is developing programs at the global group level to • Logical thinking implement the MGA in order to strengthen human • Facilitation resources across the entire Marubeni Group. • Presentations • Cross cultural, etc. * Off-the-job training: For example, business skills training, etc., implemented in a location other than the workplace. Integrated Report 2017 39 Measures for Reducing Overtime Work and Improving Operational Efficiency The Marubeni Group is implementing the Marubeni shift toward work in the morning hours when producCool & Smart (MaCS) Work Project in order to tivity is higher. strengthen our competitiveness by making all Group Additionally, we are implementing a site-led companies, organizations, and employees fully aware Organizational Structure Improvement Project every of the fact that time is a finite resource, thereby year. Members within the organization gather to disencouraging them to pursue even higher levels of procuss and promote work improvement measures suited ductivity. This project discourages overtime work after to their workplace. 8 PM and bans overtime after 10 PM, encouraging a Excerpts from MaCS Work Project Survey Results Effects of Overtime Restrictions Has there been an effect on efficiency and productivity? 15% Positive Responses 55% Neutral 30% 30% 55% Negative Responses 15% Culture of Overall Organization On the organization’s acceptance of leaving early 13% Positive Responses 69% Neutral 18% 18% 69% Negative Responses 13% 40 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies Further Empowerment of Female Career-Track Employees In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, Marubeni for excellence in promoting women’s empowerment. launched the “BENInovation (BENI Innovation) Marubeni was also honored and selected as a Program” as a measure designed to further empower Nadeshiko Brand in 2015. The Nadeshiko Brand is an female career-track employees. Additionally, the initiative that was launched in 2012 for the purpose of following action plan was established in April 2016 in selecting and publicizing listed enterprises that excel response to the promulgation of the Act on Promoting at encouraging women's success in the workplace Women’s Empowerment in the Workplace. This plan based on two factors: “conducting career support for defines the period leading up to March 31, 2021, as a women” and “supporting women in balancing work time for creating foundations for incorporating diversity and family.” Selected companies must also into decision-making. Going forward, Marubeni will demonstrate strong financial performance. In the enhance hiring, overseas dispatch, and education fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, Marubeni was activities based on this plan. among 47 companies selected, each of which worked Marubeni’s efforts have been evaluated, and it has toward sustainable growth through management that been selected as a Nadeshiko Brand 2017 enterprise makes use of diverse human resources and an ability by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and to adapt to changes in the environment. Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) Action Plan for Empowering Female Employees (Phase 1: April 1, 2016–March 31, 2021) Goals Construct HR development pipelines by strengthening hiring, overseas dispatch, and other development programs with the goals of increasing the ratio of female career-track employees to more than 10% and raising the ratio of female managers to above 7% by March 31, 2021 Ratio of women in career-track positions Ratio of women in management positions (%) (%) 10.0 8.9 9.1 6.0 5.4 8.3 8.4 7.8 4.6 8.0 7.1 6.5 5.9 3.7 4.0 3.3 6.0 5.1 2.9 4.5 2.7 2.4 3.6 2.1 2.2 4.0 1.7 2.0 1.2 2.0 0 0 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 Integrated Report 2017 41 Creating a Rewarding Workplace Marubeni promotes work-life management as a core In addition, to further promote the employment of value that supports employees from a wide range of persons with disabilities, Marubeni established backgrounds to achieve results. Marubeni Office Support Corporation, which has been Marubeni's basic policy is to select applicants certified as a special-purpose subsidiary* by the according to their capability and competence, based Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare. As of March on a fair recruitment process in which no form of dis31, 2017, Marubeni Corporation and Marubeni Office crimination is tolerated. To ensure that fair recruiting Support Corporation employed a total of 77 individuals activities are conducted across the entire Group, we with disabilities on a full-time basis. In March 2016, have prepared the Marubeni Recruiting Manual, and Marubeni Office Support Corporation was certified by strive to ensure that our policies are thoroughly underthe Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a stood. Marubeni has adopted a continued employSuperior Company for employing persons with ment system for employees aged 60 or over in disabilities. This certification is awarded to superior accordance with the revised Elderly Employment companies that actively employ mentally or otherwise Stabilization Act. As of March 31, 2017, 114 employchallenged individuals, and a total of 21 companies ees have been hired under this system, and these and throughout Japan have received this certification. other senior citizen employees are currently calling *S pecial-purpose subsidiary: A subsidiary that has been certified by the upon their breadth of experience to make wideMinister of Health, Labour and Welfare as satisfying the conditions specified in the Act on Employment Promotion, etc., of Persons with reaching contributions in Japan and overseas. Disabilities. The number of workers with disabilities employed by such a Mark signifying certification as a subsidiary may be included in the calculation of the ratio of disabled Superior Company for employing persons the parent company employs. persons with disabilities Efforts to Promote Employee Health The top levels of management at Marubeni consider medical exams, the Company covers the full cost of the promotion of employee health to be a key comcomprehensive physical exams and brain scans for pany-wide issue. Accordingly, efforts to improve health employees over a certain age, providing employees are under way based on the idea that fulfillment of with health guidance and allowing them to check their body and mind lead to improved productivity and sathealth. In regards to mental health care, work is in isfaction in one’s work. The Human Resources progress to improve measures such as the introducDepartment, Health Insurance Association, and tion of EAP* counseling and workshops on self-care Internal Medical Clinic formed a committee that meets and care methods for managers. regularly to share information and work on the effec*EAP (Employee Assistance Program): tive development of healthcare business that is coordiDesigned to improve productivity, this program targets complete employee mental wellbeing with specialized counselors who, in addition to providing nated with the Health Insurance Association’s Data health consultations regarding mental illness, are available to discuss a wide range of issues with employees, including concerns in the workplace Health Plan. Further, in addition to ensuring regular or at home. 42 Marubeni Corporation External Recognition Chap.1 Management Strategies The Marubeni Group has continually received high ratings for its efforts toward sustainability from various research and rating companies that evaluate the capacity for sustainable growth in companies based on the three aspects of ESG: Environment, Society, and Governance. Among those, Marubeni has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World since 2008, and included in the similarly prestigious FTSE4Good Index Series since 2002. * SRI Index: A  n index for outside investors that focuses not only on financial aspects, but also places heavy importance for investment decisions on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World The constituents of the Dow Jones Sustainability by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (United States) and Indices (DJSI) World are selected as the top 10% RobecoSAM AG (Switzerland). of companies from the 2,500 largest companies Listed stocks are reviewed every September, and in worldwide, chosen by a comprehensive assessment 2016, 316 companies were listed. Among those, 26 based on economic, environmental and social criteria were Japanese companies. FTSE4Good Global Index Series The FTSE4Good was developed and established by change, human and labor rights, supply chain labor FTSE Russell, a subsidiary of the London Stock standards, and anti-bribery measures. In 2017, 883 Exchange Group. In selecting the constituent compacompanies worldwide were listed, with 148 Japanese nies, evaluators assess candidates based on criteria companies among those selected. pertaining to environmental management, climate CDP CDP, a non-profit organization based in London, is a Presently, in addition to its efforts toward reducing project that requests information on environmental carbon footprints, it is also expanding to cover water strategy and greenhouse gas emissions from and forest resources. Marubeni has been participating companies listed in the FTSE Index. It then analyzes in CDP since 2007. and evaluates that data and publishes it to investors. Marubeni Certified to “RobecoSAM Bronze Class 2017” In January 2017, Marubeni Corporation was awarded the “RobecoSAM Bronze Class 2017.” RobecoSAM is a globally famous CSR research and rating company which analyzes candidate companies for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), an index of companies *RobecoSAM A CSR research and rating company headleading in the field of socially responsible investment (SRI). This was an evaluation of the quartered in Switzerland. RobecoSAM Company's efforts and plans that recognize the opportunities and risks that arise from changes assesses and rates each company’s economic, environmental and social elements to the economy, the environment and society within the context of the trading company and from the perspective of sustainability based on the information obtained from a questiondistributor industry. Marubeni will continue its CSR efforts toward its goal of realizing a sustainnaire conducted with companies, published able society while meeting the various demands of society. documents, media, etc. Integrated Report 2017 43 CSR Action Plan and Targets Marubeni identifies material issues that are of importance to it as a company, both in terms of the expectations and concerns of its stakeholders, and in light of its own impact as an enterprise. Furthermore, Marubeni prepares a CSR Action Plan and targets that highlight material issues and connectivity with the plans and targets of each business division and corporate staff department, and regularly discloses the status of progress on these initiatives to the public. In order to convey its initiatives to stakeholders in a readily accessible manner, a portion of the CSR Action Plan and targets are aligned with the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Connection of SDGs to material Issues for Marubeni Goal 2 : • Developing business that solve social and environmental issues End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and • Providing stable supply for unevenly distributed food promote sustainable agriculture (meeting demands of Japan and other countries) • Developing business that solve social and environmental issues • Contributing toward community development and Goal 6 : strengthening our operating base Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and • Building the social infrastructure for the basis of daily life / sanitation for all Contribution for improving and stabilizing the daily life standards of the social community by providing the water solutions Goal 7 : • Developing business that solve social and environmental issues Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern • Stable supply of energy energy for all • Developing business that solve social and environmental issues • Contributing toward community development and Goal 9 : strengthening our operating base Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and • Building the social infrastructure for the basis of living / sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Improving and stabilizing the living standards of the local community Goal 12 : • Protecting the global environment Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns • Reduction of food waste Goal 13 : • Developing business that solve social and environmental issues Take urgent action to combat climate change and • Promoting renewable energy its impacts Goal 14 : • Developing business that solve social and environmental issues Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine • Responding to the environmental impact caused by resources for sustainable development transportation/ Preserving biodiversity Goal 15 : • Developing business that solve social and environmental issues Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial • Maintaining the various functions of forests such as global ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, environmental conservation, biodiversity preservation, and and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss soil conservation. 44 Marubeni Corporation Chap.1 Management Strategies What Are Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? SDGs are common goals shared by the international community with regard to sustainable development from a social, economic and environmental standpoint. Adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2015, the SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 targets to strive for realization of by 2030. Marubeni supports the Sustainable Development Goals. Implementation FYE 3/2017 Performance Action Plan and Targets for FYE 3/2018 Status Food & Consumer Products Group Grain Division We will continue to increase the trading volume and Made good use of the Group’s grain network owned by Marubeni, such as the pickup functions of Gavilon Agriculture ★★★ develop our global markets, while also cultivating new Investment, Inc. and Columbia Grain, Inc., and the export shipping facilities of Terlogs Terminal Maritimo Ltda. and Pacificor, harvesting areas and strengthening procurement. LLC, to export grain to Japan and other countries around the world, and contributed to providing a stable supply of food. Power Business & Plant Group Plant Division Marubeni has built a well-balanced water asset portfolio in the Americas, China, Asia, Europe and Australia, ranging from In addition to optimizing our operation and stabilizing our water/sewage BOT/BOO projects, concessions, EPCs to O&Ms. ★★ earnings base on existing projects, we also intend to grow Our stable portfolio management has created additional corporate value. We also continue to originate new investment our business and develop new projects. and EPC opportunities. Energy & Metals Group Energy Division We will ensure the smooth operation of existing projects Marubeni participated in LNG projects around the world including Qatar, Equatorial Guinea, Peru, and Papua New Guinea. ★★★ while also seeking participation in new projects Through the safe operation of existing projects, Marubeni responded to the increasing global demand for LNG. and trades. We maintained smooth operation of our existing projects. Power Business & Plant Group Power Business Division We ensure stable operation of our portfolio power assets Marubeni’s global power portfolio includes IPP, EPC and related activities. The business helps local economies reinforce social ★★★ while contributing to local communities and improvement (particularly electricity) infrastructure. Marubeni currently owns a 11,765MW net generating capacity as of March 31, 2017. of their social infrastructure with new projects. Food & Consumer Products Group Grain Division, Food Products Division We will continue to reduce food waste and promote food We carried out activities for improvement based on the rules and guidebook on food safety in the Divisions. We also work on ★ recycling when waste food does occur. food waste reduction and recycling, though it is still not sufficient yet, and we will continue the activities. In addition to managing our portfolio assets, Marubeni Power Business & Plant Group Power Business Division will be active in project development. Marubeni intends We have been very active in development and investment in renewable energy (wind, solar, small hydropower, geothermal, ★★★ to promote renewable energy through our Power Producer biomass) projects both within and outside Japan. We are developing a mega-solar project in Abu Dhabi in the UAE. Marubeni & Supplier (PPS) business in Japan, selling electricity also acquired solar assets in Ina City and Tomakomai City in Japan and began commercial operations. generated by renewable generation. Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Aerospace & Ship Division Marubeni sells ballast water clarification facilities for ships, and also provides energy-saving ships, conducting businesses We will appropriately carry out our existing trades, while ★★★ for reducing the environmental burden caused by transportation. also seeking to develop new deals. We promoted sales to shipowners as well as shipyards based on retrofits. Chemical & Forest Products Group Forest Products Division Marubeni began afforestation projects in the 1990s, and currently manages approx. 210,000 ha of land for afforestation for We will continue to work on the proper management of the ★★★ four projects in three countries. projects, and carry out sustainable forest management. We have kept up the proper management of our afforestation projects. ★★★: Achieved goal ★★: Improving (but have not achieved goal) ★: Continuing efforts Integrated Report 2017 45 Chap. Management Foundation 2 Our Corporate Governance Members of the Board 1 Chairman of the Board 2 President and CEO 3 Senior Executive Vice President Teruo Asada Fumiya Kokubu Mitsuru Akiyoshi 6 Managing Executive Officer 7 Independent Director 8 Independent Director Nobuhiro Yabe Takao Kitabata Kyohei Takahashi 46 Marubeni Corporation Chap.2 Management Foundation 4 Senior Executive Vice President 5 Managing Executive Officer Shigeru Yamazoe Hikaru Minami 5 8 6 9 2 1 3 7 10 4 9 Independent Director 10 Independent Director Susumu Fukuda Yuri Okina Integrated Report 2017 47 Audit & Supervisory Board Members 4 2 1 Audit & Supervisory 2 Audit & Supervisory 5 Board Member Board Member Kaoru Kuzume Kazuro Gunji 3 1 3 Independent Audit & 4 Independent Audit & 5 Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Shuichi Yoshikai Takashi Hatchoji Tsuyoshi Yoneda 48 Marubeni Corporation Message from the Chief Independent Director Chap.2 Management Foundation Takao Kitabata Chief Independent Director Marubeni Is Forging Ahead Through Smart Risk-Taking Under the Oversight of an Effective Board of Directors Over the two years since Japan adopted its Corporate balance between risk and return, devise measures to Governance Code, Marubeni has taken the initiative to maximally mitigate risks and forge ahead proactively. While upgrade its governance as a dynamic global company, the Investment and Credit Committee and Board of Directors earning a reputation as a proactive leader among thoroughly discuss such matters, independent directors Japanese companies. play a valuable role in the form of additional scrutiny. As a general trading company that pursues returns by Given Marubeni’s extensive global network of operating embracing risks, Marubeni plays a special role in a heavily companies, it is important to meet the same governance import-dependent Japanese economy that lacks selfstandards overseas as in Japan. Doing so, however, is sufficiency in food, energy and mineral resources. complicated by cultural and language differences. While Japanese general trading companies have long fulfilled pervasively embedding Marubeni governance into overseas the critical societal mission of contributing to Japan’s operations, I believe that deepening local corporate officers’ economic development and maintenance of its national understanding of such governance is crucial. Marubeni standard of living by not only importing goods but also practices highly transparent governance. Although actively making overseas investments that entail risk, not formally organized as a company with majorityenormous capital requirements and long payback periods. independent nominating, audit and compensation Marubeni has been fulfilling this important societal role to committees, Marubeni has established a Nominating an even greater extent than its trading company peers. Committee and Governance and Remuneration Committee Another of Marubeni’s missions is supporting the as advisory bodies of its Board. Marubeni hired an outside overseas operations of Japanese companies that have expert to assess its Board of Directors’ effectiveness. The been internationalizing their growth strategies as their Board’s quantitative assessment results compare favorably domestic growth prospects have dimmed in the face of with other companies’. We intend to continue striving to population shrinkage. improve the Board’s effectiveness to better meet all I believe the key to successfully operating a diversified stakeholders’ expectations. portfolio of risky businesses is to adequately assess the Integrated Report 2017 49 Corporate Governance System Basic Approach to Corporate Governance In keeping with the spirit of our Company Creed of of independent executives—individuals who are “Fairness, Innovation, and Harmony,” we seek to playing a key role in reinforcing the supervisory improve corporate value with the aim of becoming a function for management. At the same time, we realize proud corporate group that contributes to economic the importance of constructive interactions with and social development as well as environmental shareholders and other investors in pursuing mediumpreservation. This quest, we believe, is a means of to-long-term improvements in corporate value. living up to the expectations of our shareholders, Accordingly, through such interactions, we work to business partners, regional communities, employees, promote understanding with regard to Marubeni’s and other stakeholders. We are enhancing corporate management policies while gaining insight into the governance to serve as the foundation for ensuring the perspective of shareholders and other investors so that soundness, transparency, and efficiency of we may better respond to their needs. The Company management as we recognize that this quest must be thus has the policy of advancing initiatives such as supported by such a foundation. those described above to improve the soundness, Acting in accordance with this basic stance, we have transparency, and efficiency of management while established criteria for determining the independence complying with the Corporate Governance Code. Changes in Corporate Governance at Marubeni 80 60 40 Appointment of independent directors (2 persons) 20 Pct. of independent auditors Pct. of independent directors 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Clarification of Term of directors changed from two years to one Adoption of executive officer system accountability framework Establishment of Committee of Executive Officers Establishment of Compliance Committee Enhance management Establishment of basic policy for Establishment of Investment and Credit Committee internal control system transparency and soundness Proceedings conducted by the Chairman of Marubeni, who has no executive authority in capacity as the Chair of the Board of Directors. Establishment of Audit Department Dramatic increase in Audit Department staff Enhance Supervisory and Audit Functions Appointment of independent directors (2 persons) Enhance Decision-making Establishment of Committee of Heads of Divisions, adoption of managing Reduction in number of directors Functions officer system 50 Marubeni Corporation Chap.2 Management Foundation Corporate Governance Structure Marubeni operates under a corporate audit governance (a) Ensuring rapid and efficient decision-making system, adhering closely to the Companies Act, with a Marubeni ensures rapid and efficient decision-making control structure designed to facilitate a clearly defined by structuring the Board of Directors mainly decision-making process, business execution system, around directors who serve concurrently as executive and supervisory system. Marubeni has established the officers and are well-versed in the Company’s diverse structure as shown in the diagram on page 52. business activities. Marubeni conducts a diverse range of businesses (b) Ensuring appropriate supervisory functions globally. Accordingly, Marubeni has established a Marubeni ensures appropriate supervisory functions by corporate audit governance model with a Board implementing various measures, including appointing of Directors mainly comprising internal directors Independent directors; assigning dedicated staff to the (with appointment of Independent directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Member’s Office; fostering collaboration with the Audit & Supervisory Board) in collaboration among the Audit & Supervisory Board order to ensure rapid and efficient decision-making Members, the Audit Department, the independent and appropriate supervisory functions in management. Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and the corporate Marubeni has determined that this governance model auditors of Group companies; and implementing is functioning effectively as set forth in items (a) and (b) advance briefings on matters referred to the Board of on the right. Therefore, Marubeni will retain the current Directors for both independent directors and Audit & governance structure. Supervisory Board Members on the same occasions. Pct. of independent auditors 60 % Increase in independent Pct. of independent directors 40 % auditors (3 persons) Increase in independent directors (4 persons) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Establishment of Nomination Committee Establishment of Internal Control Committee Establishment of Governance and Formulation of standards and methodology regarding Establishment of Disclosure Committee Remuneration Committee independence of independent executives Establishment of CSR & Environment Committee Implementation of performance evaluations for Board of Directors Participation of independent directors Increase in independent directors in Committee of Executive Officers Appointment of female independent (4 persons) Increase in independent auditors (3 persons) director (1 person) Abolishment of managing officer system, adoption of Group CEO system Change in Board of Directors composition, from 12 directors to 10 Integrated Report 2017 51 Corporate Governance Structure As of June 23, 2017 Board of Directors Our Board of Directors comprises 10 directors (including four put in place an optimal management structure in response independent directors) who deliberate on overall corporate policy to changes in the business environment, while clarifying and major issues, while monitoring the performance of individual management responsibility. directors. Each director’s term of office is one year. This is to flexibly Audit & Supervisory Board As a company with a corporate audit governance system, the Audit & auditing plans, the progress of auditing activities at Marubeni and Supervisory Board Members at Marubeni are responsible for auditing Group companies, audit results, key points and considerations on directors in the execution of their duties by attending important earnings results, and accounting audit trends. meetings, such as the Board of Directors, and by monitoring business The President also holds regular meetings with the Audit & activities and financial conditions in accordance with the auditing Supervisory Board Members and reports to them on business policies and plans set by the Audit & Supervisory Board. The Audit & performance. Other directors, division COOs, and general managers Supervisory Board Members have monthly meetings with the from the Corporate Staff Group report to the Audit & Supervisory independent auditors to exchange information and opinions on Board Members each year on business performance. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Election and dismissal Election and dismissal Board of Directors Audit Audit & Directors Supervisory Board 10 (four Independent) Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Board Member’s Board Members Office Five (three Independent) Nomination Committee Accounting Governance and audit Election and dismissal Remuneration Committee Appointing, removing, and supervising Independent Auditors (Business Execution System) Audit Audit President Department (Cooperation) Internal audit Accounting audit Corporate Management Committee Investment and Credit Committee Committee of Compliance Committee Heads of Divisions Business Group CSR & Environment Committee Business Division Internal Control Committee Committee of Corporate Staff Group Executive Officers Disclosure Committee Domestic and Overseas Branches & Offices 52 Marubeni Corporation Chap.2 Management Foundation Corporate Management Committee The Corporate Management Committee was established officer and three managing executive officers. The as an advisory committee for the President and committee deliberates substantive matters related to comprises five members of the board, including the management and operations. president, as well as one senior managing executive Committee of Heads of Divisions The members of the Committee of Heads of Divisions They discuss matters pertaining to budgeting, account are the President, the representative directors, Chief settlement, and financial planning, as well as other executive officer (Group CEOs), the division COOs, and issues relating to the execution of business. regional CEOs and COOs appointed by the President. Committee of Executive Officers The Committee of Executive Officers comprises 35 information between the oversight function and the executive officers (five of whom are also directors) to implementation function. Keeping communication announce management policies issued by the lines open between the directors and executive President and to discuss financial performance, the officers, independent directors also attend these results of internal audits, and other issues that affect meetings. Executive officers are selected by the Board business execution, and to facilitate the exchange of of Directors and appointed to one-year terms of office. Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee serves as an advisory Nomination Committee body to the Board of Directors, deliberating proposed Chair: Takao Kitabata, Director (Independent) candidates for appointment as directors and Members:  Fumiya Kokubu, President and CEO, Member of the Board auditors, and reporting its findings to the Board of Kyohei Takahashi, Director (Independent) Takashi Hatchoji, Directors. Independent executives are the majority Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of committee members. Governance and Remuneration Committee The Governance and Remuneration Committee serves Governance and Remuneration Committee as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, Chair: Kyohei Takahashi, Director (Independent) deliberating decision-making policies and the suitability Members: Fumiya Kokubu, President and CEO, Member of the Board of standards regarding remuneration for directors and Hikaru Minami, Managing Executive Officer, Members of the Board auditors, and reporting its findings to the Board of Susumu Fukuda, Director (Independent) Directors. Independent executives are the majority of Shuichi Yoshikai, committee members. The committee also assesses Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) and reviews the Board of Directors as a whole, including the Board’s composition and operations, and reports its findings to the Board of Directors. Integrated Report 2017 53 Committee Roles and Functions Marubeni has established various committees designed to enhance corporate governance. A brief description of the principal committees and their respective governance roles is given below. Committee Role Meeting Frequency Projects pending approval, such as investments, are discussed and approved by the Investment and Credit Held three times a month Investment and Credit Committee Committee prior to appearing on the Corporate Management Committee’s agenda. in principle The Compliance Committee provides support and guidance with regard to practicing compliance and as such Held four times a year and Compliance Committee develops, maintains, and manages the Marubeni Group’s compliance structure. when necessary The CSR & Environment Committee is responsible for discussing and reporting on the Marubeni Group’s CSR CSR & Environment Committee Held when necessary and environmental protection activities as well as the policies for these activities. The Internal Control Committee is responsible for developing and monitoring the enforcement of internal control policies based on the Companies Act as well as drafting revisions when necessary. It also establishes, Internal Control Committee Held when necessary operates, and verifies the effectiveness of internal control systems for financial reports in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, while also drafting internal control reports. The Disclosure Committee creates disclosure policies, ensures that internal systems concerning legally Disclosure Committee mandated and timely disclosure are in place, and decides the importance and appropriateness of the Held when necessary information targeted for legally mandated or timely disclosure. The Customs Clearance Supervising Committee establishes and maintains systems to ensure that the Customs Clearance Supervising Held once a year and Marubeni Group follows appropriate procedures when importing and exporting and also conducts related Committee when necessary internal inspections and training. The Security Trade Control Committee establishes and maintains security trade control systems, inspects and Held once a year and Security Trade Control Committee approves transactions, and conducts internal audit and training concerning security trade controls. when necessary Roles and Functions of Independent Directors Independent Directors offer opinions on business an ad hoc basis, making active contributions from the management drawn from their broad experience and perspective of internal control. Prior to meetings, high-level perspective, and give advice to better Independent Directors are provided with agendas and implement corporate governance. Independent fully briefed on management issues and project Directors attend the meetings of the Board of Directors execution status. and the Committee of Executive Officers, including on 54 Marubeni Corporation Chap.2 Management Foundation Major Activities Independent Advisory Name Reason for Appointment Biography Director Committee Mr. Takao Kitabata possesses extensive insight pertaining to economic trends in and outside of Japan, reflecting his career background of important positions in official circles. This has enabled Mr. Kitabata, as Marubeni’s Chief Independent Director, to advise management and appropriately monitor business execution from both an 2006 Vice-Minister of Economy, Trade and objective and expert perspective, including through his active input at meetings of the Industry of Japan (Retired 2008) Chief Board of Directors. Mr. Kitabata is also well versed in corporate governance, and has 2010 Director, Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Current); Independent readily offered opinions on ways to enhance the soundness, transparency and Chairman of Appointed Audit & Supervisory Board Director Y effectiveness of Marubeni management as Chair of the Governance and Remuneration Nomination Member of Marubeni Takao Committee, and as a member of the Nomination Committee. In light of this contribution Committee 2013 President, Sanda Gakuen Schools Kitabata and the findings of the Nomination Committee, Mr. Kitabata has been named by the (Current) Board of Directors as a candidate for Independent Director. Moreover, Mr. Kitabata has 2014 Director, SEIREN Co., Ltd. (Current); Director, Zeon Corporation (Current) no conflicts with the interests of general shareholders represented by his present or past personal, transactional, and capital relationships with the Company. Consequently, we have determined that he fulfills the standards and policies regarding independence for an independent executive, and is appointed to serve in that capacity. Mr. Kyohei Takahashi has exceptional insight gained through a career in corporate management at a multinational corporation. This background has enabled Mr. 2007 President and Chief Executive Officer Takahashi, as an Independent Director, to advise management and appropriately (CEO), Showa Denko K.K. monitor business execution from a practical perspective, including through his active Nomination 2011 Chairman of the Board, input at meetings of the Board of Directors. Mr. Takahashi is also well versed in Committee Showa Denko K.K. corporate governance, and has readily offered opinions on ways to enhance the 2014 Appointed Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Marubeni Kyohei soundness, transparency and effectiveness of Marubeni management as a member of Chairman of Y 2015 Director, Chairman of the Board, Showa Takahashi the Nomination Committee. In light of this contribution and the findings of the Governance Denko K.K. Nomination Committee, Mr. Takahashi has been named by the Board of Directors as a and 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, candidate for Independent Director. Moreover, Mr. Takahashi has no conflicts with the Remuneration Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Company interests of general shareholders represented by his present or past personal, Committee (Current) transactional, and capital relationships with the Company. Consequently, we have 2017 Director and Advisor, Showa Denko K.K. determined that he fulfills the standards and policies regarding independence for an (Current) independent executive, and is appointed to serve in that capacity. Mr. Susumu Fukuda possesses extensive insight pertaining to finance and taxation, 2006 Commissioner of the National Tax Agency reflecting his career background of important positions in official circles, coupled with (Retired in 2007) experience serving as an independent executive at various companies. This has enabled 2007 Vice-Chairman, The General Insurance Mr. Fukuda, as an Independent Director, to advise management and appropriately Association of Japan monitor business execution from both an objective and expert perspective, including 2008 Assistant Chief Cabinet Secretary Governance 2012 Chief Director, Japan Real Estate through his active input at meetings of the Board of Directors, to enhance the Susumu and Institute (Current) Y soundness, transparency and effectiveness of Marubeni management. In light of this Fukuda Remuneration 2015 Member of National Tax Council, Ministry contribution and the findings of the Nomination Committee, Mr. Fukuda has been of Finance (Current) Committee named by the Board of Directors as a candidate for Independent Director. Moreover, Mr. 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Tokio Fukuda has no conflicts with the interests of general shareholders represented by his Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. present or past personal, transactional, and capital relationships with the Company. (Current) Consequently, we have determined that he fulfills the standards and policies regarding 2016 Appointed Independent Director of independence for an independent executive, and is appointed to serve in that capacity. Marubeni Ms. Yuri Okina has exceptional insight gained through years of research on economic and financial conditions as part of a think tank, has served as an Independent Executive at various companies, and possesses experience rooted in a broad spectrum 2006 Counselor, The Japan Research Institute, of activities as a government member of Japan’s Industrial Structure Council, Finance Limited Council and Tax System Research Committee. Accordingly, we believe that this background 2008 Director, Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha 2013 Director, Seven Bank, Ltd. will allow Ms. Okina to advise management and appropriately monitor business execution 2014 Director, Bridgestone Corporation Yuri Okina Y from both an expert and multifaceted perspective. In light of this anticipated contribution (Current) and the findings of the Nomination Committee, Ms. Okina has been named by the Board of 2014 Vice Chairman, The Japan Research Directors as a new candidate for Independent Director. Moreover, Ms. Okina has no Institute, Limited (Current) conflicts with the interests of general shareholders represented by her present or past 2017 Appointed Independent Director of personal, transactional, and capital relationships with the Company. Consequently, we Marubeni have determined that she fulfills the standards and policies regarding independence for an independent executive, and is appointed to serve in that capacity. Integrated Report 2017 55 Roles and Functions of Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members addition, the Independent Audit & Supervisory Board monitor the directors’ execution of duties and draw Members meet with the President on a regular basis, upon their wealth of professional expertise to offer as well as with members of the Audit Department, various recommendations and advice to enhance the Corporate Accounting Department, and independent Audit & Supervisory Board. Independent Audit & auditors, for an exchange of opinions. They receive Supervisory Board Members attend meetings of the audit-related information from Full-time Audit & Audit & Supervisory Board and also the Board of Supervisory Board Members, which they use in the Directors and Committee of Executive Officers. In execution of their auditing duties. Major Activities Independent Advisory Name Reason for Appointment Biography Director Committee 2006 Administrative Judge, Tokyo High Court 2009 Chief Judge, Yokohama District Court Mr. Shuichi Yoshikai was selected for the position of independent Audit & Supervisory 2010 Chief Judge, Tokyo District Court Board Member as it was determined that he could contribute to enhancing Company 2011 President, Osaka High Court audits by utilizing his highly professional insight and calling on the extensive Governance 2012 President, Tokyo High Court Shuichi experience in the legal field that underpins this insight. No personal, transaction or and (Retired in 2013) Y Yoshikai capital relationships exist between Mr. Yoshikai and the Company that result in Remuneration 2013 Admitted to Tokyo Bar Association conflicts of interest. Consequently, we have determined that he fulfills the standards Committee (Current) and policies regarding independence for an independent executive, and is appointed to 2016 Appointed Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Marubeni serve in that capacity. 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, The Shoko Chukin Bank, Ltd. (Current) Mr. Takashi Hatchoji has extensive insight cultivated through a career in corporate 2006 Representative Executive Officer, management at a multinational corporation, coupled with experience serving as an Executive Vice President, Hitachi, Ltd. independent executive at another company. Accordingly, while bringing a practical focus 2007 President and Representative Director, to bear, we believe that Mr. Hatchoji will suitably fulfill his duties as an Independent Hitachi Research Institute Audit & Supervisory Board Member, contributing to improved corporate governance and 2009 Representative Executive Officer, efforts to enhance monitoring and audits at Marubeni from a neutral and objective Executive Vice President and Executive Takashi Nomination Y perspective. In light of this anticipated contribution, the consent of the Audit & Officer, Hitachi, Ltd. Hatchoji Committee 2011 Director, Hitachi, Ltd. Supervisory Board and the findings of the Nomination Committee, Mr. Hatchoji has been named by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders as an Independent Audit & 2015 Director, Nitto Denko Corporation Supervisory Board Member. No personal, transaction or capital relationships exist (Current) 2017 Director, Konica Minolta, Inc. (Current); between Mr. Hatchoji and the Company that result in conflicts of interest. Consequently, Appointed Independent Audit & we have determined that he fulfills the standards and policies regarding independence Supervisory Board Member of Marubeni for an independent executive, and is appointed to serve in that capacity. Mr. Tsuyoshi Yoneda has a wealth of experience from a career of important positions in official circles, as well as exceptional insight grounded in that experience. He also has 2007 Director-General, National Police Agency experience serving as an Independent Executive at another company. Consequently, we 2009 Commissioner-General’s Secretariat, believe that Mr. Yoneda will suitably fulfill his duties as an Independent Audit & National Police Agency Supervisory Board Member, contributing to improved corporate governance and efforts 2011 Deputy Director-General, National Police to enhance monitoring and audits at Marubeni from a neutral and objective perspective. Agency Tsuyoshi Y In light of this anticipated contribution, the consent of the Audit & Supervisory Board 2013 Commissioner General, National Police Yoneda Agency (Retired in January 2015) and the findings of the Nomination Committee, Mr. Yoneda has been named by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders as an Independent Audit & 2015 Director, Japan Exchange Group, Inc. Supervisory Board Member. No personal, transaction or capital relationships exist (Current) 2017 Appointed Independent Audit & between Mr. Yoneda and the Company that result in conflicts of interest. Consequently, Supervisory Board Member of Marubeni we have determined that he fulfills the standards and policies regarding independence for an independent executive, and is appointed to serve in that capacity. 56 Marubeni Corporation Chap.2 Management Foundation Executive Compensation Compensation for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members suitability of standards regarding remuneration by the Governance is decided based on limits to the amount of total compensation for and Remuneration Committee, which reports its findings to the Board directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members determined by of Directors. Independent executives are the majority of committee resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders. Compensation for members. Compensation for individual Audit & Supervisory Board directors is decided by resolution of the Board of Directors following Members is decided through deliberation by the Audit & Supervisory a process of deliberation of decision-making policies and the Board Members. Executive Compensation Calculation Method Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Compensation Limits to the amount of total compensation: Determined by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members Remuneration Remuneration composition Remuneration Remuneration composition decision-making process Directors (Internal)* Independent directors decision-making process Deliberation of decision-making policies and Basic (fixed) the suitability of standards regarding remuneration compensation by the Governance and Remuneration Committee Decided through deliberation (majority of committee members are independent executives) Basic (fixed) Basic (fixed) by Audit & Supervisory Board compensation only compensation only Members Variable compensation Approved by the Board of Directors (business performance-linked) *Stock options are issued within the limits described above. Compensation for Directors Directors (Internal) Basic compensation for Directors (excluding Independent [Reference: Correlation Between Consolidated Net Income and Compensation] Directors) comprises a fixed amount of basic compensation Compensation based on the role or position of individual directors, and performance-based compensation pegged to the consolidated business performance of the preceding fiscal year. The basic compensation portion is decided based on individual evaluation that incorporates quantitative and qualitative metrics. Performance-based compensation is calculated based on the following formula: 100.0 Consolidated net income (Billions of yen) • Consolidated net income for the previous fiscal year (profit attributable to owners of the parent) less than For a portion of compensation, the Company provides ¥100.0 billion: 0 stock options as a stock-based form of remuneration. In • Consolidated net income for the previous fiscal year this way, directors share the benefits and risks of stock of ¥100.0 billion or more: Base amount times a mulprice fluctuations with shareholders, while having an tiplier that increases proportionally in step with conincentive to contribute more than ever before to efforts to solidated net income improve stock price and corporate value. Independent Directors Compensation for Independent Directors, who are independent from business execution, consists solely of basic compensation (no performance-based compensation). Integrated Report 2017 57 Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members, who are independent from business execution, consists solely of basic compensation (no performance-based compensation). Total Compensation Paid to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members for the Year Ended March 31, 2017 Position Total Amount of Compensation Number of Recipients Cash Compensation Stock options Directors (excluding ¥399 million ¥54 million ¥453 million 9 independent directors) Audit & Supervisory Board Members (excluding ¥63 million — ¥63 million 2 Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members) Independent executives ¥78 million — ¥78 million 7 Total ¥540 million ¥54 million ¥594 million 18 Notes: • Rounded to the nearest million. • Limits to the amount of executive compensation determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders are as follows: “Annual pool not to exceed ¥1,100 million for directors (including pool of ¥60 million for independent directors)” (at the 92nd General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016) and “Monthly pool not to exceed ¥12 million for Audit & Supervisory Board Members” (at the 88th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2012). In addition, based on a resolution of the 92nd General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016, the Company introduced a stock option system for directors (excluding independent directors) with an “Annual pool not to exceed ¥220 million for directors.” • The Company submitted a resolution to abolish its system of retirement bonuses for executives at the conclusion of the 83rd General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 22, 2007, with abolishment accompanied by the decision to close out and pay any remaining retirement bonuses associated with the system. The Company will make these payments to directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members who are eligible under the resolution, paying directors when they have retired both from their directorship and any held post as executive officer, and paying Audit & Supervisory Board Members upon their retirement. In the year ended March 31, 2017, retirement bonuses were not paid to the directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members who are eligible to receive a final payment in relation to the abolition of the retirement bonuses plan. Individuals to whom the Total Amount of Compensation Paid Exceeded ¥100 Million Name Position Company Category Total Amount of Compensation Cash Compensation Stock options Fumiya Kokubu Director Issuing company ¥91 million ¥14 million ¥105 million Effectiveness Evaluation of the Board of Directors The effectiveness evaluation of the Board of Directors conducted by Marubeni for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 is detailed below. I Evaluation Framework and Methodology 1. Subjects ④ Qualifications and knowledge of (Board of) Directors All Directors (10 persons) and Audit & Supervisory ⑤ Deliberations by the Board of Directors Board Members (5 persons) ⑥ Relationship and communication with shareholders * For individuals in these roles as of December 2016 ⑦ Responsive to stakeholders other than shareholders 2. Implementation Method 4. Evaluation Process Questionnaire (responses are anonymous) *Outside specialist utilized for implementation Based on the specifics of questionnaire responses, deliberations were conducted by the Board of Directors 3. Items for Evaluation in reference to evaluation and review of the entire ① Role and accountability of the Board of Directors Board by the Governance and Remuneration ② Relationship between the Board of Directors and Committee regarding Board composition, operations managers/management team and other matters. ③ Institutional design/composition of the Board of Directors 58 Marubeni Corporation Chap.2 Management Foundation Ⅱ Summary of Evaluation Results The Board of Directors conducted deliberations in Directors as a whole. This evaluation and review will reference to evaluation and review by the Governance now serve as a point of reference for efforts by and Remuneration Committee, confirming the overall Marubeni to maintain and improve the effectiveness of effectiveness of the operations of the Board of the Board of Directors. Internal Control Basic Internal Control Policy Marubeni seeks to steadily increase and maximize In accordance with the Companies Act and its corporate value through business activities that are in implementation guidelines, Marubeni has established accordance with its Company Creed and Management a basic internal control policy, which helps to ensure Philosophy, and to steadily and continuously build and that all business activities are conducted appropriately. expand the entire Group's business foundation. To this Each year, Marubeni confirms the content and end, Marubeni has established internal control systems, implementation of this policy, and implements which serve as a rational process to ensure improvement improvements when necessary. With regard to the of efficiency of business operations, accurate financial internal control report system mandated under the reporting to stakeholders, compliance with applicable Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Internal laws and regulations, safeguarding of assets, and Control Committee conducts evaluations as stipulated appropriateness of corporate activities. Marubeni regularly in the practical standards. As in the year ended March reviews this internal control system policy based on its 31, 2016, we submitted our internal control report for structure and operation status to respond to changes in the year ended March 31, 2017, which concluded social conditions and the business environment. that, “internal control is effective.” Basic Internal Control Policy (Key Items) ① System necessary to ensure that the execution of duties by Directors and employees complies with laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation ② Systems to preserve and manage information related to the execution of duties by Directors ③ Internal regulations for the risk management of losses and other related systems ④ Systems necessary to ensure the efficient execution of duties by Directors ⑤ Systems necessary to ensure the appropriateness of operations by the Group ⑥ Matters concerning employees assisting the duties of Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and matters concerning the independence of these employees from Directors ⑦ Systems for Directors and employees to report to Audit & Supervisory Board Members and other systems for reports to Audit & Supervisory Board Members ⑧ Other systems necessary to ensure effective audits by Audit & Supervisory Board Members Please refer to the corporate website for information on the Company’s basic internal control policy. http://www.marubeni.com/ir/reports/business_report/data/93_notice_en_full.pdf (Pages 43-44) Risk Management In the course of its diversified business activities, micro, as well as qualitative and quantitative. Increased Marubeni conducts risk management activities which volatility in exchange rates, natural resource prices, address risk from a variety of perspectives: macro and and other parameters have continued unabated. Integrated Report 2017 59 Under these conditions, the Company is promoting thorough screening and follow-up for individual integrated risk management, measuring the maximum projects and further enhancing internal control level of risk on a consolidated basis and limiting it to systems, the Company has established a structure within the scope of total equity. By conducting that minimizes losses due to unforeseen events. Marubeni’s Risk Management Approach PATRAC Quantitative Risk assets Investment standards and withdrawal Group-wide risk exposure management Ongoing improvement of conditions for individual projects Country risk management integrated risk management Internal ratings Market risk management Micro Macro Stringent evaluation procedures for new investments and financing Enhanced management of Internal control / compliance Enhanced systems for post-investment monitoring business execution risks Customs clearance supervision Credit management Security trade control Qualitative Integrated Risk Management Marubeni operates in a diversified range of industries computer simulations that reflect the latest information, and regions. Therefore, the Company has established Marubeni has made it possible to grasp the degree of risk an integrated risk management system which not only in more detail than ever before. We calculate PATRAC*1 focuses on the micro level of the individual risk factors, based on risk assets—a value based on the maximum but also takes a macro view of the various factors that decline in the value of Group assets as quantified by the affect the entire Marubeni Group. Integrated risk Company. PATRAC indicates profit after tax following management takes a broad overview of the assets for adjustment for risk. Marubeni has adopted PATRAC as the entire Group, gauging risk based on the exposure an important management indicator, using it as a method of these assets to each specific risk factor—country of screening proposals requiring approval. Each Portfolio risk, industry risk, credit risk for each client, and so on. Unit*2 constantly takes steps to adjust its portfolio in a These risks form the basis for calculating Value at Risk flexible manner, seeking to improve PATRAC in order to (VaR), which takes into account dispersion effects and achieve maximum returns for a given level of risk, correlations to calculate maximum risk. VaR is used as enabling Marubeni to achieve steady and balanced a primary benchmark for our portfolio management. earnings growth. Integrated risk management looks at various risk *1 PATRAC: Profit After Tax less Risk Asset Cost Marubeni’s proprietary management index factors in a comprehensive way to enable managers to for measuring the degree to which the return on a risk exceeds a minimum target *2 Portfolio Unit: Unit of business management linking business departments and Group understand risk as a single monetary value. By using companies by business domain Risk Management System For important individual proposals, such as those periodic status reports are made to the Investment relating to investment or financing, drafts are first and Credit Committee, Corporate Management circulated and discussed by the Investment and Credit Committee, and the Board of Directors. Committee and the Corporate Management Committee In addition, a corporate planning and strategy before the President makes a decision. department was placed under direct control of the The Board of Directors is also involved in decisionGroup CEO, the highest authority with regard to all making on issues of substantial importance. Following business groups, thereby establishing a risk implementation, each business department manages management system that has been optimized to the its own risk exposure and, for important cases, business models of each business group. 60 Marubeni Corporation Chap.2 Management Foundation Compliance As it advances its global operations, Marubeni acts in guidance of the Compliance Committee, which is accordance with the belief that compliance goes overseen by the President and CEO. beyond merely following the letter of the law. In its We have also established the specialized truest sense, compliance means corporations—as Compliance Control Department and are constructing good members of society—practicing high levels of compliance systems and spreading awareness with an ethics, living up to the expectations of stakeholders, emphasis on preventing the occurrence of serious and fulfilling their social responsibilities. To achieve economic crimes within the Group. Going forward, we this type of compliance, Marubeni is reinforcing and will continue to strengthen global compliance systems regularly improving its compliance systems under the that encompass all Group companies. Organizational Diagram for the Marubeni Group Compliance System Audit & Supervisory Board Report or consult through regular reporting lines Board of Directors Members Compliance reporting and consultation hotline Feedback Reporting Lines Compliance Committee (Through Supervisors) Appoint President Chief Compliance Officer (Chairman of Compliance Committee) Corporate Management Report Instruct Secretariat Employees Committee (Compliance Control Group and Branch Office Compliance Officers Department) Report / Consult Instruct / Advise Each Group Company Outside Legal Counsel Reporting Lines Marubeni Compliance Officer (Through Supervisors) Marubeni Group Anti-Corruption Hotline Employees (Serious Economic Crimes, Compliance Access Point such as Bribery) Stringent Application of the Compliance Manual Part of the Marubeni Group’s Company Creed is expected to follow in all their daily work activities. “Fairness.” This symbolizes our pledge to always Every year, the Company’s executives and conduct ourselves in a fair and upright manner. We employees, as well as the presidents of all domestic have defined Marubeni’s stance on compliance as: Marubeni Group companies, make a written statement “When you are faced with a choice between integrity to adhere to the code expressed in this manual. As of and profit, choose integrity without hesitation.” Based June 2017, the Compliance Manual, now in its 14th on this stance, Marubeni has compiled the Marubeni edition, is available in English as well as Japanese, and Group Compliance Manual, which specifies the can be viewed on the Company’s website. standards of behavior that Group employees are Compliance Education and Training The Marubeni Group conducts education and training and cartel countermeasures. In addition, the Chairman programs throughout its organization in accordance of the Compliance Committee and representatives with the Marubeni Group Compliance Manual. from the Compliance Control Department make Specifically, we conduct e-Learning programs and periodic visits to Group companies and overseas offices group training sessions to teach employees about to provide training and raise awareness of compliance. general compliance topics, anti-bribery precautions, Integrated Report 2017 61 Chap. Operating Activities 3 Organization (As of April 1, 2017) Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board General Meeting of Shareholders Audit & Supervisory Member’s Office Board Members Board of Directors President Corporate Management Committee Committee of Heads of Divisions Corporate Staff Group Audit Department Committee of Executive Officers Executive Secretariat Human Resources Department Corporate Planning & CSO Strategy Department Regional Coordination & Administration Department Research Institute IoT-Big Data Strategy Department Corporate Communications Department Corporate Accounting Department CFO Business Accounting Department Finance Department General Affairs Department Information Strategy Department CAO Risk Management Department Legal Department Compliance Control Department CSO: Chief Strategy Officer CFO: Chief Financial Officer CAO: Chief Administrative Officer 62 Marubeni Corporation Management Policy by Business Model D F S N Distribution Businesses Finance Businesses Stable Earnings-Type Natural Resource Investments Businesses Grain Division D Business Group Food Products Division D Food & Consumer Lifestyle Division D Chap.3 Operating Activities Products Group ICT, Logistics & Healthcare Division D Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business Division D Agri-Input Business Division D Chemical & Forest Products Group Chemical Products Division D Forest Products Division D Energy Division D N Energy & Metals Group Steel Products Division D Metals & Mineral Resources Division D N Power Business Division D F S Power Business & Plant Group Plant Division D F S Aerospace & Ship Division D F S Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Automotive & Leasing Division D F Construction & Industrial Machinery Division D F Domestic Branches & Offices Overseas Branches & Offices Integrated Report 2017 63 At a Glance Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2017 Net Profit (Billions of yen) 200 155.4 150 100 62.3 50 Food & Consumer Chemical & Forest 0 Products Group Products Group 16.3 17.3 Divisions Divisions Earnings Structure by Segment • Grain Division • Agri-Input Business Division (Billions of yen) • Food Products Division • Chemical Products Division • Lifestyle Division • Forest Products Division Food & Consumer Products Group 61.3 • ICT, Logistics & Healthcare Division • Insurance, Finance & Chemical & Forest Products Group 28.7 Real Estate Business Division Power Business & Change of Net Profit Change of Total Assets Change of Net Profit Change of Total Assets Plant Group 56.5 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 80 2,500 80 2,500 Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group 28.6 61.3 58.2 1,874.2 1,880.4 2,000 2,000 Corporate & Elimination, etc. (13.5) 60 60 Energy & Metals Group (6.2) 1,500 1,500 40 40 33.3 1,040.4 1,080.3 28.7 1,000 1,000 Total Assets by Segment and 20 20 Business Model 500 500 Corporate & Elimination, etc. 0 0 0 0 Transportation & 16.3 17.3 16.3 17.3 16.3 17.3 16.3 17.3 Industrial 5% Food & Consumer Machinery Products Group 12% Group 27% Total Assets Composition by Business Model Total Assets Composition by Business Model N Power Business & 16% S D Plant Group F 16% 25% Chemical & Forest D D Products Group D Distribution Businesses ...... 100% D Distribution Businesses ...... 100% Energy & Metals Group F Finance Businesses ................ 0% F Finance Businesses ................ 0% S table Earnings-Type Businesses S table Earnings-Type Businesses S S D Distribution Businesses ............................. 60% (Infrastructure, etc.) ............... 0% (Infrastructure, etc.) ............... 0% N atural Resource N atural Resource N N F Finance Businesses .................................... 10% Investments ............................ 0% Investments ............................ 0% Stable Earnings-Type Businesses S (Infrastructure, etc.)................................... 10% * Reflecting the organizational changes, Energy Div. -I and Energy Div. -II have been merged and reorganized into Energy Div., while Energy & Environmental N Natural Resource Investments................... 20% Infrastructure Div. and Plant Div. have been merged and reorganized into Plant Div. as of April 1, 2017. Each figure is based on the former organizational structure valid until March 31, 2017. 64 Marubeni Corporation Chap.3 Operating Activities Energy & Metals Group Power Business & Transportation & Plant Group Industrial Machinery Group Divisions Divisions Divisions • Energy Division • Power Business Division • Aerospace & Ship Division • Steel Products Division • Plant Division • Automotive & Leasing Division • Metals & Mineral Resources Division • Construction & Industrial Machinery Division Change of Net Profit Change of Total Assets Change of Net Profit Change of Total Assets Change of Net Profit Change of Total Assets (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 200 2,500 80 72.2 2,500 80 2,500 1,711.4 1,691.2 2,000 56.5 2,000 2,000 100 60 60 1,500 1,278.6 1,500 1,500 0 40 1,117.6 40 (6.2) 28.6 1,000 1,000 24.2 806.4 797.4 1,000 ‒100 20 20 500 500 500 (142.4) ‒200 0 0 0 0 0 16.3 17.3 16.3 17.3 16.3 17.3 16.3 17.3 16.3 17.3 16.3 17.3 Total Assets Composition by Business Model Total Assets Composition by Business Model Total Assets Composition by Business Model S D D D N S F D Distribution Businesses ........ 25% F D Distribution Businesses ........ 30% D Distribution Businesses ........ 40% F Finance Businesses ................ 0% F Finance Businesses ............... 10% F Finance Businesses .............. 55% S table Earnings-Type Businesses S table Earnings-Type Businesses S table Earnings-Type Businesses S (Infrastructure, etc.) ............... 0% S (Infrastructure, etc.) ............. 60% S (Infrastructure, etc.) ............... 5% N atural Resource N atural Resource N atural Resource N Investments .......................... 75% N Investments ............................ 0% N Investments ............................ 0% Integrated Report 2017 65 Business Groups Food & Consumer Products Group The Food & Consumer Products Group globally operates a wide range of businesses related to the human necessities of food, shelter and clothing. Optimally combining various strengths and functions, the Group provides goods and services that support consumers’ everyday lives. Group Highlights (2017.3) Net Profit Net Profit by Sub-Segment (Billions of yen) ¥61.3 billion 80 58.2 61.3 60 29.9 30.0 40 Total Assets by Segment 20 28.4 31.2 ¥1,880.4 billion 0 16.3 Food (Grain, Food Products) 17.3 Lifestyle, ICT, Logistics & Healthcare, Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business Strengths • Top-ranked general trading company by grain • One of Japan’s top mobile phone retailers, with trading volume, with broad global network nationwide network of 427 stores as of April encompassing all supply chain links from grain 1, 2017 collection through sales • Condominium development business highly • Approximately 30% share of Japan’s raw coffee adept at meeting customers’ needs, having bean imports; manufactures instant coffee in developed and sold some 90,000 condos in Brazil and sells it in over 30 countries globally Japan and overseas • Advanced sales, sourcing and production capabilities as well as the ability to accurately gauge final demand for a wide range of consumer products Opportunities • Grain demand growth driven by economic • Growing consumer product demand as a result growth in Asia, Middle East and North Africa, of population growth and economic development, which are major grain importers mainly in emerging Asian economies • Growth in food demand in countries with • Growth in domestic IoT/AI-related businesses’ growing populations/incomes, including China, markets in response to digital technological emerging Asian economies and developing advances; capital inflows to private REITs from African countries domestic financial institutions and pension funds Risks • Variations in grain crop conditions due to weather food-producing regions due to exchange rate irregularities in grain producing countries and movements and/or local economic growth; chronic resultant fluctuations in grain collection and labor shortages in domestic supply chains; and export volumes freight rate declines due to intensification of • Risk of communicable livestock disease (e.g., avian competition in international containerized shipping influenza, hoof-and-mouth disease) outbreaks markets • Risk of natural disasters including crop failures due • Tightening of real estate regulations by Chinese to adverse weather in key agricultural regions authorities in response to changes in Chinese • Sluggish in growth in emerging economies, real estate market conditions particularly in Asia; cost inflation in major 66 Marubeni Corporation The Food & Consumer Products Group aims to enhance its businesses’ value by optimizing its diverse functions, providing services that meet customers’ needs and cultivating a workforce capable of driving global expansion with a deeply rooted front-line mindset. Mitsuru Akiyoshi Chief Executive Officer, Chap.3 Operating Activities Food & Consumer Products Group Medium-to Long-Term Strategy The Food & Consumer Products Group will realize susexpanding in the wake of digital technological progress, tained growth by building profitable operations and the Group will create and capture demand, supplying reforming its business models in response to changing high-value-added services that simultaneously meet times and market changes. The Group will expand its diverse customer needs by combining new technologies grain and food businesses in the Middle East, China and with the Group’s existing functions as a general trading elsewhere in Asia where incomes are rising in tandem company. In addition to improving, revamping and investwith economic growth. It will also support consumers’ ing anew in existing businesses, the Group will also focus quest for more affluent lifestyles by expanding its real on expeditiously cultivating operational management estate development business and producing and supplycapabilities and developing well-rounded personnel, caping consumer goods tailored to consumers’ increasingly italizing on its experience in trading businesses. diverse needs. In IoTand AI-related businesses that are Business Overview • Grains in general (corn, soybeans, wheat, rapeseed, etc.) • Feed ingredients (soybean meal, rapeseed meal, fish meal, etc.) • Compound feed Grain Division • C onsumer-use food products, • A pparel, uniforms, and household goods commercial-use food materials, and • Raw materials for textiles and industrial agricultural resources materials • Marine products, processed seafood, and • Footwear and office machinery fresh and processed meat • Rubber products (tires, etc.) Food Products Maximize business value • Raw ingredients for food Lifestyle Division and natural rubber (flour, sugar, oils and fats, etc.) Division through optimal arrangements • Raw materials for beverages (coffee, tea, fruit juice, etc.) • Systems solutions • Network solutions • Mobile handset sales agents Insurance, Finance & • Insurance and reinsurance • Third-party logistics and ICT, Logistics & • Fund and J-REIT management Real Estate international logistics Healthcare Division • Property management Business Division • Healthcare & medical business • Domestic and overseas housing development Integrated Report 2017 67 Marubeni’s Grain Trade Map Marubeni has established a grain trade system that encompasses everything from procurement in producing countries, most notably the United States and Brazil, to export and then sales to consuming countries, such as Japan and principal Asia nations. In addition, we are expanding sales to the Middle East and North Africa, positioning these regions as promising emerging markets. The Company is also working to optimize sea transport and is sharing information on producing and consuming Columbia Grain, Inc (U.S.) Gavilon Agriculture countries on a global basis to expand transactions. Furthermore, we are Grain elevator network, export bases Investment, Inc. (U.S.) leveraging Gavilon Agriculture Investment, Inc., to step up initiatives for Grain elevator network, export bases addressing the continually growing internal demand in North America. Wheat, barley, corn, and soybeans CHINA & ASIA NORTH AMERICA Marubeni Largest grain silo network among general trading companies New Hope Liuhe Co., Ltd. (China) Largest farming company in China No. 1 grain trading volume for a general trading company MIDDLE EAST & NORTH AFRICA Corn, soybeans, The Sinograin Group (China) and soybean meal Government grain stockpiling firm SOUTH AMERICA Terlogs Terminal Maritimo Ltda. (Brazil) Market Producer Export terminal operation Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and profit/loss)  (Unit: billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2016 FYE 3/2017 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual D Columbia Grain 100.00% 2.2 3.1 Collection, storage, exporting and domestic sale of grain produced in North America D Gavilon Agriculture Investment 100.00% 5.4 11.3 Parent company of Gavilon Group (collection/sales of grain, fertilizer, etc.) D Wellfam Foods 100.00% 3.5 3.6 Marketing of livestock, meats and processed products D Yamaboshiya 75.62% 1.9 1.8 Wholesale of confectionary products to mass-retail and convenience stores D Marubeni Foods 100.00% 1.2 1.1 Imports, exports and sales of food products D Benirei 98.76% 0.9 1.0 Wholesale of seafood products and warehousing D Marubeni Fashion Link 100.00% 0.7 0.9 Planning, production and sale of textile products D Marubeni Intex 100.00% 1.0 1.1 Sales of industrial materials, lifestyle material-related textile goods and products D B-Quik — 1.9 1.9 Tire retailer in the ASEAN D Marubeni Information Systems 100.00% 1.8 1.9 IT solution provider for full range of IT lifecycle in every industry D MX Mobiling 100.00% 4.6 6.0 Sales, repair and maintenance of mobile handsets and related equipment International combined transport operation (NVOCC), 3PL (Third-party Logistics), D Marubeni Logistics 100.00% 1.5 1.2 ocean & air freight forwarding, consultancy relating to logistics Telecommunication business, data communication service business, D ARTERIA Networks 50.00% 2.4 1.9 data center business D Distribution Businesses Group Organization (From left) Kenichiro Oikawa Chief Operating Officer, Insurance, Food & Consumer Finance & Real Estate Business Division Grain Division Products Group Yuichi Ohira Chief Operating Officer, Lifestyle Division Food Products Division Yoshiaki Mizumoto Chief Operating Officer, Grain Division Lifestyle Division Koji Yamazaki Chief Operating Officer, ICT, Logistics & Food Products Division Healthcare Division Koji Kabumoto Insurance, Finance & Real Chief Operating Officer, Estate Business Division ICT, Logistics & Healthcare Division 68 Marubeni Corporation Initiatives in Pursuit of Sustained Growth Topics Integrated Domestically Raised Chicken Business Wellfam Foods Corporation operates an integrated broiler chicken business in Japan. It raises chickens itself and processes and sells their meat and meat products. With domestically raised chickens increasingly preferred by Japanese consumers, Wellfam Foods is expanding its operations by leveraging its Shinrindori brand’s high quality, industry-leading cost-competitiveness and a trio of domestic Chap.3 Operating Activities production sites that enable it to supply fresh, locally sourced chicken throughout Japan. It aims to further increase the value of its business by improving its already formidable cost-competitiveness through continued investment and expansion of its scale of production. Inside a chicken coop (Kagoshima Prefecture) Resolving Social Problems through Preserving Seafood Resources and Upgrading Sales Capabilities Business Marubeni is building businesses that stably supply seafood ulated to preserve ecosystems and prevent overfishing. as part of its global foodstuffs supply chains. One such In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the MSCbusiness, which dates back to 1972, mainly harvests wild certified* share of Marubeni’s seafood trading volume salmon in Alaska, where marine resources are strictly regmore than quadrupled to 15.7% from 3.5% in the previous fiscal year as a result of MSC certification of Marubeni’s salmon plant. Marubeni plans to contribute to sustainable fisheries by continuing to promote sales of seafood products certified by the MSC and other industry bodies. * MSC certification: The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) is an international organization that advocates sustainable fishing of wild fish and encourages environmentally conscientious seafood choices in the aim of preserving marine resources in perpetuity. MSC certification is an international certification of compliance with the MSC’s sustainable fishing standards. A salmon catch (US) Human Resources Supporting Homegrown Asian Businesses through Fund Investments Development —Keisuke Shiba, Advantage Partners H.K. Limited I work in Hong Kong sourcing Chinese and Southeast practice can provide business support that helps Asian Asian investment deals and formulating growth strategies companies maintain sustainable growth. I will strive to add for them. This is a crucial first step toward developing our value to these companies. overseas private equity (PE) practice. I am learning to effectively interact with investee companies’ management and gaining specialized financial knowledge at the forefront of the PE industry. By utilizing Marubeni’s extensive business network, we aim to bring value to target companies no other PE funds can offer. With Chinese and Southeast Asian companies increasingly encountering succession challenges and slower growth as their local economies mature, I believe Marubeni PE Keisuke Shiba (right) with Emmett Thomas, Asia Head, Advantage Partners H.K. Limited Integrated Report 2017 69 Chemical & Forest Products Group The Chemical & Forest Products Group aims to expand its market share in the agricultural supplies sector, mainly through Helena Chemical Company, while enhancing the competitive advantages of its Chemical Products and Forest Products Divisions. Group Highlights (2017.3) Net Profit Net Profit by Sub-Segment (Billions of yen) ¥28.7 billion 40 33.3 28.7 30 13.2 7.5 20 Total Assets by Segment 20.0 21.2 10 ¥1,080.3 billion 0 Agri-Input Business 16.3 17.3 Chemical Products, Forest Products Strengths • North American agricultural supplies business with • Global network that includes locally hired localized operations to better meet farmers’ needs personnel in addition to Japanese workforce, • Commands roughly 30% share of global about 40% of whom are posted overseas ethylene trade through use of the industry’s • In agricultural supply retailing, Marubeni has largest fleet of specialized ethylene tankers and Helena Chemical Company, ranked second in Marubeni’s network the U.S. by market share, and Agrovista U.K. • Pulpwood tree plantation in Sumatra, Indonesia Ltd., which boasts a top-ranked share in the U.K. covering an area larger than Tokyo • Ranked fifth in Japan for containerboard production • Forest product operations encompassing all supply chain links from tree farming through sales of paper end-products Opportunities • Expansion of Helena Chemical Company’s • Expansion of agricultural supplies market due to business domain and acquisition of new demands for increased food production in customers through M&A response to population growth and limits on • Strengthening of North American fertilizer expansion of arable land area business through acquisition of Gavilon and its • Growth in developing countries’ petroleum product subsequent growth markets in tandem with economic growth • Involvement in biomass power plant projects that • Growth in industrial paper (e.g., containerboard) facilitate wider use of renewable energy markets in tandem with economic growth • Business expansion in solar energy market, particularly through sales of proprietary residential solar power systems Risks • Impact on agricultural and forestry businesses • Political and economic risks in China, a major from climate-related risks petrochemical importer • Changes in farmers’ incomes, a key determinant • U.S. economic downturn or stagnation in internaof Helena Chemical Company’s sales tional trade with U.S. due to protectionist policies • Trade in products sensitive to changes in market prices, such as petrochemicals and pulp 70 Marubeni Corporation The Chemical & Forest Products Group has solidified its stature in its industries by upgrading its agricultural supplies business and chemical and forest products trading businesses over many years. The keys to further growth are to challenge new sectors and upgrade operations in those sectors. Akira Terakawa Chief Executive Officer, Chemical & Forest Products Group Chap.3 Operating Activities Medium-to Long-Term Strategy The Chemical & Forest Products Group’s divisions aim to Products Division will develop new businesses while grow over the medium-to long-term by further enhancing augmenting the unique strengths conferred by its diverse their existing strengths in their respective industries and portfolio of domestic and overseas businesses. Its existing geographic markets. businesses include chemical feedstocks derived from The Agri-Input Business Division will pursue further crude oil and natural gas, inorganic materials (e.g., salts, market share growth by acquiring new customers and boric acid, iodine) and electronics, most notably solar cell strengthening its services, mainly through asset acquisitions modules. The Forest Products Division operates diverse by Helena Chemical Company. It will also pursue global businesses ranging from tree plantations to pulp production, business expansion through other subsidiaries, including a paper manufacturing and trading of paper products. It will major European retailer of agricultural supplies, Malaysian also strengthen its biomass fuel business, which has agricultural chemical manufacturer/distributor and favorable market demand growth prospects, through Burmese fertilizer manufacturer/distributor. The Chemical initiatives such as sales of pellets manufactured in Vietnam. Business Overview Upstream Downstream Basic petrochemicals Petrochemical derivative products Agri-Input Business Strengthen operations in Crude oil (Olefin) • Plastics Agri-Input products and other Chemical Products Ethylene • Synthetic fiber Propylene retail industries intermediates Butadiene • Synthetic rubber Naphtha • Paint materials and (Aromatics) Benzene organic solvents Toluene • Fine chemicals • Crop protections, Fertilizers Methane, ethane, and propane • Synthetic detergents and Xylene and Seeds surfactant materials • Food and Feed Additives etc. • Crop protections • Medical and healthcare Methanol • Fertilizers • Automobiles, ships, and railcars Natural gas and associated gas • Others (Sulfuric acid, etc.) Ammonia • IT and electronic devices • Daily necessities Inorganic and • Industrial materials mineral resources • Apparel Natural resources Forest Products Afforestation and wood chips Pulp Paper and paperboard Sales, distribution, and processing Trading volume: Production capacity: Paper trading volume: Approx. 2.2 million Trading volume: Approx. 1.9 million tons per year Approx. 1.0 million tons per year bone dry tons (BDT) per year Approx. 1.7 million tons per year (Domestic production capacity: Paperboard trading volume: Afforestation area: Approx. 1.5 million tons per year) Approx. 1.0 million tons per year Approx. 210,000 ha Integrated Report 2017 71 Major Marubeni Subsidiaries/Associates in Chemical Business Business expansion focused on life sciences <Investee> Netherlands Marubeni’s Chemical Products Division operates businesses • One of Europe’s largest feed additive distributors, with around the world through three business units and a global Orffa International Holding B.V. sales in approximately 60, mainly European, countries network revolving around a nucleus of over 20 consolidated Marubeni Group’s equity stake: 60% • Product line includes food and beverage additives, subsidiaries and associates. (February 2017 agreement) cosmetics and personal care products in addition to feed additives Investments/alliances Locations of major consolidated subsidiaries/ associates other than the above Livestock feed additives European-style feed additive usage standards focused on safety and environment Global standards Marubeni Specialty Chemicals Inc. • Marubeni Plax Co., Ltd. Sales expansion into Asia (specialty chemicals, synthetic resins) (synthetic resins, industrial materials, electronics) • Marubeni Chemix Corp. (organic chemicals, functional chemicals, pharmaceutical raw materials) Exports to Japan Olefin trading Salt 2,000,000t/yr Sales of olefins sourced from Japan, Korea, Exports to China Taiwan, Singapore, Thailand, Middle East, etc., to users in China, Indonesia, etc. Capturing more <Investee> Australia demand growth Among the world’s top olefin Dampier Salt Limited traders by trading volume (solar salt) • Roughly 30% share of global olefin trade Marubeni Group’s equity stake: 21.51% • 25 specialty tankers chartered at all times • World’s top exporter of industrial salts Strategic investments/alliances by volume <Investee> China • Roughly 50% share of Asian salt trade Shen Hua Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd. (synthetic rubber) Marubeni Group’s equity stake: 22.56% Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and profit/loss)  (Unit: billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2016 FYE 3/2017 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual D Helena Chemical 100.00% 19.5 20.1 Sale of agricultural materials and provision of various services D Marubeni Plax 100.00% 0.3 0.6 Sales and foreign trade of plastic products and resins D Marubeni Chemix 100.00% 0.6 0.8 Sales and foreign trade of organic chemicals and fine chemicals D Marubeni Pulp & Paper 100.00% 1.5 1.8 Sale of paper products D Koa Kogyo 79.95% 0.4 0.0 Manufacture and sale of corrugating medium and printing paper D Fukuyama Paper 55.00% 0.3 0.2 Manufacture and sales of corrugating medium and core board D MUSI Pulp Project — (6.1) (15.2) Afforestation, production and sales of pulp in Indonesia D WA Plantation Resources 100.00% 0.6 0.1 Wood chip production and plantation in Australia D Distribution Businesses Group Organization Chemical & Forest Agri-Input Business Division Products Group (From left) Chemical Products Division Takeo Kobayashi Chief Operating Officer, Forest Products Division Forest Products Division Michael McCarty Chief Operating Officer, Agri-Input Business Division Jun Horie Chief Operating Officer, Chemical Products Division 72 Marubeni Corporation Initiatives in Pursuit of Sustained Growth Topics Roughly 30% share of global ethylene trade Marubeni has long been one of the world’s top ethylene traders, mainly in Asia and the Middle East. Ethylene is used as a feedstock in the manufacture of a variety of petrochemicals that are ubiquitous in daily life. Marubeni provides timely and flexible logistics services to both suppliers and users by keeping them informed of its ethylene tanker fleet’s global operating status in real time. Instead of Chap.3 Operating Activities resting on its laurels, Marubeni aims to further expand its ethylene trading volume by upgrading its logistics and Ethylene tanker network to better provide optimal solutions to suppliers and customers. Resolving Social Problems through Tree Plantation in Indonesia Business The timber resources from which paper is made are plantations while stably supplying woodchips as a raw valuable natural resources that help to mitigate climate material for paper manufacturing. change and preserve biodiversity. The Marubeni Group has four tree plantations in three countries. It manages a total of 210,000ha of afforestable land, an area comparable in size to the Tokyo Metropolis. It plants and harvests fastgrowing tree species suitable for producing pulp for paper manufacturing, such as eucalyptus trees, in compliance with local environmental standards. In Indonesia, Marubeni is gaining stature in the market by virtue of owning one of the world’s most prime timber growing sites. Marubeni will continue to sustainably manage its tree Tree plantation (Indonesia) Human Resources Young Japanese expat helping to ensure stable pulpwood supply at Indonesian tree plantation Development —Yuya Shima, PT. Musi Hutan Persada The Marubeni Group’s PT. Musi Hutan Persada operates 1,000 local employees to cultivate a healthy forest of fasta tree plantation in Sumatra, Indonesia. Nine Japanese growing eucalyptus trees. expats from Marubeni are currently working together with Supervisory staff includes both expats and local personnel working on site to ensure the quality of planting, maintenance and harvesting work. If problems arise at the plantation, workers promptly devise remedial measures in concert with supervisory staff and immediately implement them. By doing so, we are building a foundation to maximize production and future stable supplies of pulpwood. One of the benefits of working here is that we can see the results of our work in the form of not only numbers but also the trees’ growth. Yuya Shima (second from left) Integrated Report 2017 73 Energy & Metals Group The Energy & Metals Group contributes to society through diverse fields of businesses throughout the supply chain. We aim to improve people’s quality of life and support economic growth, by stabilizing supply of energy, metal and mineral resources. Group Highlights (2017.3) Net Profit Net Profit by Sub-Segment (Billions of yen) ¥(6.2) billion 50 10.8 6.9 7.5 0 (24.6) (84.9) (6.2) ‒50 ‒100 (64.3) Total Assets by Segment ‒150 (142.4) ¥1,691.2 billion ‒200 Energy I, Energy II* 16.3 17.3 Steel Products Metals & Mineral Resources Strengths • Business portfolio comprising a well-balanced mix • One of the world’s top traders of naphtha and of resource investments and trading operations LNG by trading volume • A sustainably stronger earnings base through the • All-around capabilities that enable pursuit of ownership of highly cost-competitive projects profit opportunities throughout the supply chain • Partnerships with top-caliber business partners willing to strive together with Marubeni to enhance the values of various projects Opportunities • Long-term increase in demands for energy, • Growing demands in clean energy (e.g., natural metals and mineral resources due to global gas) driven by tighter environmental regulations population growth and economic growth • Rising demand for steel, metal products • New investment and trading opportunities and minerals, due to the continuous growth arising from oil and natural gas production in infrastructure growth occurring mainly in the U.S. • Long-term growth in nonferrous metal demands driven by proliferation of electric vehicles in the coming of the IoT era Risks • Volatile resource prices that can affect energy, • Widespread adoption of renewable energy metals and minerals resource projects’ profitability or energy-efficient technologies along with • Changes in government policies that can affect other technological advances that can affect resource investments or trading businesses demand for coal, petroleum and natural gas * As of April 1, 2017, Energy Div. – I and Energy Div. – I I have been merged and reorganized into Energy Div. 74 Marubeni Corporation The Energy & Metals Group strives to build strong relationships with our partners as we work by focusing on long-term visions, ultimately aiming to establish a stronger and stable earnings base. Ichiro Takahara Chief Executive Officer, Chap.3 Operating Activities Energy & Metals Group Medium-to Long-Term Strategy In investments such as oil and gas exploration, development development, mainly in emerging economies, and and production, as well as iron ore, coal and copper mine strengthen its overall operations from upstream through development and operation, the Energy & Metals Group downstream. In trading businesses, the Group will focus aims to maximize its cash flow and profits by sustaining on markets where it can provide high-value-added services both production and reserves. We work together with our in response to market needs by tapping into Marubeni’s strong business partners to improve the competitiveness of global network. Trading businesses will also pursue existing operations through cost-control, and operating diversification of suppliers and customers together with efficiency. The LNG business will pursue investment sales-channel expansion. The Group will establish earnings opportunities in natural gas liquefaction projects in stability and long-term profit growth by building a suitable anticipation of global growth in demand. It will also portfolio comprising a broad array of businesses spread create demand through downstream gas infrastructure across the supply chain. Business Overview Upstream Midstream Downstream Resource Distribution, processing, sales, etc. investment Petroleum product trading Raw material trading Processing and refining LPG, naphtha, gasoline, Crude oil and Retail operations business investment middle distillates, condensate Sustainably reinforce earnings bases and fuel oil Oil and gas LNG business LNG trading investment (Transportation and storage) Power generation and gas supply Iron ore, coal, Raw material trading Steelmaking Intermediate material and Recycling and copper Iron ore, coal, product trading Iron and non-ferrous copper concentrate, Smelting and refining Non-ferrous ingots, steel products, scrap trading and alumina, and ferroalloy business investment and non-ferrous products automobile recycling Focus on gaining supply sources such as overseas suppliers, and strive to improve added values Focus on strengthening cost competitiveness in existing projects, and establishing full capacity operation systems for developing projects Integrated Report 2017 75 Marubeni’s Resource Interests Marubeni has energy, metals and minerals resource development projects and production operations in the U.S., development and production operations throughout the world. the U.K. and Russia; and iron ore, coal and copper mine Its resource interests include a geographically diversified development projects and aluminum smelting operations in portfolio of LNG projects, most notably in Qatar; oil and gas Australia, Canada and Chile. U.K. North Sea Oil and gas exploration, development, Alouette Smelter and production (U.K.) Sakhalin-1 Project (Russia) (Canada) Qatar United States Qatar LNG U.S. Gulf of Mexico Papua New Guinea Indian Ocean Papua New Guinea LNG Equatorial Guinea LNG Queensland Coal Mines Peru LNG (Australia) Antucoya Copper Mine Encuentro Copper Roy Hill Iron Ore Project Boyne Smelter (Australia) (Chile) Ore Deposit (Chile) (Australia) New South Wales Coal Mines Los Pelambres Copper Mine (Australia) (Chile) Portland Smelter Centinela Copper Mine (Australia) (Chile) Roy Hill Iron Ore Project (Australia) Oil and gas LNG Iron ore Coal Copper Aluminum Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and profit/loss)  (Unit: billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2016 FYE 3/2017 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual N Energy concession business in total — (100.0) (52.7) Oil and natural gas exploration, development, production and sales D MIECO 100.00% 0.6 0.8 Sales of all types of petroleum products and natural gas N Marubeni Coal 100.00% 3.0 16.1 Investment in coal mines in Australia N Marubeni Aluminium Australia 100.00% 1.4 (3.2) Investment in aluminum smelting in Australia N Marubeni Metals & Minerals (Canada) 100.00% 0.8 0.2 Investment in aluminum smelting in Canada N Marubeni LP Holding*1 100.00% (44.8) 3.0 Investment in copper mines in Chile D Marubeni-Itochu Steel 50.00% 6.6 7.6 Sales and business management of steel products *1. Net profit for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 is that of Marubeni Los Pelambres Investment, which was renamed Marubeni LP Holding upon merging with its erstwhile subsidiary Marubeni LP Holding in the third quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. D Distribution Businesses N Natural Resource Investments Group Organization Energy & Metals Group Energy Division (From left) Steel Products Division Mutsumi Ishizuki Chief Operating Officer, Metals & Mineral Resources Division Metals & Mineral Resources Division Akihiko Sagara Chief Operating Officer, Energy Division Masahiro Inoue Chief Operating Officer, Steel Products Division 76 Marubeni Corporation Initiatives in Pursuit of Sustained Growth Topics Qatar LNG Project In 1985, Marubeni became the first Japanese company to technology, network and relationships of trust with business invest in an LNG project in Qatar, the world’s largest LNG partners and customers that it has gained through its Qatar exporter. Since commencing LNG shipments in 1996, LNG project. Marubeni’s Qatar LNG project has been selling LNG to eight major Japanese electric and gas utilities pursuant to long-term contracts that extend out to 2021. In recent years, the project has been selling extra LNG to Japanese Chap.3 Operating Activities customers under shortand medium-term contracts in response to changes in Japan’s domestic energy demand structure in the aftermath of the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake. Marubeni provides diverse services that meet our users’ needs from past experience, know-how, Natural gas liquefaction plant (Qatar) Resolving Social Problems through Stable Supply of Metal Resources Business Copper is an essential resource for global economic by infrastructure investment in developing countries and development. Copper demand is projected to grow, driven technological progress in developed countries in fields such as IT and electric vehicles. To stably supply copper, Marubeni operates three Chilean copper mines–Los Pelambres, Centinela and Antucoya–in partnership with Antofagasta plc, one of the world’s largest copper producers. It is also developing the Encuentro copper ore deposit adjacent to the Centinela Copper Mine. Marubeni is contributing to stable copper supplies and societal progress through stable operation of its copper mines and expansion of copper resource sales channels. Antucoya Copper Mine (Chile) Human Resources Stably supplying LNG through smooth on-the-ground operations in Qatar Development —Ayumi Hashiba, Qatargas Operating Company I am a Marubeni employee on assignment at Qatargas Operating Company, operator of the Qatar LNG project partly owned by Marubeni. I coordinate LNG shipment plans to appropriately manage the project’s production and inventory while also taking customers’ wishes into account. Surrounded by a diverse, international cast of coworkers, I help keep the project running smooth through close communication with front-line personnel and do my best to enhance the project’s value. The project’s smooth operation leads to stable LNG supplies for the Japanese electric and gas companies that purchase the project’s LNG. Ayumi Hashiba (right) Integrated Report 2017 77 Power Business & Plant Group The Power Business & Plant Group develops, invests in, manages, operates, maintains, constructs, and supplies equipment for electric power projects, other energy infrastructure projects, water and sewage utilities, transportation and infrastructure system projects, and industrial plants in Japan and overseas. Group Highlights (2017.3) Net Profit Net Profit by Sub-Segment (Billions of yen) ¥56.5 billion 80 72.2 56.5 60 31.5 16.4 40 Total Assets by Segment 40.7 40.2 20 ¥1,117.6 billion 407 402 0 Power Projects* 16.3 17.3 315 Energy & Environment Infrastructure, Plant* 164 Strengths • Broad upstream-through-downstream electric • Top Class track record in EPC projects for power business domain ranging from power industrial plant and railway among general generation to electricity retailing, power plant trading companies operations/maintenance (O&M*1) and offshore • Diverse infrastructure investment portfolio (railway wind farm installation PPPs*4, railcar leasing business, roads, airports, Japan’s leading IPP*2 business player by power seaports, industrial parks, FPSOs*5, offshore generation capacity (global net capacity of energy businesses (e.g., offshore platforms), energy 11,765MW as of March 31, 2017) infrastructure investments (e.g., pipelines, pipedExtensive EPC*3 track record in overseas power gas supply infrastructure) sector and unique EPC coordination capabilities • Japanese top-level varied portfolio in the water Vast experience in electricity retailing in business (ranging from water and sewage Japan and overseas; growing domestic electric utilities to water treatment plant EPC, BOT*6 power business and O&M projects in Latin America, China, Asia, Europe, Middle East and Australia) Opportunities • Diversification of power generation resources (e.g., • Social/industrial infrastructure demand driven by renewable energy, distributed power sources, storeconomic growth, population growth and rising age batteries) and new large-scale power projects living standards in developing countries (IPP and EPC) in response to electricity demand • Replacement of aging infrastructure in developed growth in developing countries countries • Development of new renewable energy sources and • New PPP opportunities arising from trend toward grid management projects (e.g., storage batteries/ utilization of private capital for public infrastrucdemand response) in developed countries ture projects • Infrastructure (e.g., railway, waste-to-energy) development demand driven by environmental regulations and growing environmental consciousness Risks • Reduction in new business opportunities due to • Intensification of competition due to new market slowdown in economic growth, particularly in entrants from other sectors developing countries • Legal or regulatory changes * As of April 1, 2017, Power Projects Div. has been renamed Power Business Division. As of April 1, 2017, Energy & Environment Infrastructure Div. and Plant Div. have been merged and reorganized into Plant Div. 78 Marubeni Corporation The Power Business & Plant Group contributes to the development of local communities as a total infrastructure solution provider, capitalizing on its network and project development and asset management capabilities that are backed by a proven track record in various business sectors and regions throughout the world. Masumi Kakinoki Chief Executive Officer, Chap.3 Operating Activities Power Business & Plant Group Medium-to Long-Term Strategy The Power Business & Plant Group is engaged in IoT technologies, and so forth. The domestic PPS*7 busieconomically and socially foundational infrastructure ness is expanding its scope in the wake of the retail elecbusinesses that give full play to its project management tricity market’s complete liberalization in April 2016. It and financing capabilities. Such infrastructure includes aims to expand its operations over the medium–to long– electric power, other energy, water and transportation term while placing priority on stably supplying power. The infrastructure and industrial plants. The Group continues water, energy and transportation infrastructure business to accumulate stable, prime assets while upgrading aims to build up a stable earnings foundation by acquiring existing assets with the aim of building a business portfolio water and sewage utilities, gas infrastructure, marine that sustainably generates more stable profits. businesses, and PPP projects. In the EPC business, the The IPP business plans to accumulate prime assets Group will focus on projects related to electric power, with an emphasis on better balancing its portfolio across water, transportation systems and plants in industries countries and sectors. It also plans to proactively such as steelmaking, cement, pulp and paper, sugar enhance the value of existing assets, partly by utilizing refining, and textiles. Business Overview Construction Business investment and operation Retail and other businesses Power EPC EPC business-related investments I(W)PP*2 Electricity wholesale and retail businesses • EPC contract • PIC Group, Inc. (U.S.) O&M-related businesses •G  lobal generation stake: • SmartestEnergy Ltd. (U.K.) generation volumes: • Seajacks International Ltd. (U.K.) Offshore wind 11,765 MW •M arubeni Power Retail Corporation Co., Ltd. 109,328 MW power facility installation vessel operations (Japan) Water EPC and O&M PPP and BOT • Construction, operation and maintenance of water, •D  evelopment, investment and management of water/ wastewater and seawater desalination plants, etc. wastewater treatment facilities and utility concessions Oil & Gas EPC Business investment • Construction and • Gas provision infrastructure businesses financing of energy • FPSO businesses and chemical projects Industrial Plant EPC • Steel, non-ferrous metals, cement, paper, pulp, and textiles Transportation & Infrastructure EPC and O&M PPP and Concessions Railcar leasing and Industrial park projects • Railways, roads, bridges, etc. • Railway, road, harbor, and airport projects *1 O&M: Operation and Maintenance *4 PPP: Public–Private Partnership *6 BOT: Build, 0perate, and Transfer; projects in which plants *2 I(W)PP: Independent (Water) Power Producer *5 FPSO: Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading system are built and operated temporarily before the assets are *3 EPC: Engineering, Procurement, and Construction turned over to government agencies *7 PPS: Power Producer and Supplier Integrated Report 2017 79 Update on Domestic and Overseas Power Projects As of March 31, 2017, Marubeni is developing power in a diverse range of eco-friendly power generation businesses, generation business in Japan and 22 other countries around including offshore and other wind, solar, and micro-hydro the world, and has stable earnings sources through long-term power generation. power purchase agreements. Recent major projects include the gas-fired West Deptford Focused on highly profitable development projects, Energy Station in the US (New Jersey) and Sweihan Photovoltaic Marubeni functions as a project leader, playing a central role Independent Power Project in the United Arab Emirates. in everything from construction to operation. We are engaged Marubeni’s Domestic Generation Assets 18 Domestic Projects Europe Gross capacity : 388 MW 5,873 MW Net capacity : 328 MW 1,207 MW Americas Asia 4,814 MW 14,383 MW 1,829 MW 4,784 MW Middle East & Africa Marubeni’s Overseas Generation Assets 13,8 11 MW 3,421 MW Oceania 22 Countries 53 Projects Gross capacity : 39, 1 1 1 MW 230 MW Net capacity : 11,437 MW 196 MW Gross capacity Net capacity As of March 31, 2017 Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and profit/loss)  (Unit: billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2016 FYE 3/2017 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual S Overseas IPP Projects*1 — 51.2 40.9 Overseas power generation S Overseas Water and Wastewater Services*2 — 5.8 7.5 Overseas water and wastewater services S FPSO Project*3 — 2.5 2.3 FPSO project investment and management F Marubeni SuMiT Rail Transport*4 50.00% 2.6 1.1 Investment in railcar leasing business *1. Total of share of profits of associates and joint ventures of our overseas IPP business. *2. Total profits of consolidated subsidiaries and share of associates and joint ventures of our overseas water and wastewater services. *3. Total profits of consolidated subsidiaries and share of associates and joint ventures of our FPSO projects. *4. Figure for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 is that of Marubeni Rail Transport. S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses F Finance Businesses Group Organization Power Business & Power Business Division Plant Group Plant Division (From left) Hirohisa Miyata Chief Operating Officer, Power Business Division Hajime Kawamura Chief Operating Officer, Plant Division 80 Marubeni Corporation Initiatives in Pursuit of Sustained Growth Topics Investment in Gas-Fired West Deptford Energy Station In September 2016, Marubeni acquired an equity stake in operation in November 2014, the WDES supplies power to the 751MW gas-fired West Deptford Energy Station the Northeastern U.S. through PJM (Pennsylvania-New (WDES) in New Jersey. Commissioned into commercial Jersey-Maryland Interconnection), North America’s largest wholesale electricity market. Marubeni has designated North America as a key electric power market. The WDES is the second power plant in which Marubeni has invested within PJM’s market. Chap.3 Operating Activities The first was the 725MW gas-fired CPV St. Charles Energy Center commissioned into commercial operation in February 2017. Marubeni bought into the St. Charles project in August 2014 and was involved in its construction. Gas-fired West Deptford Energy Station (U.S.) Resolving Social Problems through Supply of Railway Systems and Maintenance Service for Purple Line in Bangkok, Thailand Business The Purple Line is a new 23-km passenger mass transit to Thailand’s economic development through alleviation railway line that will connect Bang Sue in Bangkok and of Bangkok’s traffic congestion and associated Bang Yai in Nonthaburi Province northwest of Bangkok. environmental problems. This is the first railway project in Bangkok to deploy Japanese electric trains, being maintained by a consortium of Japanese companies, including a Japanese railway operator. The Joint Venture (Marubeni and Toshiba Corporation) completed supply of 63 cars for the 21 trains in January 2016, and revenue service started in early August 2016. Taking advantage of its experience in overseas turnkey railway projects, Marubeni will continue to contribute Bangkok’s MRT Purple Line (Thailand) Human Resources Finding Fulfillment on Front Lines of Mega-Power Plant in Qatar Development —Masayuki Kato, Mesaieed Power Company Limited I am working as a Financing and Commercial Manager at coordination with stakeholders on contractual performance, Mesaieed Power Company Limited (MPCL), which is 30% managing project financing, arranging insurance coverage owned by Marubeni. MPCL maintains, operates and manand improving maintenance/operating cost-efficiency from ages a 2,000MW thermal power plant. My job involves a medium to long-term perspective. As a front-line manager of an operating company, my thoughts and actions have a direct impact on business operations. While my job thus entails heavy responsibility, it also gives me a lot of fulfillment. I plan to continue immersing myself more deeply into the business and broadening my knowledge in the aim of keeping the power plant running stably and enhancing its value. Masayuki Kato at MPCL (Qatar) Integrated Report 2017 81 Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group The Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group operates businesses throughout the world. It encompasses about 80 operating companies and has around 120 Japanese personnel posted abroad. It will continue to globally diversify its operations, capitalizing on its knowledge of various sectors and regions. Group Highlights (2017.3) Net Profit Net Profit by Sub-Segment (Billions of yen) ¥28.6 billion 40 28.6 30 24.2 20 Total Assets by Segment 10 ¥797.4 billion 0 16.3 17.3 Aerospace & Ship, Automotive & Leasing, Construction & Industrial Machinery Strengths • Includes businesses occupying every link of the • Provides a wide range of financing solutions for aircraft value chain from development to ownervarious goods through leasing and nonbank ship, operation and decommissioning financing businesses • Providing ships with multifaceted approach. • Strong relationships of trust with customers and Trading, investment and finance, owning and manufacturers by virtue of long, broad track operation of a diverse fleet such as bulk carriers, record on front lines of manufacturing, constructankers and LNG carriers. tion, mining and other industries • Sells over 20 makes of automobiles, sells auto • Well-established operational foundation and growing parts, provides vehicle financing and runs afterperipheral businesses involving global sales, services market businesses in over 30 countries and/or financing based on relationships of trust with customers and manufacturers Opportunities • Aircraft-related business expansion driven by • Growth in US automotive aftermarket, which global commercial aircraft fleet’s projected offers stable earnings prospects, is largely growth from 20,000 to 40,000 aircraft over next economically insensitive 20 years • Growth in demand for construction machinery • Ship demand growth driven by growth in marine and maintenance thereof in conjunction with cargo volumes amid trend toward borderless resource/infrastructure development global economy • Rapid market changes due to technological • Solid growth in auto demand, mainly in developinnovations such as AI, IoT, automation, electric ing countries, and concomitant expansion of vehicles and use of renewable energy broad-based business domain Risks • Event risk, including terrorism, regional conflicts, • Market volatility triggered by resource/energy war, epidemics or other changes in international price movements in response to changes in conditions, jet fuel inflation and changes in developing economies’ growth rates shipbuilding prices or marine freight rates • Speed of technological innovation (e.g., AI, IoT, • Contraction in automotive demand due to the automation, electric vehicles, renewable energy emergence of protectionism and international conflict use) and responses to change • Economic slowdown due to the changes in macro environment such as emerging-market capital flight in response to US interest rate hikes 82 Marubeni Corporation We aim to build a spirited and strong Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group under our three mottos: “Ceaseless innovation,” “Create the future with an entrepreneurial spirit,” and “Always think first and act fast.” Kaoru Iwasa Chief Executive Officer, Chap.3 Operating Activities Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Medium-to Long-Term Strategy As its business strategy, the Transportation & Industrial (e.g., aircraft, ship, refrigerated trailer) with stable profit Machinery Group will pursue sustained stable growth by structures. The third is auto dealerships and construction improving its operating efficiency through business-model machinery distributorships that will benefit from growth diversification and proactive asset reallocation enabled by tailwinds stemming from the rise of emerging economies. continual business investment. The Group is building a As part of its human resources strategy, the Group aims to rock-solid business portfolio and strengthening its strengthen its management capabilities through the presence in various types of businesses. The first is management of its operating companies, actively hire and economically insensitive businesses such as aftermarket train young employees, promote diversity and cultivate automotive and aircraft parts and general-use equipment human resources that contribute to maximizing the and materials. The second is long-term leasing businesses Group’s value from a holistic standpoint. Business Overview Aerospace & Ship Division Automotive & Leasing Division Construction & Industrial Machinery Division Sales Advisory Sale and purchase of Export of Construction machinery Industrial General leasing Trading businesses (Aircraft, engines and newbuilding / secondhand Japanese export and sales machinery import, MRO service, etc.) vessels including ship automobiles Agro machinery export export, and sales machineries & and sales materials and chartering Offshore of vessels automobile Automotive production trading line and machine tool export and sales Development Investment for new engines Automobile import Ship owning (Risk & Revenue agency operations and chartering of Product-specific Sharing Participation) Construction commercial vessels leasing machinery and Ground handling Automobile machine tools services dealerships Automobile parts distributorships Business investment operations manufacturing Business model diversification overseas jointShip owning venture company and chartering of Construction LNG carriers Photovoltaic power machinery Automobile retail finance generation retail finance Operating lease Construction Aftermarket (Aircraft / Engines) machinery agro machinery product support trading Aftermarket automobile parts Offshore business trading MRO business Aftermarket (Parts trading, etc.) Non-banking Construction finance machinery rental Digital signage Integrated Report 2017 83 Global Group Network The Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group has 81 businesses, the Group has amassed a wealth of operational operating companies throughout the world, with expat know-how via its overseas operating companies. The Group personnel posted at 40 of its overseas branches and will tap into such know-how as it continues to globally diversify subsidiaries. Having long operated overseas auto dealerships its operations without overexposing itself to any specific and construction machinery distributorships in numerous market or business model. countries in addition to cross-border aircraft and ship Car Dealerships (U.K.) Aircraft Operating Lease Refrigeration and Freezing Trailer Leasing (U.S.) (U.S.) Digital Signage Site (Japan) Construction Machinery Sales Agent Operations Ship Owning and Chartering of LNG Carriers (Philippines) (Worldwide) Aerospace & Ship Division Automotive & Leasing Division Construction & Industrial Machinery Division Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and profit/loss)  (Unit: billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2016 FYE 3/2017 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual F Marubeni Aviation Services 100.00% 0.3 0.2 Investment in engines for civil aircraft D Marubeni Auto Investment (U.K.) 100.00% 0.8 0.7 Investment in retail sales business of automobiles in UK F MAI Holding 100.00% 2.4 2.8 Investment in automobile retail finance businesses F MAC Trailer Leasing 100.00% 1.8 1.8 Leasing and rental of refrigerated trailers D Marubeni Techno-Systems 100.00% 0.8 0.9 Sale, export and import of industrial machinery D Distribution Businesses F Finance Businesses Group Organization Transportation & Aerospace & Ship Division (From left) Industrial Machinery Group Automotive & Leasing Toshiaki Ujiie Chief Operating Officer, Division Construction & Industrial Machinery Division Construction & Industrial Machinery Division Minoru Tomita Chief Operating Officer, Aerospace & Ship Division Hisamichi Koga Chief Operating Officer, Automotive & Leasing Division 84 Marubeni Corporation Initiatives in Pursuit of Sustained Growth UK Construction Machinery Distributorship and South American Mining Equipment Topics Products Support Business Marubeni launched a construction machinery distributorship product support businesses’ know-how, Marubeni will and wholesale business in the U.K. in 1972 and has since continue to expand its operational footprint. operated the business in close contact with the local construction industry for over 45 years. In addition to selling construction machinery, the distributorship also offers a full lineup of services, including after-sales maintenance and repairs. Its services have contributed to earnings stability by Chap.3 Operating Activities fostering strong customer loyalty. In 2011, Marubeni entered the mining machinery product support business in South America. The business has since expanded to Peru, Colombia and Chile, where it helps to keep mining Mining equipment products support business (Chile) equipment reliably operational at mine sites. Utilizing its Resolving Social Problems through Widespread Promotion of Ballast Water Treatment Systems Business To maintain stability when carrying no cargo, ships fill Although ballast water, containing living marine organisms, their ballast tanks with seawater to serve as ballast. Once is essential for cargo ships, relocation of marine organisms the cargo is loaded, they discharge the ballast water. from their native habitats to new locales via ballast tanks can be disruptive to ecosystems and/or detrimental to fisheries or the natural environment. Marubeni subsidiary MMSL Japan Ltd. has been selling electrolytic ballast water treatment systems in Japan since forming an alliance with a Korean manufacturer, Techcross Inc., in 2009. To date, it has sold over 250 units. Marubeni Group contributes to the preservation of marine ecosystems through the widespread promotion of ballast water Ballast water treatment system treatment systems. Human Resources Relationships of trust pay off when negotiating huge sales in Greece, the world’s biggest Development shipping superpower —Sho Hiraizumi, Manager, Marubeni Corporation Athens Office Greece may be best known for its economic crisis of builds relationships of trust that are valued fairly in this recent years, but with over 15% of the global shipping big marketplace. fleet owned by Greek shipowners, Greece is the world’s foremost marine shipping superpower. As an expat employee of the Aerospace & Ship Division’s Ship Department-I, I sell top-quality ships newly built by Japanese shipyards and secondhand ships owned by Japanese shipowners that have close relationships with Marubeni. Successful negotiations for the sale of a ship worth billions of yen is by no means easy, but I am glad to be working in Greece, where timely, accurate information Sho Hiraizumi (right) Integrated Report 2017 85 Chap. Corporate Information 4 Financial Information / Corporate Profile Financial Information / Corporate Profile Financial Information * In this section, the segment names as of the year ended March 31, 2017 have been adopted. 8 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Business Results 9 1 Business Risks 9 5 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Profile 184 Global Network 186 Major Subsidiaries and Associates 191 Corporate Management 192 Corporate Data 193 Stock Information 194 Independent Assurance of Environmental and Social Data 86 Marubeni Corporation Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Business Results Overview of Business Results In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, developed to Japanese yen appreciation. Meanwhile, “Revenue” as economies, particularly the U.S., generally continued to defined under IFRS was ¥7,128.8 billion, a decline of gradually recover. The global economy, however, slowed ¥171.5 billion (2.3%) from the year-earlier period. in response to weakness in emerging economies, most notably China. Crude oil and other commodity prices Gross Trading Profit declined before rebounding at the end of 2016. In Gross trading profit decreased ¥56.2 billion (8.4%) from financial markets, volatility briefly flared up in response to the year-earlier period to ¥613.9 billion. By operating passage of the UK’s referendum in favor of exiting the EU segment, profits decreased mainly at Food & Consumer and the outcome of the U.S. presidential election. The Products and Chemical & Forest Products. U.S. economy continued to recover, driven chiefly by personal consumption encompassed by a robust Operating Profit employment environment. Additionally, equities rallied on Operating profit decreased ¥12.6 billion (12.1%) from optimism about the new U.S. administration’s policies. the year-earlier period to ¥91.6 billion due to a decrease The European economy continued to gradually recover, in gross trading profit, despite a decline in selling, Chap.4 Corporate Information led by Germany. Emerging economies grew sluggishly general and administrative expenses led by the stronger overall as results of the slowdown of the Chinese economy Japanese yen. due to weak consumption, investment and exports, as well as the prolonged lackluster demands, both domestic Share of Profits of Associates and Joint Ventures and external, in Brazil and elsewhere. The Japanese Share of profits of associates and joint ventures increased economy remained stuck in an anemic recovery as ¥82.9 billion (260.5%) from the year-earlier period to consumer sentiment softened even amid continued ¥114.7 billion, due mainly to non-recurrence of the yearimprovement in the employment environment. earlier impairment losses on one of the copper mine In this operating environment, business results for the businesses in Chile and the iron ore business in Australia. year ended March 31, 2017 were as follows. Profit for the Year Attributable to Owners of the Parent Total Volume of Trading Transactions Profit attributable to owners of the parent for the fiscal Total volume of trading transactions for the fiscal year year ended March 31, 2017 (also referred to as net profit ended March 31, 2017 decreased ¥1,073.8 billion (8.8%) for the year under review) amounted to ¥155.4 billion, an from the year-earlier period to ¥11,134.2 billion, due mainly increase of ¥93.1 billion (149.5%) year on year. Millions of yen 2017.3 2016.3 Change Total volume of trading transactions 11,134,169 12,207,957 (1,073,788) Gross trading profit 613,880 670,086 (56,206) Operating profit 91,597 104,231 (12,634) Share of profits of associates and joint ventures 114,725 31,824 82,901 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 155,350 62,264 93,086 Total revenue 7,128,805 7,300,299 (171,494) Notes: 1. Figures are rounded to the nearest million yen unless otherwise stated. 2. “Total volume of trading transactions” and “operating profit” are presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practices for investors’ convenience and are not required by IFRS. “Total volume of trading transactions” includes all transactions involving the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries regardless of transaction type. 3. Operating profit = Gross trading profit + SGA expenses + Provision for doubtful accounts Integrated Report 2017 87 Business Results by Operating Segment Results for each operating segment for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 are as follows. Food & Consumer Products Power Projects & Plant Gross trading profit decreased ¥23.1 billion (7.5%) year Gross trading profit declined ¥8.8 billion (16.3%) year on on year to ¥282.6 billion, mainly as a result of year to ¥45.3 billion, largely as a result of deconsolidation deconsolidation of a food-related former subsidiary, now of a former consolidated subsidiary, now an equityan equity-method associate. Net profit, however, increased method associate, in the North American freight railcar ¥3.0 billion (5.2%) year on year to ¥61.3 billion, largely as leasing business. Net profit decreased ¥15.7 billion a result of growth in profits from equity-method (21.7%) year on year to ¥56.5 billion , largely as a result investments, a gain on the sale of an equity stake in a of nonrecurrence of year-earlier one-time items, that is, subsidiary in an ICT-related business and a gain on the valuation gains on equity interests in Chinese sewage sale of non-current assets of an overseas subsidiary in the treatment and North American freight railcar leasing food products business. businesses and a loss on withdrawal from a Uruguayan LNG receiving terminal project. Chemical & Forest Products Gross trading profit decreased ¥21.4 billion (10.9%) year Transportation & Industrial Machinery on year to ¥175.8 billion, while net profit was down ¥4.6 Gross trading profit decreased ¥5.6 billion (5.7%) year on billion (13.7%) year on year to ¥28.7 billion. The profit year to ¥93.3 billion in the wake of sales declines in declines were largely attributable to reduction in Helena businesses related to automotive and construction Chemical’s yen-equivalent earnings due to yen appreciation machinery. Despite an impairment loss in the North and margin deterioration in the woodchip and pulp American automotive business, net profit increased ¥4.4 business due to lower pulp prices. billion (18.3%) year on year to ¥28.6 billion, boosted by a gain on a divestment of another North American automotive Energy & Metals business and improved returns from equity-method Gross trading profit increased ¥6.7 billion (34.7%) year on investments in ship-related businesses. year to ¥26.2 billion, largely by virtue of the Australian coal Notes: business’s profit growth driven mainly by higher coal *1 Businesses of the overseas corporate subsidiaries have all been segmented according to the prices. Net loss improved ¥136.2 billion (–%) year on year Company’s operating segments effective as of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. The figures of each operating segment for the year ended March 31, 2016 have been altered accordingly. to ¥6.2 billion (loss) despite an impairment loss in the oil *2 Inter-segment transactions are priced in accordance with the prevailing market prices. and gas development business. The improvement was largely due to a gain on the sale of a solar power generation business and non-recurrence of year-earlier impairment losses in the Chilean copper business, Australian iron ore business and oil and gas development business. 88 Marubeni Corporation Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2017 Profit attributable to owners of the parent in the year ended March 31, 2017 increased ¥93.1 billion year on year to ¥155.4 billion. An analysis of the operating results is provided as follows. Gross Trading Profit Dividend Income Gross trading profit for the year ended March 31, 2017 Dividend income in the year ended March 31, 2017 was ¥613.9 billion, down ¥56.2 billion year on year. This decreased ¥1.0 billion year on year to ¥17.5 billion. Of this was mainly attributable to lower profits in the Food and figure, ¥6.4 billion (¥3.6 billion in Japan and ¥2.8 billion Consumer Products segment and the Chemical and from overseas) was received by the Company. Domestic Forest Products segment. consolidated subsidiaries received dividends totaling ¥0.4 billion, while overseas consolidated subsidiaries received Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses dividends of ¥10.7 billion. Selling, general, and administrative (SGA) expenses for the year ended March 31, 2017 decreased ¥43.6 billion Gains and Losses on Investment Securities to ¥522.3 billion due to the effects of the appreciating yen. Gains and losses on investment securities in the year ended March 31, 2017 totaled ¥11.0 billion, down ¥63.3 Losses on Property, Plant, and Equipment billion year on year despite the recorded sale of shares in Losses on property, plant and equipment in the year ended an information business. This was largely the result of Chap.4 Corporate Information March 31, 2017 amounted to ¥63.4 billion following the non-recurrent stock appreciation from wastewater recording of impairment losses with regard to resource treatment projects in China and North American freight interests. This is an improvement of ¥39.9 billion in comcar lease projects recorded in the year ended March parison with impairment losses on resource interests that 31, 2016. were also recorded in the year ended March 31, 2016. Share of Profits and Losses of Associates and Joint Ventures Other-Net Share of profits and losses of associates and joint ventures Other-net in the year ended March 31, 2017 equated to in the year ended March 31, 2017 equated to a profit of income of ¥45.9 billion, an increase of ¥62.0 billion year ¥114.7 billion, up ¥82.9 billion year on year as a result of on year. This outcome was largely the result of recorded non-recurrent impairment losses on a Chilean copper sales of a solar power business and a North American project and Australian iron ore project recorded in 2016. transportation business, as well as non-recurrent recorded losses from the discontinuation of Uruguayan LNG Income Taxes receiving operations in the year ended March 31, 2016. Income taxes for the year ended March 31, 2017 increased ¥21.5 billion year on year to ¥44.5 billion. Interest Income and Interest Expenses Interest income in the year ended March 31, 2017 rose by ¥1.6 billion year on year to ¥16.2 billion. Interest expenses decreased ¥0.3 billion year on year to ¥33.3 billion. Integrated Report 2017 89 Liquidity and Funding Sources Financial Position Marubeni Corporation, domestic and overseas financing Total assets as of March 31, 2017 were ¥6,896.7 billion, subsidiaries, and/or overseas corporate subsidiaries. This down ¥221.0 billion from the end of the previous fiscal approach enables Group companies holding surplus year, mostly due to a decrease in property, plant, and funds to reallocate such funds to other Group companies equipment. Total equity as of March 31, 2017 increased in need of operating funds, allowing for more flexible fund by ¥327.6 billion year on year to ¥1,742.8 billion, primarily procurement on a Group-wide scale. In order to further through accumulation of profits and financing through strengthen our financial foundation, we secured financing perpetual subordinated loans. of ¥250.0 billion from perpetual subordinated loans on Net interest-bearing debt (total of current and nonAugust 16, 2016. current bonds and borrowings less cash and cash As a means of procuring funds directly from capital equivalents and time deposits) was down ¥662.5 billion, markets, Marubeni registered ¥300.0 billion for the public standing at ¥2,099.9 billion on March 31, 2017. As a sale of ordinary bonds in Japan. result, the net debt-equity (D/E) ratio was 1.20 times on Marubeni has also acquired credit ratings from March 31, 2017. Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s), Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC (S&P), Rating and Cash Flows Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), and Japan Credit Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥324.3 Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR). billion, due primarily to steady operating income from In the year ended March 31, 2017, Marubeni’s long-term overseas subsidiaries. Net cash provided by investing credit ratings consisted of long-term ratings of Baa2 from activities was ¥46.5 billion, as the inflows from the sale of Moody’s, BBB from S&P, A from R&I, and A+ from JCR. shares and tangible assets outweighed capital outlays directed at overseas operations. These activities resulted Liquidity in positive free cash flow of ¥370.8 billion for the year On a consolidated basis, the liquidity ratio was 121.0% as ended March 31, 2017. of March 31, 2017, down from 121.9% as of the end of Net cash used in financing activities amounted to the previous fiscal year. In terms of liquidity, Marubeni is ¥258.1 billion, as repayment of interest-bearing debt maintaining a sound financial position. In addition, outweighed financing from perpetual subordinated loans. Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries maintain a As a result, cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, sufficient level of liquidity, mainly in the form of cash and 2017 were ¥705.0 billion, an increase of ¥104.1 billion deposits and established commitment lines. from the end of the previous fiscal year. As of March 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents and time deposits totaled ¥706.2 billion. Fund Procurement Details regarding commitment lines are as follows: The fundamental policy of Marubeni and its consolidated • ¥300.0 billion from syndicates consisting largely of subsidiaries is to maintain an optimal mix of funding in major Japanese banks (long term) line with the requirements of its asset portfolio. The goal is • US$555 million from syndicates consisting largely of to sustain a stable level of liquidity while trimming major European and U.S. banks (short term) financing costs. Funding sources include indirect financial In addition to these commitment lines, Marubeni and procurement from banks and other financial institutions, its consolidated subsidiaries hold highly liquid assets, as well as direct procurement through the issuance of such as marketable securities. In all, these assets provide bonds, commercial paper, and other means. With the aim sufficient liquidity to cover the Group’s funding demand of maximizing fund utilization efficiency across the Group, as well as the funds linked to market interest rates, such Marubeni is accelerating the shift toward a centralized as corporate bonds redeemable within one year, which fund procurement scheme, under which principal totaled ¥79.5 billion as of March 31, 2017. consolidated subsidiaries procure funds directly from 90 Marubeni Corporation Business Risks Major risks that could have a serious impact on investor screening stage. Nevertheless, the Company is susceptible decisions associated with the business operations and to a variety of credit risks. other activities of Marubeni Corporation and its In preparation for the incurrence of possible losses consolidated subsidiaries are outlined below. The risks when credit risk becomes apparent, the Group establishes discussed, however, are not inclusive of the full range of allowances for doubtful accounts based on the estimated possible risks faced in the broad range of activities amount of loss, the business partner’s creditworthiness, engaged in by the Group. Any number of additional risks collateral value, and other set factors. In the event of such other than those discussed below could also impact losses, however, the Company cannot guarantee that business performance. Furthermore, risks considered to actual losses will not exceed these established allowances. have a low likelihood of materializing have also been disclosed, from the perspective of ensuring proactive Investment Risk information disclosure. Forward-looking statements with Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries, both respect to the risks discussed below reflect the reasonable independently and in collaboration with other companies, judgment of the Company’s management based on establish new companies and purchase existing Chap.4 Corporate Information information available as of March 31, 2017. enterprises in the course of their business operations. Most of these business investments require sizable Impact of Japanese and Global Economies on the amounts of capital. The Group may be unable to withdraw Marubeni Group from such businesses in an optimal manner or time The Company is a general trading company engaged in a frame, in which case it would be obliged to commit wide range of business activities through bases in Japan additional capital. and over 60 other countries. Examples include the In an effort to prevent the occurrence of risks associated production and procurement of natural resources and with investments and other activities, the Group conducts other primary commodities, as well as the manufacture extensive risk management, including checking new and sale of finished goods and various commercial and investments to determine whether expected returns are investing activities in Japan and overseas in many commensurate with the risks involved. Nevertheless, a industrial fields. As a result, the Group is impacted by the decline in the value of these investments or the necessity economic conditions prevailing in Japan and other of additional expenditures of capital could adversely affect countries where it has operations, as well as by the state the Group’s business results and financial condition. of the global economy as a whole. Worsening economic conditions on either of these fronts could adversely affect Concentrated Risk Exposure the operating activities, business results, and financial As part of their commercial and investment activities, condition of the Group. Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries are concentrated in specific investment targets, markets, and Credit Risks Regarding Business Partners regions. In the context of the Group’s country risk Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries extend credit management, the Company classifies countries according to business partners in the form of accounts receivable, to their level of risk, and has established transaction advances, loans, guarantees, and other means. In addition, management standards and promotes efforts to ensure as a part of its sales activities, the Group concludes optimal portfolio management and appropriate risk/ merchandise supply, subcontracting, operational reward ratios. Nevertheless, a deteriorating operating outsourcing, and other types of contracts with business environment in these markets or regions could adversely partners. The incurrence of credit risk due to the inability of affect the Group’s business results and financial condition. business partners to fulfill their credit obligations or a breach of contract by these business partners could adversely Ability to Procure Funds and Funding Cost affect the Group’s business results and financial condition. Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries engage in To prevent credit risks from materializing, the Group fund procurement with an emphasis on maintaining an conducts extensive risk management at the credit optimal mix of funding in line with the requirements of Integrated Report 2017 91 their respective asset portfolios and ensuring liquidity. 4. Fluctuations in Interest Rates However, significant disruptions in major global capital Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries procure markets, shortages of cash flows from operating activities, necessary business funds through borrowings from declining profitability, failure in asset-liability management, financial institutions, the issuance of corporate bonds, or a sharp downgrade in the credit rating of the Group by and other methods of procuring from capital markets. A ratings agencies could constrain fund procurement or large portion of floating rate liabilities is proportionate to lead to an increase in funding cost, which could adversely operating assets that can counteract adverse impacts of affect the Group’s business results and financial condition. interest rate fluctuations. However, interest rate fluctuation risks cannot be completely eliminated, and a certain Market Risks degree of exposure remains. Among the liabilities 1. Fluctuations in the Price of Goods and Merchandise procured for interest insensitive assets, such as investment Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries handle a securities and property, plant and equipment, the portion variety of merchandise. In order to mitigate the risk of at procured floating rates is categorized as unhedged fluctuations in market conditions for certain merchandise, through the asset-liability management practices of contracts, and scheduled contracts, the Group enters into Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries. Monitoring commodity futures and forward contracts. However, market movements in interest rates, the Group utilizes changes in respective market conditions could adversely interest rate swaps and other measures to mitigate the risk affect the Group’s business results and financial condition. of interest rate fluctuations. In addition, the Group participates in energy and There is no guarantee that the Group will be able to natural resource exploration and production (E&P) completely avoid interest rate risk, even after having businesses and other manufacturing businesses. implemented these management measures. Therefore, Fluctuations in the markets of the products sold through changes in market interest rates could adversely affect the these activities could adversely affect the Group’s business Group’s business results and financial condition. results and financial condition. 5.  Fluctuations in Values of Marketable Securities Subject to 2. Market Liquidity (Liquidity Risk) Market Volatility Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries hold a variety To strengthen business relationships and for other of assets that are subject to market trading, including purposes, Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries financial instruments. Financial market turmoil and other invest in marketable securities that are subject to market factors can cause the market liquidity of held assets to volatility. Such securities held by the Group carry the risk of decline dramatically, a situation that could potentially fluctuations in original value due to changes in fair value. trigger a precipitous drop in the value of held assets. Such Drops in the fair value of these securities could adversely an occurrence could adversely affect the Group’s business affect the Group’s business results and financial condition. results and financial condition. 6. Risks Regarding Employees’ Retirement Benefits 3. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates As the Group holds domestic and foreign stocks and Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct bonds as pension assets, sluggish performance in transactions in a variety of currencies and under a variety securities markets could decrease the value of those of terms. In order to mitigate the risk of exchange rate assets or could require it to accumulate additional pension fluctuations associated with transactions, receivables, and assets. Such an event could adversely affect the Group’s liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group business results and financial condition. enters into forward exchange contracts and other derivative transactions. Despite these measures, fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect the Group’s business results and financial condition. 92 Marubeni Corporation Impairment of Real Estate, Machinery and Equipment, litigation by local residents. In addition, the Group’s social and Other Property, Plant and Equipment reputation could be damaged. In the year ended March Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries hold real 31, 2000, an environmental management system was estate, machinery and equipment, and other property, introduced to cope with such environmental risks, under plant and equipment for sale and lease to other parties as which various initiatives have been implemented to assess well as for their own use. A decline in the value of these the potential environmental burden and reduce assets could potentially require the Group to recognize environmental risk, including environmental impact impairment losses. The Group accounts for impairment of evaluations for each new financing and development property, plant and equipment in accordance with IFRS. project. In the event, however, that some form of Nevertheless, a dramatic decline in asset value could environmental impact occurs, it could adversely affect the adversely affect the Group’s business results and Group’s business results and financial condition. financial condition. Natural Disaster Risk Laws and Regulations Earthquakes and other natural disasters could cause Chap.4 Corporate Information In the course of operations, Marubeni and its consolidated damage and loss to the Group’s offices and facilities and subsidiaries are subject to a broad range of laws and inhibit the normal business activities of Marubeni and its regulations both in Japan and other applicable countries. consolidated subsidiaries. While every effort has been Changes in or unanticipated interpretations of these laws made to implement appropriate countermeasures, such and regulations could increase the obligations pertaining as the formulation of business continuity plans, earthquake to legal and regulatory compliance placed on the Group. countermeasures, and fire prevention drills, the potential Accordingly, changes or altered interpretations of laws for damage from natural disasters cannot be completely and regulations may result in punitive measures, including mitigated. Consequently, there is no guarantee that such the interruption of operations, lower the Company’s disasters will not adversely affect the Group’s business credibility, or cause the occurrence of other circumstances results and financial condition. that could adversely affect the Group’s business results and financial condition. Risk Relating to Terrorists and Violent Groups Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct Significant Litigation business operations globally, and these operations are In the course of business activities in Japan and overseas, therefore exposed to risk from unexpected situations Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries may be a party relating to terrorists and violent groups, as well as trends to litigation, disputes, and other legal proceedings. When in politics and social factors. The materialization of such party to such litigation, predicting the outcome is risks could adversely affect the Group’s business results impossible given the inherent uncertainty of these matters. and financial condition. The Company cannot guarantee that such litigation will not adversely affect the Group’s business results and Other Risks Inherent and Related to Overall financial condition. Marubeni Operations Negligence on the part of employees charged with Environmental Risk executing business operations and malfunctions Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct pertaining to information leakages from computer systems business activities globally across a broad range of supporting business activities are among other risks, the industries, and environmental pollution as a result of materialization of which could adversely affect the Group’s these activities could result in business stoppage, pollution business results and financial condition. remediation expenses, and legal fees in response to Integrated Report 2017 93 94 Marubeni Corporation Consolidated Financial Statements Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries At March 31, 2017 and for the year ended March 31, 2017 with Independent Auditors’ Report Chap.4 Corporate Information Integrated Report 2017 95 96 Marubeni Corporation Chap.4 Corporate Information 97 Integrated Report 2017 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Assets March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 14 and 15) ¥704,972 ¥600,840 $6,294,393 Time deposits (Notes 14 and 15) 1,227 5,032 10,955 Investment securities (Note 14) 10,075 10,075 89,956 Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable (Notes 14 and 15) 1,235,392 1,270,284 11,030,286 Other current financial assets (Notes 14 and 15) 200,560 219,652 1,790,714 Inventories (Notes 4 and 15) 767,365 779,581 6,851,473 Assets classified as held for sale (Note 8) 36,689 63,308 327,580 Other current assets 208,206 213,808 1,858,982 Total current assets 3,164,486 3,162,580 28,254,339 Non-current assets: Investments in associates and joint ventures (Notes 13 and 15) 1,755,952 1,651,350 15,678,143 Other investments (Notes 14 and 15) 334,441 348,063 2,986,080 Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable (Notes 14 and 26) 162,961 168,733 1,455,009 Other non-current financial assets (Note 14) 85,799 91,434 766,063 Property, plant and equipment (Notes 5, 9 and 15) 968,392 1,201,444 8,646,357 Intangible assets (Note 6) 289,334 335,273 2,583,339 Deferred tax assets (Note 12) 88,216 94,113 787,643 Other non-current assets 47,152 64,696 421,000 Total non-current assets 3,732,247 3,955,106 33,323,634 Total assets (Note 19) ¥6,896,733 ¥7,117,686 $61,577,973 2 98 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Liabilities and equity March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings (Note 14) ¥643,049 ¥636,536 $5,741,509 Notes and trade accounts payable (Note 14) 1,243,087 1,221,150 11,098,991 Other current financial liabilities (Note 14) 361,768 351,246 3,230,072 Income tax payable (Note 12) 19,454 15,473 173,696 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale (Note 8) 4,086 1,873 36,482 Other current liabilities (Note 7) 344,761 367,938 3,078,223 Total current liabilities 2,616,205 2,594,216 23,358,973 Non-current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings (Note 14) 2,163,089 2,731,789 19,313,295 Notes and trade accounts payable (Notes 14 and 26) 18,349 17,658 163,830 Other non-current financial liabilities (Note 14) 70,285 76,697 627,545 Accrued pension and retirement benefits (Note 10) 83,468 91,918 745,250 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 12) 105,630 100,617 943,125 Chap.4 Corporate Information Other non-current liabilities (Note 7) 96,949 89,589 865,616 Total non-current liabilities 2,537,770 3,108,268 22,658,661 Total liabilities 5,153,975 5,702,484 46,017,634 Equity: Issued capital (Note 20) 262,686 262,686 2,345,411 Capital surplus (Note 20) 142,881 141,504 1,275,723 Other equity instruments (Note 21) 243,589 – 2,174,902 Treasury stock (Note 20) (1,374) (1,369) (12,268) Retained earnings (Notes 20 and 22) 856,647 737,215 7,648,634 Other components of equity (Note 17): Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (Notes 14 and 17) 54,606 43,066 487,553 Foreign currency translation adjustments (Notes 14 and 17) 165,310 193,608 1,475,982 Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (Notes 14 and 17) (40,622) (59,658) (362,696) Remeasurements of defined benefit plan (Notes 10 and 17) – – – Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,683,723 1,317,052 15,033,241 Non-controlling interests (Note 27) 59,035 98,150 527,098 Total equity 1,742,758 1,415,202 15,560,339 Total liabilities and equity ¥6,896,733 ¥7,117,686 $61,577,973 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 Integrated Report 2017 99 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Revenue (Note 19): Sales of goods (Note 14) ¥6,940,332 ¥7,077,085 $61,967,250 Commissions on services and trading margins 188,473 223,214 1,682,795 Total revenue 7,128,805 7,300,299 63,650,045 Cost of goods sold (Notes 4, 5, 6 and 14) (6,514,925) (6,630,213) (58,168,973) Gross trading profit (Note 19) 613,880 670,086 5,481,072 Other income (expenses): Selling, general and administrative expenses (Notes 5, 6 and 10) (522,283) (565,855) (4,663,241) Gains (losses) on property, plant and equipment: Impairment losses (Notes 5 and 6) (69,246) (114,658) (618,268) Gains (losses) on sales of property, plant and equipment 5,852 11,362 52,250 Other-net (Notes 11 and 14) 45,934 (16,035) 410,125 Total other income (expenses) (539,743) (685,186) (4,819,134) Finance income (expenses): Interest income (Note 14) 16,213 14,602 144,759 Interest expenses (Note 14) (33,318) (33,628) (297,482) Dividend income (Note 14) 17,512 18,555 156,357 Gains (losses) on investment securities (Note 14) 11,002 74,306 98,232 Total finance income (expenses) 11,409 73,835 101,866 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures (Notes 13 and 19) 114,725 31,824 1,024,330 Profit before taxes 200,271 90,559 1,788,134 Income taxes (Note 12) (44,485) (23,031) (397,188) Profit for the year ¥155,786 ¥67,528 $1,390,946 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent (Note 19) ¥155,350 ¥62,264 $1,387,054 Non-controlling interests 436 5,264 3,892 5 100 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Other comprehensive income (Note 17): Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (Notes 14 and 17) ¥7,998 ¥(57,824) $ 71,411 Remeasurements of defined benefit plan (Notes 10 and 17) 1,207 (15,468) 10,777 Changes in other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures (Note 13) 3,384 (4,436) 30,215 Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Foreign currency translation adjustments (Notes 14 and 17) (27,860) (116,361) (248,750) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (Notes 14 and 17) 4,185 5,203 37,366 Changes in other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures (Note 13) 7,809 (22,684) 69,723 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (3,277) (211,570) (29,258) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year ¥152,509 ¥(144,042) $ 1,361,688 Chap.4 Corporate Information Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥153,449 ¥(144,593) $ 1,370,080 Non-controlling interests (940) 551 (8,392) U.S. dollars Yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Basic earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent (Note 16) ¥88.08 ¥35.88 $0.79 Diluted earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent (Note 16) ¥88.06 ¥35.88 $0.79 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Total volume of trading transactions (Notes 19 and 24) ¥11,134,169 ¥12,207,957 $99,412,223 “Total volume of trading transactions” includes all transactions involving the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries regardless of transaction type. “Total volume of trading transactions” is not required by International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) but is presented here to provide readers with a better understanding and is as presented in common Japanese accounting practice. See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Integrated Report 2017 101 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Issued capital (Note 20): Balance at beginning of year ¥262,686 ¥262,686 $2,345,411 Balance at end of year 262,686 262,686 2,345,411 Capital surplus (Note 20): Balance at beginning of year 141,504 148,243 1,263,429 Disposal of treasury stock (1) – (9) Equity transactions with non-controlling interests and others 1,378 (6,739) 12,303 Balance at end of year 142,881 141,504 1,275,723 Other equity instruments: Balance at beginning of year – – – Issuance of other equity instruments (Note 21) 243,589 – 2,174,902 Balance at end of year 243,589 – 2,174,902 Treasury stock (Note 20): Balance at beginning of year (1,369) (1,361) (12,223) Purchases and sales of treasury stock (5) (8) (45) Balance at end of year (1,374) (1,369) (12,268) Retained earnings: Balance at beginning of year 737,215 728,098 6,582,277 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent (Note 19) 155,350 62,264 1,387,054 Transfer from other components of equity (Note 17) 803 (12,361) 7,169 Dividends to shareholders of the parent (Note 22) (34,711) (40,786) (309,920) Distribution to owners of other equity instruments (2,010) – (17,946) Balance at end of year 856,647 737,215 7,648,634 Other components of equity: Balance at beginning of year 177,016 380,849 1,580,500 Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (Notes 14 and 17) 11,212 (61,130) 100,107 Foreign currency translation adjustments (Notes 14 and 17) (28,298) (134,174) (252,661) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (Notes 14 and 17) 14,054 4,868 125,482 Remeasurements of defined benefit plan (Notes 10 and 17) 1,131 (16,421) 10,098 Transfer to retained earnings (Note 17) (803) 12,361 (7,169) Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities (Notes 14 and 17) 4,982 (9,337) 44,482 Balance at end of year 179,294 177,016 1,600,839 Equity attributable to owners of the parent ¥1,683,723 ¥1,317,052 $15,033,241 7 102 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Non-controlling interests: Balance at beginning of year ¥98,150 ¥160,198 $876,339 Dividends to non-controlling interests (3,480) (6,742) (31,071) Equity transactions with non-controlling interests and others (Note 27) (34,695) (55,857) (309,777) Profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 436 5,264 3,892 Other components of equity: Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through other 235 14 2,098 comprehensive income (Notes 14 and 17) Foreign currency translation adjustments (Notes 14 and 17) (1,716) (4,591) (15,321) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (Notes 14 and 17) 94 55 840 Remeasurements of defined benefit plan (Notes 10 and 17) 11 (191) 98 Balance at end of year 59,035 98,150 527,098 Total equity ¥1,742,758 ¥1,415,202 $15,560,339 Chap.4 Corporate Information Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥153,449 ¥(144,593) $ 1,370,080 Non-controlling interests (940) 551 (8,392) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year ¥152,509 ¥(144,042) $ 1,361,688 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 Integrated Report 2017 103 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Operating activities: Profit for the year ¥155,786 ¥67,528 $1,390,946 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 111,682 121,463 997,161 (Gains) losses on property, plant and equipment 63,394 103,296 566,018 Finance (income) expenses (11,409) (73,835) (101,866) Share of profits of associates and joint ventures (114,725) (31,824) (1,024,330) Income taxes 44,485 23,031 397,188 Changes in notes and accounts receivable (25,820) 70,178 (230,536) Changes in inventories 24,791 93,844 221,348 Changes in notes and trade accounts payable 64,793 (38,174) 578,509 Other-net (45,474) (8,370) (406,018) Interest received 13,425 15,139 119,866 Interest paid (33,358) (34,470) (297,839) Dividends received 102,467 102,278 914,884 Income taxes paid (25,774) (50,952) (230,125) Net cash provided by operating activities 324,263 359,132 2,895,206 Investing activities (Note 18): Net (increase) decrease in time deposits 3,665 6,434 32,723 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 89,684 26,514 800,750 Proceeds from sale of investment property 13,446 15,551 120,053 Collection of loans receivable 30,005 25,848 267,902 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of 56,622 52,080 505,553 Proceeds from sale of investments in associates and joint ventures, and other investments 105,816 116,984 944,786 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (130,987) (259,332) (1,169,527) Purchase of investment property (181) (418) (1,616) Loans provided to customers (21,052) (32,834) (187,964) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (10,705) (13,772) (95,580) Purchase of investments in associates and joint ventures, and other investments (89,809) (111,651) (801,866) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 46,504 (174,596) 415,214 9 104 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Financing activities (Note 18): Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings ¥(135,725) ¥(64,691) $(1,211,830) Proceeds from long-term bonds and borrowings 126,589 530,489 1,130,259 Repayments of long-term bonds and borrowings (450,820) (391,369) (4,025,179) Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent (34,711) (40,786) (309,920) Net cash outflows on purchases and sales of treasury stock (8) (22) (71) Capital contribution from non-controlling interests 374 121 3,339 Acquisition of additional interests in subsidiaries from non-controlling interests (Note 27) (1,656) (63,309) (14,786) Proceeds from issuance of other equity instruments (Note 21) 243,589 – 2,174,902 Distribution to owners of other equity instruments (2,010) – (17,946) Other (3,745) (6,701) (33,438) Net cash used in financing activities (258,123) (36,268) (2,304,670) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (8,512) (16,534) (76,000) Chap.4 Corporate Information Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 104,132 131,734 929,750 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 600,840 469,106 5,364,643 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥704,972 ¥600,840 $6,294,393 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 10 Integrated Report 2017 105 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Business Overview Marubeni Corporation (the “Company”) is a corporation domiciled in Japan. The Company and its domestic and overseas subsidiaries, which are controlled by the Company mainly through direct or indirect holdings of the majority of voting rights (together the “Companies”), engage in import and export trading of domestic and overseas products and commodities, including domestic and offshore trading in fields which cover a wide range of commodities such as Food & Consumer Products, Chemical & Forest Products, Energy & Metals, Power Projects & Plant, Transportation & Industrial Machinery, and others. In addition, the Companies offer various services and engage in diversified businesses such as investments in domestic and foreign businesses, exploration of natural resources and others. The translation of Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts for the year ended March 31, 2017 and at March 31, 2017 is included solely for the convenience of readers outside of Japan and has been made at ¥112 to $1, the exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2017. The translation should not be construed as a representation that the Japanese yen amounts could be converted into U.S. dollars at this or any other rate. 2. Basis of Presentation (1) Statements of Compliance The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. As the Company meets the requirements of a “Specified Company applying Designated International Financial Reporting Standards”, pursuant to Article 1-2 of the Ordinance on Terminology, Forms and Preparation Methods of Consolidated Financial Statements (Ordinance of the Ministry of Finance No. 28 of 1976, the “Consolidated Financial Statements Ordinance”), it has applied the provisions of Article 93 of said Ordinance. (2) Functional Currency and Presentation Currency The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are presented in Japanese yen, the functional currency of the Company, and amounts of less than one million yen are rounded to the nearest million yen. (3) Use of Estimates and Judgments Preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make accounting estimates and assumptions, as necessary that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions due to their inherent uncertainty. Accounting estimates and assumptions that could significantly affect the Consolidated Financial Statements are as follows: ・ Write-down of inventories (Note 4 “Inventories”) ・ Impairment of property, plant and equipment (Note 5 “Property, Plant and Equipment”) ・ Impairment of intangible assets (Note 6 “Intangible Assets”) ・ Provisions (Note 7 “Provisions”) ・ Defined benefit obligation (Note 10 “Employee Benefits”) ・ Recoverability of deferred tax assets (Note 12 “Income Taxes”) ・ Impairment of investments in associates and joint ventures (Note 13 “Associates and Joint Ventures”) ・ Valuation of financial instruments (Note 14 “Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures”) ・ Contingent liabilities (Note 25 “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities”) Information related to judgments made by the Company that could significantly affect the Consolidated Financial Statements in the process of applying the accounting policies are as follows: ・ Scope of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (Note 3 “Significant Accounting Policies”) ・ Classification of non-current assets or disposal groups as held for sale (Note 8 “Non-current Assets or Disposal Groups Held for Sale) ・ Accounting for leases (Note 9 “Leases”) ・ Derecognition of financial assets (Note 14 “Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures”) ・ Classification of liabilities and equity (Note 21 “Other Equity Instruments”) 11 106 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 3. Significant Accounting Policies (1) Basis of Measurement The Consolidated Financial Statements, as stated in the accounting policies below, have been prepared on an historical cost basis, with the exception of certain current assets, financial instruments, and assets and liabilities relating to the post-employment benefit plan, which are measured at fair value. (2) Basis of Consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of all domestic and foreign subsidiaries under the control of the Company either through direct or indirect ownership of a majority voting interest or by other means. Intercompany transactions and accounts between the Companies are eliminated. To align the reporting periods of subsidiaries that have a financial year end that is different from the financial year end of the Company (March 31) due to unavoidable reasons such as compliance with the local legal system of the country in which they operate, subsidiaries prepare additional financial statements as of the financial year end date of the Company and similar such adjustments. (3) Business Combinations The Companies use the acquisition method of accounting for all business combinations. The acquisition cost is the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value, plus any previously held equity interest in the acquiree remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The amount of any non-controlling interest is measured as elected for each business combination either at fair value or at the proportionate interest in the Chap.4 Corporate Information identifiable net assets of the acquiree. Any difference between the fair value and the carrying amount of the equity interest in the acquiree previously held at the time control is obtained is recognised in profit or loss. Further, any other comprehensive income that had been previously recognised in connection with the equity interest in the acquiree is treated in the same way as a disposal of the equity interest. Acquisition costs incurred are recognised in profit or loss. The Companies perform any necessary classification and designation of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based, in principle, on the contractual terms, economic conditions, business or accounting policies, and other appropriate conditions that exist on the acquisition date. (4) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Associates refer to investees over which the Companies have the ability to exercise significant influence through such factors as the ownership of 20% to 50% of the voting interest in the entity and other factors. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the Companies, as the parties that have joint control of the arrangement, have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The Companies account for investments in associates and joint ventures under the equity method. Under the equity method, investments in associates and joint ventures are normally recorded at cost, adjusted for the Companies’ share of the change in the net assets of these associates and joint ventures since the acquisition date. Any dividends received from these associates and joint ventures are subtracted from the carrying amount of investments in associates and joint ventures. The Companies’ share of the profit or loss of the associates and joint ventures is included as “Share of profit of associates and joint ventures” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The Companies’ share of any change in other comprehensive income recognised by the associates and joint ventures is recognised in other comprehensive income. Any unrealised profit arising from the transactions between the Companies and the associates and joint ventures is eliminated against the Companies’ interest in associates and joint ventures. Certain adjustments are made to achieve unification of the accounting policies of the associates and joint ventures with those of the Companies. 12 Integrated Report 2017 107 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) To align the reporting periods of associates and joint ventures accounted for under the equity method that have a financial year end that is different from the financial year end of the Company (March 31) due to unavoidable reasons such as the relationship with other shareholders, the associates and joint ventures prepare additional financial statements as of the financial year end date of the Company and similar such adjustments. If it is determined, after the initial application of the equity method to investments in associates and joint ventures, that there is objective evidence of impairment based on all available information, the carrying amount of investments in associates and joint ventures is reduced to their recoverable amounts and the difference is recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. The Companies determine, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that the recognised impairment loss may no longer exist or may have been reduced. If there is such an indication, the Companies estimate the recoverable amount of investments in associates and joint ventures. If the estimated recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount of the investment, a reversal of impairment losses is recognised in profit or loss to the extent of the increase in the recoverable amount of the investment since the recognition of impairment losses, and is recognised only up to the amount of impairment losses that have been recognised in the past. If the Companies lose significant influence or joint control over any associates and joint ventures, such investments in associates and joint ventures are measured at fair value. Specifically, the difference between; the fair value of any residual interests plus the proceeds from the partial disposal of interests in associates or joint ventures, and the carrying amount of the investment at the date on which control was lost, is recognised in profit or loss. Any other comprehensive income previously recognised under the equity method is accounted for in the same manner as a disposal of assets or liabilities related to the other comprehensive income of the associates and joint ventures. (5) Foreign Currency Translation The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Companies are presented in Japanese yen, the functional currency of the Company. Each entity in the consolidated group determines its functional currency in consideration of, among other factors, the economic environment in which it operates, and it measures the items in its financial statements using its own functional currency. Assets and liabilities included in the financial statements of foreign operations are translated into Japanese yen at the reporting date rates. Income and expenses are translated at the average rates prevailing for the reporting period. The resulting translation adjustments are recognised in other comprehensive income and the cumulative translation adjustments are recognised in other components of equity. On disposal of a subsidiary that results in loss of control, all cumulative translation adjustments related to the foreign operation that have been recognised in other components of equity are reclassified to profit or loss. In a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not result in loss of control, the corresponding share of the cumulative translation adjustment that has been recognised in other components of equity is reclassified to non-controlling interest rather than profit or loss. On disposal of an associate or joint venture that results in loss of significant influence or loss of joint control, the full amount of the cumulative translation adjustment that has been recognised in other components of equity is reclassified to profit or loss. In a partial disposal of an associate or joint venture that does not result in loss of significant influence or loss of joint control, the corresponding proportionate share of the cumulative translation adjustment that has been recognised in other components of equity is reclassified to profit or loss. (6) Cash and Cash Equivalents The Companies include deposits in banks and certificates of deposit with a remaining maturity of 3 months or less at the acquisition date in cash equivalents. 13 108 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (7) Financial Instruments (i) Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets to which IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (“IFRS 9”) applies are classified as follows: debt instrument financial assets are classified as either financial assets measured at amortised cost or financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss (“Financial assets measured at FVTPL”), and equity financial assets are classified as either Financial assets measured at FVTPL or financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (“Financial assets measured at FVTOCI”). The Companies determine such classifications at initial recognition of the financial assets. Financial assets measured at FVTPL are measured at fair value at initial recognition and financial assets other than Financial assets measured at FVTPL are measured at fair value plus transaction costs at initial recognition. For purchases or sales of financial assets under contracts with terms requiring delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned (regular way purchase or sale), the purchase or sale is recognised on the trade date on which the Companies become a party to the contract for the financial asset. Financial assets of the Companies include cash and cash equivalents, debt instrument financial assets including notes, trade accounts and loans receivable, equity financial assets, and derivative financial assets. Chap.4 Corporate Information Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, financial assets are measured according to their category as follows: Financial assets measured at amortised cost A debt instrument financial asset is measured at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: ・ The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and ・ The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. After initial recognition, a debt instrument financial asset for which these conditions are satisfied is measured at amortised cost calculated using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. Amortisation using the effective interest method is recognised as part of finance income in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The Companies may, at initial recognition, make an irrevocable election to designate a financial asset that meets the conditions for classification as measured at amortised cost mentioned above as Financial assets measured at FVTPL, if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise. Financial assets measured at FVTPL The Companies classify the following financial assets as Financial assets measured at FVTPL: (i) equity financial assets not designated as Financial assets measured at FVTOCI at initial recognition and (ii) debt instrument financial assets that either do not meet the conditions for classification as measured at amortised cost or those that meet these conditions but are designated as Financial assets measured at FVTPL under an election made by the Companies at initial recognition. After initial recognition, changes in the fair values of financial assets classified as Financial assets measured at FVTPL, together with the related dividend and interest income, are mainly recognised as part of finance income in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 14 Integrated Report 2017 109 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Financial assets measured at FVTOCI The Companies make an irrevocable election at initial recognition to (or not to) designate equity financial assets that are not held for trading as Financial assets measured at FVTOCI. After initial recognition, equity financial assets designated as Financial assets measured at FVTOCI are measured at fair value with any change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income. The cumulative amount of the change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in other components of equity. However, dividend income arising from equity financial assets designated as Financial assets measured at FVTOCI is recognised as part of finance income (or expenses) in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Derecognition The Companies derecognise a financial asset in the following situations: ・ When the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset are extinguished; ・ When the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset are transferred or when the Companies retain their contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, but assume a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to one or more of the ultimate payees without significant delay under a pass-through arrangement and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the transferee; and ・ When the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset are transferred or when the Companies retain their contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, but assume a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to one or more of the ultimate payees without significant delay under a pass-through arrangement and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are neither transferred nor retained, but control over the financial asset is transferred. Where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are neither transferred nor retained and control over the transferred financial asset is retained, the Companies continue to recognise the financial asset to the extent of their continuing involvement. When Companies continue to recognise the financial asset to the extent of their continuing involvement, any liabilities arising in relation to such continuing involvement are recognised. The continuing involvement in the financial asset and any liabilities arising in relation to such continuing involvement are measured on the basis of the rights and obligations held by the Companies. Impairment of financial assets measured at amortised cost The Companies judge that a financial asset measured at amortised cost is impaired only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occur after the initial recognition of the asset, and such an event or events have an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Objective evidence of impairment includes such events as significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor and a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments. The amount of an impairment loss is estimated based on the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate or observable market prices of the financial asset. However, if the returns on the financial asset are based on a floating interest rate, the present value of estimated future cash flows is calculated using the effective interest rate at each reporting date. In addition to the impairment losses recognised in the manner described above, the Companies recognise impairment losses on financial assets based on historical credit loss rates calculated in consideration of past experience, etc. or estimated recoverable amounts after evaluating potential risks associated with the obligors, geographic areas, etc. pertaining to the financial assets. 15 110 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position by deducting them directly from the carrying amount of the respective assets in the case of debt securities and by recognising an allowance in the case of financial assets other than debt securities. Impairment losses arising from trade receivables are recognised as part of selling, general and administrative expenses and those arising from other assets are recognised as part of finance income (or expenses) in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed either directly or by adjusting an allowance account. Such a reversal is recognised to the extent that it does not result in the financial asset having a carrying amount that exceeds what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised at the date the impairment is reversed. The amount of reversal of impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. (ii) Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities to which IFRS 9 applies, are classified as follows: financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost unless they are financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss (“Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL”). The Companies determine such classifications at the initial recognition of the financial liabilities. Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL are measured at fair value at initial recognition and financial liabilities classified Chap.4 Corporate Information as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are measured at fair value less transaction costs at initial recognition. Financial liabilities of the Companies include corporate bonds and loans payable, notes and trade accounts payable, derivative financial liabilities, etc. Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured according to their classification as follows: Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Financial liabilities designated as Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL are measured at fair value. After initial recognition, changes in the fair values of Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL together with the related interest expense are mainly recognised as part of finance income (or expenses) in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. However the amount of changes in the fair value of the financial liabilities that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the entity is recognised as other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Financial liabilities not classified as Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL are measured at amortised cost. After initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Amortisation using the effective interest method is recognised as part of finance income (or expenses) in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Derecognition The Companies derecognise a financial liability only when the underlying obligation specified in the contract is performed, discharged, cancelled or expires. An exchange of financial liabilities with substantially different terms or a substantial modification of the terms of an existing financial liability is accounted for as the derecognition of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability, and the difference between the carrying amount of these liabilities is recognised as part of finance income (or expenses) in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 16 Integrated Report 2017 111 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Financial guarantee contracts The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries, in the normal course of their business, issue various guarantees for obligations owed by associates and general trade partners (“guaranteed parties”). These are issued to third parties to guarantee the repayment, mainly of loans which the guaranteed parties have borrowed from external parties. When a guaranteed party fails to perform its obligations, the Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries are obligated to perform the obligations in accordance with the relevant financial guarantee contract. Liabilities recognised for such financial guarantee contracts are measured at initial recognition at the present value of the total guarantee premiums to be received by the guarantor over a future period under the financial guarantee contract adjusted for directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, these liabilities are amortised over the financial guarantee period on a systematic basis and the amortised amounts are recognised in profit or loss. However, if the estimated amount required to settle any such current guarantee obligations at the reporting date exceeds the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation, the balance of any such liability is recognised at the estimated amount required to settle such current guarantee obligations at the reporting date, and any resulting difference is recognised in profit or loss. (iii) Offsetting of financial instruments A financial asset and a financial liability are offset and the net amount is presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, the Companies currently have a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and intend either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. (iv) Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments at the end of each reporting period is measured based on the market price in an active market. If the market in which a financial instrument is traded is not active or no active market exists for the financial instrument, fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation technique. (8) Derivatives and Hedge Accounting Initial recognition and subsequent measurement The Companies recognise derivatives as assets or liabilities at fair value. For derivatives designated as qualifying hedging instruments, subsequent changes in fair value are recognised according to the objective and designation of the hedge. Subsequent changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments are recognised in profit or loss. Fair value hedges If the objective of holding a derivative is to hedge the exposure of changes in the fair value of the hedged item (as a fair value hedge), changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised in profit or loss and are offset against the changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm commitments. When financial instruments measured at amortised cost are designated as hedged items, after recognising the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of such hedged items in profit or loss, the adjusted financial instruments are amortised through profit or loss using the recalculated effective interest rate. The Companies use fair value hedges mainly for hedging the exposure of changes in the fair value of goods or firm commitments to purchase goods and the exposure of changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities with a fixed interest rates arising from changes in interest rates. 17 112 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, which are held to hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows of the hedged items, are recognised in other components of equity until changes in the fair value of the hedged item are recognised in profit or loss. However, the ineffective portion of the changes in the fair value of such derivatives is recognised in profit or loss. The Companies use cash flow hedges for hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows of forecast purchases of goods, sales of goods, etc. arising from changes in prices and exchange rates and the exposure to variability in interest cash flows of a floating rate interest bearing assets and liabilities arising from changes in interest rates. The amounts that have been recognised in other components of equity relating to such hedging instruments are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss. However, if a hedged item is a recognised non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts that have been recognised in other components of equity relating to the hedging instrument are reclassified as adjustments to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability. If a forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the Companies discontinue hedge accounting. Accordingly, any amounts that had been recognised in other components of equity while the hedge was effective are reclassified to profit or loss when hedge accounting is discontinued. Changes in the fair value of the derivative after hedge accounting is discontinued are recognised in profit or loss prospectively as it is no longer a hedging instrument. However, to the extent that such a previously hedged forecast transaction continues to be expected to occur even if hedge accounting is discontinued, amounts that had been recognised in other components of equity before the discontinuation of hedge accounting remain in other components of equity until the forecast transaction occurs. Chap.4 Corporate Information Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation Where the objective of holding a derivative and other non-derivative hedging instruments, such as loans payable, is to hedge the foreign currency risk of a net investment in a foreign operation (as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation), changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments attributable to changes in exchange rates are recognised in other components of equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. Of the changes in the fair values of derivative and other non-derivative hedging instruments which are due to exchange rate movements, the portions related to any ineffectiveness or any parts outside the hedge effectiveness assessment are recognised in profit or loss. The cumulative amount of changes in the fair value of hedging instruments attributable to changes in exchange rates that have been recognised in other components of equity under a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss when the underlying foreign operation is disposed of. (9) Inventories Inventories, which mainly consist of commodities, merchandise, and real estate held for sale, are measured at the lower of cost (mainly specific or moving average cost) and net realisable value. If the net realisable value is lower than cost, the difference is expensed as a write-down and the amount of the write-down is directly deducted from the carrying amount of inventories. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. When the cause of a write-down no longer exists, or when there is clear evidence of an increase in net realisable value due to changes in economic conditions, reversals of such write-downs are recognised. The carrying amount after reversal is recognised at the lower of cost or the revised net realisable value, and the amount of the reversal of write-downs is recognised in profit or loss. Inventories held for generating profits from short-term fluctuations in market prices are measured at fair value less costs to sell, with fluctuations in fair value less costs to sell recognised in profit or loss in the period in which such fluctuations occur. 18 Integrated Report 2017 113 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (10) Property, Plant and Equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are recognised initially at acquisition cost including transaction costs. Acquisition cost includes borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction, etc. of assets requiring a considerable time period before they can be used as intended. The present value of the estimated costs for the disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment at the end of its useful life is included in the acquisition cost of the item if the recognition criteria for provisions are met, and are recognised as an expense through depreciation over the useful life of the item. After initial recognition, the Companies apply the cost model to items of property, plant and equipment and measure such assets at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss. The depreciable amount of items of property, plant and equipment is allocated over each period for the useful life of each item through depreciation, mainly on a straight-line basis over the useful life of each item (buildings and structures from 2 to 60 years, machinery and equipment from 2 to 45 years), or the units of production method based on reserve estimation. Land is not depreciated. If an item of property, plant and equipment includes one or more significant parts, each significant part is individually depreciated. The Companies derecognise an item of property, plant and equipment when they have disposed of it or when it is no longer expected to produce any future economic benefits through use or disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds of the item and its carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss when the item is derecognised. The basis of depreciation of property, plant and equipment, such as residual value, useful life, and depreciation method, is reviewed at each reporting date. When there is a change in the basis of depreciation, the depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively as a change in an accounting estimate. (11) Intangible Assets Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at initial recognition at acquisition cost. The acquisition cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is measured at the acquisition date fair value. After initial recognition, the Companies apply the cost model to intangible assets and measure such assets at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment loss. Internally generated intangible assets are expensed in the period in which they are incurred, unless they satisfy the criteria for capitalisation. Intangible assets are classified as either intangible assets with finite useful lives or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. The amount of intangible assets with finite useful lives subject to amortisation is allocated as an expense over each period for the useful life of each asset (franchises and customer relationships approximately from 3 years to 45 years, software approximately from 2 years to 20 years) through amortisation, mainly on a straight-line basis. The basis of amortisation of these intangible assets, such as useful life and depreciation method, is reviewed at the end of each reporting period. When there is a change in the basis of amortisation, the amortisation charge is adjusted prospectively as a change in accounting estimate. Intangible assets judged to have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation, and the Companies review, at the end of each reporting period, whether the events or circumstances supporting such a judgment continue to exist. If the judgment that the useful life is indefinite is no longer valid, the intangible asset is reclassified from an intangible asset with an indefinite life to an intangible asset with a finite useful life, with amortisation charges adjusted prospectively as a change in an accounting estimate. The Companies derecognise an item of intangible assets when they have disposed of it or when it is no longer expected to produce any future economic benefits from its use or disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds of an intangible asset arising from its derecognition and its carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised. 19 114 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Goodwill Goodwill is recognised as the excess of (a) the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value, the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree remeasured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree (hereinafter collectively referred to as “the aggregate amount of consideration”) over (b) the net of the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured for each business combination either at acquisition date fair value or at the acquirer’s proportionate interest in the identifiable net assets of the acquiree. If the total amount of consideration is less than the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary, the difference is recognised in profit or loss. After initial recognition, goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is measured at acquisition cost less accumulated impairment loss. For impairment testing purposes, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, on or after the acquisition date, allocated to cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to receive benefits from the business combination. If an operation within a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated is disposed of, the portion of goodwill related to the operation to be disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation for the purpose of calculation of the disposal gain or loss. Goodwill is allocated on the basis of the relative percentage of the values of the business to be disposed of and the remaining portion of the cash-generating unit, unless there is a more reasonable method. Chap.4 Corporate Information (12) Oil, Gas and Mineral Resources Mining Activities Costs associated with the exploration, evaluation and development of oil and gas are accounted for based on the successful efforts method. Costs associated with the acquisition of vested mining rights, costs associated with the drilling and construction of exploratory wells and development wells, and related facilities are capitalised; and costs associated with exploratory wells are expensed when it has been demonstrated that the wells have no commercial viability, while other costs associated with exploration and evaluation, including geographical survey costs, are recognised as expenses when incurred. Costs associated with the exploration and evaluation of mineral resources are recognised as an expense as they are incurred until such time as the commercial viability of the mining activities is demonstrated. Capitalised costs associated with exploration, evaluation and development are recognised as property, plant and equipment (machinery and equipment). Additionally, expenditures associated with the acquisition of rights to explore, etc. are recognised as intangible assets (licenses and operating rights for natural resources), and reclassified as property, plant and equipment (machinery and equipment) when their technical feasibility and economic viability have been demonstrated. When facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of an exploration and evaluation asset may exceed its recoverable amount, such carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount. (13) Leases The Companies engage in the business of leasing non-current assets as lessors and lease non-current assets as lessees under finance leases and operating leases. Whether or not an arrangement is (or contains) a lease is determined at the inception of the lease based on the substance of that arrangement considering whether the performance of that arrangement depends on the use of a specific asset or group of assets, and whether the right to use the asset is transferred under the terms of that arrangement. 20 Integrated Report 2017 115 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Accounting as lessee For finance leases that transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the asset, an asset and a liability are recognised on the commencement of the lease term in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset, determined at the inception of the lease, or the present value of the minimum lease payments calculated at the inception of the lease. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the outstanding liability, and finance charges are calculated so that they are equivalent to a constant interest rate on the balance of the liability. Finance charges are recognised as expenses over the lease term and contingent rents are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. Leased assets are depreciated over the period of expected use by a method consistent with the depreciation method for other similar assets owned by the lessee. The period of expected use is the useful life of the asset if the transfer of ownership is reasonably certain, or the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset if the transfer of ownership is not reasonably certain. Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as expenses on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another systematic basis is more representative of the pattern by which the user of the asset obtains benefits from use of the asset. Contingent rents are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. Accounting as lessor For finance leases that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the asset, a lease receivable is recognised on the commencement of the lease term at an amount that equals the net investment in the lease at the inception of the lease. Initial direct costs incurred by the lessor are recognised as part of net investment in the lease in principle. For operating leases, the leased assets are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position according to the nature of the assets and are depreciated by a method consistent with the depreciation method for other similar assets owned by the lessor. Lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another systematic basis is more representative of the pattern by which the user of the asset obtains benefits from use of the asset. Initial direct costs incurred by the lessor are included in the carrying amount of the leased asset and are recognised as expenses over the lease term as corresponding lease income is recognised. (14) Impairment of Non-financial Assets Other than Inventories Impairment losses The Companies assess, at the end of each reporting period, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. Property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets with finite useful lives: If there is an indication that an asset may be impaired, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill: If there is an indication that an asset may be impaired, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. The Companies also evaluate whether the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount on a regular basis (at least annually), irrespective of whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. This determination is made for individual assets, unless an individual asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount and that reduction is recognised as an impairment loss. Value in use is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at a discount rate reflecting the time value of money and the current market evaluation of the risks inherent in the asset. 21 116 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Reversals of impairment losses The Companies assess, at the end of each reporting period, whether there is an indication that the recognised impairment losses in prior periods for an asset may no longer exist or may have decreased. If there is such an indication, the Companies estimate the recoverable amount of the asset. If the estimated recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, a reversal of impairment losses is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount after the reversal does exceed the carrying amount (after deducting accumulated depreciation or accumulated amortisation) that would have been determined had the impairment losses not been recognised previously. Reversal of impairment losses is recognised in profit or loss. However, impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not reversed under any circumstances. (15) Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations The Companies classify a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use and the following conditions are met: ・ It is available for immediate sale in its present condition based solely on usual or customary conditions; and ・ Sale is highly probable. A non-current asset or disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation or amortisation is discontinued for a non-current asset or disposal group for the year in which it is classified Chap.4 Corporate Information as held for sale. (16) Provisions The Companies recognise a provision when (i) they have a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and (iii) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. When the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of a provision is measured at the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligation, discounted at a discount rate reflecting the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as finance expenses. For decommissioning obligations, a provision is recognised for the costs of demolition or removal of the asset, land restoration costs and expenditures incurred as a result of the use of the asset, and is added to the acquisition cost of the asset. Estimated costs and the discount rate applied are reviewed every year and any adjustment to the estimated amount is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate. The effect of changes in estimated costs or the discount rate applied is added to or deducted from the carrying amount of the related asset. (17) Post-employment Benefits The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and lump-sum severance indemnity plans covering substantially all employees. The Companies measure the present value of defined benefit obligations and the post-employment benefit costs based on the projected unit credit method for each plan. The effect of the remeasurement of a net defined benefit asset or liability is recognised in other comprehensive income and is immediately reclassified from other components of equity to retained earnings. Such remeasurement consists of actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit obligation and the return on plan assets (excluding the amount of interest income on plan assets). Past service cost is recognised immediately in profit or loss. A net defined benefit asset or liability is calculated as the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets and is recognised as an asset or liability in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 22 Integrated Report 2017 117 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (18) Treasury Stock If the Companies buy back their own equity instruments (treasury stock), such treasury stock is recognised at acquisition cost and is deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss at the time of purchase, sale, issuance or retirement of treasury stock. The difference between the carrying amount and the sale proceeds is recognised in capital surplus. (19) Share-based Payment The Company has a stock option plan for its directors (excluding outside directors) and executive officers. The fair value at the grant date of the stock options are recognised as an expense over the period during which all the specified vesting conditions are satisfied with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value of the stock options is measured using the Black-Scholes model. (20) Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Such a fair value is calculated after deducting sales discounts, volume rebates, etc. The Companies are involved in various forms of transactions including proprietary transactions and agency transactions. In agency transactions, consideration for the transaction is settled directly between the ultimate buyer and the seller, and the Companies receive fees from the buyer, the seller or both. Proprietary transactions, agency transactions, etc. are carried out in the following forms. Sale of goods Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognised when all the following conditions have been satisfied: ・ The significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer; ・ Neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold is retained; ・ The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; ・ It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity; and ・ The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably. For sale of goods, if the Companies arrange shipping or deliver a bill of lading, warehouse receipt, delivery order, etc., to the buyer, revenue is recognised when the delivery obligations specified in the contract have been performed, such as when said document is delivered or when the inspection of goods is completed, and there are substantially no further obligations to perform, and the receipt of goods by the customer is practically certain. Rendering of services When the outcome of the rendering of services can be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period. The Companies judge that the outcome of the rendering of services can be estimated reliably if all the following conditions are satisfied: ・ The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; ・ It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity; ・ The stage of completion of the transaction can be measured reliably at the end of the reporting period; and ・ The costs incurred for the transaction or the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably. In the case of rendering of services, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the expenses recognised that are recoverable, unless the outcome of the rendering of services can be estimated reliably. In acting as an agent, the Companies recognise commissions when contracted services are fully rendered to the customers. 23 118 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Construction contracts When the outcome of the construction contract can be reliably estimated, the percentage of completion method is applied. Under the percentage of completion method, contract revenue is recognised progressively over several accounting periods as work is performed representing the proportionate completion of the contract. The Companies judge that the outcome of the construction contract can be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied: ・ The total amount of contract revenue can be measured reliably; ・ It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the entity; ・ Both the contract costs to complete the contract and the stage of contract completion at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably; and ・ The contract costs attributable to the contract can be clearly identified and measured reliably so that actual contract costs incurred can be compared with prior estimates. When the outcome of the construction contract cannot be reliably estimated, contract revenue is recognised to the extent recovery of contract costs incurred is probable. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the excess amount is recognised immediately as an expense. Presentation of the total amount of revenue and the net amount of revenue The Companies are deemed to be performing transactions as a principal when they have exposure to the significant risks and Chap.4 Corporate Information rewards associated with the sale of goods or the rendering of services, and the total amount of transactions is presented as revenue. The Companies are deemed to be performing transactions as an agent when they do not have exposure to the significant risks and rewards associated with the sale of goods or the rendering of services, and the net amount, after deduction of amounts due to third parties from the consideration earned on the transactions, is presented as revenue. “Total volume of trading transactions” includes all transactions involving the Companies regardless of transaction type. “Total volume of trading transactions” is not required by IFRSs but is presented here to provide readers with a better understanding and is as presented in common Japanese accounting practice. Interest income Interest income is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Companies and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method. Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive the dividends is established. (21) Income and Other Taxes Current tax Taxes payable (receivable) at the end of each reporting period are measured at an amount expected to be due for payment to, or refunded from, the taxation authorities. In measuring the amount of taxes, the Companies use the statutory tax rate or statutory effective tax rate at the end of each reporting period. Current tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income, whereas current tax related to items recognised directly in equity is recognised directly in equity. The Companies recognise the financial statement effects of tax positions when it is more likely than not, based on technical interpretations, that the tax positions will be sustained upon examination by the tax authorities. Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset if the Companies currently have a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts of the assets and liabilities and intend either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 24 Integrated Report 2017 119 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised by the Companies based on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements and their tax basis, and are measured using the enacted tax rates and tax laws which will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised with respect to taxable temporary differences other than those arising in the following cases: ・ Initial recognition of goodwill; ・ Initial recognition of assets or liabilities arising from a transaction that is not a business combination and does not affect accounting profit or taxable profit (loss) at the time of the transaction; and ・ Taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, and associates or interests in joint ventures if the parent, investor or party to a joint venture is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference, and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, tax loss carryforwards, and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference, etc. can be utilised, except as follows. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognised where they arise from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities as a result of transactions that are not a business combination and which do not affect accounting profit or taxable profit (loss) at the time of the transaction. For deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates or interests in joint ventures, a deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. The Companies review, at the end of each reporting period, whether it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to realise part or all of the benefit of the deferred tax assets, and reduce the amount of deferred tax assets to the extent that it is no longer probable that such taxable profit will be available. The Companies also review unrecognised deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting period and recognise them to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will be available. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented as non-current assets and non-current liabilities, respectively. Deferred tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income, whereas deferred tax related to items recognised directly in equity is recognised directly in equity. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset and presented net if, and only if, the Companies currently have a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current tax liabilities and either of the following two conditions is met: ・ The deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity; and ・ The deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on different taxable entities, and those entities intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period. (22) Reclassifications In cases where the presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements or the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements has been modified, reclassifications and format changes have been made to comparative information. (23) Early Application of Standards and Interpretations The Companies have early applied the following standards. Standards and interpretations Description IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (Amended Changes in qualifying criteria for hedge accounting November 2013) 25 120 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (24) New Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted Major standards and interpretations issued by the date of approval of the Consolidated Financial Statements are as follows. At March 31, 2017, the Company has not yet adopted the following standards and interpretations. The potential impacts that application of the following standards and interpretations will have on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Companies are currently being evaluated and cannot be estimated at the present time. Reporting periods on or after which the application are Reporting periods for Standards and interpretations required adoption by the Company Description IFRS 9 Financial Financial year ending Changes in qualifying criteria for Instruments (Amended January 1, 2018 March 31, 2019 impairment accounting July 2014) IFRS 15 Revenue from Financial year ending Accounting for and disclosure of revenue January 1, 2018 Contracts with Customers March 31, 2019 recognition Financial year ending IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 Changes in lease accounting March 31, 2020 Chap.4 Corporate Information 26 Integrated Report 2017 121 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 4. Inventories Inventories at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Merchandise/finished goods ¥720,591 ¥727,089 $6,433,848 Materials/work in progress 26,333 26,315 235,116 Real estate held for sale 20,441 26,177 182,509 Total ¥767,365 ¥779,581 $6,851,473 The carrying amount of inventories measured at fair value less costs to sell on a recurring basis is based mainly on a market approach using observable inputs such as reasonable price obtained from trading partners and others, and is categorised as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, were ¥174,148 million ($1,554,893 thousand) and ¥164,033 million at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. During the year ended March 31, 2017, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2. Inventories recognised as expenses for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥6,371,215 million ($56,885,848 thousand) and ¥6,406,170 million, respectively. Among those expenses, inventory write-offs of ¥2,627 million ($23,455 thousand) and ¥4,317 million were included in expenses for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 27 122 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 5. Property, Plant and Equipment Changes in cost, accumulated depreciation and impairment losses of property, plant and equipment for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Cost Millions of yen Buildings and Machinery and Land structures equipment Other Total April 1, 2015 ¥152,056 ¥366,159 ¥1,835,502 ¥49,931 ¥2,403,648 Additions 1,074 7,871 144,608 36,146 189,699 Disposals (4,699) (13,226) (14,357) – (32,282) Disposals of subsidiaries (1,216) (7,391) (66,957) – (75,564) Currency translation adjustments (1,186) (14,060) (106,669) (2,215) (124,130) Other 261 15,298 16,745 (48,437) (16,133) March 31, 2016 ¥146,290 ¥354,651 ¥1,808,872 ¥35,425 ¥2,345,238 Additions 395 12,021 76,717 34,769 123,902 Disposals (70,463) (8,629) (43,068) (169) (122,329) Disposals of subsidiaries – (135) (115,844) – (115,979) Currency translation adjustments (397) (1,106) (11,385) 85 (12,803) Chap.4 Corporate Information Other 1,548 13,479 14,453 (30,402) (922) March 31, 2017 ¥77,373 ¥370,281 ¥1,729,745 ¥39,708 ¥2,217,107 Thousands of U.S. dollars Buildings and Machinery and Land structures equipment Other Total March 31, 2016 $1,306,161 $3,166,527 $16,150,643 $316,294 $20,939,625 Additions 3,527 107,330 684,973 310,438 1,106,268 Disposals (629,134) (77,045) (384,536) (1,508) (1,092,223) Disposals of subsidiaries – (1,205) (1,034,322) – (1,035,527) Currency translation adjustments (3,545) (9,875) (101,652) 759 (114,313) Other 13,821 120,348 129,046 (271,447) (8,232) March 31, 2017 $690,830 $3,306,080 $15,444,152 $354,536 $19,795,598 28 Integrated Report 2017 123 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Millions of yen Buildings and Machinery and Land structures equipment Other Total April 1, 2015 ¥(6,339) ¥(164,516) ¥(869,017) ¥– ¥(1,039,872) Depreciation – (15,590) (90,405) – (105,995) Impairment losses (1,095) (798) (110,596) – (112,489) Disposals 1,989 7,633 12,312 – 21,934 Disposals of subsidiaries 210 5,624 11,816 – 17,650 Currency translation adjustments 64 3,955 57,618 – 61,637 Other (461) (2,516) 16,318 – 13,341 March 31, 2016 ¥(5,632) ¥(166,208) ¥(971,954) ¥– ¥(1,143,794) Depreciation – (16,437) (80,165) – (96,602) Impairment losses (308) (1,709) (53,616) (3) (55,636) Disposals 1,667 4,029 17,732 – 23,428 Disposals of subsidiaries – 48 11,147 – 11,195 Currency translation adjustments (2) 156 825 – 979 Other (84) 30 11,769 – 11,715 March 31, 2017 ¥(4,359) ¥(180,091) ¥(1,064,262) ¥(3) ¥(1,248,715) Thousands of U.S. dollars Buildings and Machinery and Land structures equipment Other Total March 31, 2016 $ (50,286) $ (1,484,000) $ (8,678,161) $– $ (10,212,447) Depreciation – (146,759) (715,759) – (862,518) Impairment losses (2,750) (15,259) (478,714) (27) (496,750) Disposals 14,884 35,973 158,322 – 209,179 Disposals of subsidiaries – 428 99,527 – 99,955 Currency translation adjustments (18) 1,393 7,366 – 8,741 Other (750) 269 105,080 – 104,599 March 31, 2017 $ (38,920) $ (1,607,955) $ (9,502,339) $(27) $ (11,149,241) Carrying amount Millions of yen Buildings and Machinery and Land structures equipment Other Total March 31, 2016 ¥140,658 ¥188,443 ¥836,918 ¥35,425 ¥1,201,444 March 31, 2017 ¥73,014 ¥190,190 ¥665,483 ¥39,705 ¥968,392 Thousands of U.S. dollars Buildings and Machinery and Land structures equipment Other Total March 31, 2017 $651,910 $1,698,125 $5,941,813 $354,509 $8,646,357 Changes in the cost classified as “Other” included transfers from construction in progress to other property, plant and equipment. For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries recognised impairment losses on facilities, real estate and industrial plants of ¥55,636 million ($496,750 thousand) and ¥112,489 million, respectively, based on the related recoverable amounts due to decreases in estimated future cash flows and other factors. 29 124 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) In terms of operating segments, the major impairment losses of ¥50,783 million ($453,420 thousand) were included in the Energy & Metals segment for the year ended March 31, 2017; and of ¥110,200 million were included in the Energy & Metals segment for the year ended March 31, 2016. Impairment losses are included in “Impairment losses” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is included in “Cost of goods sold” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Significant impairment losses recognised for the year ended March 31, 2017 included ¥47,495 million ($424,063 thousand) as a result of downward revisions in estimated future cash flows due to such factors as the decrease in reserves for oil and gas assets in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. These impairment losses were reported under the Energy & Metals segment. The amount of the impairment losses was calculated using the recoverable amounts measured at value in use based on discounted future cash flows, and the total amount of the recoverable amounts was ¥67,619 million ($603,741 thousand). The discount rate used in the value in use calculations was 8.0% and reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the assets. Discounted future cash flows used in value in use calculations were calculated by referring to prices such as long-term prices published by external organisations such as brokers. Significant impairment losses recognised for the year ended March 31, 2016 included ¥74,949 million as a result of downward revisions in estimated future cash flows due to delays in the development plans, the increase in the development costs, the decrease in reserves and the decline in crude oil prices for oil and gas assets in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and ¥33,925 million as a result of downward revisions in estimated future cash flows due to the decline in crude oil prices for oil and gas assets in the Chap.4 Corporate Information UK North Sea. These impairment losses were reported under the Energy & Metals segment. The amount of the impairment losses was calculated using the recoverable amounts measured at value in use based on discounted future cash flows, and the total amount of the recoverable amounts was ¥290,205 million. The discount rate used in the value in use calculations ranged from 7.0% to 8.5% and reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the assets. Discounted future cash flows used in value in use calculations were calculated by referring to prices such as long-term prices published by external organisations such as brokers. 30 Integrated Report 2017 125 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 6. Intangible Assets Changes in cost, accumulated amortisation and impairment losses of intangible assets for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Cost Millions of yen Licenses and operating rights Franchises in natural and customer resources relationships Software Goodwill Other Total April 1, 2015 ¥67,001 ¥208,846 ¥29,321 ¥226,934 ¥13,118 ¥545,220 Acquisitions arising from – 10,113 201 942 – 11,256 business combinations Additions – 106 7,281 – 291 7,678 Disposals – (919) (1,334) – (68) (2,321) Currency translation (5,849) (11,478) (363) (12,796) (511) (30,997) adjustments Other – (3,076) (3,414) (16,826) (146) (23,462) March 31, 2016 ¥61,152 ¥203,592 ¥31,692 ¥198,254 ¥12,684 ¥507,374 Acquisitions arising from business combinations – 2,297 239 2,824 9 5,369 Additions – 120 10,252 – 148 10,520 Disposals – – (2,140) – (484) (2,624) Currency translation adjustments (383) (1,868) (215) (1,752) (373) (4,591) Other – (24,874) 884 (8,461) (1,476) (33,927) March 31, 2017 ¥60,769 ¥179,267 ¥40,712 ¥190,865 ¥10,508 ¥482,121 Thousands of U.S. dollars Licenses and operating rights Franchises in natural and customer resources relationships Software Goodwill Other Total March 31, 2016 $546,000 $1,817,786 $282,964 $1,770,125 $113,250 $4,530,125 Acquisitions arising from business combinations – 20,509 2,134 25,214 81 47,938 Additions – 1,071 91,536 – 1,322 93,929 Disposals – – (19,107) – (4,322) (23,429) Currency translation adjustments (3,420) (16,678) (1,920) (15,643) (3,330) (40,991) Other – (222,089) 7,893 (75,544) (13,180) (302,920) March 31, 2017 $542,580 $1,600,599 $363,500 $1,704,152 $93,821 $4,304,652 31 126 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Millions of yen Licenses and operating rights Franchises in natural and customer resources relationships Software Goodwill Other Total April 1, 2015 ¥(61,208) ¥(31,507) ¥(18,131) ¥(63,777) ¥(4,412) ¥(179,035) Amortisation expenses (235) (10,077) (3,893) – (408) (14,613) Impairment losses (1,049) (417) – (643) – (2,109) Disposals – 812 1,215 – 56 2,083 Currency translation 5,378 2,136 273 3,673 96 11,556 adjustments Other – 981 3,189 5,471 376 10,017 March 31, 2016 ¥(57,114) ¥(38,072) ¥(17,347) ¥(55,276) ¥(4,292) ¥(172,101) Amortisation expenses (212) (9,230) (4,423) – (656) (14,521) Impairment losses (3,596) (15) (11) (8,617) (716) (12,955) Disposals – – 1,908 – 476 2,384 Currency translation adjustments 376 37 172 (28) 16 573 Other – 2,417 (393) (286) 2,095 3,833 Chap.4 Corporate Information March 31, 2017 ¥(60,546) ¥(44,863) ¥(20,094) ¥(64,207) ¥(3,077) ¥(192,787) Thousands of U.S. dollars Licenses and operating rights Franchises in natural and customer resources relationships Software Goodwill Other Total March 31, 2016 $(509,946) $(339,929) $(154,884) $(493,536) $(38,321) $(1,536,616) Amortisation expenses (1,893) (82,411) (39,491) – (5,857) (129,652) Impairment losses (32,107) (134) (98) (76,938) (6,393) (115,670) Disposals – – 17,036 – 4,250 21,286 Currency translation adjustments 3,357 330 1,536 (250) 143 5,116 Other – 21,581 (3,510) (2,553) 18,705 34,223 March 31, 2017 $(540,589) $(400,563) $(179,411) $(573,277) $(27,473) $(1,721,313) Carrying amount Millions of yen Licenses and operating rights Franchises in natural and customer resources relationships Software Goodwill Other Total March 31, 2016 ¥4,038 ¥165,520 ¥14,345 ¥142,978 ¥8,392 ¥335,273 March 31, 2017 ¥223 ¥134,404 ¥20,618 ¥126,658 ¥7,431 ¥289,334 Thousands of U.S. dollars Licenses and operating rights Franchises in natural and customer resources relationships Software Goodwill Other Total March 31, 2017 $1,991 $1,200,036 $184,089 $1,130,875 $66,348 $2,583,339 32 Integrated Report 2017 127 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Changes in the cost of “Franchises and customer relationships” for the year ended March 31, 2017 classified as “Other” included a decrease of ¥22,218 million ($198,375 thousand) as a result of disposals of subsidiaries. Changes in the cost of “Goodwill” classified as “Other” included a decrease of ¥12,547 million ($112,027 thousand) as a result of disposals of subsidiaries. Changes in the cost of “Goodwill” for the year ended March 31, 2016 classified as “Other” included a decrease of ¥15,499 million as a result of disposals of subsidiaries. Of the intangible assets stated above, the carrying amounts of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥48,237 million ($430,688 thousand) and ¥52,965 million, respectively. Major intangible assets with indefinite useful lives were trademarks, which were included in “Franchises and customer relationships”. As the trademarks with indefinite business terms will basically exist as long as the Company continues to exist, it has been determined that there is no foreseeable limit to the period of inflow of future economic benefits and thus they are classified as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. The carrying amounts of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at March 31, 2017 and 2016 included trademarks recognised as a result of the acquisition of Gavilon in the amounts of ¥42,071 million ($375,634 thousand) and ¥42,255 million, respectively. Of the intangible assets stated above, intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised by the straight-line basis based over their expected useful lives. However, exploration and evaluation assets are not amortised until the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the mine have been demonstrated. When the technical feasibility and commercial viability are demonstrated, an exploration and evaluation asset is reclassified to property, plant and equipment, and amortised using the unitsof-production method based on the estimation of proved reserves. Major intangible assets with finite useful lives at March 31, 2017 and 2016, which were included in “Franchises and customer relationships”, and their carrying amounts were as follows: customer relationship assets related to the trading and distribution business of grains and fertilizers were ¥26,758 million ($238,911 thousand) and ¥29,263 million, and franchises and customer relationship assets related to the mobile phone sales distribution business were ¥27,554 million ($246,018 thousand) and ¥29,821 million, respectively. The assets are amortised over 4-25 years on a straight-line basis. Amortisation of intangible assets is included in “Cost of goods sold” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries recognised impairment losses on intangible assets of ¥12,955 million ($115,670 thousand) and ¥2,109 million, respectively, based on the relevant recoverable amounts due to decreases in estimated future cash flows and other factors. Impairment losses are included in “Impairment losses” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The carrying amounts of “Goodwill” at March 31, 2017 and 2016 included goodwill for Gavilon in the amounts of ¥70,155 million ($626,384 thousand) and ¥70,462 million, respectively. The recoverable amount used in impairment testing was calculated based on value in use which was measured by discounting the estimated future cash flows based on the revised business plan approved by the management. The business plan represents the management's estimate of a range of economic conditions including such significant assumptions as quantity, price and margin based on past experience, which was also consistent with external evidence. The business plan used on the most recent 10 years forecasts in order to average market conditions. For the period beyond 10 years, the Company calculated the terminal value based on a steady growth rate of 2%. The growth rate was determined by considering the market in which Gavilon operates or the long-term average growth rate in the U.S.A. The discount rate used in the value in use calculations at March 31, 2017 and 2016 was 8.1% and 8.8%, respectively, which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the assets. 33 128 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 7. Provisions Changes in provisions for the year ended March 31, 2017 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Decommissioning Other Decommissioning Other Obligations Provisions Total Obligations Provisions Total Balance at beginning of year ¥80,497 ¥14,854 ¥95,351 $718,723 $132,625 $851,348 Increase for the year 3,107 5,765 8,872 27,741 51,473 79,214 Decrease for the year (15,060) (6,925) (21,985) (134,464) (61,830) (196,294) Interest expense 6,381 28 6,409 56,973 250 57,223 Other (941) 458 (483) (8,401) 4,089 (4,312) Balance at end of year ¥73,984 ¥14,180 ¥88,164 $660,572 $126,607 $787,179 “Other” includes changes due to foreign currency fluctuations. Decommissioning obligations mainly relate to the costs of dismantlement and removal of development facilities for natural resources owned by consolidated subsidiaries engaged in oil and gas producing activities. Generally, costs relating to the dismantlement and removal of facilities are expected to be paid after 10 years or more after the initial recognition of said decommissioning obligations. Other provisions include provisions for litigation and provisions for onerous contracts. Chap.4 Corporate Information Decommissioning obligations and other provisions are included in “Other current liabilities” and “Other non-current liabilities” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 34 Integrated Report 2017 129 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 8. Non-current Assets or Disposal Groups Held for Sale Assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Assets classified as held for sale ¥36,689 ¥63,308 $327,580 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 4,086 1,873 36,482 The Companies classify non-current assets or disposal groups as held for sale if they are expected to be sold within approximately one year, and they are measured at the lower of their carrying amounts and fair value less costs to sell. The amounts of newly classified as Assets classified as held for sale and Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale at March 31, 2017 included in the Transportation & Industrial Machinery segment were ¥10,897 million ($97,295 thousand) and ¥3,929 million ($35,080 thousand), respectively. Such assets and liabilities were mainly comprised of other noncurrent financial assets; and borrowings. The amounts of the decrease in assets classified as held for sale and in liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held for sale at March 31, 2016 included in, by operating segment, the Chemical & Forest Products, the Power Projects & Plant and the Transportation & Industrial Machinery, as a result of the completion of sales in the current year were ¥39,432 million ($352,071 thousand) and ¥1,749 million ($15,616 thousand), respectively. Such assets and liabilities were mainly comprised of investments in associates and joint ventures; other investments; inventories; and notes and trade accounts payable. 35 130 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 9. Leases Lessor The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries lease machinery and equipment, etc. under finance leases. Gross investment in the lease and present value of the total of future minimum lease payments receivable under finance leases at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Present value of Present value of Present value of Gross minimum lease Gross minimum lease Gross minimum lease investment in payments investment in payments investment in payments the lease receivable the lease receivable the lease receivable Not later than one year ¥7,297 ¥6,811 ¥26,820 ¥25,044 $65,152 $60,813 Later than one year and not later than five years 20,284 17,641 30,222 26,634 181,107 157,509 Later than five years 1,954 1,575 2,411 1,862 17,446 14,063 Total ¥29,535 ¥26,027 ¥59,453 ¥53,540 $ 263,705 $232,384 Less: Unearned finance income 3,505 5,909 31,295 Net investment in the lease ¥26,030 ¥53,544 $232,411 Less: Present value of unguaranteed residual value 3 4 27 Chap.4 Corporate Information Present value of minimum lease payments receivable ¥26,027 ¥53,540 $232,384 The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries also lease machinery and equipment, etc. under operating leases. The total of future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Not later than one year ¥27,127 ¥23,640 $242,205 Later than one year and not later than 79,840 five years 74,782 667,696 Later than five years 25,377 41,617 226,580 Total ¥127,286 ¥145,097 $1,136,482 36 Integrated Report 2017 131 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Lessee The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries lease machinery and equipment, etc. under finance leases. At March 31, 2017 and 2016, the net carrying amounts included in property, plant and equipment (Machinery and equipment) in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, were ¥27,109 million ($242,045 thousand) and ¥20,864 million, respectively. The total of future minimum lease payments and the present value under finance leases at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Present value of Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments payments payments Not later than one year ¥5,370 ¥4,874 ¥4,260 ¥3,844 $47,946 $43,518 Later than one year and not later than five years 23,709 22,827 19,806 18,952 211,688 203,813 Later than five years 1,537 1,147 528 483 13,723 10,241 Total ¥30,616 ¥28,848 ¥24,594 ¥23,279 $273,357 $257,571 Less: Financial charges 1,768 1,315 15,786 Present value of minimum lease payments ¥28,848 ¥23,279 $257,571 The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries also lease machinery and equipment, buildings and structures, etc. under operating leases. Lease payments amounted to ¥51,299 million ($458,027 thousand) and ¥47,969 million for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Payments for services of ¥3,081 million ($27,509 thousand) and ¥5,815 million, respectively, were included in the lease payments. The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows. The total of future minimum lease payments receivable at March 31, 2017 and 2016 had not been offset by the future minimum sublease rentals of ¥99,882 million ($891,804 thousand) and ¥107,703 million, respectively, under non-cancelable subleases. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Not later than one year ¥41,492 ¥38,643 $370,464 Later than one year and not later than 801,366 five years 89,753 88,754 Later than five years 78,696 80,780 702,643 Total ¥209,941 ¥208,177 $1,874,473 Future payments for services of ¥6,725 million ($60,045 thousand) and ¥6,457 million at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were included in the total of future minimum lease payments. 37 132 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 10. Employee Benefits (1) Post-employment benefits The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries have cash balance plans based on the Japanese Defined Benefit Corporate Pension Plan Act and other defined benefit pension plans. These plans cover substantially all employees other than directors. In addition to the pension plans, the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries have lump sum retirement plans to be paid upon retirement or severance based on the years of service and compensation level. The Company, pursuant to the Japanese Defined Benefit Corporate Pension Plan Act and other laws, has the obligation to make contributions to the Marubeni Corporate Pension Fund (the “Fund”), which pays out pension benefits. The Director of the Fund has the fiduciary duty to comply with laws, the dispositions of the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare made pursuant to laws, the bylaws of the Fund and the decisions of the Board of Representatives, and to faithfully perform duties for the Fund including the management and operation of the contributions. Additionally, a code of conduct has been articulated, which prohibits the Director of the Fund from entering into asset management agreements for the purpose of benefiting a third party and from acts that constitute conflicts of interest. The pension plan is operated by the Fund, which is legally independent from the Company. The Board of Representatives comprises an equal number of Representatives elected from the management side (Assigned Representatives) and Representatives elected from the employee side (Mutually Elected Representatives), while the chair of the Board of Representatives (the “Chairman”) is elected from the management side. Proceedings of the Board of Representatives are decided by a majority vote of the members attending. In the case of a tied vote, the Chairman has the power to decide the vote. However, with regard to particularly important matters, the bylaws provide Chap.4 Corporate Information that the decision be made by a majority that exceeds the above. The Representatives hold exclusive power to decide important matters including investment policy. The actual management of the assets is conducted by investment managers on the basis of an entrustment contract, and the Representatives are prohibited by law from giving instructions, such as instructions on specific investments. The Company is required to make contributions to the Fund, and the contributions are reviewed regularly to the extent allowed by law. While it is under obligation to make contributions stipulated by the Fund into the future, the Company, in addition to these contributions, also funds a retirement benefit trust on a voluntary basis. With regard to the lump sum retirement plan, the Company is under obligation to pay benefits directly to the beneficiaries. Although the Company is not under any legal obligation regarding the funding of this plan, fund assets exist, which have been voluntarily contributed by the Company to the retirement benefit trust. 38 Integrated Report 2017 133 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets of the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Balance at beginning of year of net defined benefit liability ¥91,316 ¥75,548 $815,321 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligation: Balance at beginning of year 329,323 324,586 2,940,384 Current service cost 12,211 12,199 109,027 Past service cost (1,307) 149 (11,670) Interest expense 4,514 5,735 40,304 Remeasurements 9,271 12,818 82,777 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (1,705) (6,132) (15,223) Employees’ contributions 356 411 3,179 Benefits paid (19,845) (19,641) (177,188) Effects of business combinations, divestitures and others (648) (802) (5,786) Balance at end of year 332,170 329,323 2,965,804 Changes in the fair value of plan assets: Balance at beginning of year 238,007 249,038 2,125,063 Interest income 3,293 4,321 29,402 Remeasurements 14,786 (8,178) 132,018 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (1,287) (4,088) (11,491) Employees’ contributions 356 411 3,179 Employer’s contributions 12,568 13,759 112,214 Benefits paid (16,759) (16,478) (149,634) Effects of business combinations, divestitures and others (1,553) (778) (13,867) Balance at end of year 249,411 238,007 2,226,884 Balance at end of year of net defined benefit liability ¥82,759 ¥91,316 $738,920 Actuarial assumptions used for the present value calculation of defined benefit obligations at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were mainly as follows: March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Discount rate 0.8% 0.5% Rates of salary increase 5.0% 4.9% Sensitivity analyses are conducted at the year end based on reasonably estimable changes in assumptions. Although sensitivity analyses assume that the actuarial assumptions other than those that are subject to the analyses are held constant, in reality, it is possible for the sensitivity analyses to be impacted by other actuarial assumptions. If, for example, the discount rate fell by 0.5%, and the other assumptions were held constant, defined benefit plan liability at March 31, 2017 and 2016 would increase by ¥15,556 million ($138,893 thousand) and ¥13,874 million, respectively. The rate of salary increase is not expected to change in the future. 39 134 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Fair value of plan assets by class at March 31, 2017 was as follows: Millions of yen With a quoted Without a quoted market price in an market price in an Class of plan assets active market active market Total Cash and cash equivalents ¥19,346 ¥– ¥19,346 Equity securities: Japanese companies 39,788 – 39,788 Pooled funds 1,596 65,384 66,980 Debt securities: Bonds denominated in Japanese yen – 8,369 8,369 Bonds denominated in foreign currencies 2,505 7,118 9,623 Pooled funds – 82,909 82,909 Life insurance company general accounts – 16,368 16,368 Other 2,318 3,710 6,028 Total plan assets ¥65,553 ¥183,858 ¥249,411 Thousands of U.S. dollars Chap.4 Corporate Information With a quoted Without a quoted market price in an market price in an Class of plan assets active market active market Total Cash and cash equivalents $172,732 $– $172,732 Equity securities: Japanese companies 355,250 – 355,250 Pooled funds 14,250 583,786 598,036 Debt securities: Bonds denominated in Japanese yen – 74,723 74,723 Bonds denominated in foreign currencies 22,366 63,554 85,920 Pooled funds – 740,259 740,259 Life insurance company general accounts – 146,143 146,143 Other 20,697 33,124 53,821 Total plan assets $585,295 $1,641,589 $2,226,884 Fair value of plan assets by class at March 31, 2016 was as follows: Millions of yen With a quoted Without a quoted market price in an market price in an Class of plan assets active market active market Total Cash and cash equivalents ¥22,787 ¥– ¥22,787 Equity securities: Japanese companies 39,413 – 39,413 Pooled funds 1,534 60,156 61,690 Debt securities: Bonds denominated in Japanese yen – 8,637 8,637 Pooled funds – 83,958 83,958 Life insurance company general accounts – 16,409 16,409 Other 2,187 2,926 5,113 Total plan assets ¥65,921 ¥172,086 ¥238,007 40 Integrated Report 2017 135 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) In making investment decisions, the main objective is to secure the necessary return over the long term to cover pension and retirement benefit payments. The primary investment policy is to analyse the risk/return characteristics by asset class and to invest in a diversified portfolio taking into consideration the correlation among asset classes. The Company sets an asset mix policy with investments in equity securities, debt securities and other assets. Based on this policy, the Company selects multiple investment managers who execute the strategy. When selecting an investment manager, the Company gives consideration to management philosophy and content, investment management policy and investment style, investment control systems including information collection mechanisms and decision-making processes, compliance systems, investment experience and the track record of the investment manager as well as the professionals in charge of managing pension assets. Plan assets are invested 30%, 60% and 10% in equity securities, debt securities and other, respectively, at March 31, 2017. The investments executed by investment managers are outlined as follows: Equity securities are selected mainly from stocks that are listed on securities exchanges. Prior to investing, the Company investigates the business conditions of the investee companies and appropriately diversifies investments in consideration of the type of industry, investees and other relevant factors. Debt securities are selected mainly from government bonds, public debt instruments and corporate bonds. Prior to investing, the Company investigates the quality of the issuing conditions, including issuers, rating, interest rate and repayment dates, and appropriately diversifies the investments. Pooled funds are selected using strategies consistent with the equity and debt securities described above. For investments in life insurance company general accounts, contracts with insurance companies include a guaranteed interest rate and a return of capital. With respect to foreign investments vehicles, the Company investigates the stability of the underlying governments and economies, the market characteristics, such as settlement systems, and the taxation systems. For each such investment, the Company selects the appropriate investment country and currency. The performance of certain plan assets by the cash balance plan is matched with the related pension benefits to a certain extent. Funding of the Marubeni Corporate Pension Fund is conducted by taking into account various factors including limits on deductible expenses under the tax rules, the funding status of plan assets and actuarial calculations. Contributions to plan assets are intended to cover benefits for services to be rendered by employees in the future as well as services already rendered. In accordance with the Japanese Defined Benefit Corporate Pension Plan Act, the bylaws of the Marubeni Corporate Pension Fund provide for the re-calculation of the contribution amount at five-year intervals with the year end as the base date for the purpose of maintaining balanced finances into the future. The re-calculation process reviews the basic rates relating to the contribution (the guaranteed rate of return, expected rate of mortality, expected withdrawal rate, expected salary increase, expected new enrollment rate, etc.) and verifies the adequacy of the contribution amount. Additionally, the Company, in order to ensure sufficient funding of the pension plan, may also contribute marketable equity securities and cash to the retirement benefit trust in the amount of the unfunded portion of defined benefit obligation. The amount of contributions expected to be paid to plan assets for the year ending March 31, 2018 is approximately ¥6,200 million ($55,357 thousand). The weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation at March 31, 2017 and 2016 was 14.6 years, respectively. (2) Employee benefit cost The aggregate amounts of employee benefit cost included under “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥283,349 million ($2,529,902 thousand) and ¥293,246 million, respectively. 41 136 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 11. Other-net “Other-net” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income was the net amount of other income of ¥73,600 million ($657,143 thousand) and other expenses of ¥27,666 million ($247,018 thousand) for the year ended March 31, 2017, and the net amount of other income of ¥55,709 million and other expenses of ¥71,744 million for the year ended March 31, 2016. “Other-net” was mainly comprised of the following. For the year ended March 31, 2017 Net exchange differences recognised in profit or loss classified as “Other-net” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income were net gains of ¥13,496 million ($120,500 thousand). These net exchange differences (net gains) were mainly offset by profits or losses on derivatives held for hedging purposes. Also, the Company recognised a gain on transfer in the amount of ¥22,387 million ($199,884 thousand) associated with the sale of solar power generating business in Oita Prefecture. For the year ended March 31, 2016 Net exchange differences recognised in profit or loss classified as “Other-net” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income were net losses of ¥32,515 million. These net exchange differences (net losses) were mainly offset by profits or losses on derivatives held for hedging purposes. A loss in the amount of ¥15,388 million was recognised for the LNG receiving terminal project in Uruguay, as the Company Chap.4 Corporate Information determined its policy to discontinue involvement in this project. 42 Integrated Report 2017 137 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 12. Income Taxes The Company files a consolidated income tax return in Japan. Total income taxes recognised for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were attributable to the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 2016 2017 Current tax ¥(53,615) ¥(40,375) $(478,705) Deferred tax 9,130 17,344 81,517 Total ¥(44,485) ¥(23,031) $(397,188) The Company is mainly subject to income tax, inhabitants tax and enterprise tax, which is recognised as a deductible expense, and the applicable income tax rates calculated on the basis of these taxes for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were approximately 31.0% and 33.0%, respectively. However, the income tax rates of foreign subsidiaries are calculated on the basis of general local tax rates. On November 18, 2016, the Act to Partially Amend the Act for Partial Amendment of the Consumption Tax Act and Others for the Drastic Reform of the Taxation System for Ensuring Stable Financial Resources for Social Security (Act No. 85 of 2016) and the Act to Partially Amend the Act of Partial Amendment of the Local Tax Act and Local Allocation Tax Act and Others for the Drastic Reform of the Taxation System for Ensuring Stable Financial Resources for Social Security (Act No. 86 of 2016) were enacted in the Japanese Diet session. These Acts postponed the timing for raising the consumption tax rate to 10% from April 1, 2017 to October 1, 2019. In conjunction with this, the timing for implementing the abolition of the special local corporation tax and the accompanying restoration of the corporate enterprise tax, the revision of the local corporation tax rate, and the revision of the corporate inhabitant tax rate was also postponed from fiscal years commencing on or after April 1, 2017 to fiscal years commencing on or after October 1, 2019. Although there are no changes in the combined tax rate to be used for the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, a tax rate reclassification has occurred between the national tax and the local tax. The impact of these changes in tax rates on the financial position and results of operation of the Companies was immaterial. A reconciliation of the applicable tax rates to the effective tax rates expressed as a percentage of profit before tax for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 Applicable tax rate 31.0 % 33.0 % Tax effect on income and expenses not taxable and deductible for tax purposes (1.6)% (2.1)% Difference in tax rate of foreign subsidiaries 2.1 % (9.3)% Tax effect on share of profits of associates and joint ventures and (10.1)% retained earnings of subsidiaries (17.4)% Reassessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets 2.6 % 9.3 % Other 5.5 % 4.6 % Effective tax rate 22.2 % 25.4 % 43 138 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Changes in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 2016 2017 Balance at beginning of year (Deferred tax assets-net) ¥(6,504) ¥(53,493) $(58,071) Deferred tax income or expense recognised in profit or loss 9,130 17,344 81,518 Deferred tax income or expense recognised in other comprehensive income (22,578) 19,018 (201,590) Changes in acquisitions and divestitures 2,538 10,627 22,661 Balance at end of year (Deferred tax assets-net) ¥(17,414) ¥(6,504) $(155,482) Significant components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Deferred tax assets: Allowance for doubtful accounts ¥2,950 ¥4,636 $26,339 Inventories 718 2,979 6,411 Chap.4 Corporate Information Property, plant and equipment and investment property 18,926 13,898 168,982 Employees’ retirement benefits 27,563 34,273 246,098 Unrealised profit on intercompany transactions 936 617 8,357 Net operating loss carryforwards 150,825 145,926 1,346,652 Other 42,055 40,622 375,491 Total deferred tax assets ¥243,973 ¥242,951 $2,178,330 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment and investment property ¥114,836 ¥114,946 $1,025,321 Investment securities and other investments 28,922 23,332 258,232 Intangible assets 32,329 32,472 288,652 Undistributed earnings 51,457 49,050 459,438 Other 33,843 29,655 302,169 Total deferred tax liabilities ¥261,387 ¥249,455 $2,333,812 Deferred tax assets-net ¥(17,414) ¥(6,504) $(155,482) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Deferred tax assets ¥88,216 ¥94,113 $787,643 Deferred tax liabilities 105,630 100,617 943,125 Deferred tax assets-net ¥(17,414) ¥(6,504) $(155,482) 44 Integrated Report 2017 139 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The amount of deductible temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards for which deferred tax assets were not recognised at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥733,604 million ($6,550,036 thousand) and ¥671,555 million, respectively. Within these amounts, tax loss carryforwards classified by expiry date at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Expiry date March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Not later than one year ¥10,457 ¥1,641 $93,366 Later than one year and not later than five years 40,394 27,868 360,661 Later than five years 75,139 87,230 670,884 Indefinite carryforward periods 39,641 32,780 353,937 Total ¥165,631 ¥149,519 $1,478,848 Deferred tax assets of ¥100,122 million ($893,946 thousand) and ¥87,524 million were recognised at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, by certain subsidiaries that have recorded losses in the years ended March 31, 2016 or 2017 in the tax jurisdiction to which the deferred tax assets relate, and the utilisation of the deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable profits. Each company’s management carefully has assessed the probability that taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses or deductible temporary differences may be utilised based on tax planning. The aggregate amounts of temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and associates and equity interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities were not recognised at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥776,091 million ($6,929,384 thousand) and ¥815,354 million, respectively. Determination of the amounts of the related unrecognised deferred tax liabilities is not practical. 45 140 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 13. Associates and Joint Ventures For the year ended March 31, 2017 The aggregate carrying amount of investments in associates accounted for under the equity method in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Companies’ share of comprehensive income were ¥1,001,351 million ($8,940,634 thousand) and ¥72,649 million ($648,652 thousand), respectively. The share of comprehensive income consisted of ¥71,494 million ($638,339 thousand) in profit for the year and ¥1,155 million ($10,313 thousand) in other comprehensive income. The aggregate carrying amount of investments in joint ventures accounted for under the equity method in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Companies’ share of comprehensive income were ¥754,601 million ($6,737,509 thousand) and ¥53,269 million ($475,615 thousand), respectively. The share of comprehensive income consisted of ¥43,231 million ($385,991 thousand) in profit for the year and ¥10,038 million ($89,624 thousand) in other comprehensive income. The share of losses of associates and joint ventures accounted for under the equity method for which recognition was discontinued amounted to ¥15,554 million ($138,875 thousand) (a ¥7,184 million ($64,143 thousand) decrease for the current year). This unrecognised share of losses mainly consisted of remeasurement losses on cash flow hedges executed by joint ventures. Certain associates and joint ventures procure funds through project financing, and impose restrictions on the use of cash deposits. For the year ended March 31, 2016 The aggregate carrying amount of investments in associates accounted for under the equity method in the Consolidated Chap.4 Corporate Information Statement of Financial Position and the Companies’ share of comprehensive income (loss) were ¥931,216 million and ¥(1,395) million, respectively. The share of comprehensive income (loss) consisted of ¥14,080 million in profit for the year and ¥(15,475) million in other comprehensive income (loss). By operating segment, the Energy & Metals segment recognised impairment losses of ¥35,869 million from investments in certain copper mining projects in Chile and ¥20,153 million from investments in iron ore mining projects in Australia due to the anticipated decrease in the estimated future cash flows following the decline in commodity prices, etc. The impairment losses were calculated using the recoverable amounts measured at value in use based on discounted future cash flows, and the total amount of the recoverable amounts was ¥136,814 million. The discount rate used in the value in use calculations ranged from 6.6% to 9.2% and reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the assets. Discounted future cash flows used in the value in use calculations were calculated by referring to prices such as long-term prices, published by external organisations such as brokers. These impairment losses were included in “Share of profits of associates and joint ventures” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The aggregate carrying amount of investments in joint ventures accounted for under the equity method in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Companies’ share of comprehensive income were ¥720,134 million and ¥6,099 million, respectively. The share of comprehensive income consisted of ¥17,744 million in profit for the year and ¥(11,645) million in other comprehensive income (loss). The share of losses of associates and joint ventures accounted for under the equity method for which recognition was discontinued amounted to ¥22,738 million (a ¥8,470 million decrease for the current year). This unrecognised share of losses mainly consisted of remeasurement losses on cash flow hedges executed by joint ventures. Certain associates and joint ventures procure funds through project financing, and impose restrictions on the use of cash deposits. 46 Integrated Report 2017 141 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 14. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (1) Policy for managing capital The fundamental policy of the Companies is to maintain an optimal mix of funding in line with the requirements of the asset portfolio. Funding sources include indirect financial procurement firstly from banks and other financial institutions, as well as direct procurement through the issuance of bonds, commercial paper and other means. The Companies utilise such management indicators as net D/E ratio (Note 1) and risk assets (Note 2) and strengthen the financial base to establish a strong earnings structure and a solid financial footing that can withstand changes in the business environment while attaining sustainable growth. Note 1 Net D/E ratio = Net interest bearing debt / Total equity. Net interest bearing debt is calculated by subtracting cash and cash equivalents, and time deposits from the total bonds and borrowings (current and non-current). Note 2 The Company defines risk assets as the exposure of its portfolio to the maximum possible loss that could be incurred on a consolidated basis, measured using the Value at Risk method. The Company conducts computer simulations on all group assets including the assets of the consolidated subsidiaries that take into account the risk attributes of each type of exposure such as country risk, industry risk, credit rating of the customers, and scheduled due dates of receivables. At the group level, the target net D/E ratio had been set at approximately 1.3 times by the end of the year ending March 31, 2019 under the three-year mid-term management plan, “Global Challenge 2018”, which commenced April 2016. However, in the “Revised GC2018” released on May 9, 2017, the target net D/E ratio was revised to approximately 1.0 times by the end of the year ending March 31, 2019, based on the basic policy of further reinforcing the Group's financial foundation and evolving its business strategy. Management regularly monitors the net D/E ratio as a target management indicator. The Companies are not subject to any significant capital restrictions (with the exception of general restrictions pursuant to laws such as the Companies Act of Japan). (2) Policy for managing risks The Companies conduct business activities in various countries including Japan and are, thus, subject to the effects of interest rate risks, exchange rate risks, credit risks, commodity price risks, liquidity risks and stock price fluctuation risks described below. The Companies evaluate these risks through monitoring on a regular basis and manage these risks under an identical risk management policy, regardless of the application of hedge accounting, in order to hedge all or part of these risks. In principle, the hedged items and the hedging instruments are based on the same underlying and have an economic relationship. Additionally, the hedge ratio is on a one-to-one basis so that the risk exposure of the hedged items is effectively reduced. (i) Management of interest rate risks Since the Companies have raised certain funds at floating interest rates, they are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest expense in the event of a hike in market interest rates. The majority of liabilities at floating rates correspond to notes, trade accounts and loans receivable, which are positively affected by changes in interest rates. Interest insensitive assets such as certain fixed assets and investment securities will also possibly produce an increase in dividends and other income because of a rise in market interest rates. The Companies cannot completely avoid interest rate risks, however, risk exposure is limited by the portfolio of assets and liabilities held. In addition, among the liabilities used to fund interest insensitive assets, such as certain fixed assets and investment securities, that portion with floating rates is categorised as “unhedged” based on the Group’s asset-liability management. Monitoring market movements in interest rates, the Group utilises interest rate swaps and takes other measures to mitigate the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 47 142 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Interest rate sensitivity The following table illustrates the impact of a 1% rise in interest rates on profit before tax of the Companies at March 31, 2017 and 2016 assuming that all other variables are held constant. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Effect on profit before tax ¥(13,596) ¥(18,117) $(121,393) (ii) Management of foreign currency risks The Companies conduct transactions in a variety of currencies and are, thus, subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuation risks associated with business activities conducted in foreign currencies and with net investments in foreign operations. In order to hedge the risks associated with business activities, i.e., the risk of changes in cash flows of foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, firm commitments and forecast transactions, and the risk of changes in fair value of foreign currency denominated receivables, payables and firm commitments; as well as the exchange rate fluctuation risk of net investments in foreign operations, the Companies utilise forward-exchange contracts, foreign currency denominated bonds and borrowings, currency swaps and other means to mitigate these risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign exchange sensitivity The following table illustrates the impact of an appreciation of the Japanese yen by ¥1 against the US$ and AU$ on Chap.4 Corporate Information profit before tax and equity of the Companies, assuming that all other variables are held constant at March 31, 2017 and 2016. A depreciation of the Japanese yen by ¥1 against the US$ and AU$, assuming that all other variables are held constant, would result in the opposite impact on profit before tax and equity of the Companies of the amounts shown in the following table. Currencies other than the US$ and AU$, there are no foreign currencies that pose a significant exchange rate fluctuation risk. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 <U.S. dollars> Effect on profit before tax ¥279 ¥292 $2,491 Effect on foreign currency translation adjustments (before tax) (5,951) (6,538) (53,134) <Australian dollars> Effect on profit before tax 38 33 339 Effect on foreign currency translation adjustments (before tax) (1,807) (385) (16,134) (iii) Management of credit risks The Companies carry out general trading business, which comprise export, import, domestic and offshore trading in a wide variety of fields including industrial, agricultural and consumer products, and which also involves all levels of activities from planning, investment, and research and development through production, distribution and marketing. In addition, the Companies operate in substantially all geographic areas of the world, and their customers are diversified. Accordingly, the management of the Companies believes there is no significant concentration of credit risk among its customers or in its investments. The Companies require collateral to the extent considered necessary. The carrying amount of the financial assets of the Companies after impairment represent the maximum exposure to credit risk that does not take into account collateral and other credit enhancements. 48 Integrated Report 2017 143 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (iv) Management of commodity price risks The Companies are subject to the effects of fluctuation risk of oil and gas, coal, aluminum, copper, and agricultural product prices. The Companies match buy and sell orders and use commodity derivatives including commodity futures, commodity forward contracts, commodity swaps and commodity options to mitigate the fluctuation risks of commodity prices. Additionally, certain commodity derivatives are entered into for trading purposes within pre-determined limits and loss limits. Commodity price sensitivity The fluctuation risk of commodity prices on inventories, and purchase and sales contracts at the end of year is substantially diminished through commodity derivatives and other means. Additionally, the impact of changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives for trading purposes is not significant. (v) Management of liquidity risk The Companies are subject to the effects of liquidity risk including the dramatic decline in liquidity of held assets due to financial market turmoil. The Companies maintain a sufficient level of liquidity, mainly in the form of cash and deposits, in addition to cash flows from operating activities and the establishment of commitment lines with financial institutions. The following table illustrates the results of a liquidity analysis conducted on the derivatives of the Companies at March 31, 2017 and 2016. Derivatives that are settled net with other contracts are represented as gross amounts. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Not later than More than Not later than More than Not later than More than one year one year one year one year one year one year Revenue Interest rate ¥6,290 ¥24,426 ¥6,684 ¥31,931 $56,161 $218,089 Foreign currency 10,758 1,830 22,760 1,733 96,054 16,339 Commodity 66,908 15,758 96,972 4,503 597,393 140,696 Other – – – – – – Expense Interest rate (15) (825) (150) (2,488) (134) (7,366) Foreign currency (25,275) (1,097) (10,519) (2,067) (225,670) (9,795) Commodity (57,747) (4,006) (74,206) (2,735) (515,598) (35,768) Other – 0 – (100) – 0 For the liquidity analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities, see (3) Fair value of financial instruments. (vi) Management of stock price fluctuation risk The Companies hold equity instruments (stocks) mainly for the purpose of strengthening relationships with business partners and are, thus, subject to the effects of stock price fluctuations. The Companies regularly review their holding of stocks, and by disposing of stocks that are no longer considered worthwhile holding, mitigate the risk of fluctuations in stock prices. Sensitivity to stock price fluctuations In terms of equity instruments (stocks) in active markets, if quoted prices drop 5% across the board at the year end, the negative impact (before tax) on “Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income” of the Companies for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 would be ¥(9,261) million ($(82,688) thousand) and ¥(8,811) million, respectively; while the impact on profit or loss would be minimal. 49 144 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (3) Fair value of financial instruments (i) Fair value measurement methods The estimated fair value of the financial instruments of the Companies has been determined using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies. The following methodologies and assumptions are used by the Companies in estimating the fair value disclosures of financial instruments: Cash and cash equivalents, and time deposits: Cash and cash equivalents, and time deposits are measured at amortised cost, and their carrying amount in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position approximate fair value due to the relative shortterm maturities. Investment securities and other investments: The fair value of investment securities in active markets is measured on the basis of quoted prices at the year end. The fair value of equity financial assets in markets that are not active and debt instrument financial assets classified as Financial assets measured at FVTPL is measured on the basis of discounted future cash flows, third-party valuations and other valuation methods. The fair value of debt instrument financial assets measured at amortised cost is estimated using discounted future cash flows based on the market interest rates at the year end applicable to debt instrument financial assets with identical remaining Chap.4 Corporate Information periods and similar credit ratings. Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable, and notes and trade accounts payable: The fair value of notes, trade accounts and loans receivable, and notes and trade accounts payable is estimated using discounted future cash flows based mainly on the interest rates at the year end applicable to notes, trade accounts and loans receivable, and notes and trade accounts payable with identical remaining periods and similar credit ratings. Bonds and borrowings: The fair value of bonds and borrowings is estimated using discounted future cash flows based on the interest rates at the year end applicable to similar loan agreements with identical remaining periods. Other financial assets and liabilities: Other financial assets and other financial liabilities include derivative assets and derivative liabilities as well as non-derivative assets and non-derivative liabilities. The carrying amounts of derivative assets and derivative liabilities reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position represent fair value. Non-derivative assets mainly consist of other receivables from customers, and have been measured at amortised cost, with the exception of Financial assets measured at FVTPL. Non-derivative liabilities mainly consist of other payables to customers and payables relating to consideration for notes, trade accounts and loans receivable that have been transferred without satisfying the criteria for derecognition of financial assets, and have been measured at amortised cost. The carrying amounts of non-derivative assets and non-derivative liabilities measured at amortised cost reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position approximate fair value. Interest rate swap agreements: The fair value of interest rate swap agreements is estimated using discounted future cash flows based on the swap rates at the year end applicable to similar interest rate swap agreements with identical remaining periods. Forward exchange contracts: The fair value forward exchange contracts is estimated based on quoted prices at the year end. Commodity futures and forward contracts: The fair value of commodity futures and forward contracts is estimated based on quoted prices at the year end. 50 Integrated Report 2017 145 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (ii) Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable The carrying amounts of notes, trade accounts and loans receivable at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Notes receivable ¥74,228 ¥90,959 $662,750 Trade accounts receivable 1,215,018 1,237,893 10,848,375 Loans receivable 144,874 150,047 1,293,518 Allowance for doubtful accounts (35,767) (39,882) (319,348) Total ¥1,398,353 ¥1,439,017 $12,485,295 Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable subsequently measured at FVTPL have been classified as such based on the Company’s business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset, while all other notes, trade accounts and loans receivable are substantially measured at amortised cost. Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable measured at FVTPL were ¥43,482 million ($388,232 thousand) and ¥50,208 million at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The fair value of notes, trade accounts and loans receivable measured at amortised cost was ¥1,355,261 million ($12,100,545 thousand) and ¥1,389,563 million at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable that were transferred without meeting the criteria for derecognition and therefore continued to be recognised by the Company at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥129,871 million ($1,159,563 thousand) and ¥127,466 million, respectively, and have been included in “Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable”. Correspondingly amounts received from such transfers of ¥61,378 million ($548,018 thousand) and ¥73,162 million, respectively, have been included in “Other current financial liabilities”. In terms of these notes, trade accounts, and loans receivable, the Companies have been judged to substantially retain all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred assets, as the Companies assume payment obligations in the event of default by the drawer or the obligor. Of the amounts above, notes, trade accounts and loans receivable for which the transferee has the right to recourse to the transferred assets only were ¥90,757 million ($810,330 thousand) and ¥96,394 million, and the carrying amount of the related liabilities were ¥22,285 million ($198,973 thousand) and ¥42,101 million at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. These carrying amounts approximate their respective fair values. Additionally, certain notes, trade accounts and loans receivable transferred continue to be recognised as assets to the extent of continuing involvement, due to the Companies assuming partial payment obligations in the event of a default by the obligor or due to the Companies having been determined to retain control over the said notes, trade accounts and loans receivable. At March 31, 2017 and 2016, the carrying amounts prior to transfer of the said notes, trade accounts and loans receivable were ¥854 million ($7,625 thousand) and ¥1,450 million, respectively, and the carrying amounts of assets continued to be recognised by the Companies due to continuing involvement and the related liabilities in the same amounts were ¥140 million ($1,250 thousand) and ¥251 million, respectively. Changes in allowance for doubtful accounts for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Balance at beginning of year ¥39,882 ¥31,212 $356,089 Provision for the year 4,191 5,476 37,420 Charge-offs (13,386) (2,491) (119,518) Others 5,080 5,685 45,357 Balance at end of year ¥35,767 ¥39,882 $319,348 51 146 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable for which impairment was recognised at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥34,738 million ($310,161 thousand) and ¥31,268 million, respectively; and their corresponding allowances for doubtful accounts were ¥27,711 million ($247,420 thousand) and ¥24,049 million, respectively. The Companies have determined that the difference between the carrying amounts of the notes, trade accounts and loans receivable and their respective allowances will be recoverable through the collection of collateral and other means. The Companies, as part of their accounts receivable management policy, consider financing receivables 90 days past due as delinquent and strengthen procedures over collection. Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable that were past due but not impaired at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Not later than 90 days ¥42,761 ¥34,859 $381,795 Later than 90 days 20,581 16,219 183,759 Total ¥63,342 ¥51,078 $565,554 (iii) Investment securities and other investments The carrying amounts of investment securities and other investments at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Investment securities Chap.4 Corporate Information Amortised cost ¥10,075 ¥10,075 $89,956 Total ¥10,075 ¥10,075 $89,956 Other investments FVTPL ¥2,832 ¥13,822 $25,286 FVTOCI 328,901 326,526 2,936,616 Amortised cost 2,708 7,715 24,178 Total ¥334,441 ¥348,063 $2,986,080 Debt in the form of other investments subsequently measured at FVTPL have been classified as such based on the Company’s business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. At March 31, 2017 and 2016, other investments measured at FVTPL mainly consisted of investments in funds. Investment securities and other investments measured at amortised cost mainly consisted of government and corporate bonds, and their amortised cost approximated their fair values at March 31, 2017 and 2016. Equity instruments measured at fair value within other investments held by the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries, included investments made mainly for the purpose of maintaining and strengthening relationships with business partners which have been classified as subsequently measured at FVTOCI. Said financial assets as FVTOCI mainly consisted of common stock and details of their fair values at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 With quoted prices in active markets \185,210 ¥176,216 $1,653,661 Without quoted prices in active markets 143,691 150,310 1,282,955 Total ¥328,901 ¥326,526 $2,936,616 52 Integrated Report 2017 147 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Major issuers of other investments measured at FVTOCI with quoted prices in active markets at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Stocks March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 YAMAZAKI BAKING CO., LTD. ¥18,700 ¥19,361 $166,964 Anhui Guozhen Environment Protection Technology Joint Stock Co., Limited. 15,427 18,923 137,741 NISSHIN SEIFUN GROUP INC. 10,439 11,243 93,205 INPEX CORPORATION 10,167 7,928 90,777 AEON CO., LTD. 9,061 9,062 80,902 Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. 8,735 5,961 77,991 Okamoto Industries, Inc. 8,588 6,850 76,679 ISUZU MOTORS LIMITED 6,439 5,081 57,491 SAPPORO HOLDINGS LIMITED 4,964 4,618 44,321 Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. 4,281 3,464 38,223 Other investments measured at FVTOCI that do not have quoted prices in active markets comprised investments in resources, materials, machinery and lifestyle related businesses. At March 31, 2017 and 2016, investments in resources related businesses were ¥77,413 million ($691,187 thousand) and ¥88,919 million, respectively, while investments in other areas were ¥66,278 million ($591,768 thousand) and ¥61,391 million, respectively. Dividend income recognised on other investments measured at FVTOCI for the year ended March 31, 2017 was ¥17,301 million ($154,473 thousand), of which dividend income on investments held at March 31, 2017 was ¥16,563 million ($147,884 thousand). Dividend income recognised on other investments measured at FVTOCI for the year ended March 31, 2016 was ¥18,018 million, of which dividend income on investments held at March 31, 2016 was ¥17,164 million. Gains and losses on Financial assets measured at FVTOCI relating to other investments measured at FVTOCI recognised within Equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position that relate to the portion of investments that were derecognised or of which the decline in fair value compared with its acquisition cost is significant and other than temporary for the year have been reclassified to retained earnings. Amounts of reclassified items (after tax) for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥328 million ($2,929 thousand) (losses) and ¥4,060 million (gains), respectively. Other investments measured at FVTOCI that were disposed of due to revisions of business strategies and other reasons for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Fair value at derecognition ¥25,768 ¥44,491 $230,071 Cumulative gains (losses) at derecognition (2,094) 15,692 (18,696) Dividend income on the derecognised investments 738 854 6,589 53 148 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (iv) Notes and trade accounts payable The carrying amounts of notes and trade accounts payable at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Notes payable ¥258,254 ¥241,624 $2,305,839 Trade accounts payable 1,003,182 997,184 8,956,982 Total ¥1,261,436 ¥1,238,808 $11,262,821 Notes and trade accounts payable are measured at amortised cost. The carrying amounts of notes and trade accounts payable approximated their fair value at March 31, 2017 and 2016. The future contract due dates of notes and trade accounts payable at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Not later than one year ¥1,243,087 ¥1,221,150 $11,098,991 Later than one year 18,349 17,658 163,830 (v) Bonds and borrowings The carrying amounts of bonds and borrowings at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Chap.4 Corporate Information Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Bonds ¥376,404 ¥428,930 $3,360,750 Borrowings 2,429,734 2,939,395 21,694,054 Total ¥2,806,138 ¥3,368,325 $25,054,804 Bonds and borrowings are measured at amortised cost. The fair values of bonds and borrowings at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥2,806,133 million ($25,054,759 thousand) and ¥3,368,796 million, respectively, and were categorised as Level 3. The future contract due dates of bonds and borrowings at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Not later than one year ¥680,008 ¥665,969 $6,071,500 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,258,369 1,717,620 11,235,438 Later than five years 1,017,340 1,073,196 9,083,393 54 Integrated Report 2017 149 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Details of bonds and borrowings at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 0.23% 2.55% unsecured bonds payable in Japanese yen with final maturity in 2029 ¥358,000 ¥408,000 $3,196,429 3.97% bonds payable in Australian dollars due 2017 9,442 9,488 84,304 Short-term borrowings principally at rates from 0.30% to 4.31% 222,733 323,187 1,988,687 Long-term borrowings due serially through 2031 principally at rates from 0.01% to 8.75% 2,207,001 2,616,208 19,705,366 (Current portion of long-term borrowings) (340,835) (273,302) (3,043,170) Other 8,962 11,442 80,018 Total ¥2,806,138 ¥3,368,325 $25,054,804 55 150 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (vi) Finance income (expenses) Each component of finance income (expenses) for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Interest income: Financial assets measured at amortised cost ¥16,213 ¥14,602 $144,759 Total ¥16,213 ¥14,602 $144,759 Interest expenses: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost ¥(36,887) ¥(36,693) $(329,348) Other 3,569 3,065 31,866 Total ¥(33,318) ¥(33,628) $(297,482) Dividend income: Financial assets measured at FVTPL ¥211 ¥537 $1,884 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI 17,301 18,018 154,473 Total ¥17,512 ¥18,555 $156,357 Gains (losses) on investment securities: Chap.4 Corporate Information Financial assets measured at FVTPL ¥(255) ¥(2,873) $(2,277) Other 11,257 77,179 100,509 Total ¥11,002 ¥74,306 $98,232 “Other” within “Interest expenses” mainly included gains and losses from derivative transactions. “Other” within “Gains (losses) on investment securities” mainly included gains (losses) accompanying the loss of control of subsidiaries, gains (losses) accompanying the loss of significant influence, gains (losses) on disposal of investments and impairment losses (refer to Note 13. Associates and Joint Ventures) with respect to associates and joint ventures. For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, gains (losses) on disposal of subsidiaries and other were ¥9,165 million ($81,830 thousand) (gains) and ¥32,624 million (gains), respectively. Included in the amounts, gains (losses) on the remeasurement to fair value of residual interests in the former subsidiaries at the date of loss of control for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥3,814 million ($34,054 thousand) (losses) and ¥30,817 million (gains), respectively. In respect of gains (losses) accompanying the loss of control of subsidiaries in the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company concluded a share transfer agreement with regard to the shares of Marubeni Rail Transport Inc. (“MRTI”), a holding company of Midwest Railcar Corporation, which is engaged in the leasing of railroad freight cars in North America. As a result of this agreement, the Company was required to obtain the consent of the transferee for major business decisions. Accordingly, the Company recognised a gain on remeasurement to fair value of ¥30,097 million. In respect of gains (losses) accompanying the loss of significant influence over associates in the year ended March 31, 2016, the approval of the partial disposal of its shares in Anhui Guozhen Environment Protection Science and Technology Joint Stock Co., Ltd. (“Anhui Guozhen”), the Company’s affiliate engaged in the sewage treatment business in China, from Anhui Guozhen, the Company relinquished its voting rights corresponding to the number of shares to be sold prior to the disposal of the shares. Accordingly, the Company recognised a gain on remeasurement to fair value of ¥39,800 million. 56 Integrated Report 2017 151 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (vii) Fair value measurements The Companies measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The inputs used in the fair value measurement are categorised into three levels based upon the observability of the inputs in markets. Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Companies can access at the measurement date Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value by the Companies on a recurring basis at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets: Non-derivative Financial assets measured at FVTPL: Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable ¥– ¥31,939 ¥11,543 ¥43,482 ¥– ¥38,581 ¥11,627 ¥50,208 $– $285,170 $103,062 $388,232 Other Investments (equity) – – 106 106 1,782 6,390 122 8,294 – – 947 947 Other Investments (debt) – – 2,726 2,726 – – 5,528 5,528 – – 24,339 24,339 Other financial assets – – 12,882 12,882 – – 12,526 12,526 – – 115,018 115,018 Non-derivative Financial assets measured at FVTOCI: Other Investments 185,210 – 143,691 328,901 176,216 1,281 149,029 326,526 1,653,661 – 1,282,955 2,936,616 Derivative instruments: Interest rate contracts – 28,823 – 28,823 – 36,947 – 36,947 – 257,348 – 257,348 Forward exchange contracts – 12,563 – 12,563 – 24,493 – 24,493 – 112,170 – 112,170 Commodity contracts 9,795 52,194 1,006 62,995 9,223 56,579 2,018 67,820 87,455 466,018 8,982 562,455 Other – – – – – – – – – – – – Liabilities: Derivative instruments: Interest rate contracts – (497) – (497) – (2,138) – (2,138) – (4,438) – (4,438) Forward exchange contracts – (26,347) – (26,347) – (12,586) – (12,586) – (235,241) – (235,241) Commodity contracts (6,611) (35,123) (348) (42,082) (3,110) (41,259) (663) (45,032) (59,027) (313,598) (3,107) (375,732) Other – – 0 0 – – (100) (100) – – 0 0 57 152 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Other investments categorised as Level 1 mainly consist of marketable equity securities in active markets. Derivative instruments categorised as Level 1 consist of derivatives related to commodity contracts. These assets are measured at quoted prices in active markets without adjustment. Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable categorised as Level 2 consist of notes and trade accounts receivable that are settled at future market prices; and other investments categorised as Level 2 consist of equity securities traded on markets that are not active. Derivative instruments categorised as Level 2 consist of interest rate swaps, forward exchange contracts and derivatives related to commodity contracts. These assets and liabilities are mainly measured based on quoted prices of identical assets not categorised as Level 1 in markets that are not active or similar assets or liabilities in active markets, and measurement is based mainly on a market approach using observable inputs, such as prices in commodity markets, foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Other investments categorised as Level 3 mainly consist of equity securities in inactive markets; and derivative instruments categorised as Level 3 mainly consist of derivatives related to commodity contracts. These assets and liabilities are measured mainly based on an income approach using inputs that are reasonably available or inputs many market participants use with reasonable confidence because observable inputs are not available due to a lack of similar assets or liabilities in active markets or distortive market prices resulting from dramatic liquidity decreases and such like. Significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of investments whose fair values are measured on a recurring basis categorised as Level 3 are discount rates. Fair value decreases (increases) as the discount rate rises (declines). Chap.4 Corporate Information At March 31, 2017 and 2016, discount rates used in fair value measurement by the Companies range from 6.5% to 11.7% and 5.8% to 13.3%, respectively. The Companies recognise transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of each quarterly period. During the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2. Changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis by the Companies for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Non-derivative Financial assets Non-derivative Financial assets measured at measured at FVTPL FVTOCI Derivative instruments Notes, trade accounts and loans Other Other financial Other Commodity Other March 31, 2017 receivable investments assets investments contracts contracts Balance at beginning of year ¥11,627 ¥5,650 ¥12,526 ¥149,029 ¥1,355 ¥(100) Gains (losses) in profit or loss (33) (236) 4,913 – 2,291 69 Gains (losses) in other comprehensive income – – – (6,095) – – Purchases – 229 – 339 – 27 Sales/Redemptions – (1,273) (4,538) (7,727) – – Settlements – – – – (2,955) – Transfers – (1,500) – 3,482 (2) – Effects of acquisition and divestitures – – – (26) – – Net transfers in and/or (out) of Level 3 – – – – – – Other (51) (38) (19) 4,689 (31) 4 Balance at end of year ¥11,543 ¥2,832 ¥12,882 ¥143,691 ¥658 ¥0 Gains (losses) in assets and liabilities held at end of year ¥(33) ¥(236) ¥4,913 ¥– ¥637 ¥96 58 Integrated Report 2017 153 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars Non-derivative Financial assets Non-derivative Financial assets measured at measured at FVTPL FVTOCI Derivative instruments Notes, trade accounts and loans Other Other financial Other Commodity Other March 31, 2017 receivable investments assets investments contracts contracts Balance at beginning of year $103,813 $50,446 $111,839 $1,330,616 $12,098 $(893) Gains (losses) in profit or loss (295) (2,107) 43,866 – 20,455 616 Gains (losses) in other comprehensive income – – – (54,420) – – Purchases – 2,045 – 3,027 – 241 Sales/Redemptions – (11,366) (40,518) (68,991) – – Settlements – – – – (26,384) – Transfers – (13,393) – 31,089 (18) – Effects of acquisition and divestitures – – – (232) – – Net transfers in and/or (out) of Level 3 – – – – – – Other (456) (339) (169) 41,866 (276) 36 Balance at end of year $103,062 $25,286 $115,018 $1,282,955 $5,875 $0 Gains (losses) in assets and liabilities held at end of year $(295) $(2,107) $43,866 $– $5,688 $857 Millions of yen Non-derivative Financial assets Non-derivative Financial assets measured at measured at FVTPL FVTOCI Derivative instruments Notes, trade accounts and loans Other Other financial Other Commodity Other March 31, 2016 receivable investments assets investments contracts contracts Balance at beginning of year ¥12,228 ¥15,917 ¥15,079 ¥213,047 ¥1,064 ¥– Gains (losses) in profit or loss 172 203 2,845 – 2,000 (35) Gains (losses) in other comprehensive income – – – (39,280) – – Purchases – 264 – 10 – 14 Sales/Redemptions – (2,270) (4,602) (16,637) – – Settlements – – – – (1,622) (86) Transfers – – – (767) 1 – Effects of acquisition and divestitures – – – – – – Net transfers in and/or (out) of Level 3 – (8,370) – (1,455) – – Other (773) (94) (796) (5,889) (88) 7 Balance at end of year ¥11,627 ¥5,650 ¥12,526 ¥149,029 ¥1,355 ¥(100) Gains (losses) in assets and liabilities held at end of year ¥172 ¥250 ¥2,845 ¥– ¥1,444 ¥(107) Gains and losses on the above assets and liabilities, gains and losses on other investments are included in “Gains (losses) on investment securities”, gains and losses on other financial assets are included in “Sales of goods” or “Cost of goods sold”, and gains and losses on derivatives are included in “Cost of goods sold” or “Other-net” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 59 154 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Additionally, “Other” above mainly consists of “Foreign currency translation adjustments” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The relevant division of the Company, upon determining the valuation method of the applicable assets and liabilities, measures the fair value of assets and liabilities categorised as Level 3, according to valuation policies and procedures stipulated by the Company. Additionally, appropriate third-party valuations are obtained, as necessary. The results of fair value measurements are then reviewed by the Corporate Staff Group, which is independent from the division responsible for the fair value measurement. If the inputs used to measure “Other investments measured at FVTOCI” among the assets categorised as Level 3 were to be changed, there were no significant changes of the fair value at March 31, 2017 and 2016. (4) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities At March 31, 2017 and 2016, among the financial assets and financial liabilities recognised with the same counterparty, the financial instruments offset in accordance with the criteria for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities and the financial instruments not offset as a result of not meeting some or all of the offsetting criteria despite being subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement, were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Chap.4 Corporate Information March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Gross amounts of recognised financial assets ¥140,048 ¥113,933 $1,250,429 Amounts offset in accordance with the criteria for offsetting of financial assets and liabilities (50,104) (42,521) (447,357) Net amount presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 89,944 71,412 803,072 Amounts not offset due to not meeting some or all of the offsetting criteria for offsetting financial assets and liabilities despite being subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement (54,998) (58,278) (491,054) Net amount ¥34,946 ¥13,134 $312,018 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Gross amounts of recognised financial liabilities ¥136,422 ¥125,609 $1,218,054 Amounts offset in accordance with the criteria for offsetting of financial assets and liabilities (50,104) (42,521) (447,357) Net amount presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 86,318 83,088 770,697 Amounts not offset due to not meeting some or all of the offsetting criteria for offsetting financial assets and liabilities despite being subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement (54,998) (58,278) (491,054) Net amount ¥31,320 ¥24,810 $279,643 Generally, the set-off rights on financial instruments that do not meet some or all of the offsetting criteria for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities become enforceable only under special circumstances, such as when the counterparty can no longer fulfill its obligations due to bankruptcy and other reasons. 60 Integrated Report 2017 155 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (5) Derivative instruments and hedging activities Fair value hedges The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries mainly designate, as fair value hedges, currency swap agreements, which hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, and foreign currency denominated firm commitments; commodity futures and forward contracts, which hedge volatility risk of the fair value of inventories and firm commitments on commodity transactions; and interest rate swaps, which convert fixed interest rates on assets and liabilities to floating interest rates. For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no significant amounts recognised in profit or loss relating to the ineffective portion of hedges or portions excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. Additionally, the effects of discontinuing hedge accounting and the amounts recognised in profit or loss due to firm commitments becoming ineligible as hedged items were immaterial. Cash flow hedges The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries mainly designate, as cash flow hedges, forward exchange contracts, which hedge the cash flows of foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, foreign currency denominated firm commitments and foreign currency denominated forecast transactions; interest rate swaps, which convert floating interest rates on assets and liabilities to fixed interest rates; and commodity futures and forward contracts, which hedge the cash flows of forecasted transactions on commodity transactions. For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no significant amounts recognised in profit or loss relating to the ineffective portion of hedges or portions excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. Additionally, the effects of discontinuing hedge accounting and the amounts of gains (losses) on cash flow hedges reclassified to profit or loss because the forecast transactions no longer were expected to occur were immaterial. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries use foreign currency denominated bonds and borrowings, and forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign exchange fluctuation risks of net investments in foreign operations. For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no significant amounts recognised in profit or loss relating to the ineffective portion of hedges. 61 156 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) At March 31, 2017 and 2016, the carrying amounts of hedging instruments to which the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries applied hedge accounting by risk category for each type of hedge were as follows: Line item in Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars the March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Consolidated Statement of Financial Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Position Fair value hedges: Interest rate risk ¥28,807 ¥(371) ¥36,937 ¥(430) $257,205 $(3,313) Foreign exchange risk – – – (70) – – (Note 1) Commodity price risk 1,777 (1,147) 1,949 (1,610) 15,866 (10,241) Total ¥30,584 ¥(1,518) ¥38,886 ¥(2,110) $273,071 $(13,554) Cash flow hedges: Interest rate risk ¥16 ¥(92) ¥10 ¥(1,702) $143 $(821) Foreign exchange risk 3,551 (10,513) 2,357 (19,801) 31,705 (93,866) (Note 2) Commodity price risk 13,554 (3,723) 1,654 (186) 121,018 (33,241) Total ¥17,121 ¥(14,328) ¥4,021 ¥(21,689) $152,866 $(127,928) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Chap.4 Corporate Information ¥1,127 ¥(320,726) ¥2,554 ¥(565,650) $10,063 $(2,863,625) (Note 3) Total financial instruments to which hedge accounting was applied ¥48,832 ¥(336,572) ¥45,461 ¥(589,449) $436,000 $(3,005,107) Notes: (1) “Other current financial assets”, “Other non-current financial assets”, “Other current financial liabilities” and “Other noncurrent financial liabilities” (2) “Other current financial assets”, “Other non-current financial assets”, “Notes and trade accounts payable”, “Other current financial liabilities” and “Other non-current financial liabilities” (3) “Other current financial assets”, “Bonds and borrowings” and “Other current financial liabilities” In addition to the above, the fair values of derivative assets and liabilities to which hedge accounting was not applied at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥55,647 million ($496,848 thousand) and ¥39,817 million ($355,509 thousand) and ¥83,885 million and ¥48,151 million, respectively. 62 Integrated Report 2017 157 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) At March 31, 2017 and 2016, the profile of the timing of the nominal amount and the average price or rate of the main hedging instruments were as follows: March 31, 2017 Later than one year Not later and not than one later than Later than year five years five years Total Nominal amount (MT) 8,021,144 – – 8,021,144 Buy Average price 374.35 – – 374.35 Soy bean futures and (U.S. dollars/MT) forward contracts Nominal amount (MT) – – 7,022,224 7,022,224 Fair value Sell Average price hedges 378.23 – – 378.23 (U.S. dollars/MT) Interest rate swaps, Nominal amount – 83,642 421,600 260,010 765,252 fixed to floating (Millions of yen) Nominal amount Buy 157 0 – 157 (Millions of U.S. dollars) yen/Sell U.S. dollars Average rate Forward exchange 111.88 113.96 – 111.89 Cash flow (Yen/U.S. dollars) contracts hedges Nominal amount （U.S. dollars） Buy U.S. 1,048 189 40 1,277 (Millions of U.S. dollars) dollars/Sell yen Average rate 110.74 106.66 97.98 109.65 (Yen/U.S. dollars) Forward exchange Buy Nominal amount 161 1,665 749 2,575 contracts and yen/Sell (Millions of U.S. dollars) Hedges of borrowings U.S. Average rate net （U.S. dollars） dollars 99.59 99.69 109.46 102.53 (Yen/U.S. dollars) investments in foreign Nominal amount Range forward 5,000 – – 5,000 operations (Millions of U.S. dollars) contracts – （U.S. dollars） Average rate 101.97 – – 101.97 (Yen/U.S. dollars) The terms under the interest rate swaps of fair value hedges converting fixed interest rates to floating interest rates were principally receiving fixed interest rates from 0.1% to 2.0% and paying variable interest rates equivalent to the Japanese Bankers Association’s 3-month or 6-month Japanese yen TIBOR. 63 158 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) March 31, 2016 Later than one year Not later and not than one later than Later than year five years five years Total Nominal amount (MT) 6,670,256 – – 6,670,256 Buy Average price 325.98 – – 325.98 Soy bean futures and (U.S. dollars/MT) forward contracts Nominal amount (MT) 7,874,400 – – 7,874,400 Fair value Sell Average price hedges 331.83 – – 331.83 (U.S. dollars/MT) Interest rate swaps, Nominal amount – 73,100 370,288 395,034 838,422 fixed to floating (Millions of yen) Nominal amount Buy 321 9 – 330 (Millions of U.S. dollars) yen/Sell U.S. dollars Average rate Forward exchange 116.53 120.35 – 116.64 Cash flow (Yen/U.S. dollars) contracts hedges Nominal amount （U.S. dollars） 1,126 194 48 1,368 Chap.4 Corporate Information Buy U.S. (Millions of U.S. dollars) dollars/Sell yen Average rate 115.50 111.36 99.25 114.34 (Yen/U.S. dollars) Forward exchange Buy Nominal amount 2,794 2,411 774 5,979 contracts and yen/Sell (Millions of U.S. dollars) Hedges of borrowings U.S. Average rate net （U.S. dollars） dollars 103.57 90.35 108.98 98.94 (Yen/U.S. dollars) investments in foreign Nominal amount Range forward 1,500 – – 1,500 operations (Millions of U.S. dollars) contracts – （U.S. dollars） Average rate 119.31 – – 119.31 (Yen/U.S. dollars) The terms under the interest rate swaps of fair value hedges converting fixed interest rates to floating interest rates were principally receiving fixed interest rates from 0.1% to 2.0% and paying variable interest rates equivalent to the Japanese Bankers Association’s 3-month or 6-month Japanese yen TIBOR. 64 Integrated Report 2017 159 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) At March 31, 2017 and 2016, the carrying amounts of hedged items which the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries categorised as fair value hedges and the accumulated amounts of fair value hedge adjustments on the hedged items included in the carrying amounts of hedged items recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were as follows: March 31, 2017 Line item in the Consolidated Millions of yen Statement of Financial Position Accumulated amounts of fair Carrying amounts value hedge adjustments Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate risk ¥– ¥(909,830) ¥– ¥(28,578) (Note 1) Foreign exchange risk 3 – 3 – (Note 2) Commodity price risk 45,896 (48,280) 45,868 (48,277) (Note 3) Line item in the Consolidated Thousands of U.S. dollars Statement of Financial Position Accumulated amounts of fair Carrying amounts value hedge adjustments Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate risk $– $(8,123,482) $– $(255,161) (Note 1) Foreign exchange risk 27 – 27 – (Note 2) Commodity price risk 409,786 (431,071) 409,536 (431,045) (Note 3) March 31, 2016 Line item in the Consolidated Millions of yen Statement of Financial Position Accumulated amounts of fair Carrying amounts value hedge adjustments Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate risk ¥17,803 ¥(983,640) ¥149 ¥(37,218) (Note 1) Foreign exchange risk 688 – 73 – (Note 2) Commodity price risk 29,598 (32,561) 28,033 (31,694) (Note 3) Notes: (1) “Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable (Current assets)” and “Bonds and borrowings” (2) “Other current financial assets” and “Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable (Non-current assets)” (3) “Other current financial assets” and “Other current financial liabilities” 65 160 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The amounts which the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries recognise in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations (before tax) for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 Line item in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income corresponding to Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars reclassification adjustment Amounts Amounts reclassified as reclassified as Hedging gains reclassification Hedging gains reclassification or losses adjustment or losses adjustment Cash flow hedges: Interest rate risk ¥298 ¥1,116 $2,661 $9,964 Interest expenses Foreign exchange risk 1,447 (3,669) 12,919 (32,759) Other-net Commodity price risk 9,589 (2,690) 85,616 (24,018) Cost of goods sold Total ¥11,334 ¥(5,243) $101,196 $(46,813) Hedges of net investments in Other-net and gains (losses) on foreign operations: ¥(7,564) ¥(882) $(67,536) $(7,875) investment securities Chap.4 Corporate Information Year ended March 31, 2016 Line item in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income corresponding to Millions of yen reclassification adjustment Amounts reclassified as Hedging gains reclassification or losses adjustment Cash flow hedges: Interest rate risk ¥1,147 ¥667 Interest expenses Foreign exchange risk 1,177 4,235 Other-net Commodity price risk (55) (162) Cost of goods sold Total ¥2,269 ¥4,740 Hedges of net investments in Other-net and gains (losses) on foreign operations: ¥49,274 ¥2,521 investment securities For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, for hedges of net positions, there were no significant hedging gains or losses recognised as an individual account in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 66 Integrated Report 2017 161 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Changes in other components of equity arising from cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Hedges of net investments in Cash flow hedges foreign operations Interest rate Foreign Commodity risk exchange risk price risk Foreign exchange risk Balance at beginning of year ¥(38,984) ¥(17,529) ¥(3,145) ¥(188,482) Changes for the year (3,838) 5,428 7,336 (5,128) Reclassification to profit or loss for the year 9,440 (2,159) (2,153) (990) Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities – 4,982 – – Balance at end of year ¥(33,382) ¥(9,278) ¥2,038 ¥(194,600) Thousands of U.S. dollars Hedges of net investments in Cash flow hedges foreign operations Interest rate Foreign Commodity risk exchange risk price risk Foreign exchange risk Balance at beginning of year $(348,072) $(156,509) $(28,081) $(1,682,875) Changes for the year (34,268) 48,465 65,500 (45,786) Reclassification to profit or loss for the year 84,286 (19,277) (19,223) (8,839) Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities – 44,482 – – Balance at end of year $(298,054) $(82,839) $18,196 $(1,737,500) Year ended March 31, 2016 Millions of yen Hedges of net investments in Cash flow hedges foreign operations Interest rate Foreign Commodity risk exchange risk price risk Foreign exchange risk Balance at beginning of year ¥(45,175) ¥(6,850) ¥(3,164) ¥(241,800) Changes for the year (7,101) (5,398) (3,264) 51,146 Reclassification to profit or loss for the year 13,292 4,056 3,283 2,172 Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities – (9,337) – – Balance at end of year ¥(38,984) ¥(17,529) ¥(3,145) ¥(188,482) “Reclassification to profit or loss for the year” mainly represented the amounts transferred because the hedged items affected profit or loss. There were no significant items excluded from the designation as the hedging instrument, such as the time value of option contracts, forward elements of forward contracts included in hedging instruments and foreign currency basis spreads of financial instruments. 67 162 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Derivative assets included in “Other current financial assets” and “Other non-current financial assets” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥61,210 million ($546,518 thousand) and ¥43,171 million ($385,455 thousand), and ¥87,936 million and ¥41,324 million, respectively. Additionally, at March 31, 2017 and 2016, non-derivative assets in “Other current financial assets” and “Other noncurrent financial assets” included Financial assets measured at FVTPL in the amounts of ¥12,882 million ($115,018 thousand) and ¥12,526 million, respectively. Derivative liabilities included in “Other current financial liabilities” and “Other non-current financial liabilities” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥65,993 million ($589,223 thousand) and ¥2,933 million, ($26,188 thousand) and ¥54,395 million and ¥5,461 million, respectively. Chap.4 Corporate Information 68 Integrated Report 2017 163 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 15. Pledged Assets The assets pledged as collateral for the Companies’ loans and such like at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalents, and time deposits ¥1,043 ¥527 $9,312 Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable 24,069 30,806 214,902 Inventories 14,898 21,035 133,018 Investments in associates and joint ventures 32,756 89,475 292,464 Property, plant and equipment (after deducting accumulated depreciation) 61,856 55,834 552,286 Other 13,807 15,935 123,277 Total ¥148,429 ¥213,612 $1,325,259 The Companies pledge collateral under conventional conditions in standard borrowing arrangements, etc. In addition to the above, import bills included in notes payable at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were secured by trust receipts on inventories. The standard terms provide that the proceeds from the sales of any such collateral be delivered to the respective bank to be applied against outstanding acceptances. However, the Companies have, in general, followed the practice of paying acceptances on their maturity dates. Given the substantial volume of the Companies’ transactions, it would not be practical to determine the total amount of inventories and/or proceeds from the sales of such inventories covered by outstanding trust receipts. As is customary in Japan, security, if requested by a lending bank, must be given and, regardless of the existence of such security, the bank has the right to offset cash deposits against any debt or obligations that become due and, in the case of default or certain other specified events, against all debt payable to the bank. To date, no such request has been made to the Companies and no such rights have been exercised. 69 164 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 16. Earnings per Share Basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Numerator: Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent ¥155,350 ¥62,264 $1,387,054 Adjustment amount used for the calculation of earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent (basic) Amount not attributable to shareholders of the parent 2,499 – 22,313 Profit for the year used for the calculation of earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent (basic) 152,851 62,264 1,364,741 Adjustment amount used for the calculation of earnings per share attributable to Chap.4 Corporate Information shareholders of the parent (diluted) Adjustment concerning stock acquisition rights (0) – (0) Profit for the year used for the calculation of earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent (diluted) ¥152,851 ¥62,264 $1,364,741 Number of shares March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Denominator: Weighted average number of ordinary shares used for the calculation of earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent (basic) 1,735,357,836 1,735,368,048 Effect of dilution Adjustment concerning stock acquisition rights 331,454 – Weighted average number of ordinary shares used for the calculation of earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent (diluted) 1,735,689,289 1,735,368,048 Earnings per share attributable to shareholders of Yen U.S. dollars the parent March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Basic ¥88.08 ¥35.88 $0.79 Diluted ¥88.06 ¥35.88 $0.79 70 Integrated Report 2017 165 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 17. Other Components of Equity and Other Comprehensive Income Changes in other components of equity for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Balance at beginning of year ¥43,066 ¥108,256 $384,517 Change for the year 11,212 (61,130) 100,107 Transfer to retained earnings 328 (4,060) 2,929 Balance at end of year ¥54,606 ¥43,066 $487,553 Foreign currency translation adjustments Balance at beginning of year ¥193,608 ¥327,782 $1,728,643 Change for the year (28,298) (134,174) (252,661) Balance at end of year ¥165,310 ¥193,608 $1,475,982 Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges Balance at beginning of year ¥(59,658) ¥(55,189) $(532,660) Change for the year 14,054 4,868 125,482 Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities 4,982 (9,337) 44,482 Balance at end of year ¥(40,622) ¥(59,658) $(362,696) Remeasurements of defined benefit plan Balance at beginning of year ¥– ¥– $– Change for the year 1,131 (16,421) 10,098 Transfer to retained earnings (1,131) 16,421 (10,098) Balance at end of year ¥– ¥– $– Other components of equity Balance at beginning of year ¥177,016 ¥380,849 $1,580,500 Change for the year (1,901) (206,857) (16,974) Transfer to retained earnings (803) 12,361 (7,169) Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities 4,982 (9,337) 44,482 Balance at end of year ¥179,294 ¥177,016 $1,600,839 71 166 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Each component of other comprehensive income, including non-controlling interests and related tax effects, for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Before tax Tax (expense) Net of tax Before tax Tax (expense) Net of tax amount or benefit amount amount or benefit amount Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income: Gains (losses) arising for the year ¥17,400 ¥(5,953) ¥11,447 ¥(72,534) ¥11,418 ¥(61,116) Change for the year ¥17,400 ¥(5,953) ¥11,447 ¥(72,534) ¥11,418 ¥(61,116) Foreign currency translation adjustments: Gains (losses) arising for the year ¥(27,960) ¥(641) ¥(28,601) ¥(133,224) ¥867 ¥(132,357) Reclassification to profit or loss for the year (1,492) 79 (1,413) (6,577) 169 (6,408) Change for the year ¥(29,452) ¥(562) ¥(30,014) ¥(139,801) ¥1,036 ¥(138,765) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges: Gains (losses) arising for the year ¥11,997 ¥(2,998) ¥8,999 ¥(15,642) ¥(58) ¥(15,700) Reclassification to profit or loss for the year 4,057 1,092 5,149 22,430 (1,807) 20,623 Change for the year ¥16,054 ¥(1,906) ¥14,148 ¥6,788 ¥(1,865) ¥4,923 Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plan: Gains (losses) arising for the year ¥4,333 ¥(3,191) ¥1,142 ¥(21,974) ¥5,362 ¥(16,612) Chap.4 Corporate Information Change for the year ¥4,333 ¥(3,191) ¥1,142 ¥(21,974) ¥5,362 ¥(16,612) Other comprehensive income (loss) ¥8,335 ¥(11,612) ¥(3,277) ¥(227,521) ¥15,951 ¥(211,570) Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 Before tax Tax (expense) Net of tax amount or benefit amount Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income: Gains (losses) arising for the year $155,357 $(53,152) $102,205 Change for the year $155,357 $(53,152) $102,205 Foreign currency translation adjustments: Gains (losses) arising for the year $(249,643) $(5,723) $(255,366) Reclassification to profit or loss for the year (13,321) 705 (12,616) Change for the year $(262,964) $(5,018) $(267,982) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges: Gains (losses) arising for the year $107,117 $(26,768) $80,349 Reclassification to profit or loss for the year 36,223 9,750 45,973 Change for the year $143,340 $(17,018) $126,322 Remeasurements of defined benefit plan: Gains (losses) arising for the year $38,688 $(28,491) $10,197 Change for the year $38,688 $(28,491) $10,197 Other comprehensive income (loss) $74,421 $(103,679) $(29,258) 72 Integrated Report 2017 167 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 18. Cash Flow Information Supplemental cash flow information for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Non-cash investing and financing activities: Exchange of assets: Fair value of assets received ¥7,261 ¥8,900 $64,830 Carrying amounts of assets surrendered 5,459 8,308 48,741 73 168 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 19. Segment Information (1) Operating Segments The Companies’ operating segments by which the management evaluates performance and allocates resources are classified in terms of the nature of the products and services. Each reportable segment purchases, distributes and markets a wide variety of industrial and consumer goods including raw materials and equipment relating to a wide variety of industries and, in addition, provides the related financing, insurance and other services to these operations on a worldwide basis. The Companies have five segments identified by products and services. These segments are outlined as follows: Food & Consumer Products: Both domestically and internationally, the Foods sector produces and distributes all sorts of foods such as fodder, soy beans, grain, sugar, processed food and beverages, raw materials, foodstuffs for commercial use, and agricultural and marine products. The Lifestyle sector includes apparel, footwear, tires, household goods, home furnishings and sporting goods, and operates various businesses from planning, manufacturing, importing, and wholesaling/retailing of products to business investment. The Communication sector is involved in the system integration business, the data communication network business, the mobile devices sales business. The Logistics sector operates forwarding business and logistics centers, and the Insurance sector operates an insurance brokerage business, a reinsurance business and other related businesses. The Finance sector operates asset and property managements, fund operations and other businesses, while the Real estate development sector deals with condominium development Chap.4 Corporate Information business, redevelopment business, and other broad range businesses to provide various services. Chemical & Forest Products: Both domestically and internationally, the Chemical sector handles a wide variety of goods ranging from upstream, such as basic petrochemicals, to downstream, such as electronic materials and specialty chemicals. Focusing on China, the Americas, Middle East and South East Asia as priority markets, this sector is conducting business with a balance between investment and trade. The Helena Business, which had been made independent at the division level with the aim of expanding earnings of the agriculture material sales operation in the U.S., was renamed the “Agri-Input Business Division”. It seeks to further expand the Company's agriculture related business by consolidating the sales operations of other regions and the global trade business involving agrochemicals, fertilizers and raw materials of fertilizers. The Forest Products sector manufactures and distributes raw materials for paper production, paper and cardboard, and takes part in afforestation projects and sells housing materials. Energy & Metals: Both domestically and internationally, the Energy sector, which focuses on products related to energy such as oil, gas and etc., takes part in various sorts of businesses which benefit from the development of resources through retail channels such as gas stations. The Metals and Mineral Resources sector is engaged in the development business for raw materials for production of steel and iron and nonferrous light metals. Also, this sector processes and sells nonferrous light metals, and is engaged in trading of raw materials for steel and iron and nonferrous light metals, as well as producing, processing and selling steel products in general including steel plates, steel pipes, and special steels. Power Projects & Plant: Both domestically and internationally, this segment develops, invests in, operates and manages a variety of power projects including power generating, distributing and transforming operations, energy related infrastructure operations, desalination and water treatment operations, traffic and infra-system operations and various fields of industrial plants. In addition, this segment also delivers and contracts works of related equipments. Transportation & Industrial Machinery: Both domestically and internationally, this segment focuses on domestic and international trade (export and import) in aerospace and defense systems, automotive, construction, agricultural machinery and other transportation-related machinery; loans and investments in wide-ranging fields such as wholesale, retail, retail finance, leasing business, product development and services related to such transportation machinery; and trading, possessing and chartering various cargo vessels, tankers and LNG carriers. 74 Integrated Report 2017 169 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The Companies’ operating segment information for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: Millions of yen Food & Chemical & Power Consumer Forest Energy & Projects March 31, 2017 Products Products Metals & Plant Total volume of trading transactions: External customers ¥4,984,336 ¥2,433,392 ¥2,503,116 ¥396,949 Inter-segment 36,965 2,642 2,850 1,099 Total ¥5,021,301 ¥2,436,034 ¥2,505,966 ¥398,048 Gross trading profit ¥282,585 ¥175,812 ¥26,155 ¥45,279 Share of profits (losses) of associates and joint ventures ¥12,317 ¥4,141 ¥19,429 ¥61,097 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent ¥61,269 ¥28,700 ¥(6,240) ¥56,508 Segment assets ¥1,880,421 ¥1,080,307 ¥1,691,231 ¥1,117,558 Millions of yen Transportation Corporate & & Industrial Elimination, March 31, 2017 Machinery etc. Consolidated Total volume of trading transactions: External customers ¥810,649 ¥5,727 ¥11,134,169 Inter-segment 3,406 (46,962) － Total ¥814,055 ¥(41,235) ¥11,134,169 Gross trading profit ¥93,316 ¥(9,267) ¥613,880 Share of profits (losses) of associates and joint ventures ¥18,211 ¥(470) ¥114,725 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent ¥28,615 ¥(13,502) ¥155,350 Segment assets ¥797,380 ¥329,836 ¥6,896,733 75 170 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars Food & Chemical & Power Consumer Forest Energy & Projects March 31, 2017 Products Products Metals & Plant Total volume of trading transactions: External customers $44,503,000 $21,726,715 $22,349,250 $3,544,187 Inter-segment 330,045 23,589 25,446 9,813 Total $44,833,045 $21,750,304 $22,374,696 $3,554,000 Gross trading profit $2,523,080 $1,569,750 $233,527 $404,277 Share of profits (losses) of associates and joint ventures $109,973 $36,973 $173,473 $545,509 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent $547,045 $256,250 $(55,714) $504,536 Segment assets $16,789,473 $9,645,598 $15,100,277 $9,978,197 Thousands of U.S. dollars Transportation Corporate & & Industrial Elimination, March 31, 2017 Machinery etc. Consolidated Total volume of trading transactions: Chap.4 Corporate Information External customers $7,237,937 $51,134 $99,412,223 Inter-segment 30,411 (419,304) － Total $7,268,348 $(368,170) $99,412,223 Gross trading profit $833,179 $(82,741) $5,481,072 Share of profits (losses) of associates and joint ventures $162,598 $(4,196) $1,024,330 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent $255,491 $(120,554) $1,387,054 Segment assets $7,119,464 $2,944,964 $61,577,973 76 Integrated Report 2017 171 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Millions of yen Food & Chemical & Power Consumer Forest Energy & Projects March 31, 2016 Products Products Metals & Plant Total volume of trading transactions: External customers ¥5,439,693 ¥2,557,673 ¥2,845,446 ¥432,810 Inter-segment 26,788 6,481 5,727 312 Total ¥5,466,481 ¥2,564,154 ¥2,851,173 ¥433,122 Gross trading profit ¥305,655 ¥197,254 ¥19,417 ¥54,097 Share of profits (losses) of associates and joint ventures ¥10,117 ¥4,237 ¥(63,846) ¥67,793 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent ¥58,246 ¥33,259 ¥(142,409) ¥72,214 Segment assets ¥1,874,173 ¥1,040,441 ¥1,711,361 ¥1,278,555 Millions of yen Transportation Corporate & & Industrial Elimination, March 31, 2016 Machinery etc. Consolidated Total volume of trading transactions: External customers ¥916,518 ¥15,817 ¥12,207,957 Inter-segment 777 (40,085) － Total ¥917,295 ¥(24,268) ¥12,207,957 Gross trading profit ¥98,910 ¥(5,247) ¥670,086 Share of profits (losses) of associates and joint ventures ¥13,522 ¥1 ¥31,824 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent ¥24,187 ¥16,767 ¥62,264 Segment assets ¥806,412 ¥406,744 ¥7,117,686 Notes: (1) Effective from the financial year ended March 31, 2017, all “Overseas Corporate Subsidiaries” have been allocated to the five operating segments based on products and services. In conjunction with this, operating segment information for the financial year ended March 31, 2016 has been restated and is presented accordingly. (2) “Total volume of trading transactions” includes all transactions involving the Companies regardless of transaction type. “Total volume of trading transactions” is not required by IFRSs but is presented here to provide readers with a better understanding and is as presented in common Japanese accounting practice. (3) Inter-segment transactions are generally priced in accordance with the prevailing market prices. (4) “Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent” of “Corporate & Elimination, etc.” includes profit/loss such as head office expenses that are not allocated to the operating segments and inter-segment elimination. “Segment assets” of “Corporate & Elimination, etc.” include assets such as cash and cash equivalents related to financing held for general corporate purposes that are not allocated to the operating segments and inter-segment elimination. 77 172 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (2) Geographical information Geographical information is categorised according to the region or country in which the assets, which are the sources of revenue, are located. Geographical information for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: Revenue from external customers Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Japan ¥3,811,051 ¥3,878,418 $34,027,241 United States 2,404,209 2,430,287 21,466,152 Singapore 239,376 258,643 2,137,286 Other 674,169 732,951 6,019,366 Total ¥7,128,805 ¥7,300,299 $63,650,045 Note: There is no concentration of revenue from a specific customer for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. Non-current assets other than financial assets and deferred tax assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 United States ¥638,976 ¥713,901 $5,705,143 Chap.4 Corporate Information Japan 261,569 367,636 2,335,437 United Kingdom 152,481 254,923 1,361,438 Other 251,143 264,351 2,242,348 Total ¥1,304,169 ¥1,600,811 $11,644,366 78 Integrated Report 2017 173 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 20. Issued Capital Stock and Reserves The number of shares authorised and issued at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Number of shares March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Class of share Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Authorised 4,300,000,000 4,300,000,000 Issued: Balance at beginning of year 1,737,940,900 1,737,940,900 Change for the year – – Balance at end of year 1,737,940,900 1,737,940,900 Notes: (1) Common stock has no par value. (2) Issued stock is fully paid. Treasury stock held by the Company and by its subsidiaries or associates at March 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Shareholding Shareholding Shareholding Number Millions Number Millions Name of shares of yen of shares of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars The Company 2,398,261 ¥1,347 2,390,245 ¥1,342 $12,027 Subsidiaries and associates 189,677 27 189,950 27 241 Total 2,587,938 ¥1,374 2,580,195 ¥1,369 $12,268 The Companies Act of Japan provides that an amount equal to 10% of the amount to be distributed as distributions of capital surplus (other than capital reserve) and retained earnings (other than legal reserve) be transferred to capital reserve and legal reserve, respectively, until the sum of capital reserve and legal reserve equals 25% of the amount of issued capital. 79 174 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 21. Other Equity Instruments On August 16, 2016, the Company obtained financing through perpetual subordinated loans (the “Subordinated Perpetual”) in order to bolster its balance sheet. The Subordinated Perpetual are classified as equity instruments in accordance with IFRS as there is no specific due date set for the repayment of the principal and interest payments are deferrable at the Company’s discretion. As a result, this arrangement resulted in an increase of ¥243,589 million ($2,174,902 thousand) (after deducting transaction costs of ¥6,411 million ($57,241 thousand)) in “Other equity instruments” in the “Equity” section of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Accrued interest on the Subordinated Perpetual has not been recognised as a distribution to owners of other equity instruments at March 31, 2017 because such interest payment is discretionary and it was not determined at that date. The potential amount payable would have been ¥489 million ($4,366 thousand). Overview of the Subordinated Perpetual (i) Total amount of ¥250 billion (Tranche A: ¥100 billion, Tranche B: ¥150 billion) financing obtained (ii) Arranger Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, (iii) Co-arrangers and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Chap.4 Corporate Information (iv) Contract date August 10, 2016 (v) Execution date August 16, 2016 No specific maturity has been set. However, by giving prior notice the Company has the option to make early repayments (vi) Due date of final of the principal of Tranche A on August 16, 2021 and subsequent interest payment dates repayment and the principal of Tranche B on August 16, 2023 and subsequent interest payment dates. The Company is able to suspend and defer interest payments at its discretion by giving (vii) Restrictions on prior notice. However, if dividends on common stock, etc. are distributed, feasible and interest reasonable efforts will be made to pay any such suspended interest and associated additional interest. If a subordination event (e.g., liquidation) provided for in the contract occurs, the order (viii) Subordination clause of repayment of the Subordinated Perpetual will be subordinated to all senior creditors. Tranche A: 0.25% increase on and after interest payment dates in August 2026 and (ix) Applicable interest another 0.75% increase on and after interest payment dates in August 2041 rate Tranche B: 0.25% increase on and after interest payment dates in August 2026 and another 0.75% increase on and after interest payment dates in August 2043 80 Integrated Report 2017 175 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 22. Dividends Dividends on common stock recognised as distributions to shareholders of common stock for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Yen) (U.S. dollars) March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Year-end dividend ¥18,223 ¥22,562 $162,706 (Dividends per share) (10.5) (13) (0.09) Interim dividend 16,488 18,223 147,214 (Dividends per share) (9.5) (10.5) (0.08) Dividends on common stock which were approved by resolution of the Board of Directors after the year end but which have not been recognised as distributions to shareholders of common stock for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Yen) (U.S. dollars) March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Year-end dividend ¥23,430 ¥18,223 $209,196 (Dividends per share) (13.5) (10.5) (0.12) 81 176 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 23. Share-based Payment The Company has a stock option plan for its directors (excluding outside directors) and executive officers. Under the plan, each stock option entitles stock acquisition right holders to acquire 100 shares of common stock at an exercise price equal to ¥1 ($0.01) per share. Stock acquisition right holders shall be able to exercise their stock acquisition rights for 33 years after the allotment date, on and after (i) the day when three years have elapsed from the allotment date or (ii) the day following the date on which they cease to be a director or executive officer of the Company, whichever is earlier. A summary of the Company’s stock option activity is as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 Number of shares Weighted average exercise price Outstanding at beginning of year － － Granted 472,400 ¥1($0.01) Forfeited － － Exercised － － Expired － － Outstanding at end of year 472,400 ¥1($0.01) Exercisable at end of year － － Chap.4 Corporate Information The exercise price and weighted average remaining contractual life at March 31, 2017 were ¥1($0.01) and 32.3 years. The weighted average fair value of stock options under the Company’s stock option plan at the measurement date for the year ended March 31, 2017 was ¥419($3.74). The fair value of the stock options was measured using the Black-Scholes model. The expected volatility is measured based on the historical share prices of the Company for a period corresponding to the expected option life. The assumptions used for measuring the fair value are as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 Weighted average share price ¥478 ($4.27) Exercise price ¥1 ($0.01) Expected volatility 28.6 Expected option life 3.0 Expected dividend yield 4.4 Risk-free interest rate (0.4) Stock compensation expenses recorded for the year ended March 31, 2017 were ¥180 million ($1,607 thousand). 82 Integrated Report 2017 177 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 24. Related Party Transactions The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include following subsidiaries. For the year ended March 31, 2017 Company name Main businesses Area/Country Holding ratio MX Mobiling Co., Ltd. Sale of mobile phone and related products Tokyo/Japan 100.00% Wholesale of confectionery, etc. to mass retailers, Yamaboshiya Co., Ltd. Osaka/Japan 75.62% convenience stores, etc. Sale of petroleum and petrochemical products, Marubeni Energy management and leasing of oil terminals and Tokyo/Japan 66.60% Corporation service stations Marubeni Nisshin Feed Manufacture and sale of feed Tokyo/Japan 60.00% Co., Ltd. Amsterdam/ Axia Power Holdings B.V. Overseas power assets holding company 100.00% Netherlands Company overseeing the Gavilon Group (engaged in Gavilon Agriculture the business of consolidation and distribution of Nebraska/U.S.A. 100.00% Investment, Inc. grains, fertilizers, etc.) Sale of agricultural materials and provision of Helena Chemical Company Tennessee/U.S.A. 100.00% various services Marubeni Coal Pty. Ltd. Investment in coal business in Australia Brisbane/Australia 100.00% Amsterdam/ Marubeni LP Holding B.V. Investment in copper business in Chile 100.00% Netherlands Exploration, development, production and sales of Marubeni Oil & Gas (USA) crude oil and natural gas in the U.S. Gulf of Texas/U.S.A. 100.00% LLC. Mexico In addition to the above, the financial statements of the other 275 consolidated subsidiaries are included. Total amounts of compensation to members of the board and corporate auditors of the Company for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Basic payments ¥540 ¥843 $4,822 Stock compensation-type stock options 54 – 482 Total ¥594 ¥843 $5,304 The outstanding balances of receivables from and payables to the primary/major related parties of the Companies at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding receivables payables receivables payables receivables payables Associates ¥133,796 ¥26,362 ¥129,143 ¥28,800 $1,194,607 $235,375 Joint Ventures 29,907 14,314 30,073 26,476 267,027 127,804 83 178 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Total volume of trading transactions and purchases of goods with the main related parties of the Companies for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Trading Trading Trading Purchases transactions Purchases transactions Purchases transactions Associates ¥110,643 ¥148,357 ¥105,625 ¥152,664 $987,884 $1,324,616 Joint Ventures 69,677 92,088 74,612 86,334 622,116 822,214 Chap.4 Corporate Information 84 Integrated Report 2017 179 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 25. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries enter into long-term purchase contracts for certain goods and products in chemical, metal and machinery industries at either fixed or variable prices. The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries generally enter into sales contracts for such purchase contracts with customers. The total amounts of the long-term purchase contracts were approximately ¥662,000 million ($5,910,714 thousand) and ¥743,000 million at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries had commitments to make additional investments or loans in the aggregate amounts of approximately ¥224,000 million ($2,000,000 thousand) and ¥200,000 million at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, of which capital expenditures in property, plant and equipment were approximately ¥2,000 million ($17,857 thousand) and approximately ¥4,000 million, respectively, while commitments to joint ventures were approximately ¥53,000 million ($473,214 thousand) and approximately ¥54,000 million, respectively. The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries provide various types of guarantees for the obligations of their associates and customers in the ordinary course of business. The guarantees mainly relate to the repayment of borrowings to third parties. Should the guaranteed associates and customers fail to fulfill their obligations, the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries would be required to fulfill the obligations under these guarantees. Outstanding guarantees were ¥357,619 million ($3,193,027 thousand) and ¥406,467 million, including ¥294,394 million ($2,628,518 thousand) and ¥357,048 million to associates and joint ventures, at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Outstanding guarantees (total of guarantee payable) represent the maximum potential amount of future payments under the contracts without any consideration of the likelihood of such obligations being incurred. Therefore, such amounts do not represent the anticipated losses on these guarantees and indemnifications, and they greatly exceed anticipated losses. Some guarantees are secured by counter guarantees provided for the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries by third parties. The amounts of counter guarantees provided for the Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries by third parties were ¥25,353 million ($226,366 thousand) and ¥21,919 million, including ¥21,074 million ($188,161 thousand) and ¥20,589 million relating to the associates and joint ventures at March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company manages the risk of fulfillment of obligations under the guarantees by setting the appropriate line of credit and by undertaking provisional measures in accordance with the credit risk rank to which each guaranteed customer belongs. The Company determines the rank of each customer before entering into the guarantee agreements according to the customer’s credit risk which is estimated and reviewed based on the customer’s financial information. The likelihood of such obligations being incurred under the guarantees which would have a material effect in the Consolidated Financial Statements were estimated to be remote at March 31, 2017. A provision for loss on guarantees was recognised for the amount that was considered probable. The Companies conduct business activities on a global scale and are involved in transactions which are subject to the oversight by various types of authorities, both in Japan and abroad. Such business activities are exposed to risk and, from time to time, may involve legal actions, claims or other disputes. After the Supreme Court of Indonesia (“Supreme Court”) ruled in favor of the Company in a lawsuit on March 17, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the “Previous Case”*), lawsuits were filed against the Company in Gunung Sugih and South Jakarta (hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Two Current Cases”), in which substantially the same claims were made as in the Previous Case, including a claim for compensation for damages. As the lower courts partially ruled in favor of the plaintiffs, the Company appealed to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court’s draft decisions on the Gunung Sugih case and South Jakarta case were made public on its website in October 2016 and December 2016, respectively. The Supreme Court handed down a ruling on the South Jakarta case on May 17, 2017. * The Company had receivables owed by PT. Indolampung Perkasa and PT. Sweet Indolampung—both of which belong to the Indonesian enterprise group Sugar Group—and requested payment from such receivables. However, in response, Sugar Group companies including the aforementioned two debtors (PT. Indolampung Perkasa, PT. Sweet Indolampung, PT. Gula Putih Mataram, PT. Indolampung Distillery and PT. Garuda Pancaarta) sued the defendants including the Company for damages and sought affirmation of the invalidity of the Company’s receivables and security interest. 85 180 Marubeni Corporation Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The draft decision on the Gunung Sugih case posted on the Supreme Court’s website is as summarised below. Gunung Sugih case: To find five out of the seven defendants, including the Company, jointly liable for damages in a total amount of US$250 million to the plaintiffs, i.e., four companies belonging to Indonesian enterprise group Sugar Group (PT. Indolampung Perkasa, PT. Sweet Indolampung, PT. Gula Putih Mataram and PT. Indolampung Distillery). The Supreme Court’s decision on the South Jakarta case is as summarised below. South Jakarta case: To find four out of the six defendants, including the Company and Marubeni Europe PLC, jointly liable for damages in a total amount of US$250 million to the plaintiffs, i.e., five companies belonging to Indonesian enterprise group Sugar Group (PT. Indolampung Perkasa, PT. Sweet Indolampung, PT. Gula Putih Mataram, PT. Indolampung Distillery and PT. Garuda Pancaarta). The Two Current Cases were brought before the courts again by the Sugar Group against the defendants including the Company, making substantially the same claims as in the Previous Case. The decision above is deemed to contradict with the ruling on the Previous Case by the Supreme Court itself, in which Sugar Group's claims were rejected. Pursuant to Indonesian Supreme Court legislation, the Company will file an application for judicial review (retrial) with respect to those cases. Chap.4 Corporate Information The Company did not recognise any provisions for litigation in regards to the Gunung Sugih and South Jakarta cases at March 31, 2017, having determined that there is a high possibility that the aforementioned ruling will be overturned as a result of such judicial review (retrial). In addition to the above, although there are certain outstanding litigations such as those relating to compensation for damages and collection of receivables regarding infrastructure projects overseas at March 31, 2017, the outcome of these cannot be determined at this time. The Company provides no further disclosures on these litigations since the Company believes that such disclosures would prejudice seriously the outcome of the proceedings. 86 Integrated Report 2017 181 Marubeni Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 26. Structured Entities The Company and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries are involved in structured entities through investments and financing, but do not include certain of such structured entities engaged in financing, leasing, etc. in their scope of consolidation. Total assets of these unconsolidated structured entities at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were ¥391,400 million ($3,494,643 thousand) and ¥405,669 million, respectively. These structured entities mainly procure funds through bank loans. Carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position relating to the involvement in these unconsolidated structured entities and maximum exposures to assets, liabilities and lease contracts at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Classification March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Carrying amount of assets ¥8,031 ¥11,380 $71,705 Carrying amount of liabilities 15,043 9,774 134,313 Maximum exposures 110,196 109,807 983,893 The carrying amount of assets mainly consists of non-current notes, trade accounts and loans receivable, whereas the carrying amount of liabilities mainly consists of non-current notes and trade accounts payable. The sum of the carrying amount of assets and the carrying amount of liabilities is different from maximum exposures primarily due to lease contracts. Maximum exposures represent the maximum potential amounts of losses precipitated through the decline in the price of assets held and lease contracts. Therefore, such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated amounts of losses through the involvement in the structured entities. 27. Other Notes For the year ended March 31, 2016 On January 20, 2016, the Company exercised the right to purchase all preferred shares issued by its subsidiary Gavilon Agriculture Holdings, Co. (Gavilon Agriculture Investment has absorbed and merged Gavilon Agriculture Holdings in March 2016.) that had been held by the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (hereinafter referred to as “JBIC”) pursuant to the agreement between shareholders—i.e., the Company and JBIC—and acquired the preferred shares for an aggregate amount of ¥61,886 million including the amount equivalent to the preferred shares yet to be paid for until the day of purchase, and completed the payment for the preferred shares. As said preferred shares had been recognised as “Non-controlling interests” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the purchase during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 resulted in a decrease in “Non-controlling interests” by the same amount as the amount of the acquisition. 28. Subsequent Events The Companies have assessed whether any subsequent events occurred through June 23, 2017, the issuance date of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and there are no subsequent events to be disclosed. 29. Approval of Consolidated Financial Statements The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on June 23, 2017. 87 182 Marubeni Corporation Chap.4 Corporate Information 183 Integrated Report 2017 Global Network (As of April 1, 2017) St. Petersburg Moscow Risley Hamburg London Astana Düsseldorf Warsaw Kiev Paris Prague Europe & CIS Ulan Bator Khabarovsk Budapest Almaty Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Milan Bucharest Changchun Vladivostok Madrid Istanbul Tashkent Beijing Ankara Dalian Lisbon Athens Tianjin Seoul Algiers Tehran Qingdao Japan Casablanca Baghdad Islamabad Tripoli Amman Chengdu Hefei Nanjing Lahore Cairo Kuwait City Wuhan Shanghai New Delhi Xiamen Doha Guangzhou Dubai Karachi Taipei Dhaka Kunming Riyadh Muscat Chittagong Shenzhen Abu Dhabi Kolkata Hanoi Hong Kong Mumbai Nay Pyi Taw China / East Asia Middle East & Africa Yangon Vientiane Quang Ngai Goa Manila Bangkok Chennai Phnom Penh Addis Ababa Ho Chi Minh City Abidjan Accra Lagos Southwest Asia Kuala Lumpur Singapore Kuching Nairobi Jakarta Luanda ASEAN Johannesburg Maputo Oceania Perth Sydney Auckland Melbourne Locations of Branches and Offices North & Central America South America Europe & CIS Middle East & Africa Guatemala City Bogota Almaty Moscow Abidjan Johannesburg Houston Buenos Aires Astana Paris Abu Dhabi Kuwait City Los Angeles Caracas Athens Prague Accra Lagos Mexico City Habana Bucharest Risley Addis Ababa Luanda New York Lima Budapest St. Petersburg Algiers Maputo Omaha Rio de Janeiro Düsseldorf Tashkent Amman Muscat Queretaro Salvador Hamburg Vladivostok Ankara Nairobi Silicon Valley Santiago Khabarovsk Warsaw Baghdad Riyadh Toronto São Paulo Kiev Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Cairo Tehran Vancouver Lisbon Casablanca Tripoli Washington, D.C. London Doha Madrid Dubai Milan Istanbul 184 Marubeni Corporation Vancouver Toronto New York Silicon Valley Omaha Washington, D.C. Los Angeles North & Houston Central America Habana Queretaro Mexico City Guatemala City Chap.4 Corporate Information Caracas Bogota South America Lima Salvador Rio de Janeiro São Paulo Santiago Buenos Aires Southwest Asia ASEAN China / East Asia Oceania JapaN Chennai Bangkok Beijing Taipei Auckland Sapporo Chittagong Hanoi Changchun Tianjin Melbourne Sendai Dhaka Ho Chi Minh City Chengdu Ulan Bator Perth Tokyo Goa Jakarta Dalian Wuhan Sydney Shizuoka Islamabad Kuala Lumpur Guangzhou Xiamen Hamamatsu Karachi Kuching Hefei Nagoya Kolkata Manila Hong Kong Osaka Lahore Nay Pyi Taw Kunming Fukuyama Mumbai Phnom Penh Nanjing Hiroshima New Delhi Quang Ngai Qingdao Imabari Singapore Seoul Fukuoka Vientiane Shanghai Naha Yangon Shenzhen Integrated Report 2017 185 Major Subsidiaries and Associates (The scope of consolidation of Marubeni Group comprises a total of 438 companies: 285 consolidated subsidiaries and 153 associates accounted for by the equity method as of March 31, 2017. The list is based on data current as of March 31, 2017, with recent data reflected.) Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Food & Consumer Products Group Grain Division Consolidated Domestic D Pacific Grain Terminal Warehousing, stevedoring and transportation operations Japan 78.40% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Nisshin Feed Manufacture and sales of livestock feed Japan 60.00% Overseas D Gavilon Agriculture Investment Parent company of Gavilon Group U.S. 100.00% (collection/sales of grain, fertilizer, etc.) D Columbia Grain Collection, storage, exporting and domestic sale of grain U.S. 100.00% produced in North America D Harrison Grain Investment Investment company specializing in grain businesses U.S. 100.00% Associate Domestic D The Nisshin OilliO Group Processing and sale of edible oil business Japan 15.73% Food Products Division Consolidated Domestic D Wellfam Foods Marketing of livestock, meats and processed products Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Benirei Wholesale of seafood products and warehousing Japan 98.76% D Yamaboshiya Wholesale of confectionary products to mass-retail and Japan 75.62% convenience stores Overseas D MBC EUROPE Holding company of Iguacu de Cafe Soluvel U.K. 100.00% D Iguaçu de Café Solúvel Manufacturing and sale of instant coffee Brazil 100.00% Associates Domestic D Nacx Nakamura Wholesale of frozen foods primarily to mass-retail and Japan 44.25% convenience stores D Toyo Sugar Refining Manufacturing and sale of sugar and functional Japan 39.30% food materials D Tobu Store Supermarket chain Japan 33.55% D Aeon Market Investment Holding company for United Super Markets Holdings Inc., Japan 28.18% a holding company for supermarket operators in the Tokyo metropolitan area D Kokubu Shutoken Wholesale of foods, alcohol, and other products primarily Japan 20.00% to mass-retail and convenience stores D SFoods Meat-related production, wholesale, retail, Japan 17.25% and restaurant businesses Overseas D Acecook Vietnam Manufacturing and sale of instant noodles and other products Vietnam 18.30% Lifestyle Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Intex Sales of industrial materials, lifestyle material-related Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries textile goods and products D Marubeni Fashion Link Planning, production and sale of textile products Japan 100.00% D Marubeni Mates Planning, production, rental, and sale of uniforms; Japan 100.00% subcontracting of related clerical operations Overseas D Marubeni Textile Asia Pacific Purchase agent of textile products for Japan and Hong Kong 100.00% other countries Associate Domestic D LACOSTE JAPAN Manufacturing and sales of Lacoste-brand apparel and Japan 33.36% other related products ICT, Logistics & Healthcare Division Consolidated Domestic D MX Mobiling Sales, repair and maintenance of mobile handsets and Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries related equipment D Marubeni Information Systems IT solution provider for full range of IT lifecycle in Japan 100.00% every industry D Marubeni Logistics International combined transport operation (NVOCC), Japan 100.00% 3PL (Third-party Logistics), ocean & air freight forwarding, consultancy relating to logistics Associates Domestic D ARTERIA Networks Telecommunication business, data communication Japan 50.00% service business, data center business Overseas D Shanghai Jiaoyun Rihong Freight transport China 34.00% International Logistics D Distribution Businesses 186 Marubeni Corporation Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Food & Consumer Products Group Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Safenet Insurance agency and lending business Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Real Estate Sales Real estate sales Japan 100.00% D Japan REIT Advisors Utilization of investee assets Japan 95.00% Overseas D Shanghai House Housing development in Shanghai, China China 60.00% Property Development Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Chemical & Forest Products Group Agri-Input Business Division Consolidated Overseas D Helena Chemical Sale of agricultural materials and provision of U.S. 100.00% Subsidiary various services Chap.4 Corporate Information Chemical Products Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Chemix Sales and foreign trade of organic chemicals and Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries fine chemicals D Marubeni Plax Sales and foreign trade of plastic products and resins Japan 100.00% Associates Domestic D Sun Agro Manufacture and sale of fertilizer and other products; sale Japan 22.78% of agrochemicals; golf-related business D Katakura & Co-op Agri Manufacture and sale of fertilizer; sale of livestock feed Japan 20.73% and materials Overseas D Shen Hua Chemical Industrial Production and sale of synthetic rubber (SBR) China 22.56% D CMK Electronics (Wuxi) Development, manufacture, and sale of printed circuit China 20.00% boards (PCBs) N Dampier Salt Production and sale of salt and gypsum Australia 21.51% Forest Products Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Pulp & Paper Sale of paper products Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Koa Kogyo Manufacture and sale of corrugating medium and printing Japan 79.95% paper D Fukuyama Paper Manufacture and sales of corrugating medium and Japan 55.00% core board Overseas D Tanjungenim Lestari Pulp Manufacturer/Distributor of broad-leaved tree-based Indonesia 100.00% and Paper bleached kraft pulp Associates Domestic D Marusumi Paper Manufacture and sale of paper Japan 32.16% D SMB Kenzai Distribution and development of housing/construction Japan 27.50% materials, contracts various construction projects Overseas D Daishowa-Marubeni International Manufacture and sale of pulp Canada 50.00% D Paperbox Holdings Holding company for container board operations in Malaysia Virgin Islands 25.00% D Distribution Businesses N Natural Resource Investments Integrated Report 2017 187 Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Energy & Metals Group Energy Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Energy Sale of petroleum products, management and leasing of Japan 66.60% Subsidiaries oil terminals and service stations Overseas D Marubeni Petroleum Sales of crude oil and petroleum products Bermuda 100.00% D MIECO Sales of all types of petroleum products and natural gas U.S. 100.00% D Marubeni International Petroleum Sales of crude oil and all types of petroleum products Singapore 100.00% (Singapore) N Marubeni LNG Development Investment company for participation in LNG project in Peru Netherlands 100.00% N Marubeni Oil & Gas (USA) Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and U.S. 100.00% gas in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico N Marubeni North Sea Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and U.K. 100.00% gas in the North Sea N Marubeni Shale Investment Investment in onshore shale oil and gas development U.S. 100.00% projects in the United States Associates Domestic D ENEOS GLOBE Import and sale of LPG, and sale of Japan 20.00% new energy-related equipment Overseas N Merlin Petroleum Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and U.S. 20.37% natural gas Steel Products Division Associates Domestic D Marubeni-Itochu Steel Sales and business management of steel products Japan 50.00% D Marubeni Construction Leasing, sale, repair, and processing of Japan 35.22% Material Lease steelmaking materials Metals & Mineral Resources Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Tetsugen Sale of raw materials for steelmaking Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Metals Sales of non-ferrous and light metals Japan 100.00% Overseas N Marubeni LP Holding Investment in copper mines in Chile Netherlands 100.00% N Marubeni Iron Ore Australia Investment in iron ore mining operations in Australia Australia 100.00% N Marubeni Coal Investment in coal mines in Australia Australia 100.00% N Marubeni Aluminium Australia Investment in aluminum smelting in Australia Australia 100.00% N Marubeni Metals & Minerals Investment in aluminum smelting in Canada Canada 100.00% (Canada) Associate Overseas N Resource Pacific Holdings Investment in Ravensworth underground coal mine Australia 22.22% in Australia D Distribution Businesses N Natural Resource Investments 188 Marubeni Corporation Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Power Business & Plant Group Power Business Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Power Retail Retail sale of electricity in Japan Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Power Systems EPC services for overseas power projects Japan 100.00% S Marubeni Power Development Development and operation of overseas IPP projects Japan 100.00% F Japan Offshore Wind Power Holding company for Seajacks International Ltd. in Japan Japan 100.00% Overseas D SmartestEnergy Electricity aggregation and retail business in UK U.K. 100.00% S Axia Power Holdings Holding company of overseas power assets Netherlands 100.00% Associates Overseas D Lion Power (2008) IPP in Singapore Singapore 42.86% S TeaM Energy Holding company for the Ilijan, Pagbilao, and Sual power Philippines 50.00% plants in the Philippines S TrustEnergy IPP in Portugal Portugal 50.00% S Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari Gas-fired combined-cycle thermal power generation in Turkey Turkey 33.33% S Mesaieed Power IPP in Mesaieed, Qatar Qatar 30.00% S PPN Power Generating IPP in India India 26.00% Chap.4 Corporate Information Plant Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Tekmatex Sales of textile machinery and various equipment Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Protechs Sale of steelmaking and industrial devices, environmentJapan 100.00% related business and sale of related devices, and logistics for factory construction and machinery installation overseas Overseas S Aguas Decima Water/sewage utility Chile 100.00% Associates Overseas D Eastern Sea Laem Container terminal operation Thailand 25.00% Chabang Terminal F Marubeni SuMiT Rail Transport Investment in railcar leasing business U.S. 50.00% S Southern Cone Water Holding company of Aguas Nuevas S.A., which provides U.K. 50.00% full water supply and wastewater services in Chile D Distribution Businesses F Finance Businesses S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses (Infrastructure, etc.) Integrated Report 2017 189 Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Aerospace & Ship Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Aerospace Import and sale of aircraft and related components Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries F MMSL Japan Ship management Japan 100.00% F Scarlet LNG Transport Investment, finance, and consulting services for shippingJapan 100.00% related businesses Overseas F Marubeni Aviation Holding Investment in aircraft operating lease business Netherlands 100.00% F Marubeni Aviation Services Investment in engines for civil aircraft Cayman 100.00% Islands F Royal Maritime Ship chartering and trade Liberia 100.00% Automotive & Leasing Division Consolidated Overseas D Marubeni Auto Investment (U.K.) Investment in retail sales business of automobiles in UK U.K. 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Auto & Construction Investment in retail sales business of automobiles U.S. 100.00% Machinery America F MAI Holding Investment in automobile retail finance businesses U.S. 100.00% F MAC Trailer Leasing Leasing and rental of refrigerated trailers U.S. 100.00% Associate Domestic F MG Leasing General leasing Japan 45.00% Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Techno-Systems Sale, export and import of industrial machinery Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries Overseas D Marubeni-Komatsu Sales distributor for Komatsu construction equipment U.K. 100.00% Associates Overseas D Temsa Is Makinalari Imalat Sales distributor for Komatsu construction equipment Turkey 49.00% Pazarlama Ve Satis D Unipres U.S.A. Manufacturer/distributor of pressed auto body parts U.S. 25.00% D Hitachi Construction Machinery Sales distributor for Hitachi Construction Machinery Australia 20.00% (Australia) Co., Ltd. D Distribution Businesses F Finance Businesses Voting Company Name Business Rights Corporate Subsidiaries Consolidated Import and export of domestic and overseas merchandise; 100.00% Marubeni America Corporation Subsidiaries domestic sales Import and export of domestic and overseas merchandise; 100.00% Marubeni Europe plc domestic sales Import and export of domestic and overseas merchandise; 100.00% Marubeni ASEAN Pte. Ltd. domestic sales Import and export of domestic and overseas merchandise; 100.00% Marubeni Australia Ltd. domestic sales Voting Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Others Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Financial Service Loan and zero-balance transactions; provision of Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries finance-related support and consulting for the Marubeni Group Overseas Marubeni Finance America Group finance U.S. 100.00% Marubeni Finance Europe Group finance U.K. 100.00% Associate Domestic Koshigaya Community Plaza Commercial facility rental Japan 42.86% 190 Marubeni Corporation Corporate Management (As of June 23, 2017) Chairman of the Board Senior Managing Executive Officers Executive Officers Teruo Asada Kaoru Iwasa Noriaki Isa Chief Executive Officer, Senior Operating Officer for CSO Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group President and CEO, Member of the Board Masashi Hashimoto Yukihiko Matsumura General Manager, Osaka Branch Fumiya Kokubu Regional CEO for the Americas; Regional COO for North & Central America; Shinichi Kobayashi President and CEO, Marubeni America Corporation Regional CEO for Oceania; Senior Executive Vice Presidents, Managing Director, Marubeni Australia Ltd. Members of the Board Naoya Iwashita Regional CEO for Europe, Akihiko Sagara Mitsuru Akiyoshi Africa & CIS; Regional COO for Europe; Chief Operating Officer, Energy Div. Chief Executive Officer, Food & Consumer Products Group Managing Director and CEO, Marubeni Europe plc Masumi Kakinoki Koji Kabumoto Shigeru Yamazoe Chief Operating Officer, ICT, Logistics & Healthcare Div. CSO (Human Resources Dept., Corporate Planning & Strategy Chief Executive Officer, Dept., Regional Coordination & Administration Dept., Research Power Business & Plant Group Institute, IoT-Big Data Strategy Dept.); Senior Operating Officer, Takeshi Kumaki Executive Secretariat; Regional CEO for East Asia; Vice Chairman Ichiro Takahara General Manager, Nagoya Branch Chap.4 Corporate Information of Investment and Credit Committee Chief Executive Officer, Energy & Metals Group Eiji Okada Regional CEO for Middle East Managing Executive Officers, Members of the Board Managing Executive Officers Hikaru Minami Soji Sakai Keizo Torii Senior Operating Officer for ASEAN & Southwest Asia; President, CAO (General Affairs Dept., Information Strategy Dept., Risk Regional CEO for China; President, Marubeni (China) Co., Ltd. Marubeni Thailand Co., Ltd.; General Manager, Bangkok Branch Management Dept., Legal Dept., Compliance Control Dept.); CIO; Senior Operating Officer, Audit Dept.; Chairman of Compliance Committee; Chairman of Internal Control Committee; Chairman of Shoji Kuwayama Hisamichi Koga IT Strategy Committee; Vice Chairman of Investment and Credit Regional CEO for ASEAN & Southwest Asia; Regional COO for Chief Operating Officer, Automotive & Leasing Div. Committee ASEAN; Managing Director, Marubeni ASEAN Pte. Ltd. Yoshiaki Mizumoto Nobuhiro Yabe Akira Terakawa Chief Operating Officer, Grain Div. CFO (Corporate Communications Dept., Corporate Accounting Chief Executive Officer, Chemical & Forest Products Group Dept., Business Accounting Dept., Finance Dept.); Chief Operating Yutaka Shimazaki Officer, Investor Relations and Credit Ratings; Chairman of Mutsumi Ishizuki General Manager, Executive Secretariat, Investment and Credit Committee; Chairman of CSR & Chief Operating Officer, Metals & Mineral Resources Div. and Corporate Communications Dept. Environment Committee; Chairman of Disclosure Committee Takeo Kobayashi Minoru Tomita Independent Directors, Members of the Board Chief Operating Officer, Forest Products Div. Chief Operating Officer, Aerospace & Ship Div. Takao Kitabata Hajime Kawamura Jun Horie Chief Operating Officer, Plant Div. Chief Operating Officer, Chemical Products Div. Kyohei Takahashi Hirohisa Miyata Kenichiro Oikawa Susumu Fukuda Chief Operating Officer, Power Business Div. Chief Operating Officer, Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business Div. Yuri Okina Koji Yamazaki Chief Operating Officer, Food Products Div. Hidekazu Futai Senior Operating Officer, Agri-Input Business Div. Audit & Supervisory Board Members Michael McCarty Chief Operating Officer, Agri-Input Business Div.; Kaoru Kuzume President and CEO, Helena Chemical Company Kazuro Gunji Toshiaki Ujiie Chief Operating Officer, Construction & Industrial Machinery Div. Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members Shuichi Yoshikai Takashi Hatchoji Tsuyoshi Yoneda Integrated Report 2017 191 Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2017, except * as of April 1, 2017) Company Name Founded Marubeni Corporation May 1858 Securities Code Incorporated 8002 December 1, 1949 Head Office Paid-in Capital 7-1, Nihombashi 2-chome, Chuo-ku, ¥262,685,964,870 Tokyo 103-6060, Japan Tel: 81-3-3282-2111 Number of Employees E-mail: tokb138@marubeni.com 4,458 (Excluding 433 local employees of overseas branches and offices and 1,520 local employees of overseas corporate subsidiaries) Number of Branches and Offices* (Including Tokyo Head Office) 131 branches and offices in 66 countries and regions, consisting of 12 domestic branches and offices, 57 overseas branches and offices and 30 overseas corporate subsidiaries with Corporate Website 62 offices http://www.marubeni.com (IR page) http://www.marubeni.com/ir (CSR & Environment page) http://www.marubeni.com/csr Business Year April 1 to March 31 of the following year Regular General Meeting of Shareholders June of each year 192 Marubeni Corporation Stock Information (As of March 31, 2017) Number of Shares Issued and Outstanding Major Shareholders 1,737,940,900 Number of Shareholding Name of Shareholder Shares Held Ratio (hundreds) (%) Number of Shares Authorized The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 857,539 4.94 4,300,000,000 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 813,066 4.68 Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc. 420,830 2.42 Stock Listings Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 418,187 2.41 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 9) 368,722 2.12 Tokyo, Nagoya Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 356,838 2.05 Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 300,000 1.72 Number of Shareholders BJBS S/A Suhail S A AL M Bahwan A/O Saad S Bahwan A/O 189,437 292,246 1.68 Omar S Bahwan-2 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 2) 262,049 1.51 Share Unit Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 1) 261,866 1.50 100 shares Notes: The number of shares owned is rounded down to the nearest hundred. Percentages of voting rights are rounded down to the nearest two decimal points. Chap.4 Corporate Information Record Date for Year-End Dividend March 31 of each year Record Date for Interim Dividend September 30 of each year Distribution of Shares by Type of Shareholder (%) Others 3.77 Transfer Agent of Common Stock Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Foreign individuals Financial institutions and companies  36.83 Long-Term Credit Rating  28.80 JCR A+ Other domestic R&I A companies S&P BBB  5.58 Individuals 25.03 Moody’s Baa2 Note: The sum of each ratio may not be 100%, because each ratio has been rounded. Stock Price (yen) 900 800 700 600 500 400 (Thousands of shares) 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0 12/4 13/4 14/4 15/4 16/4 17/4 Stock Price (left axis) Monthly volume (right axis) Integrated Report 2017 193 Independent Assurance of Environmental and Social Data Marubeni obtains independent assurance of its environmental and social data to enhance the data’s reliability. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., provided assurance* on the following data posted in the CSR & Environment section of Marubeni’s website. * The indicators to Third-Party Assurance are assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., through an independent assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 and 3410, the Practical Guidelines for the Assurance of Sustainability Information (revised December 2014) of the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. * KPMG AZSA Sustainability’s Independent Assurance Report is available in the CSR & Environment section of Marubeni’s website. Environmental Data http://www.marubeni.com/csr/environment/env_data/ Employee Data http://www.marubeni.com/csr/human_resources/employee/ Independent Assurance Process 1. Planning • Ascertain assurance engagement’s scope, indicators subject to independent assurance and the criteria to be applied in the preparation of the indicators • Determine assurance procedures and schedule 2. Execution • Conduct interviews and analytical procedures, ask questions based on analytical results and examine evidences (done mainly on site) • Review content of disclosure media subject to third-party assurance 3. Submission of Assurance Report • Confirm completion of all required revisions • Conduct internal review (assessment of assurance work’s adequacy by personnel not on the team that performed the work) • Submit assurance report Indicators Subject to Independent Assurance Marubeni Group: Energy Consumption, Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Emissions, Waste Generated, Water Consumption, No. of employees (Consolidated) Marubeni Corporation: No. of employees (Non-Consolidated) ; Domestic and Overseas, Percentages of male and female, Average age, Average service years, No. of managerial employees ; general managers or above, Turnover rate, Usage of annual paid leave, No. of employees who took maternity leave, No. of employees who took childcare leave; male childcare leave takers, No. of employees who took nursing care leave, No. of employees who took volunteer leave, Lost-time injuries frequency rate, Occupational illness frequency rate, No. of occupational accidents or incidents leading to injuries or fatalities, Fatal occupational accidents rate Marubeni Corporation and certified special-purpose subsidiary Marubeni Office Support Corporation: Employment rate of persons with disabilities 194 Marubeni Corporation http://www.marubeni.com Printed in Japan
