2017 CITIZENSHIP 2016 IN NUMBERS VALUES VISION MISSION Quality commercial understanding We set the standard To provide value-adding solutions with spirited teamwork credibility commitment and dedication 477 2307 5,3 % EMPLOYEES DAUS SPENT ON COURSES REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS 50 % 82 7,5 % WOMEN INTERNAL COURSES LESS WASTE 35,3 27 AVERAGE AGE SECONDMENTS 2,15 % 63 ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS PARTNERS IN TOTAL PER EMPLOYEE 18 % OF PARTNERS ARE WOMEN KROMANN REUMERT KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 CITIZENSHIP During the now many years of Kromann Reumert’s ambitious and structured corporate social responsibility work, it has always been our principle that we must focus our efforts on what we do best: providing legal advice to businesses. Our CSR efforts are therefore based on our pro bono partnerships where we offer free advice to charitable organisations. Over the years, we have been focusing You can read more about that in this remore and more on children, young peoport, in which you can also read about ple and education, because, after all, we our latest CSR ambition: to enhance our all businesses and society take an inknowledge-sharing activities. This amterest in the welfare of the coming genbition and our work to achieve it were erations. Both in and outside Denmark. emphasized by the Association of Danish Lawyers when, in the autumn of 2016, We also take an interest in the quality we received the Dreyer Award for our of the world that we pass on. We have CSR work; an award that we are proud therefore also engaged in projects that, of, and which strengthens our commitin addition to the focus on young people ment. We are proud of that commitment and education, focus on development and will continue our work to promote and technology; and, not least, how the our Citizenship values. new technologies can create a better and more sustainable world. Now and in We hope you will enjoy the read! the future. Arne Møllin Ottosen, Managing Partner CONTENT 4 Our ambitions – 6 advokatKODEKS – 8 Winner of the Dreyer Award 2016 – 9 Knowledge sharing is a responsibility – 10 Our employees – 14 Target: Your health – 18 New talents – 22 Employees with an international mindset – 24 Employees and working conditions – 26 Pro bono: Children, young people and education – 29 Pro bono: Focus on entrepreneurs – 31 Denmark is still the world’s least corrupt country – 33 No child should starve – 34 The 17 Global Goals for Sustainable Development – 38 The independent legal think tank Justitia – 39 Integration of the 10 UN Global Compact principles – 40 We participate in the development of Danish businesses – 44 We make compliance easier for Danish businesses – 46 In-house Lawyer of the Year Award 2016 – 48 Environment & climate – 50 About Kromann Reumert and the report 3 OUR AMBITIONS Over the years, we have achieved impressive results by integrating our ambitions in our day-to-day work, strategy and culture. Last year we decided to add a new ambition: to increase our focus on knowledge sharing and to share, to an even greater extent than before, our knowledge with Danish businesses and new talents. Kromann Reumert has worked with CSR at a strategic level since AMBITION 2 2008. Back then, we launched our first ambition to integrate CSR An important element of our efforts to raise awareness of CSR in our commercial and organisational processes as a natural eleamong Danish businesses has been our adoption of the code ment of carrying on business in a responsible manner. Since then, of conduct for lawyers referred to as advokatKODEKS. Advokat we have added ambitions to promote CSR in the Danish business KODEKS consists of five principles openness, social responsibility, community, to focus on pro bono work in relation to children, ethical dilemmas, modern management, and diversity for lawyoung people and education, and, most recently, to increase our yers to follow when working with CSR. A signal to our clients and focus on knowledge sharing. everyone else that we as a law firm take our social responsibility seriously. You can read more about advokatKODEKS on page 6. AMBITION 1 We are dedicated to maintaining our consumption at a reasonFurthermore, we continue to take responsibility for contributing able level and to reducing it where needed. We want to reduce to the development of Danish businesses and encouraging them our impact on the environment by, among other things, favouring to carry on their activities in a (socially) responsible way. We do green energy and reducing our CO2 emissions. To that end, we that through our legal services, but also through our partners’ and made it a priority in 2016 to eat in a more climate-friendly manemployees’ memberships of committees, trade forums, boards ner, to avoid food waste, and we decided to install solar cells on and associations. You can read more about this work on page 40. the roof of our Copenhagen domicile. We will continue focusing on environment and climate, including by increasing our focus on waste sorting, and we are already off to a good start! AMBITION 1 WE WANT TO INTEGRATE CSR IN OUR COMMERCIAL AND ORGANISATIONAL PROCESSES AS A NATURAL ELEMENT AMBITION OF DOING BUSINESS WE WANT TO PROMOTING BUSINESSES 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 In addition, we contribute to various initiatives focusing on corhomeless and socially excluded individuals). As a natural extension porate social responsibility, including the Danish campaign “The of that work, we have during recent years engaged in innovative World’s Best News” and the Danish fundraising event “Danmarksprojects contributing to create a sustainable world for the benefit indsamlingen”, and we have partnered up with Chora Connecof future generations. These projects include UNLEASH and DTU tion concerning their 17FOR17 poster campaign, the purpose of Skylab, which you can read more about on page 26. In addition, which is to extend knowledge of the 17 Global Goals of the UN. our administrative staff has contributed with assistance in printing You can read more about this work on page 33. material for these organisations, helping with events that were hosted by Kromann Reumert, etc. AMBITION 3 Young talents are the basis for not only Kromann Reumert’s AMBITION 4 growth, but for the growth of society as a whole both locally Kromann Reumert will lead the way within knowledge sharing and globally. This is why our pro bono work is focused on chiland learning. That is why we added yet another ambition to our dren, young people, and education. In 2016, our lawyers put in CSR goals last year: We will to an even greater extent share our 434 hours of pro bono work, i.e. 434 hours spent on giving free knowledge with new talents and Danish businesses. We want to legal advice to our pro bono partners. Many of those hours were be the place to go to for new knowledge about current legal spent on helping organisations that work for children, young peoissues. And we want to make it easy to learn more about the ple and education, including SOS Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s specific legal areas that are relevant to the Danish business sector. Villages), Børnehjælpsdagen (Children’s Aid Foundation), and You can read more about the progress of our new ambition on Ombold (non-profit organisation promoting sports activities for page 9 and about our work with young talents on page 18. 2 CONTRIBUTE TO CSR AMONG DANISH AMBITION 3 WE WILL INCREASINGLY FOCUS OUR PRO BONO EFFORTS ON AMBITION 4 CHILDREN, YOUNG PEOPLE AND WE WILL LEAD THE WAY WITHIN EDUCATION KNOWLEDGE SHARING AND LEARNING 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 5 ADVOKATKODEKS An important step in our efforts to increase awareness of CSR in the Danish business sector was our adoption of AdvokatKODEKS, the code of conduct for lawyers. Introduced by the Association of Danish Lawyers (Danske Advokater) in 2015, the Code consists of five principles openness, social responsibility, ethical dilemmas, modern management, and diversity for lawyers to follow when working with CSR. A signal to our clients and everyone else that we as a law firm take our social responsibility seriously. “The lawyer has become a trusted advi OPENNESS ser and legal expert who assists not only We work actively to show the world what kind of firm we are, in the courtroom, but who also prevents e.g. through our employer branding initiatives where we ask our junior lawyers to describe on social media their everyday conflicts, drafts contracts and provides life. We have also achieved greater openness through our inguidance within the framework of the creased focus on knowledge-sharing with clients, the profeslaw. Someone who upholds values and sion and Danish businesses in general, including through our takes care of failing companies and priInsights and podcasts in our online learning centre where we give legal recommendations within areas of current interest. vate individuals. Someone who coopeIn our Annual Review we provide an insight into Kromann rates with businesses to pave the way for Reumert’s current activities and share with you our thoughts growth and internationalisation. This role about the future. You can read more about our use of social media on page 18 and about our knowledge sharing on involves great responsibility.” page 9. Danske Advokater on advokatKODEKS Those were the arguments given by the Association of Danish MODERN MANAGEMENT Lawyers when launching AdvokatKODEKS. Kromann Reumert In 2016, we launched our staff development concept EXPECT, supports those arguments and therefore decided last year to offering a large a number of relevant and inspiring courses, continuously incorporate those five principles in our work. workshops, presentations, etc. for both our legal and our administrative staff. EXPECT consists of more than 350 relevant development offers and training courses, which will be available to the employees as they progress up the career ladder. Above all, EXPECT focuses on each employee’s need for further development and his/her role in the organisation. The courses focus on both personal and professional development. Kromann Reumert’s lawyers are required to have a strong legal base to create value for our clients. Our lawyers are among the best in their field, providing high-quality advice to our clients every day. But they also have management responsibility for our junior lawyers and legal secretaries, and we expect them to adopt a management style that supports our values: quality, credibility, commercial understanding, and spirited teamwork. KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 ETHICAL DILEMMAS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As a law firm, it is important that we take our ethical responYoung talents are the key to our future, and we work every sibility seriously. We therefore devote considerable resources day to help our employees realise their full potential. This is to ensure high ethical standards in our work. All Danish lawdeeply rooted in our DNA and in the way we work with our yers are subject to the rules on good legal practice set out in social responsibility. We do that through our pro bono work, the Danish Administration of Justice Act. The Council of the so it is natural that many of our partnership organisations Danish Bar and Law Society supervises compliance with the work for the benefit of children and young people and for rules on good legal practice and has drawn up a code of conthe promotion of education. You can read more about our duct requiring lawyers to adhere to high ethical and profespro bono work on page 26. sional standards. Obviously we comply with those rules, and our terms of business describe how we handle e.g. the duty of confidentiality and the anti-money laundering rules. In DIVERSITY connection with the adoption of the Danish Act on Measures Kromann Reumert is a law firm, but in fact we employ almost to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (the as many administrative employees as lawyers. We have emAnti Money Laundering Act), we have set up a whistleblowployees who are responsible for maintaining our buildings, ing scheme and adopted an internal whistleblowing policy. facilitating meetings, preparing food in our canteens, fixing The purpose therefore is to ensure that all Kromann Reumert our computers, communicating our messages, recruiting our employees can confidentially report any actual or suspected new colleagues, etc. Furthermore, our large group of lawyers breach of the Anti Money Laundering Act. comprises an equally diverse group of people, each with their own strengths and requirements. More than half of our emGood legal practice is a code of conduct that includes rules ployees – 50 % to be more precise are women, and we also on duties of confidentiality and conflicts of interest. As part have a number of international employees you can meet of our general quality assurance measures, we have impletwo of them on page 22. We work every day to accommomented internal rules and procedures to supplement the date this diversity by offering for example in-house courses, code of conduct, e.g. to identify and solve potential conflicts home workstations for more than half of our employees, a of interest. We have also introduced rules to prevent insidworking environment policy aimed at promoting job satisfacer trading and money laundering. Each lawyer is responsible tion, and dialogue groups for our lawyers, assistant lawyers for complying with the ethical rules, which are administered and legal secretaries. by Kromann Reumert’s Ethics Committee consisting of five partners. The Ethics Committee must always be consulted in cases of doubt, and it also addresses issues on its own initiative. We offer all relevant employees regular in-house training in the code of conduct and in those parts of Global Compact that are of particular relevance to Kromann Reumert. Kromann Reumert is involved in the work carried out by the professional legal organisations, including the continuous updating of the code of conduct. 7 WINNER OF THE DREYER AWARD 2016 In October 2016, Kromann Reumert received the Dreyer Award, 1st prize, of DKK 125,000 for our CSR efforts. Awarded by the Association of Danish Lawyers, the award focused in 2016 on the lawyers’ code of conduct (advokatKODEKS), honouring the law firms that helped promote the standing and social significance of the legal profession. “The law firm is honoured for having set the “It was natural for Kromann Reumert to standard for using CSR initiatives to create adopt the code of conduct and to continue cohesion by being targeted, ambitious, working on the principles emphasized by the well-documented and broadly based. The code: This is what we have been doing for firm has set as its objective that what it lives many years already, so we are happy to see by, namely knowledge, must be shared with now that it is being recognized by the induclients, talents, Danish industry, and society stry. Our many employees who contribute to in general. The firm’s efforts are professional, our work on social responsibility throughout and the bar has been set very high, which is the year can be proud of that! They are doing completely in line with the advokatKODEKS a huge and important job for example by code of conduct.” working pro bono and by focusing on knowledge sharing with clients and with Those are some of the Prize Committee’s reasons for awarding society in general.” Kromann Reumert with the Dreyer 1st prize and DKK 125,000. Arne Møllin Ottosen, Awarded by the Association of Danish Lawyers, the award Managing Partner focused in 2016 on the lawyers’ code of conduct (advokatKODEKS), honouring the law firms that helped promote the standing and social significance of the legal profession. 164 newsletters 40 podcasts and 111events videos KROMANN REUMERT KNOWLEDGE SHARING CSR REPORT 2017 IS A RESPONSIBILITY Kromann Reumert will lead the way within knowledge sharing and learning. That is why we added yet another ambition to our CSR goals last year: we will to an even greater extent share our knowledge with new talents and Danish businesses. We want to be the place to go to for new knowledge about current legal issues. And we want to make it easy to learn more about the specific legal areas that are relevant to the Danish business sector. That is why we have released these past few years, and will In 2015 we held over 100 events in Aarhus and Copenhagen, continue to release in the years to come, a wide selection of receiving more than 2,500 guests from over 1,000 different newsletters, Insights, podcasts, invitations to events, etc., all companies. We released more than 160 newsletters and over 40 available in our online Learning Centre, to promote knowledge podcasts and videos, addressing 23 different topics and covering and awareness of trending issues in the corporate sector and in the most recent trends and current issues within our fields of society as a whole. expertise. Among the issues we have highlighted are the new Market “Our ambition is to make our Learning CenAbuse Regulation, the new General Data Protection Regulation, ter the place to go to for existing and potenover-implementation of EU rules, the new Market Practices Act, tial clients in search of new knowledge about IPOs, and legal investigations and commissions of inquiry (also the subject of debate at this year’s People’s Political Festival, see current legal issues. By having all subjects page 43). gathered in one place, it is easy to learn more about one’s own specialist fields and in the We have also taken a more overall look at trends in today’s somanner that suits one best. Our ambition ciety and the potential legal impact they might have for Danish is to create value for our clients and for the businesses, including robot technology, export potentials in the Danish business sector in general.” Middle East, growth opportunities in an international perspecAnders Wiedemann, COO tive, IT security, and much more. 23 subjects 2500+ guests 1000+companies 9 OUR EMPLOYEES The men and women who work here are the foundation for everything we do. That is why we go to great lengths to make sure our employees grow, professionally and personally, and to foster a pleasant working environment. A good working environment is something very important to they progress up the career ladder. Above all, EXPECT focuses on Kromann Reumert. We therefore have a high degree of employeach employee’s need for further development and his/her role ee involvement, through dialogue groups, working environment in the organisation. committees, associations, etc., all contributing positively to a joyful and safe workplace. We measure the quality of our workEMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT ing environment through employee satisfaction surveys, workWe have designed the best career development plans for each place assessments, internal customer satisfaction surveys, etc. of our staff groups. The plans, which are based on staff developWe make sure to offer plenty of activities through associations ment research and extensive experience, combine a wide variety and company events to promote social interaction among our of learning methods such as individual reflection, class training staff, all in the hope and expectation that good social relations and e-learning. The plans are based on the expectations to be will make the daily work more fun. met by each staff group. The expectations have been defined following an analysis of our clients’ priorities, our employees’ job EXPECT WE HAVE HIGH EXPECTATIONS OF EACH OTHER satisfaction and development, and Kromann Reumert’s values. The development of our employees begins the minute they start In order to support the new learning activities, we have also working here whether as legal staff or administrative staff and launched a new help-yourself site offering training courses. continues throughout their careers with us. We have made it a matter of principle to always promote and facilitate professional “In our experience, the many different learand personal growth, always with an eye for the individual. ning methods allow our employees to choose their own development paths in a manner “In Kromann Reumert, we wish to contriand at a time suitable for them.” bute even more to developing our employBirgitte Brix Bendtsen, HR Manager ees’ skills and competencies. Training of both professional and personal skills is an imporEMPLOYEE DIALOGUE tant prerequisite to allow our employees to An important element of the development plan is the semi-anexploit their talent and live up to our clients’ nual personal development interview offered to all employees and Kromann Reumert’s high expectations.” legal as well as administrative staff. In addition to these interArne Møllin Ottosen, Managing Partner views, attorneys are also offered career development interviews. In 2016, we launched our new staff development concept EX“Through dialogue, our employees and their superiors get an PECT, offering a large number of relevant and exciting courses, even better understanding of their mutual expectations and workshops, presentations, etc. for both our legal and our adhow they translate into specific areas of responsibility, developministrative staff. ment targets, etc. This contributes to raising the potential not just of the individual employees but of the entire firm,” says EXPECT consists of more than 350 relevant development offers Birgitte Brix Bendtsen, HR Manager and training courses, which will be available to the employees as KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 11 KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION for the purpose of discussing how Danish businesses can ensure In 2016, we set an ambitious goal in relation to staff developthat even more fathers take paternity leave. ment, and we are very happy with the EXPECT concept now that it has been launched. EXPECT is part of our ongoing and V FOR VALUES – COMPANY OUTING FOR ALL EMPLOYEES targeted efforts to improve Kromann Reumert’s image as an atKromann Reumert has four clearly defined values: quality, comtractive place to work. Every other year, we therefore conduct an mercial understanding, spirited teamwork, and credibility. In employee satisfaction survey to get an idea of the general level order for those values to not just be words on paper but to of job satisfaction. In 2016, as many as 95% of our employees characterise the work we do today, they need to be revisited and participated in the survey up from 86.8% in 2014. While we discussed regularly. would of course prefer everyone to participate, we are proud of this response rate, which shows that the vast majority are willing We therefore renewed the focus on our values in September to invest time in expressing their views and contributing to mak2016 at our annual company outing, this time set in Berlin under ing Kromann Reumert an even better workplace. the headline of “V for Values”, during which we strengthen our teamwork and our business by means of specialist workshops One of the key figures in the survey is the so-called loyalty inand social events. dex, showing how satisfied the respondent is with Kromann Reumert as a workplace and how attractive Kromann Reumert Mr Morten Albæk, public debater and businessman, kickstarted is perceived to be when compared to other firms. Our index is the programme by giving an inspiring speech about the mea72, which is very satisfactory and an increase from 62 in 2014. ning of life (no less) and one of the most important values to In fact, as many as 96% of the respondents indicated that they all of us: honesty. Kromann Reumert’s four values were subseare either satisfied or very satisfied with working with Kromann quently discussed in workshops based on a number of everyday Reumert. We are of course happy with this figure, but also take dilemmas from our work with the law, with our clients, and with note of any constructive feedback and take the necessary steps. our colleagues. We will continue doing our best to make Kromann Reumert a great place to work. In preparation for the day, our employees had been asked to define out of our four designated values the one that to them is FATHERS ON PATERNITY LEAVE the most important. Reflecting on spirited teamwork, Attorney Kromann Reumert offers fathers 10 weeks’ paid paternity leave, Emilie Vingtoft Rye-Andersen wrote: which may be taken at the employee’s option within the first 12 months of the baby’s life. The vast majority of our new fathers “To me, spirited teamwork is imperative. When you work as an make use of that offer. Since 2011, 77 male Kromann Reumert attorney at Kromann Reumert, there is no distinct boundary beemployees have been on paternity leave. 67 of them made use tween work life and private life, which need to interact with each of our offer of full pay during the leave. Occasioned by our posiother. It is therefore of paramount importance that I take pleative experience, HR Manager Birgitte Brix Bendtsen attended in sure in my work. Above all, pleasure comes from working with the summer of 2016 a dialogue meeting arranged by the Danish valued colleagues valued for their personality and their skills. Minister for Equal Treatment, Ellen Trane Nørby, with represenAlso, pleasure comes from spirited teamwork with clients.” tatives from e.g. Novo Nordisk, IKEA, Falck, Mærsk, ISS and TDC 13 TARGET: YOUR HEALTH! Kromann Reumert values and wishes to promote the health and well-being of our employees. We therefore, among other things, offer healthy food, a massage programme, health insurance for all of our employees, flu vaccinations, an ergonomic review of individual work stations, free smoking cessation courses, and the chance of exercising with colleagues in our running clubs, our soccer team, and in the DHL Relay Race. We kicked off 2017 with renewed focus on our health ambitions ROBOT, ROBUST OR BUSTED? launching an initiative that we called “Target: Your Health!” We All our employees were also given a free exercise rubber band wanted to promote awareness of the little things each of us can to get them out of their chairs. Each department had their own do during the day to help us stay fit and healthy throughout a designated ‘rubber band boss’ to cheer on and inspire co-worklong working life while at the same time enhancing our general ers to exercise. We have also applied glued-on footprints on quality of life. floorways and posters on walls and doors, trying to convert good intentions to actual change, nudging people to take the stairs rather than the lift and reminding us about the proper way to sit and stand and to stretch as much as possible during the day. “It is super fun. People always walk away with a full tank of positive energy and a smile on their faces, which is very gratifying. The daily workshops are arranged so that everyone can join in and are always aiming to be fun, and we haven’t had a day without a workout yet since the campaign “It’s important for us that we as an emwas launched!” ployer, in a firm that demands much in terms Assistant Attorney Nikolas Meyer-Karlsen, of professional performance also raise our who has introduced a daily rubber band employees’ knowledge and awareness of the workout in his department little things they can do to help them secure for themselves long and good lives mentally, physically, at work, and off work.” Tina Larsen, CFO Enlisting the services of Danish healthcare promoter SundhedsDoktor, we offered all our employees a free health check-up. 287 of our staff signed up. We are pleased to say that the overall results were most gratifying, showing generally very good health conditions. KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 15 KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 BICYCLING TO WORK FOOD FOR THOUGHT One point on which the report showed room for improvement In the spring of 2017, Kromann Reumert participated in this was in relation to exercise. Luckily, our running clubs’ weekly year’s Whole Grain Day, at the initiative of Janne Hviid-Nielsen, joint runs in Copenhagen and Aarhus provide ample opportuKitchen Manager in our Aarhus office. nity to do something about it, and for those more inclined to take the bike there is an annual, national “Bicycling To Work” “Every now and then we need to do a theme or a little somecampaign in May, where this year an impressive 190 Kromann thing out of the ordinary with the food we serve in our canReumert employees joined in more than in any previous year. teen. After all, our employees eat here 220 days a year, and the Whole Grain Day was an excellent opportunity to do just that,” says Janne. She also points out that she and Mads Præstmark, Kitchen Manager in Copenhagen, are responsible for ensuring that our staff is offered a healthy and varied diet. Another part of her job is to listen to the wishes that employees express in relation to the lunches served each day, and for that purpose the two canteens have set up committees with participants from all across our firm so that they can discuss and help determine the best food for our staff. “Food is such a huge influence on how you perform on the job, it really is fuel for your body. For office workers, in particular, who work sitting down much of the time, they MENTAL STRENGTH need energy for their brains and they need Our health campaign promoted not only physical health. Also more than just your typical Danish dish of mental health was in the spotlight, with talks by external speakpotatoes and gravy.” ers to give us an understanding of mental strength and how it Janne Hviid-Nielsen, works. Kitchen Manager in Aarhus Not only our employees deserve a healthy and varied selection of food. We also make sure our meeting rooms have wholesome snacks available, including fruit, nuts, and healthy shots of fruit and vegetable juices. 17 NEW TALENTS At Kromann Reumert, our employees are our strongest card. They set the standard every day and we have a long tradition of developing some of Denmark’s best business law talents. It is therefore essential that we are able to attract the very best law students, just as it is natural for us to share our knowledge with future talents. We do that by cooperating with stuSOCIAL MEDIA CREATE OPENNESS opportunity to develop their professional dents’ associations, including Legal DeWith more than 6,600 followers on and personal skills and to work with the bating Society and ELSA Copenhagen, Facebook and more than 1,400 followpractical aspects of law. During a perithe Elite Module at Aarhus University ers on Instagram, Kromann Reumert is od of eight months, they develop their and ELSA Aarhus, by offering compenusing social media as an obvious channetwork, obtain individual advice from diums and podcasts, by organising exnel for our followers to have a peek into a lawyer, get access to office and library amination cases, and by arranging our the firm. By means of stories told by our facilities and learn what it means to work Talent Network. We wish to show law junior lawyers, we invite our followers at one of Denmark’s biggest law firms. students what it is like to work in a law inside and tell them about everyday life firm like ours, and we do that, for examat Kromann Reumert as student intern, “To me, the Talent Network was an exple, through open and transparent comassistant attorney or attorney. We share cellent opportunity to try my hand at munication in social media. our knowledge, tell stories from our senew disciplines that they do not teach conded and posted employees, and post us at law school. By joining the network “At Kromann Reumert we photos from our social events. you get an inside look at a major corfocus particularly on four porate law firm and, equally important, “On Instagram we offer our most juthe modules are arranged so that you values: quality, commercial nior and newest employees a chance to can get a taste and an understanding of understanding, spirited broadcast their experiences, their work what other skills a good corporate lawteamwork, and credibility. and their everyday lives here at Kromann yer needs to possess,” says Nanna Dall They are all values that we Reumert and, not least, the very special Egelund Hansen, participant in Talentwish to pass on to the law brand of spirited teamwork you will find netværk 2016. students while at the same with us. To this end, we use Instagram takeovers. The idea is to go behind the COMPENDIUMS time deepening their professcenes both when our young lawyers Professional excellence is crucial for sional understanding of law. are working in the office and when they the quality of our services. We want to We do that for example by are on exchange visits or seconded to pass on some of that excellence to law cooperating with students’ other countries and to create greater students for use in their future career. associations, participating openness in a traditionally closed proWe have therefore developed a series in fairs, arranging various fession,” says Birgitte Brix Bendtsen, HR of compendiums covering various legal events, being active in social Manager. subjects including for instance security and creditors’ rights. Students may media, etc.” TALENT NETWORK FOR THE 7TH request or download the compendiums Birgitte Brix Bendtsen, YEAR IN A ROW and use them in their studies or when HR Manager Every year, Kromann Reumert’s talent reading for an examination. Students network gives 15 talented and ambimay request or download the compentious law students at four universities an diums and use them in their studies or KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 19 when reading for an examination. The compendiums describe the practical aspects of the law and are a valuable supplement to their classes. EXAMINATION CASES Taking an examination is hard work, and our lawyers still remember their examination periods as both exciting and full of reading. Study groups and discussions with fellow students are good alternatives to traditional learning methods and bring the students closer to the law. We want to contribute to that by offering examination cases in cooperation with the Legal Debating Society. Here, the law students get an opportunity to study an area of the law in depth. Over the past year, we have held examination cases in the law of obligations and the law of property both times with participation of 200 law students. COOPERATION WITH STUDENTS’ ASSOCIATIONS Students’ associations contribute positively to both the quality of the law studies and social life at the universities. Their commitment and enthusiasm resonate with both the students and the legal professions. We therefore appreciate our long-standing cooperation with e.g. the Legal Debating Society and ELSA Aarhus, as well as our new cooperation with ELSA Copenhagen, and our lawyers always look forward to hosting events and giving lectures in cooperation with the associations. CSR REPORT 2017 “Our cooperation with thesis. The theses are selected by a comhind the clothing company Les Deux and Kromann Reumert helps us mittee consisting of one partner and two the photo-sharing app GroupCam as attorneys or assistant attorneys. In addiwell as two investors supporting Danish realise our ambition to offer tion to the grant, the students are also entrepreneurs: Rasmus Hansen Schmiethe students events of a high offered office space in Copenhagen or gelow, General Counsel at HippoCorn, professional standard. As a Aarhus, guidance in information retrieval and Thor Angelo, Business Angel at Anstudents’ association, it is and access to our library. gelo Company. important to us that the contents of our events vary, and THE LAW STUDENTS’ PREFERRED YET ANOTHER KROMANN REUMERT WORKPLACE IN THE PROFESSION TALENT AMONG BERLINGSKE’S Kromann Reumert’s strong We take pride in providing the best TALENT100 professional resources possible settings allowing our assistant In 2016, for the 13th consecutive year, within may different fields attorneys and student interns to make Berlingske Business selected and porenable us to arrange extraorthe most of their legal talent. We were trayed the top 100 of noteworthy talents dinary events. This year we therefore pleased that Universum’s 2016 having the ambitions and the professionhave together been arranging survey showed us that we are still the al qualifications to go all the way to the a presentation concerning preferred place to work among law stutop in Danish industry. Among them was dents. The survey also revealed that the Mads Reinholdt Sørensen, attorney at entrepreneurship in a legal law students attach great importance to our Aarhus office. He was praised for, context, which is intended to professional development and the possiamong other qualifications, his services emphasize among students bility of working for a good cause when to Danish government clients such as the that law and entrepreneurselecting their future workplace. Our pro Danish Business Authority and Financial ship are interconnected. We bono work gives our employees exactStability on assignments to clean up aflook forward to continuing ly this opportunity. You can read more ter the financial crisis, including for his about the work on page 26 Last but not work on the management liability case our cooperation!” least, it is important for the law students against Capinordic Bank. Adrian F. Simonson, to see the world and get an international Chairman, Juridisk career. You can read more about our em“To me, the nomination is Diskussionsklub ployees’ international focus on page 22. an acknowledgement of SCHOLARSHIP both my work and Kromann NETWORK FOR COMING LEADERS We are dedicated to supporting legal talThe association of assistant attorneys in Reumert’s ability to cultivate ents. Therefore, we offer the Kromann Copenhagen arranges an annual nettalents. It is something I beReumert Scholarship to selected students working event. In 2016, the theme was lieve Kromann Reumert and twice a year. The scholarship, which “Denmark’s Young Entrepreneurs”, and I can both be very proud of!” amounts to DKK 40,000, gives talented the association had invited the following Mads Reinholdt Sørensen, law students an opportunity to dedicate to attend the event and tell their stories: all their time to completing their master’s Attorney the successful Danish entrepreneurs be21 EMPLOYEES WITH AN INTERNATIONAL MINDSET As part of our ambition to be Danish businesses’ preferred international business partner, we offer our employees the best opportunities to work with law in an international context. We frequently have lawyers seconded of Justice, follow-on damages cases ONE YEAR OF RENEWED STRENGTH to companies and law firms around the in the UK, multijurisdictional transacIN LONDON world, and our business partners also tions, and Internal Market analyses. As part of our internationalisation second their employees to work at our efforts we chose to strengthen our offices in Denmark. Also, many of our “I started my career working presence in London as from 1 Janemployees take commercial and legal with Cuatrecasas in Madrid uary 2016. In 2017, we will further courses abroad. It is vital to our busistrengthen Kromann Reumert’s posiand did an internship in an ness that we stay updated on current tion on the UK market and follow up developments in other sectors, cultures EU agency in Barcelona. on the efforts we made in 2016. Two and countries. For this purpose, foreign I studied French and Spaadditional resources, Attorneys Sabrina studies and secondments are extremely nish law in Madrid and Mai Bendjazia and Thejs Tofting, have important. Paris, and then specialized arrived at the office and are ready to in EU law at the College of continue the ambitious work together with Søren. Europe in Bruges. Although I have only been working in Denmark for a short period of time, it is professionally reassuring to see the wide range of international cases that Kromann Reumert’s clients entrust us. It is a chance for us to be involved in some of the most interesting cases happening in the EU – Competition law global landscape.” Maite Mazzitelli, MAITE MAZZITELLI Legal Consultant Spanish attorney and legal consultant at Kromann Reumert. Works on EU and THEJS TOFTING Competition law cases with an interAttorney. Joined Kromann Reumert in national perspective, including cartel 2011 and has been working at Kroand state aid cases with the European mann Reumert’s London office since Commission and the European Court January 2017. He has primarily been KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 engaged in mergers and acquisitions, We will also continue developing our “I came to Denmark after company law and capital market law, Outbound Services, ‘following the clihaving worked in a German and has been providing advice to a ent out into the world’, assisting Danlaw firm with Danish and wide variety of industries, including ish businesses in their activities abroad. the drug industry, telecommunication, We do that through our specialist Swedish cross-border cases. private equity, and the financial sector. teams covering the Nordic countries, My role at Kromann ReuGreenland, Germany, the UK/North mert is mainly to advise Da“As an M&A and corporate America and Asia/Pacific, and we are nish enterprises on German finance practitioner, being making continuous efforts to gain specorporate issues, includcialist knowledge of other regions as in London is great because ing business transfers and well, including Africa. it allows you to stay current mergers between Germany with the latest developments and Denmark. I enjoy adin global markets, and it is vising Danish clients on easy to showcase our firm to German law and explaining international lawyers, banboth the similarities and difkers, and investors, who are ferences relative to Danish all based in or have offices law, to improve the clients’ in London. I will certainly understanding of German look forward to maintainlaw. This also facilitates the ing and building on the clients’ future cross-border relationships I have created business between Denmark here when I return to and Germany.” Denmark.” Gabriele Grünager, Thejs Tofting, Attorney Attorney GABRIELE GRÜNAGER Attorney. Joined Kromann Reumert in 2006 and is admitted to practice law in both Germany and Denmark. Germany being Denmark’s principal trading partner, economic relations between Germany and Denmark are close and intensive, both in terms of direct investments and bilateral trade. 23 EMPLOYEES AND WORKING CONDITIONS EMPLOYEES 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees 588 557 517 498 470 477 Number of partners 70 65 66 65 63 63 Total percentage of women 54,9 54,2 54,9 52,9 55 50 Total percentage of female partners 20 19,7 19,7 20 20 18 Average age 34,6 35 37,1 36,4 35,8 35,3 HEALTH 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of absence due to sickness, per employee 3,4 3,5 2,12 1,87 1,9 2,15 WORK-LIFE BALANCE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Women working reduced hours 39 27 38 19 31 30 Men working reduced hours 2 0 0 0 2 2 Number of mobile workplaces 400 380 356 360 300 355 Employee satisfaction survey work-life balance * 68 * 66 * 66 (rated on a scale of 1-100 where 100 is the highest) PARENTAL LEAVE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Women on maternity leave ** 14 16 23 15 12 Men on parental leave ** ** 17 15 9 11 Men on paternity leave ** ** 24 10 14 11 TRAINING 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of days spent by all employees on courses 2700 2500 2100 1750 1900 2307 Number of days spent on courses, per employee 4,5 4,4 4,1 3,5 3,8 5 Number of in-house courses 80 70 65 50 55 82 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Overall result employee satisfaction survey * 80 * 72 * 79 (rated on a scale of 1-100 where 100 is the highest) Management (rated on a scale of 1-100 where 100 is the highest) * 76 * 73 * 75 The above table shows employee data collected every year for the period 1 January to 31 December. *As the employee satisfaction survey is conducted every 18th month, no survey was made in 2011, 2013 and 2015. ** Data not available KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 25 PRO BONO: CHILDREN, YOUNG PEOPLE AND EDUCATION Kromann Reumert depends on young talents. They are the key to our future, and we work every day to help our employees realise their full potential. We all depend on the young people who will shape our future. At Kromann Reumert, we wish to contribute to ensuring that even more young people get a future benefiting themselves and society, and we wish to contribute to a society that benefits future generations. Our pro bono work is therefore aimed at organisations working with children, young people and education, while simultaneously focusing on innovation and development. We entered into our first pro bono partnership in 2009 by ofUNLEASH is a global non-profit initiative with a vision to build fering legal assistance to SOS-Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s Vilthe world’s leading laboratory and platform for innovative, fealages). Since then, many more partnerships have been added. sible and scalable solutions for the 17 Global Goals of the UN. In 2015, we offered free legal advice to a number of Danish orUNLEASH will do that e.g. through the UNLEASH Innovation Lab ganisations, including Børnehjælpsdagen (Children’s Aid Foun2017. Talents from all over the world will here get an opportunidation), Gentofte Børnevenner (children organisation), Ombold ty to create the solutions needed for us as a wold community to (non-profit organisation promoting sports activities for homeless achieve the 17 UN Global Goals. and socially excluded individuals), and the Human Practice Foundation. By working pro bono for those organisations, we can We need young and innovative brains to find new solutions to make a difference. the problems we are facing in the world today. Kromann Reumert therefore supports UNLEASH by granting free legal advice “Our pro bono work is driven by the comto the organisation and by spreading the message about UNmitment of our employees, and our pro bono LEASH Innovation Lab 2017. The first Innovation Lab will take place in Denmark on 13-21 August 2017, followed by Silicon partner organisations have therefore primaValley, Singapore, Mumbai and, finally, New York in 2030. rily been selected by employees who have a special relationship with that particular UNLEASH endeavours to supply ground-breaking solutions to organisation. Both the organisations and our UN’s 17 Global Goals by bringing into play the innovative ideas employees gain the most from that and mindsets of global talents. Each year, 1,000 selected talents approach.” gather to come up with insights or ideas for making the world a better place. The ideas are then improved by challenging, mergChristian Lundgren, Partner ing and rethinking them and thereby ultimately turning them into feasible solutions. Through its cooperation with e.g. leading UNLEASH: DO YOU HAVE AN IDEA THAT enterprises, research institutions, private foundations, non-profit MAY CHANGE THE WORLD? organisations and investors, UNLEASH can supply the support Earlier this year, Kromann Reumert launched a partnership with required to bring the best ideas into life. UNLEASH, because like UNLEASH we know that young talents form the basis for our common future. At UNLEASH’s annual InIn addition to Kromann Reumert, UNLEASH is already now renovation Labs, innovative talents from all over the world meet to ceiving support from the Carlsberg Foundation and more than solve the problems of the world. The first Innovation Lab takes 15 other foundations and enterprises such as Deloitte, Microplace in Copenhagen in August. soft, Dalberg, the Confederation of Danish Industry, Bestseller and 10 Danish folk high schools. KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 27 KROMANN REUMERT PRO BONO: CSR REPORT 2017 FOCUS ON ENTREPRENEURS Entrepreneurship was a major focus area for Kromann Reumert in 2016. It was felt also in our pro bono work, which included cooperation with Green Tech Challenge and The Danish Foundation for Entrepreneurship, and in early 2017 we began a cooperation with DTU Skylab. ADVICE TO INNOVATIVE STUDENTS IN DTU SKYLAB Kromann Reumert entered into a pro-bono partnership with the In the spring of 2017, we started up a new pro bono partnerFoundation for Entrepreneurship, which works to ensure that ship with DTU Skylab, offering legal advice to the innovative the ability to be innovative becomes a fundamental element at and entrepreneurial students at the DTU Technical University of all levels of education from primary school to Ph.D. Denmark. DTU Skylab has a vision to create a world-class centre for technology-based innovation. Earlier this year, the centre reGREEN TECH CHALLENGE ceived a DKK 80 million subsidy from the A. P. Møller Aid Fund. In 2016 we also teamed up with Green Tech Challenge. The 19 green startups who had signed up for the intensive, two-week DTU will use the donation to enlarge the facilities to support e.g. growth programme received sparring and advice from a number project maturing and use of growth-enhancing technologies. of businesses and consultants, including Kromann Reumert. The One of the DTU Skylab facilities is the so-called “business lab” final round was a meeting with the investors in the so-called in which businesses can train how to handle significant changes ‘lion’s den’ in Industriens Hus. Through a one-day workshop, to technology and markets. In addition, DTU has a “tech lab” in four of Kromann Reumert’s young lawyers specialising in entrewhich you can build large-scale prototypes and develop projects preneurship, along with four advisors from PwC, advised the 19 for specific solutions and startups. Attorney Alexander Philip startups. Also, Kromann Reumert had invited a select few ambiDam Rasmussen and assistant attorney Camilla Kierkegaard Jentious law students to observe the session, giving them a direct sen will be in charge of the day-to-day cooperation, including look at the legal dilemmas facing startups today and a chance the monthly advice sessions in DTU Skylab. to see young lawyers advising startups and showing the value of good and straight-forward advice. “Our society is dependent on green innovation. At Kromann Reumert, we have advised and are advising many different green tech DTU Skylab companies and entrepreneurs – we know – where it begins where the legal pitfalls are that one must be aware of, from the very start.” DANISH ENTREPRENEURSHIP AWARD Torben Waage, Partner In November of 2016, four of our assistant attorneys participated in the Danish Entreprenurship Award, hosted by The Danish Foundation for Entrepreneurship, and were on hand to discuss with some 6,000 young entrepreneurs-to-be. Kromann Reumert sparred with the young talents about the legal difficulties that may arise when an idea turn into a success. In late 2015, 29 BRINGING THE LAW TO THE YOUNG LEGAL ADVICE TO SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURS THROUGH We have had for a number of years now a most rewarding colTHE LEX MUNDI PRO BONO FOUNDATION laboration with a number of primary schools to present law and As part of our collaboration with Lex Mundi, we also support the the legal profession to ninth-graders. Wanting to reach a wider Lex Mundi Pro Bono Foundation. audience and convey all the exciting things about law, we have chosen to re-think and develop our concept so that we can meet “Our mission at the Lex Mundi Pro Bono Foundation is clear: soeven more young and enthusiastic people across the country. In cial entrepreneurs will be more successful at tackling the worlds’ the autumn of 2017, therefore, we will pay a visit to two schools biggest challenges if they have access to quality pro bono legal in Copenhagen, highlighting some of the legal problems that advice from lawyers in the Lex Mundi global network. Social young people may run into when interacting on social media. enterprises will scale faster, serve more people, expand more We look forward to presenting the concept in more detail later quickly to new territories, raise more money, and have greater this year. success.” (Lex Mundi Pro Bono Foundation) LEX MUNDI This spring we will be advising, among other parties, a social We are the only Danish law firm to be a member of the internaventure called Convergence. Convergence is a global platform tional Lex Mundi organisation, consisting of more than 21,000 that generates a flow of credible investment opportunities in lawyers in 160 of the world’s leading law firms spanning more emerging and frontier markets from a network of leading inthan a hundred countries. vestors and financiers. The platform allows private and public funders to blend their capital, creating more financially attracKromann Reumert is an active participant in the many Lex Mundi tive, high-quality deals. Convergence is now proposing to offer forums. Earlier this year, partners Claus Juel Hansen and Jørgen foreign development investment opportunities, principally of a Kjergaard Madsen attended the Lex Mundi Leadership Summit public-private blended finance nature, to sophisticated investors and Annual Conference, with 200 lawyers drafting Lex Mundi’s in Denmark. Kromann Reumert’s contribution will be to advise new strategy plan 2018-2020, and in spring Kromann Reumert on applicable financial regulations. hosted the Lex Mundi International Tax Practice Group seminar and networking event. “As one of our Lex Mundi contact persons I am a frequent participant in Lex Mundi conferences, and it is always a pleasure to take part in the management and strategic work to ensure that members can always benefit from the possibility of mutual inspiration to become even better law firms. Also, it is an opportunity to reconnect with valued cooperating partners and receive inspiration for business opportunities in an international context,” says Claus Juel Hansen, Partner. KROMANN REUMERT DENMARK IS STILL THE CSR REPORT 2017 WORLD’S LEAST CORRUPT COUNTRY Each year, we assist Transparency International Danmark in its assessment of the Danish authorities’ efforts to fight corruption. And again in 2017 Denmark could take pride in being the least corrupt country in the world. Fighting corruption is an important part In Transparency International’s most reICC ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMISSION of our own work and the work we percent Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), We cooperate with many Danish comform for our clients. With the growing Denmark obtained a score of 90 out of panies which have a broad global perinternationalisation, an increasing num100. This makes Denmark and New Zeaspective. It is therefore important that ber of our clients operate in regions land the least corrupt countries in the we can continue putting anti-corruption where they have to deal with corruption. world. At the other end of the scale on the agenda. One way to do that is with scores of 12, 11 and 10 points we through our membership of the ICC Transparency International is one of the find North Korea, South Sudan, and SoAnti-Corruption Commission, a task NGOs that are most active in fighting malia. CPI measures the perceived level group set up by the International Chamcorruption and bribery all over the world. of corruption in the public sector in 175 ber of Commerce (ICC). Since we started cooperating with Transcountries and territories on a scale from parency International Denmark, we have 0-100. assisted the organisation in assessing the Danish authorities’ efforts to comply with the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials. RANK COUNTRY 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 Denmark 91 92 91 90 2 New Zealand 91 91 88 90 3 Finland 89 89 90 89 4 Sweden 89 87 89 88 5 Switzerland 85 86 86 86 6 Norway 86 86 87 85 31 DANSK ERHVERVSLIV STÅR SAMMEN OM DANMARKS INDSAMLING Skal jeres virksomhed også nå at være med? Ring 70 10 52 52 i morgen aften fra kl. 19 og giv jeres bidrag. Danmarks 12 største humanitære organisationer og DR samler ind sammen med resten af Danmark til 12 konkrete projekter i udviklingslande over hele verden NO CHILD SHOULD STARVE CSR REPORT 2017 Kromann Reumert and staff have supported Danmarks Indsamling, a Danish national fundraising campaign, for many years and did so again this year. We advertised the campaign through posters in our offices in Copenhagen and Aarhus, and our canteens at both locations highlighted the charity collection by offering a taste of the peanut butter which UNICEF uses to help fight malnutrition among the children of Madagascar. A fitting reflection on the slogan for this year’s collection: No child should starve. This year, Kromann Reumert’s employees collected DKK 20,000, THE WORLD’S BEST NEWS which we rounded up and then quadrupled to donate a total of The Danish humanitarian organisations have, together with the DKK 125,000 to the collection. UN and Danida, launched the campaign The World’s Best News. The campaign is aimed at all businesses wishing to tell the posThe Danish development organisations “I want to thank all who donated to the colitive stories about the progress made in developing countries. In cooperation with DANIDA and UN lection and all who contribute to Kromann We have supported The World’s Best News for several years and continued doing so in 2016. Reumert’s pro bono efforts as part of their daily work. By supporting charitable organiImportant progress has been made in the world over the last sations whether by donations or by offering decades. Life expectancy and income levels have increased all legal advice free of charge we are helping over the world. The world population lives longer in nine out the organisations do what they do best: of ten countries, four out of five can now read and write, and helping children in some of the world’s the least developed countries now earn almost three times as much as in 1990. And that, in a nutshell, is what The World’s poorest regions!” Best News is all about spreading the good stories. Among the Arne Møllin Ottosen, Managing Partner reported news in 2016 was the news that the price of HIV medicine has decreased dramatically, making the medicine available GOODWINGS to far more people across the globe. Malaria has been eradicaKromann Reumert has signed up with Goodwings. Consequentted in Argentina, Morocco and Sri Lanka. In Nigeria and Gambia, ly, when our employees book hotel rooms whether for private female circumcision was banned. A number of African countries or professional purposes a share of the price is donated to are decreasingly dependent on foreign aid, i.a. because their charity. Goodwings has removed all marketing expenses from own taxation capabilities have improved. And the world manaits business model by entering into cooperation agreements ged to stop the Ebola virus disease before it got out of control. with corporations directly and by promoting its services through Those were just some of the good news. Hopefully, the shared selected NGOs, all committed to FN’s 17 Global Goals for Suefforts of the nations of the world to achieve the UN’s 17 Global stainable Development. This means half the profit on a purchase Goals for Sustainable Development (the SDG’s) will give us more goes to charity. good news to report. You can read more about Kromann Reumert’s work to help achieve the 17 SDG’s and about our comKROMANN REUMERT SUPPORTS REACH FOR CHANGE mitment to the UN Global Compact on page 34. Goodwings allows corporations to choose for themselves which project to support, out of a list of worthy causes. Kromann Reu“It is important that we communicate the message that devemert has chosen to support Reach for Change, an international lopment efforts pay off, that we spread news about the pronon-profit organization that works locally to support and give gress made in the developing countries, and that we encourage capacity to social entrepreneurs that work to make life better for others to contribute to the 17 goals not only internally, but children through renewable and sustainable solutions. also in relation to our clients and business partners,” says Arne Møllin Ottosen, Managing Partner. 33 THE 17 GLOBAL GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In September 2008, Kromann Reumert joined the UN Global Compact, an international initiative to promote corporate social responsibility. Being one of the most important and internationally recognised tools, Global Compact helps us take social responsibility. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Tina Larsen wants to show that small “It’s important that Danish In September 2008, Kromann Reumert and medium-sized enterprises also have businesses can inspire each joined the UN Global Compact, an interan important role to play when it comes other to work wholeheartednational initiative to promote corporate to creating a sustainable world commusocial responsibility. Being one of the nity and that the efforts that they put ly and in a structured manmost important and internationally recinto CSR initiatives will prove hugely rener with CSR, the 10 Global ognised tools, Global Compact helps us warding to them in the long run. Compact principles, and the take social responsibility. 17 Global Goals for SustainWE DEMAND CERTAIN STANDARD able Development. Many of All members must support Global ComOF OUR SUPPLIERS them already do and in a pact and its 10 principles that are based We seek as far as possible to use suppliway that boosts both their on the United Nations’ work to improve ers that have adopted an ambitious CSR human rights, labour standards, envipolicy and/or meet the 10 UN Global financial, green, and social ronment, and anti-corruption initiatives. Compact principles or similar principles. bottom lines. We need to Also, members undertake to enter into This applies both in relation to existing keep at it, and with an even partnerships that make a positive differand new suppliers, and we will continue stronger Danish network we ence we, on our part, do this through giving weight to an ambitious CSR policy will hopefully become even our pro bono work, among other things. when choosing new suppliers. more leading on the global In 2016, Tina Larsen, CFO, joined a market.” Danish steering group under UN Global Tina Larsen, CFO Compact. She and its other members, representatives of major Danish corporations such as Pandora, Novo Nordisk, DONG, Danfoss and Egmont, are working to establish a stronger UN Global Compact network in Denmark and find ways in which Danish businesses can contribute to achieving the 17 Global Goals agreed by world leaders at the UN Summit in New York in September 2015. KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 COOPERATION WITH CHORA Being an organisation working for a suCONNECTION: 17 POSTERS FOR stainable society, Chora Connection has 17 GLOBAL GOALS initiated a poster campaign 17FOR17 Together with Kromann Reumert’s Coin which 17 high-profile Danish designpenhagen Employee Art Group we focus ers each interpret a Global Goal. These on UN’s 17 Global Goals in an exhibition 17 interpretations will be exhibited in in our Copenhagen employee canteen in Kromann Reumert’s Copenhagen emJuly and August. ployee canteen in July and August. In addition, the 17 posters will be exhibited The 17 Global Goals were adopted in e.g. in the UN City, at the People’s Polit2015 by 193 UN member states that have ical Festival, in the UN Headquarters in all undertaken to solve the largest global New York, and in the Dome of Visions problems by 2030. Denmark is therefore in Aarhus. greatly responsible for supporting a sustainable global development and for realising the goals within a Danish context. 35 KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 37 THE INDEPENDENT LEGAL THINK TANK JUSTITIA Justitia is an independent organisation with a long-term ambition to focus on law as a discipline, the due process of law, and civil rights. It has published a large number of analyses dealing with subjects such as civil rights, human rights, surveillance, litigation, and due process of law. The analyses are intended to “move society in a direction where civil rights and fundamental human rights enjoy more respect” as stated on its website. Since 2014, Justitia has operated out of Kromann Reumert’s Copenhagen premises. Using analyses and advocacy, the think tank, in the course of its so far relatively short existence, has achieved more than note-worthy results. Among its achievements, Justitia has helped create awareness of the due process concerns relating to the Danish logging rules and has formed an alliance with 20 other parties and organisations, among them the telecommunications industry, the Confederation of Danish Industry, the Confederation of Danish Employers, the Union of Commercial and Clerical Employees in Denmark, Horesta, the IT business, etc., and has also been invited to meetings with Danish Ministry of Justice of“If you look at Denmark, we live in a good ficials to comment on the legislative work. Also, Justitia helped and free country compared to other counbring about the recent abolition of the Danish ban on blasphetries. But there is still a trend towards a my, successfully advocated the establishment of a freedom of speech commission, brought reinforced focus on the need for gradual weakening of due process and of the greater control with intelligence agencies, and much more. rights of both citizens and businesses. In my view, we should not take it for granted that For two consecutive years 2015 and 2016 Justitia was named we live in a free democracy. In a historical one of the best new think tanks in the world by the University context, these principles are relatively new of Pennsylvania, USA. and should therefore be protected. And that is what we try to do.” “Justitia is a group of enthusiasts who are passionate about what they do and about the law. Just as we are,” says Arne Jacob Mchangama, Director of Justitia Møllin Ottosen, Managing Partner. Justitia has its own entrance and address at Lautrupsgade, and Kromann Reumert’s and Justitia’s facilities and operations are kept completely separate. KROMANN REUMERT INTEGRATION OF CSR REPORT 2017 THE 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES THE 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES KROMANN REUMERT'S ACTIVITIES HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of interSocial responsibility, page 6 nationally proclaimed human rights.  In-House Lawyer of the Year Award, page 46 Contribution to Danmarks Indsamlingen, page 33 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in The independent legal think tank Justitia, page 38 human rights abuses. Whistleblower-schemes, page 44 Personal data and compliance, page 44 LABOUR We demand certain standards of our suppliers, page 34 We share The World's Best News, page 33 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Collaboration with Goodwings, page 33 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The 17 Global Goals for Sustainable Development, page 34 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of Collaboration with Chora Connection, page 35 forced and compulsory labour. Pro bono: Children, young people and education, page 26 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child laLex Mundi Pro Bono Foundation, page 30 bour. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of emLABOUR ployment and occupation. Modern management, page 6 ENVIRONMENT Employee development, page 10 Employee satisfaction, page 13 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to enviEmployees with an international mindset, page 22 ronmental challenges. Employees and working conditions, page 24 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater enNew talents, page 18 vironmental responsibility. Health, page 14 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Fathers on paternity leave, page 13 of environmentally friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Environment and climate, page 41 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI-CORRUPTION We make compliance easier for Danish businesses, page 44 We cooperate with Transparency International, page 31 We contribute to the development of the Danish business community, page 40 We are member of the ICC Anti-Corruption Commission, page 31 39 WE PARTICIPATE IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF DANISH BUSINESSES We are responsible for contributing to the Danish business community also through other means than our advisory services. That’s why we participate in a number of forums, committees, etc., where our expert knowledge contributes to growth and development. ANDERS LAVESEN MARIANNE PHILIP Partner and member of VL Group 3 (Company Management Partner, adjunct professor at CBS, and chairman of the Danish Group), which includes current and former chief executives and Committee on Foundation Governance directors from enterprises such as A. P. Møller – Mærsk, Arla Foods, ATP, BIG, Carlsberg, CBS, Coloplast, Danish Crown, Dan“Commercial foundations play a key role in the Danish business ske Bank, Deloitte, DI, DONG Energy, DR, Grundfos, Copenhasector. Not only do they own some of Denmark’s largest entergen University, LEO Pharma, Lundbeckfonden, McKinsey, Norprises, but many medium-sized enterprises also have commerdea, PFA and Tryg. cial foundations as their principal shareholders. I can contribute to the work by improving the quality of directorships in many “Many of Kromann Reumert’s partners are Danish businesses and thereby contribute to growth and busimembers of so-called VL Groups (Company ness development”, says Marianne. Management Groups), because such memCLAUS JUEL HANSEN berships help us understand what is going Partner and member of the board of the Association of Danish on in the Danish business sector. My inLawyers. volvement and participation in the VL Group meetings help me broaden my horizon and “There are a great many important issues that need to be adprovide me with interesting perspectives on dressed in the Association of Danish Lawyers, among them the need to ensure that the legal profession is constantly alert and the development in the Danish business secable to meet the increasing demands of the business sector and tor and in society in general. Consequently, that our regulatory framework remains up-to-date, preserving I consider the group to be an important part the integrity and independence of Danish lawyers”, says Claus. of Kromann Reumert’s and my network and knowledge base”. CARSTEN FODE Anders Lavesen, Partner Master of Laws, LL.M., adjunct professor at Aarhus University and member of the board of directors of several Danish enterANDERS STUBBE ARNDAL prises, including ARoS Aarhus Art Museum since 2009. Partner and Kromann Reumert’s initiator of the Board Leadership Society in Denmark. “At ARoS we have no clear-cut measure for identifying whether we perform well or not. The financial profit is not the sole deci“Working as a board member is a subject of growing interest, as sive factor. The number of visitors, the quality of the exhibitions, requirements have been increasing in recent years. We see our the ability to attract sponsor support, and the significance to involvement as an opportunity to contribute to upgrading the the local community are all factors of decisive importance,” says work of Danish boards of directors. For this reason, we have deCarsten. veloped together with CBS and EY a board training programme which is the best and most comprehensive programme offered in Denmark”, says Anders. KROMANN REUMERT KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 BOARD LEADERSHIP TRAINING PROGRAMMES AND FOLKEMØDET – THE PEOPLE’S POLITICAL FESTIVAL 2016 BOARD LEADERSHIP MASTERCLASS The People’s Political Festival, held each year on the Danish isCommercial foundations play a prominent role in the Danish land of Bornholm, brings together politicians, opinion makers, business sector as owners of several large Danish enterprises, interest groups, businesses, journalists, and (accounting for a but also a number of minor enterprises are owned by commerlittle over 50 per cent) ‘ordinary’ citizens for four days of decial foundations. The work performed by the board of directors bates and discussions. The Festival, therefore, is an opportunity is therefore crucial. In cooperation with CBS Executive and EY, for Kromann Reumert to share our knowledge, and to pause for Kromann Reumert has developed a Board Leadership training a minute and take a listen to what is on people’s minds. programme and a Board Leadership masterclass for experienced board members. We conduct part of the training, which is based In the tent of the Association of Danish Lawyers, Kromann Reuon real-life cases focusing on management, strategy and added mert invited the public to debate “Commissions of inquiry and value in board work. legal investigations cold storage, pillories, or necessary tools in any state governed by law?” Partner Jens Lund Mosbek debated THINKERS50 PARTNERSHIP the question with municipal chief executive and former head Since 2001, Thinkers50 has selected the 50 most influential of department Peter Loft, journalist and political analyst for DR management thinkers in the world “the Oscars of manageNews Jens Ringberg, chairman of Public Managers in DJØF Henment thinking”. In 2017, Thinkers50 added the conference ning Thiesen, and chairman of the Association of Danish Judges, “Thinkers50 European Business Forum”, which was hosted in High Court Judge Mikael Sjöberg. Denmark and had Kromann Reumert as a partner. Also, Kromann Reumert partners participated in numerous deThe European conference, held in Odense, brought together bates on subjects such as what the consequences of Brexit will the world’s greatest management thinkers and business people be for Denmark; what role boards of corporations can play in for the “Davos of Business Thinking”. Outside Europe, annuensuring growth and a sustainable future; what is and isn’t alal meetings are held in New York, Abu Dhabi and Qingdao in lowed under freedom of speech; and what exactly does the leChina. Speaking at the conference this year were some of the gal protection to architects and designers mean? world’s most influential management thinkers: Michael Porter, Marshall Goldsmith, Peter Fisk, and others. While in Denmark, “Participating in the People’s Political FestiMr Fisk also gave a talk at Kromann Reumert’s offices in Aarhus val is a valuable thing for Kromann Reumert and Copenhagen. because it gives us an opportunity to proIn Kromann Reumert’s Learning Center you can read a selection mote awareness of relevant issues and to give of Thinkers50’s “Letters to the CEOs” put into a broader perpoliticians, opinion makers, and the general spective by Kromann Reumert partners. public a better understanding of the areas in which we operate.” Marianne Philip, Partner 43 WE MAKE COMPLIANCE EASIER FOR DANISH BUSINESSES Compliance is a major focus area for Kromann Reumert. The specialists in our compliance practice group make it easier for businesses to comply with international conventions, codes and ethical guidelines. A special focus area this year has been legal risk management, not least in light of the upcoming General Data Protection Regulation. nesses process, store and transfer large quantities of personal data with no set procedures for internal and external processes. ‘Compliance’ is an elusive concept to many, and judging whether a company is compliant or not can be difficult. And if a company is not compliant, what exactly needs to be done, then? For the past two years, it has been a dedicated focus of ours to help prepare Danish businesses for the new reality that will come with the GDPR, and we will continue our efforts in that regard. Using Insights, podcasts, newsletter and, not least, a succession of seminars, we are helping Danish businesses on their way toward compliance with the new rules. Check our Learning “Corporations can easily lose sight of muCentre to make sure you stay updated. tually affecting risks across contracts, deWHISTLEBLOWER SCHEME partments, or subsidiaries. What legal risk – FOR OURSELVES AND OUR CLIENTS management does is that it uncovers ‘hidden’ Since September 2014, financial businesses have been required risks, including any mutually affecting or to give their employees access to report any suspected breach mutually accumulating risks that just might of the financial regulation through a so-called whistleblower merge into a ‘perfect storm’, even if each scheme. Back then, Kromann Reumert developed software for one of its constituent risks would have been reporting purposes and provided advice to a large number of financial businesses. We continued this work in 2016. manageable had it only been discovered sooner.” We assist financial businesses i.a. in obtaining the required HR Jens Blomgren-Hansen, and whistleblower permissions from the Danish Data Protection Partner Agency, in drafting whistleblower policies and in implementing internal guidelines for the handling of disclosures. Since we THE UPCOMING GENERAL DATA launched our whistleblower system, it has been put into operaPROTECTION REGULATION tion by 31 financial businesses. On 25 May 2018, the EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”) will take effect. That’s a long way off and In connection with the adoption of the Danish Act on Measures a good thing, too, because it will give you time to prepare for to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (the compliance with the new rules. The rules of the GDPR are strictAnti Money Laundering Act), we have set up a whistleblowing er in many areas. Businesses should start preparing for them scheme and adopted an internal whistleblowing policy. The purnow to make the transition as smooth as possible. The GDPR pose therefore is to ensure that all Kromann Reumert employees brings new and stricter rules, including new requirements for can confidentially report any actual or suspected breach of the data security and documentation and new penalties. Many busiAnti Money Laundering Act. KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 Godt nytår? Nytår er tiden, hvor man gør status og kigger frem. 2016 var et godt år, men også et år, der affødte en række udfordringer for dansk erhvervsliv. Nytår er også tiden for nytårsforsætter. Kromann Reumerts nytårsforsæt er at klæde vores klienter bedst muligt på til 2017, så udfordringer kan blive til muligheder − og det nye år kan blive et godt år. Bliv klogere på www.kromannreumert.com/2017 45 IN-HOUSE LAWYER OF THE YEAR AWARD 2016 Mette Valentin, Senior Vice President, Legal and Public Affairs of Scandinavian Tobacco Group won the In-house Lawyer of the Year Award 2016. The award ceremony took place at Kromann Reumert in May 2016. Mette Valentin chose to donate the award for DKK 75,000 to the Danish Refugee Council. THE ROLE OF DANISH IN-HOUSE LAWYERS IN DKK 75,000 TO THE DANISH REFUGEE COUNCIL CORPORATE DENMARK Mette Valentin chose to donate the award for DKK 75,000 An increasing number of Danish businesses are setting up into the Danish Refugee Council. “When I leaned that I had house legal departments, and many businesses are expanding won the In-house Lawyer of the Year award 2016 and was their existing departments. As this trend progresses, Denmark’s able to donate the money to a worthy cause, the first organin-house lawyers play an increasingly strategic and value-adding isation that came to mind was the Danish Refugee Council,” role. According to Mette Valentin, the increasing focus on comshe says. pliance in Danish businesses has raised the demand for in-house lawyers: “Making sure procedures are in order, the whole compliance thing that’s something that is much more of a priority now. It is expected now, as a matter of course, that businesses have these things under control.” KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 “There are millions upon millions of human THE IN-HOUSE LAWYER OF THE YEAR AWARD beings fleeing wars and catastrophes. The The In-house Lawyer of the Year Award was established on the initiative of the Danish Association of In-house Lawyers and Danish Refugee Council is in a position to Kromann Reumert to spotlight the value of in-house lawyers to actually make a difference for some of those Danish businesses. Today, Danish businesses have to cope with many people fighting to sustain themselves increased regulation and an increasing number of requirements. and obtain even the barest of necessities.” In-house legal departments or lawyers are therefore no longer Mette Valentin, Senior Vice President, confined to large international groups since even small businessLegal and Public Affairs of es may need qualified legal assistance. The increasing number of in-house lawyers contributes to professionalising the Danish Scandinavian Tobacco Group business community. 47 ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE Our staff in Facilities Services and in our employee canteens continuously endeavour to reduce our CO2 emissions and work determinedly to identify new, more effective methods and better products and materials to help us reach our goals. Once again, their commitment has enabled us to achieve good results within the areas of environment and climate. 33.5% REDUCTION IN HEAT CONSUMPTION SINCE 2010 During the past several years, we have been focusing on reducing our heat consumption, e.g. by installing adjusted radiators and new windows in our Aarhus offices and by trimming the heating system in our Copenhagen offices. Furthermore, we have moved around and now take up less square metres, which has resulted in a reduction of our heat consumption from 2,777,000 kWh in 2010 to 1,848,000 kWh in 2016. INCREASED FOCUS ON GREEN ENERGY AND SOLAR CELLS ON THE ROOF We regularly test new light sources and switch to LED light bulbs in order to reduce our electricity consumption, which among other things has led to a 0.6 % reduction in our electricity con“It is important for us to find a natural and sumption compared to 2015. reasonable level for our consumption. We therefore continuously endeavour to mainKromann Reumert will continue the climate cooperation with tain and improve our consumption levels by DONG that started 6 years ago. And in 2017 and 2018 we will introducing initiatives such as solar cells increase our focus on green energy and on reducing our impact and waste sorting.” on environment. For example, we will install solar cells on the roof of our office building in Copenhagen, which we expect will Anders Wiedemann, COO cover up to 10% of the electricity consumed in our Copenhagen LESS WASTE, BUT MORE FOR RECYCLING offices. Last year we reported a 13 % increase in our waste. We were of course unhappy about that development and therefore conOur Copenhagen kitchen chef has conceived a way to combine centrated our efforts on reducing the volume of waste. The efour environmental efforts with the health of our employees. In fect of those efforts can be seen already now, so this year we the autumn of 2017 he will install beehouses at Kromann Reucan report a 7.5 % reduction compared to 2015. We will now mert. This will benefit environment and will keep us self-suffiexamine how we can continue reducing the volume of waste cient in honey. By using honey in our cooking, we will minimize and send more of it off for recycling. We hope to achieve this the use of refined sugar, which will benefit the health of our e.g. by increasing our focus on waste sorting. employees. KROMANN REUMERT NEW DISHWASHER REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION Unfortunately we saw a minor increase in our water consumption from 2015 to 2016. We attacked that increase already in early 2017 by installing a new dishwasher in our kitchen in Copenhagen. The new dishwasher has already reduced our electricity, water and soap consumption considerably. LESS CO2 EMISSION E.G. BY EATING CLIMATE-FRIENDLY FOOD AND AVOIDING FOOD WASTE From 2015 to 2016 we achieved a 5.3 % reduction in our CO2 emission. Our kitchens deserve a large part of the credit for that achievement. In Kromann Reumert’s canteens, our kitchen chefs focus not just on our health, but also on reducing our impact on the planet. “We can reduce our emission of CO2 by acting with care every day for example when we cook and when we shop. Eating climate-friendly food will generate spin-off benefits, because this type of foods is healthier and often less expensive.” Mads Præstmark, Kitchen Manager in Copenhagen Many of us are used to focusing first on meat and subsequently on accompaniments. In our canteens we do it the other way around and base our meals on the vegetables. This implies that we increase our focus on seasonal foods, on creating a diversity of colours and consistency, and on using the unexploited potential of the kitchen cupboards and the neighbourhood nature. If we produce more food than needed on a given day, the food will be used as evening meals, which means that we hardly ever throw out food. Any leftovers are collected and used for animal feed. ABOUT KROMANN REUMERT Kromann Reumert is dedicated to providing the best legal services in the market. We are a knowledge-based firm and our product is inside the head of our employees who advise clients every day. We are Denmark's preeminent law firm with offices in CopenKromann Reumert's history dates back to 1889, and we draw hagen, Aarhus and London. We are approximately 470 employon our many years of experience every day when assisting some ees, a little more than half of whom are lawyers. They specialise of Denmark's leading companies. Our mission is to provide valin a variety of legal areas and work every day to set the standard ue-adding solutions and advice with commitment and dedicain the legal profession. tion, and we do that based on our values: spirited teamwork, quality, commercial understanding, and credibility. These values Kromann Reumert is a partner-owned firm. The partnership is define us as a law firm and the services we offer to our clients based on the principle of equal sharing which ensures that we every day. work together to achieve the best possible solution for our clients no matter who they contact. ABOUT THE REPORT This is Kromann Reumert's seventh CSR Report and our seventh Communication on Progress (COP) to be submitted to the UN Global Compact once a year. With this CSR report, we want to give our clients, employees We also describe our CSR work on the basis of the 10 UN Global and other stakeholders an understanding of Kromann Reumert Compact principles see more on page 36. and the way we work with CSR. The report focuses in particular on our pro-bono work which is an important part of our CSR work and which reflects our desire to do what we do best: providing legal advice. KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2017 51 KROMANN REUMERT Kromann Reumert’s vision is “We set the standard”. We are not content with being great we want to be the best. We offer value-adding solutions and advice with dedication and focus. We are driven by our four core values: quality, commercial understanding, spirited teamwork, and credibility. We are Denmark's leading law firm with offices in Copenhagen, Aarhus and London. COPENHAGEN AARHUS LONDON LAW FIRM SUNDKROGSGADE 5 RÅDHUSPLADSEN 3 65 ST. PAUL’S CHURCHYARD WWW.KROMANNREUMERT.COM DK-2100 COPENHAGEN Ø DK-8000 AARHUS C LONDON EC4M 8AB TEL +45 70 12 12 11
