Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report A MORE Beautiful World 2016 > When you click, you will be directed to the pages you want to review. Corporate Overview 2016 Highlights 2016 Sustainability 2020 Sustainability Appendix Performance Commitments > CEO Message 06 > Expanding Global Business Activities 32 > 2016 Performance for Sustainability 48 > Sustainability Vision 94 > Independent Assurance Statement 109 > Brand Portfolio 08 > Strengthening Brand Value 35 > Sustainability Management Structure 49 > Sustainability Focus Area 95 > Verification Statement GHG Inventory 111 > Business Overview 18 > Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation 37 > Amorepacific > Sustainability Commitments 96 > GRI G4 Index 112 > Vision 20 > Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship 40 -­­­­­ Innovation for Customers 50 > About This Report 116 > AP WAY 21 > Strengthening Sustainability of Partners 42 Harmony with Nature 56 > Financial Performance 22 > Response to Product Quality and 44 Harmonious Growth 62 > Governance 25 Safety Issues Sharing for Society 72 > Ethical Management 26 > innisfree 82 > Risk Management 27 > ETUDE 86 > Materiality Analysis 28 > eSpoir 88 > Stakeholder Communication 29 > AMOS Professional 89 > AESTURA 90 > Osulloc Farm 91 1 2 3 4 5 Corporate Corporate Overview 1 Overview CEO Message Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication Changing the World 2016 Highlights 2 through Asian Beauty Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Since its establishment in 1945, Amorepacific Group Strengthening Sustainability of Partners has single-mindedly pursued its calling to transform the Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues world through Asian beauty, which emphasizes harmony 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability and balance. We aim to fulfill our vision of delivering the Sustainability Management Structure infinite possibilities and power of beauty to our customers Amorepacific Innovation for Customers around the world. Toward this end, we have continuously Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth improved our business operations, and created Sharing for Society numerous best-in-class products while also developing innisfree ETUDE groundbreaking products through innovative research. eSpoir AMOS Professional We continue our journey as a great company committed to AESTURA sustainable growth. Osulloc Farm 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments 1 Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 6 1. Corporate Overview 7 Corporate Overview 1 Message CEO Message CEO Message First, we will be pursuing numerous activities aimed at raising awareness about the importance of sustainable lifestyles and the social Brand Portfolio and environmental impacts of consumer choices. Towards this, Amorepacific Group is implementing a sustainability strategy designed Business Overview to minimize our social and environmental footprint by taking into account the entire lifecycle of our products – from research and Vision development to the end-user stage. Simultaneously, we are integrating sustainability principles into our operations in our retail stores and AP WAY Financial Performance with our customer service experiences, while also increasing our efforts on cause-related marketing to invite our customers to participate Governance in ethical and sustainable consumption. Ethical Management Risk Management Second, in order to become a sustainable company which enables inclusive growth, Amorepacific Group will continue to support the Materiality Analysis To create A MORE Beautiful World, professional and personal development of our employees and business partners and double our efforts on women’s empowerment and Stakehoder Communication local community development. In this regard, we will continuously focus on creating great place to work for our employees where workwe are fully committed to life balance is respected and all of our employees can thrive. We will also contribute to inclusive growth by actively supporting our business 2016 Highlights 2 partners and suppliers. With our strategic social investment projects, we are committed to advancing the health and well-being as well as working with diligence, honesty and patience. Expanding Global Business Activities economic empowerment and independence of women, and will contribute to creating a society where all members can enjoy the beauty Strengthening Brand Value and culture and live a healthy life. Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Third, we will be fully integrating circular economic principles into all corporate activities and processes and using all natural resources Strengthening Sustainability of Partners in a highly efficient and environmentally sustainable way to demonstrate our leadership on conservation of nature and environmental Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues ecosystem. By increasing the use of renewable energy, we will reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, ultimately lowering the emission of greenhouse gas from our business practices. We will also improve resource efficiency and increase the reusability of water waste to 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 proactively address global water scarcity and climate change issues. 2016 Performance for Sustainability Since we were founded more than 70 years ago, Amorepacific Group has always been guided by one big dream: changing the world Sustainability Management Structure through beauty. To realize this dream, we have been striving to deliver the value of our unique Asian Beauty to all customers. We are proud Finally, as a responsible global citizen, we support the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact regarding human rights, labor, the Amorepacific of the performance and outstanding accomplishments we have achieved in 2016, amidst an ever-more competitive business environment environment, and anti-corruption, and we are putting every effort into fully integrating these principles into our corporate strategies Innovation for Customers and rising market uncertainties. By strengthening our leadership on digital and mobile innovation we are attracting more engagement Harmony with Nature and operations. Furthermore, our “2020 Sustainability Commitments” will actively address various priorities of the UN Sustainable from young tech-savvy customers who look for unique shopping experiences. This has allowed us to build a portfolio of successful brands Harmonious Growth Development Goals (SDGs), and we will join the international community’s efforts on sustainable development. in various global markets and to become the leading cosmetic company representing Asian beauty and its wisdom. Sharing for Society innisfree We started small when we first began our journey. We always remind ourselves that we are not only producing cosmetic products, but Even with this success, this is only a beginning. We remind ourselves every day that we will need to work harder and focus more to fully ETUDE also increasing our customers’ joy and confidence through Asia’s health and beauty wisdom. Similarly, instead of being satisfied with our realize our dream of changing the world through beauty. By going back to the basics where we first started, it is time to reaffirm our eSpoir rapid growth and successful financial performance, we continuously challenge ourselves to fulfill our corporate responsibility to deliver commitment to beatifying humanity and enthusiastically embrace our role as a responsible global corporate citizen. To create A MORE AMOS Professional economic, social and environmental values to our stakeholders. To become a truly great company, Amorepacific Group is prepared to travel AESTURA beautiful world, we are fully committed to working with diligence, honesty and patience. further than we ever have before. Osulloc Farm “2020 Sustainability Commitments” introduced in 2016 is our promise to customers, the environment, and society, and is a moral compass for our efforts for the next generation. With three focus areas and eight commitments, we seek to enrich the quality of life of our We would like to ask for your continuous support and interest on our way towards the greater future of Amorepacific Group. Thank you. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 customers, ensure equitable social development, and reinforce the sustainability and health of our environment. Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments April, 2017 Kyung-bae Suh, Chairman & CEO of Amorepacific Group Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 8 1. Corporate Overview 9 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand Portfolio Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society innisfree ETUDE eSpoir Holistic Beauty from Asian Wisdom AMOS Professional Inspired by Asian philosophy which values harmony and balance of body and mind, AESTURA Sulwhasoo blends time-honored Asian medicinal herbs and modern technology to Osulloc Farm offer holistic skincare. Based upon scientific research on skin aging processes combined with rare and indigenous natural herbal ingredients, we offer ultimate skin 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 solutions that treat the skin from deep inside. Our products comfort your body and Sustainability Vision mind through relaxing scents and rich texture, and optimize skin care effects through Sustainability Focus Area Asian beauty rituals. Experience holistic beauty drawn from Asian wisdom with Sulwhasoo. Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 10 1. Corporate Overview 11 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society innisfree ETUDE eSpoir AMOS Professional Unleash the Sparkling Beauty in You Presenting Blooming Beauty of Flowers to You! AESTURA LANEIGE pursues Sparkling Beauty. Not just only in the form of clear, transparent and Through advanced research on flowers in search of the root of true beauty, Osulloc Farm glowing skin, but we also seek to unleash that dazzling charm within you. Mamonde re-invents beauty from the amazing power and energy that derives from flowers. LANEIGE goes beyond the infinite possibilities of moisture. We lead with an open mind, Blooming beauty of flowers are integrated into all of our products. As a leading 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 create trends with new energy, and transform women’s lives every day, Global Masstige Brand with strong presence in China and ASEAN countries, our products Sustainability Vision making them more beautiful. deliver beauty to customers around the world. Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 12 1. Corporate Overview 13 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society innisfree ETUDE eSpoir AMOS Professional Natural Benefit from Jeju, innisfree Life is sweet, Make Today Sweeter! AESTURA innisfree-‘an island that gives freedom and life to our skin’-is a natural brand committed to Born as the very first make-up brand in Korea, ETUDE has been realizing every woman’s Osulloc Farm providing customers with healthy beauty inspired by the pristine nature of Jeju Island. sweet dream for spreading its charming ‘fun and easy Make-up Play Culture’. ETUDE has As a leading eco-friendly green cosmetic brand, we pursue a beautiful dream in preserving been loved as a K-beauty brand, leading young beauty trends in the global market. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 natural wellness and healthy skin. Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 14 1. Corporate Overview 15 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand Portfolio Exceptional Beauty from Seoul Sprout Energy for the Prime Moments Business Overview of Skin Vitality Vision AP WAY HERA has led the superb aesthetical sense of korean women by Combining two words, prime and era, primera vitalizes the skin by Financial Performance Governance harmonizing the new with the beauty of the times and now, HERA maximizing its nourishment through sprout energy and realizes new Ethical Management is announcing a new iconic woman, Seoulista, under the theme of possibilities, opportunities, and hopes by delivering positive energy Risk Management exceptional beauty from Seoul. in an environment and community where we co-exist. Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Leading the Way to Vitalizing Skin Artisan Beauty Brand that Delivers the Mystery Strengthening Sustainability of Partners through Phyto-bio Science of Botanicals Found by the Discerning Eye Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues of Asians with Phyto-fluidics™ The flagship brand of Amorepacific Corp. representing the 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 IOPE achieves the best possible technology for 2016 Performance for Sustainability company’s history and philosophy in beauty, Amorepacific specializes Sustainability Management Structure vitalizing skin through phyto-bio science and in anti-aging skin care products which provide fast action through Amorepacific cutting-edgy scientific technology. carefully selected Asian botanicals and advanced delivery technology. Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society innisfree ETUDE eSpoir Inner Beauty Solutions for Your Healthy AMOS Professional Global Premium Haircare Brand and Beautiful Look AESTURA Made of Oriental Herbal Science Osulloc Farm Based upon scientific research and analysis of contemporary Ryo is a premium hair care brand that successfully delivers the value lifestyles on body and mind, VITALBEAUTIE brings a better quality 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 of real results by incorporating fundamental care to your hair and in life tailed to individual lifestyles. We offer holistic solutions to Sustainability Vision scalp through the carefully selected herbal ingredients and the improve your beauty and health by analyzing diet, nutrition, and Sustainability Focus Area oriental principles that originate from Korea. exercise patterns. Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 16 1. Corporate Overview 17 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message French High Perfumery House Korean Nature by Happy Moment: A Body Care Healthy Hair with Fresh Pop Brand Portfolio Inspired by Emotion Mother’s Wisdom Brand Committed to Business Overview Delivering Happiness Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Professional Makeup Brand Fast Beauty Icon! Customized Healthy Tea and Jeju Offer Relaxation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship A Reasonable and Sensational Solutions for My Teeth of Life and Spiritual Beauty Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Beauty Brand Reflecting the Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Hottest Trends – ARITAUM 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society innisfree ETUDE eSpoir Prestige Marine Brand A Hair Care and Styling Brand Style Expression by Professional Prestige Beauty Device Brand Medical Beauty Cosmetics AMOS Professional Conveying Sincerity of Pristine and Leading Hair Trends Changing Skin Care Routine Leveraging Extensive Dermatology AESTURA Vibrant Vtality of Marine Being Research and Technologies Osulloc Farm 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 18 1. Corporate Overview 19 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message History of Global Business Overview Brand Portfolio Expansion by Brand Business Overview Vision AP WAY Sales (KRW bn) Financial Performance 2002 Hong kong Employees (Number of Persons) Governance China ▲ Year-over-year change Ethical Management ● Location of Headquarter and Subsidiaries ■ Countries with Brand Launched 2003 Singapore Risk Management Materiality Analysis 2004 Hong kong U.S. Stakehoder Communication Canada New Zealand 2016 Highlights 2 2005 Vietnam China Expanding Global Business Activities Taiwan Europe North America Strengthening Brand Value 53.9 ▲ 6.7% 51.2 ▲5.5% Sales Sales Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation 2006 Thailand Malaysia Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Employees 189 Korea 1) Employees 100 Strengthening Sustainability of Partners 5,049.4 ▲13.7% 2007 Thailand Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Sales 2008 Brunei Indonesia 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Employees 7,136 Malaysia 2016 Performance for Sustainability 2009 Vietnam Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Asia 2010 U.S. Philippines Myanmar Innovation for Customers Taiwan 1,543.1 ▲ 37.6% Sales Harmony with Nature Philippines Harmonious Growth 3,856 2) Employees 2011 China Japan Sharing for Society Brunei innisfree ETUDE 2012 Taiwan China Singapore eSpoir Singapore Hong Kong AMOS Professional Thailand AESTURA 2013 Malaysia Indonesia Thailand Hong Kong China Osulloc Farm Vietnam India Indonesia Singapore 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision 2014 Taiwan Malaysia Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments * Sales figures from the Amorepacific Group’s 2016 Consolidated Statement of Financial Positions. 2015 Thailand 1) The Republic of Korea. 2) The number of Asian employees exclude those who are indirectly employed by our Chinese subsidiary (12,511 people). Appendix 5 2016 Canada Malaysia Vietnam Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 20 1. Corporate Overview 21 Corporate Overview 11 CEO Message Vision AP WAY Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision In 2016, Amorepacific Group announced the “Vision 2025: A Great Company” which articulates its ambitious goal AP WAY is the essence and foundational spirit of Amorepacific Group that we have nurtured and developed since AP WAY of becoming a truly great company in the global beauty market in order to contribute to making the world more we began our business. The AP WAY articulates our core beliefs, common vision and a set of standards for action Financial Performance beautiful and healthier. With this vision, we are further strengthening the foundation of our continued sustainable that we should embrace in our day-to-day life. We at Amorepacific Group are fully committed to integrating the AP Governance Ethical Management growth by focusing on global market expansion, developing innovative products, implementing digital innovation WAY in every step of our great journey as we serve as pioneers in the world of beauty through ongoing innovation. Risk Management to improve customer experience, and refining the singularity of our brand. Additionally, we are accelerating our Materiality Analysis effort to be more environmentally sustainable and socially responsible by minimizing our environmental footprint Our core belief that defines our purpose and mission as the Asian Beauty Creator. Stakehoder Communication and strengthening our harmonious relationship with all of our stakeholders. Our Vocation Vision 2025 2016 Highlights 2 A Great Company Expanding Global Business Activities “We exist to change the world through beauty” Strengthening Brand Value | Service to Humanity | | Respect for Individuals | | Creation of the Future | Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners These five core values and virtues help us tell right from wrong and virtues that we all Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues With an ambitious goal of should hold. G R EAT GLO B A L Our Values becoming one of the global Global Top 3 Achieving 50% of our 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 top 3 players and Asia’s number Asia’s Number 1 Overall Sales from 2016 Performance for Sustainability 1 beauty company, Amorepacific Beauty Brand Overseas Markets GREAT Sustainability Management Structure Group is implementing a new Openness Integrity Innovation Proximity Challenge Amorepacific mid-/long-term strategy to COMPANY Innovation for Customers accelerate its global growth Amorepacific employees strives to be a Creative Master who is seeking to fulfill our purpose Harmony with Nature through product and B RA ND AP Talent: and mission. Harmonious Growth brand innovation. Strengthening Brand Creative Sharing for Society Singularity and Master innisfree Uniqueness Engagement Professionalism Creativity Empathy ETUDE eSpoir AMOS Professional AESTURA · Attaining Qualitative Growth AP Minds is the code of conduct that we all must follow, and outlines 10 principles of actions. Osulloc Farm GREAT · Achieving Workplace and Product Innovation Our Code of Our Strory Story about People Story about Our Work · Strengthening Harmonious Relationships with Stakeholders Conduct: around Us and the World 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 AP Minds Sustainability Vision · Accelerating Global Growth Based on a Four-pillar Strategy 1. I am the pride of Amorepacific 5. Be the first to give 7. Customers decide Sustainability Focus Area GLOBAL (Korea, China, ASEAN, and North America) 2. Who am I becoming 6. Commit to customers, the environment and ourselves 8. Think more, question more · Exploring New Global Markets (Middle East, Europe, and Australia) 3. I am the best of tomorrow 9. Do it now and thoroughly Sustainability Commitments 4. I work and I am happy 10. Go surf the new waves · Strengthening Brand Identities and Values, and Developing Engine Products for Each Brand Appendix 5 BRAND · Enhancing the Capacity of Our Retail and Digital Sales and Marketing through Innovation Story about changing the World · Strengthening Our Global Brand Portfolio Independent Assurance Statement G1. With all these efforts, We create A MORE beautiful world Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 22 1. Corporate Overview 23 Corporate Overview 11 CEO Message Financial Performance Domestic Amorepacific Brand Portfolio Business Activities Amorepacific – the Group’s largest subsidiary – further reinforced the singularity of its portfolio of Business Overview brands with outstanding products and exceptional customer service experiences. The luxury division Vision 2016 was another exceptional year for Amorepacific Group, and it achieved significant growth in sales and accentuated its leadership position in various markets via a portfolio of diverse and differentiated brands AP WAY robust profits both in our home market and other international locations thanks to our singlehanded focus on such as Sulwhasoo, HERA, primera, and VB (VITALBEAUTIE). It also introduced a series of organic and Financial Performance key strategic priorities – global market expansion, digital leadership, and enhanced competitiveness of retail natural cosmetic products, and rolled out new items for senior citizens to meet the emergent demands Governance of its customers. The premium business division, including LANEIGE, IOPE, Mamonde, and HANYUL, Ethical Management distribution channels. In 2016, the Group recorded KRW 6,697.6 billion in sales (18.3% year-over-year growth) strengthened its customer base among young people by employing a wide range of digital marketing Risk Management and KRW 1,082.8 billion in operating profits (18.5% year-over-year growth). activities and launching innovative new products. The mass business division, including Ryo, mise en Materiality Analysis scène, and Happy Bath, continued to concentrate on strategic marketing of its signature products in Stakehoder Communication Amorepacific Group (Unit: KRW bn) haircare and body care. The mass business division also focused on diversifying its customer base by Sales Operating profit Net profit launching “Fresh Pop”, the new natural hair care brand. Osulloc enhanced its brand visibility by expanding 2016 Highlights 2 its offerings of high-value luxury products, and refining its distribution channel. Additionally, Amorepacific Expanding Global Business Activities 6,697.6 ▲ 18.3% further strengthened the capacity and quality of its mobile and e-commerce activities and accentuated the Strengthening Brand Value dynamism of its digital-based shopping environment. Especially, to reinforce the differentiated purchase Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation 5,661.2 experience, we increased investments in off-line store spaces and customer service programs in those Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship 4,711.9 1,082.8 ▲ 18.5% stores. We also further refined our quality assurance and safety management process to offer world-class Strengthening Sustainability of Partners 913.6 products to our customers. 811.5 ▲ 20.4% Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 659.1 673.9 innisfree 497.4 innisfree achieved significant growth in 2016 thanks to a strong sales record of its signature products and 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 new items that focused on their affinity to Jeju Island. innisfree also garnered wider appeal by strengthening 2016 Performance for Sustainability the differentiation of its customers’ experiences at retail stores (e.g., offering café services, and virtual reality Sustainability Management Structure zones), and delivered strong profits due to the popularity of products linked to Jeju Island. Amorepacific 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Innovation for Customers ETUDE Harmony with Nature ETUDE expanded its customer base by launching innovative new products, including “Play 101 Stick,” and Harmonious Growth Amorepacific “Tint My Brows Gel”, and improved net profits through the strong performance of roadshops, ecommerce, Sharing for Society and duty-free shops. Consequently, the company improved its leadership in the make-up category. innisfree Sales year-over-year growth Operating profit year-over-year growth Domestic Sales ETUDE 5,645.4 KRW bn ▲ 18.4% 848.1 KRW bn ▲ 9.7% eSpoir 5,049.4 KRW bn eSpoir eSpoir delivered strong financial performance thanks to the increased sales of major make-up products AMOS Professional that cater to the sensuality trend of the Korean make-up market. With the products developed based year-over-year growth AESTURA innisfree 1) on the expertise of make-up artists and strong customer experience programs, eSpoir strengthened its Osulloc Farm Sales year-over-year growth Operating profit year-over-year growth ▲ 13.7% position as a professional make-up brand. 767.9 KRW bn ▲ 29.7% 196.5 KRW bn ▲ 56.4% Proportion of Domestic Sales AMOS Professional AMOS Professional had strong financial performance thanks to the continued popularity of its signature 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision premium hair salon brand “AYUNCHE,” and it increased brand visibility through various marketing Sustainability Focus Area ETUDE 1) activities. Sustainability Commitments Sales year-over-year growth Operating profit year-over-year growth 75.4% AESTRA 5 316.6 KRW bn 29.5 KRW bn Appendix ▲ 22.8% ▲ 1,153.2% AESTRA achieved solid growth driven by the increased sales of its inner-beauty products as well as a Independent Assurance Statement positive sales record of Atobarrier products – its signature medical beauty brand. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index 1) Financial performance of innisfree and ETUDE are calculated based on domestic sales and exports. About This Report 24 1. Corporate Overview 25 Corporate Overview 11 CEO Message Brand Portfolio International Our overseas business continued to show solid growth due to strong performances from five Governance Business Activities global champion brands: Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree, and ETUDE House. Business Overview Vision In Asia, Amorepacific emphasized the brand uniqueness of Sulwhasoo, whose products are Amorepacific Group is implementing a responsible management system for each business, which is centered on AP WAY the deliberative corporate governance structure of our holding company. Our efforts allow us to professionalize Financial Performance based on traditional Korean herbal medicine wisdom, on the 50th anniversary of ginseng and reinforce our core competency and expertise in beauty and healthcare businesses, which include cosmetic, Governance research. It achieved strong growth in sales by increasing the number of retail stores and personal care, and healthcare products. In addition, our corporate governance structure contributes to achieving Ethical Management enhancing its brand visibility in various online stores. shared goals for all stakeholders, including strong shareholder returns and the disbursement of management risks. Risk Management To strengthen the brand visibility of LANEIGE throughout Asia, Amorepacific rolled out the Materiality Analysis massive global marketing campaign “Sparkling Beauty” and successfully positioned itself as the Board of The Amorepacific Group Board of Directors (BOD) deliberated a total of 11 items during 6 meetings in 2016. Stakehoder Communication Overseas Sales leader of a global entry prestige beauty brand. Directors (BOD) The Group’s outside BOD’s attendance rate was 100%, and its inside BOD’s attendance rate was 93.8%. In 1,648.1KRW bn Amorepacific introduced new Mamonde products in China to reflect the needs of Chinese 2016, Amorepacific – the Group’s largest subsidiary – convened a total of 6 board meetings and made decisions 2016 Highlights 2 customers and further strengthen brand appeal. It also launched shops in department stores in on 12 items. Its outside BOD’s attendance rate was 100%, and its inside BOD’s attendance rate was 100%. Expanding Global Business Activities year-over-year growth ▲ 35.1% Thailand and Malaysia to expand its business activities in the ASEAN region. Public announcements were made through the Financial Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange to inform Strengthening Brand Value innisfree achieved qualitative growth and enhanced brand visibility throughout Asia as a result stakeholders of all major decisions that were reviewed during the 2016 meetings. Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation of our highly successful global brand campaign that emphasized its birthplace (Jeju Island). Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Proportion of Overseas Sales In addition, innisfree introduced a series of signature products in Vietnam and further expanded BOD As the top decision-making body for Amorepacific Group, the BOD was comprised of 6 registered members as of Strengthening Sustainability of Partners its busness activities in the ASEAN region. Composition March 2017. Amorepacific’s BOD consists of 7 registered members. All directors on both boards are obligated Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues ETUDE House strengthened its brand positioning as the leading make-up brand by launching and Authority to faithfully exercise their fiduciary duties and fulfill their responsibilities as good managers – based on the 24.6% innovative new products, promoting a fun make-up culture, and opening new stores in Asia. Commercial Act of Korea and the company’s Articles of Incorporation – to promote the interests of shareholders 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 HERA offered various make-up products to Chinese customers and introduced luxury make-up and other stakeholders. Each board nominated all of its members from among those with expertise and experience 2016 Performance for Sustainability in their respective fields, and received approval from the shareholders at a general shareholders’ meeting before Sustainability Management Structure items to showcase its diverse product lines. appointments are made. Each board guarantees the independence of outside BOD’s members. Amorepacific Innovation for Customers Amorepacific Group Treasury stock Individuals Harmony with Nature Board of Directors As of March 2017 6.3% 2.7% Harmonious Growth Category Name Position/Affiliation Major responsibility Domestic Sharing for Society Executive Kyung-bae Suh CEO, Chairman of BOD Supervision of management institutions directors Dong-hyun Bae President Supervision of management innisfree Seung-hwan Kim Executive Vice President Strategies 12.9% Major Shareholders Major shareholders ETUDE Foreigners As of December 2016 NonDong-youb Shin Professor at Yonsei University Chairman of Audit Committee and affiliate persons eSpoir Overseas Sales by Region (Unit: KRW bn) executive Ok-sub Lee Vice President of Bioland Co., Ltd Audit Commitee member 18.3% 59.8% AMOS Professional directors Jung-il Choi Director at Sejong Institute Audit Commitee member Asia Europe North America AESTURA Amorepacific Osulloc Farm 1,543.1 Board of Directors As of March 2017 Individuals Treasury stock Category Name Position/Affiliation Major responsibility 2.9% 0.1% 1,121.1 Executive Kyung-bae Suh CEO, Chairman of BOD Supervision of management Major shareholders 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 directors Sang-bae Shim President Supervision of management and affiliate persons Sustainability Vision Sang-mok Lee Executive Vice President Supervision of 12.2% Sustainability Focus Area 730.1 management support NonEun Namkung Professor at Chairman of Audit Committee Domestic Sustainability Commitments executive Seoul National University Major Shareholders institutions directors Seong-su Kim Professor at Audit Committee member 64.0 50.5 53.9 48.5 51.2 Seoul National University 12.5% As of December 2016 Appendix 5 34.9 Young-ho Eom Professor at Yonsei University Audit Committee member Seung-ho Park Professor at China Europe Overall business management Amorepacific Foreigners Group Independent Assurance Statement 40.1% International Business School 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 32.2% Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 26 1. Corporate Overview 27 Corporate Overview 11 CEO Message Ethical Management Risk Management Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision Revision of Amorepacific Group revised its Code of Ethics, and began to implement it as of January, 2017. The revised Establishing an As a result of several factors, including fast-changing global political and economic situations, fluctuating business AP WAY Code of Ethics Code asks all employees to embrace and practice the highest ethical standards to further strengthen the Integrated Risk and regulatory environments, the increased influence of social media, heightened expectations of stakeholders, Financial Performance company’s transparency as a responsible corporate citizen. The revised Code outlines six basic principles, and the complexity of materiality issues, there is a greater need for a group-wide systematic risk management Governance Management including respect for our customers and employees, and elaborates concrete guidelines for ethical system. Amorepacific Group is operating an integrated risk management system to respond to risks and crisis Ethical Management System decisions and behaviors that all employees are required to comply with both in their private and work situations as well as to strengthening our existing capacity. To allow prompt decision-making and stable business Risk Management life. Amorepacific Group plans to provide a series of in-person and online trainings to all employees. operations, we formed a group-wide risk management committee consisting of the most senior corporate Materiality Analysis Six Basic Ethics Principles executives. The risk management secretariat and issue-specific sub-committees were also formed to prevent risks Stakehoder Communication Caring about the customers Respect for employees Management with integrity and enhance the capacity to deal with risks early in order to minimize their impact. It is essential to gain our customers’ trust through We must cherish everyone we work with, and We must never deceive or hide truth. We 2016 Highlights 2 our work. Our products and service must add new work in a way that everyone’s human rights are must not undermine our sustainable longCEO · Sub-Committees Areas: product quality, values that touch our customers, and give them respected. term growth and avoid relying on non-ethical Expanding Global Business Activities confidence that our company always keeps our business practices for short-term profits. SHE (Safety, Health, and Environment), promises to them. mutual growth, PR, etc. Strengthening Brand Value Risk Management Committee Harmonious growth Protection of company assets Responsibilities as a corporate citizen · About Individual Risks: Under each division leader’s Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation We must foster fair business relationships with We must use all of the tangible and intangible We must be an essential partner in society, guidance, responsible unit will prevent and manage CRO Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship all of our stakeholders, and pursue management corporate assets and information only for the and become a highly valued and respected the risks effectively in collaboration with the practices that benefit all of our partners. intended purposes, and must make our utmost corporate citizen. Risk Management Secretariat and Strengthening Sustainability of Partners efforts to protect these assets. Sub-Committees for Key Issues Risk Management Secretariat Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Communication Through various campaigns and training programs, Amorepacific Group is seeking to embed ethical Sub-Committees for Key Issues Div.1 ··· Div.X 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 management practices into the daily conduct of all employees. 2016 Performance for Sustainability Risk After analyzing the internal and external business environments that affect our business activities, the company Sustainability Management Structure · Communicate on the group’s ethical stance on gifts to employees, No Gift Policy business partners, and suppliers twice a year Management categorizes potential risks by their importance, severity, and likelihood, and identifies core risks. All business units Amorepacific designate a person in charge of risk management to regularly monitor and report any possible risks to strengthen Innovation for Customers Process Publicizing the Incidents · Publicize and share the recent incidents of unethical practices with our capacity for risk prevention and response. These designated indivisuals are regularly trained to respond Harmony with Nature of Unethical Practices all of our employees to prevent the occurrence of similar cases effectively to a potential crisis by following the Group’s risk management guidelines. Harmonious Growth · Senior management one-to-one customized compliance training Sharing for Society Employees Ethics Training · Regular compliance trainings to all employees Amorepacific Group’s Risk Management Process innisfree Identifying Key Analyzing the Risk Monitoring Scenarioand Identifying Areas | Promoting Ethical Practices with Business Partners Risks based Group’s Core and Report GuidelineBased of Improvement ETUDE upon Severity, Risks and Risk Responses and Internalizing eSpoir Amorepacific Group conducted a survey on our business procedures and relationship management Importance and Major Risks the Risk Response activities to understand possible ethical dilemmas that our business partners face. After reviewing Likelihood Strategies AMOS Professional the feedback during our regular internal audit, we decided to focus on strengthening our processes to AESTURA support our business partners’ commitment to ethical management practices. Risk Response Throughout the year, Amorepacific Group undertakes a range of activities to effectively respond to various risks Osulloc Farm | Ethical Management Website Strategies identified through our risk mitigation and management process. In 2014, Amorepacific Group launched the website to provide guidance on ethical management issues 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Market Risks Product Risks Supply Chain Risks and offered an employee-hotline which employees can make a anonymous report on the violations of the Back· Increased safety and environmental · Increased importance of managing · Increased importance of accurate Sustainability Vision ground regulations of the Chinese Government product safety and harmful materials analysis of customer demands due to company’s Code of Ethics. This website is accessible through one’s smartphones for easy and immediate Sustainability Focus Area · Increased possibility of occurrence of market diversification and ensuring major disasters and natural calamities a robust supply chain to provide Sustainability Commitments connection to the hotline when he/she faces any ethical dilemmas or witnesses unethical situations. products and services in time Manage· Strengthening the business intelligence · Strengthening the system and process · Improving the product distribution 2016 Overview on Hotline Reporting Business Partners Suppliers Employees Customers Others Total ment unit to effectively identify any regulatory which verifies product ingredients and supply chain management system Appendix 5 8 6 13 15 3 45 For more details, please visit the changes related to particular markets. Ethical Management website. (a number of reported cases) Activities · Strengthening the robustness of Independent Assurance Statement emergency responses as well as business continuity plans. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 28 1. Corporate Overview 29 Corporate Overview 11 CEO Message Materiality Analysis Stakeholder Communication Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision Materiality Every year, after reviewing various topics relevant to implementing our overall corporate sustainability strategies, 2016 Annual Since 2011, Amorepacific Group has undertaken strategic communication activities with various stakeholders AP WAY Analysis Amorepacific Group identifies the key issues that are materially most significant to our stakeholders as well as to Dialogue with to integrate their diverse viewpoints into our core business activities. In 2016, we convened a workshop with Financial Performance the company’s midand long-term growth. In addition to integrating these materiality issues into our overall leading academics and civil society representatives to discuss key issues under the theme, “Fostering Sustainable Governance Process Stakeholders business decision making, we share our progress on each issue, both internally and externally, on an annual basis. Consumption and Strengthening Strategic Customer Communication for Better Risk Management”. Ethical Management Risk Management 이슈 풀(Pool) 사회적 관심도 비즈니스 영향도 우선순위 중요 이슈 Theme Fostering Sustainable Consumption and Strengthening Strategic Customer Communication for Identifying Analyzing Selection of Materiality Analysis 선정 Key Sustainable 측정 Societal Interests 측정 Measuring 선정 Prioritization 도출 Materially Better Risk Management Business Impact Stakehoder Communication Business Issues and Trends Significant Issues Date November 30, 2016 Participants Jae-cheon Ryu · Professor, Korea Institute for Science and Technology (KIST) Jung-hwa Kang · President, Consumers Union of Korea Myung Yoon · Secretary-General, Consumers Korea Results of the So-young Lee-Ahn · Policy Director, Korean Women’s Environmental Network 2016 Highlights 2 HIGH Yoon-mi Cho · President, CTV Consumer Research Institute 5 4 2 Jae-chul Shim · Professor, Korea University Materiality Key Discussion Points Expanding Global Business Activities 1 Strengthening Brand Value Stakeholders’ interest Analysis 9 Promoting Cooperation •Diversifying communication channels and methods to further strengthen its engagement with customers 10 and Enhancing Corporate Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation 8 7 3 • Reinforcing Amorepacific Group’s sustainability leadership by continuously 11 Engagement in Advancing introducing highly innovative and sustainable products and services Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Sustainable Consumption • Partnering with various relevant stakeholders 13 Strengthening Sustainability of Partners 18 14 12 • Strengthening the risk management system and process to effectively address risks Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 6 Effective Consumer • Ensuring frequent, regular and open communication with various stakeholders 16 Communication to • Developing and implementing robust strategies on consumer communication for 25 20 Manage Risks risk prevention and management 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 24 22 15 2016 Performance for Sustainability 33 29 21 28 Stakeholder Opinions and Our Responses Sustainability Management Structure 31 17 27 23 19 35 32 Target Communication Channels Notable Opinions Activities in Response 34 Amorepacific 30 26 Customers · Customer consultation service · Reinforce product safety · Developing sustainable products Innovation for Customers satisfaction survey and CGAP1) · Reinforce customer services · Established and run a TF on product Business impact HIGH · Feedbacks from Beauty-Schumer · Expand the sustainable products quality improvement Harmony with Nature Issues · Corporate and brand websites and SNS Harmonious Growth 1 Delivering Solid Financial and Economic Values 13 Employees Training and Personal Development 25 Transparency of Corporate Governance Employees · Employee engagement surveys · Reinforce work-life balance · Gratitude Relays and Hope Tree campaigns Sharing for Society · Regular labor-management · Provide more opportunities for · Supported in-house clubs 2 Innovation and Digital Beauty Leadership 14 Enhancing Positive Influence in Local Communities 26 Contributing to Job Creation innisfree consultation meetings individual competency · Revised the group-wide SHE standard 3 Product and Service Quality Assurance 15 Expanding Communication with Stakeholders 27 Waste Management · In-House online community · Strengthen SHE management · Established AP Minds 10 to G1 (Code of Conduct) ETUDE Management and Recycle of Raw and 4 Expanding Our Global Business Activities 16 Processed Materials 28 Engaging in Responsible Marketing eSpoir Business Partners · Inclusive growth general assembly · Expand mutual growth activities · Supported financial aid and human 5 Strengthening Our Brand Value 17 Safe Workplace 29 Employees Diversity · Win-Win Practice seminars and · Create a culture that encourages mutual resources contributions AMOS Professional general assembly communication and active participation · Conducted collaborative research projects 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 18 Human Rights Management 30 Labor and Management Relations · Business partners satisfaction survey · Improve workplace environments and · Operated regular communication channel AESTURA 7 Inclusive Growth with Business Partners 19 Sustainable Water Stewardship 31 Alternative Methods to Animal Testing capacity for beauty partners (sales associates) Osulloc Farm 8 Reinforcing Eco-Friendly Products and Service 20 Compliance 32 Promoting Employee Health and Well-Being Local Communities · Group and brand CSR activities · Assist women in gaining healthy beauty · Conducted the Makeup Your Life campaign Implementing the Group-Wide Corporate · CSR portal · Assist low-income women · Conducted the Pink Ribbon campaign 9 Protecting Biodiversity 21 Ethics/Anti-Corruption 33 Sustainability System · Feedbacks from cultural mécénat · Provide support to the vulnerable population · Supported the Heemang Store initiative 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 10 Socially Responsible Products and Service 22 Optimizing Energy Use and Efficiency 34 Enhancing Information Security (patronage) · Expand global CSR activities · Launched the integrated global CSR campaign Sustainability Vision 11 Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 23 Pollution and Toxic Waste Management 35 Strengthening Protection of Privacy Governments · Regular visit and meetings with relevant · Manufacture and sell safe, high-quality products · Monitored and observed the relevant Sustainability Focus Area 12 Risk Management 24 Ensuring Work-Life Balance government agencies · Provide cooperation and support for laws and regulations · Participation in the Korea Cosmetic regulatory improvement for industrial · Supported government policy research Sustainability Commitments Seven Key Material Issues · Delivering Solid Financial and Economic Values Association (KCA) development · Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation · Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues External Experts · Communication with external · Strengthen consumer-to-business · Developed a strategy to strengthen Appendix 5 · Expanding Global Business Activities stakeholders communication cooperation and communication with · Strengthening Brand Value *These seven most significant material issues Independent Assurance Statement (academic and consumer organizations) · Ensuring frequent, regular and open stakeholders · Enhancing Global CSR Activities will be explained more in detail in the 2016 communication with various stakeholders Verification Statement GHG Inventory · Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Highlight section (pp. 32-45). GRI G4 Index 1) CGAP (Customer gift for Amorepacific) About This Report 2016 Corporate Overview 1 Highlights CEO Message Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication Creating a Sustainable Future with 2016 Highlights 2 Our Stakeholders Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Amorepacific Group undertakes a wide range of corporate Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues sustainability activities focused on materially relevant issues for our long-term corporate productivity, and 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability engages actively with all of our stakeholders. Sustainability Management Structure Our sustainable business efforts seek to deliver economic Amorepacific Innovation for Customers and financial values while simultaneously creating social Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth and environmental benefits to our society as a responsible Sharing for Society corporate citizen. We believe that this will not only bring innisfree ETUDE about the sustainable growth of our corporation, but also eSpoir AMOS Professional contribute to creating a sustainable future that benefits AESTURA our society and the environment. Osulloc Farm 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments 2 Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 32 2. 2016 Highlights 33 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Expanding Global Business Activities LANEIGE convened its 2nd Beauty Roadshow to promote K-beauty in a total of 11 cities in Korea, Brand Portfolio Malaysia, Singapore, China, Canada and others. In various locations, customers tested LANEIGE’s global Business Overview signature products – LANEIGE Water Bank Cream and participated in the make-up show with celebrities Vision In 2016, Amorepacific Group introduced its “Vision 2025 – Great Company”, and focused on top priorities that and free gift events. To increase our customers’ virtual participation, we also livestreamed all the 2016 AP WAY contribute to the company’s sustainable growth, including global business expansion, qualitative growth, and digital Beauty Roadshow via our website and social network sites (SNS). Financial Performance Governance innovation, to become the number one beauty company in Asia and one of the top three cosmetic firms in the world. Convening Beauty Roadshow in 11 Global Cities Ethical Management As a result of the continued technological innovation and launching of various innovative products satisfying the Risk Management needs of global customers, our 2016 global sales recorded KRW 1,648.1 billion – 35.1% increase compared to 2015. Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication Six years after Sulwhasoo was introduced to Chinese customers in March 2011, we opened our 100th store in Chengdu City, China. This 100th store is dedicated fully to Sulwhasoo brand products with various 2016 Highlights 2 sections that allow unique customer experience. These sections invite customers to review signature Expanding Global Business Activities products (brand zone), luxury items (luxury zone), gift products (gift service zone), and spa products (spa Strengthening Brand Value cabin). The store offered the products that customers can purchase only in this particular place such as Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation the 100th store sachet and essential balm, and enhanced VIP offerings with the gifts-wrapping service. Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship The services provided at this 100th store enhanced differentiated brand experiences to our customers, Strengthening Sustainability of Partners and conveyed the feel of Sulwhasoo’s Asian wisdom and holistic beauty heritage to Chinese customers Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues with the luxurious store ambience. We plan to accelerate our global sales and marketing activities on LANEIGE Beauty Roadshow in Shanghai Sulwhasoo to become Asia’s number 1 beauty brand in Asia by 2020. 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 th Openning the 100 Store in China 2016 Performance for Sustainability With the launch of new products reflecting local customers’ preferences and renovation of stores, Sustainability Management Structure Mamonde recorded the positive growth in China and demonstrated our strong global brand power. Amorepacific Especially, we successfully launched Youth Capture series, highly specialized anti-aging care products Innovation for Customers that are only available in China, and offered the new lines of make-up products based upon the needs Harmony with Nature of Chinese customers. We also strengthened our sales and marketing activities in the ASEAN market by Harmonious Growth opening three stores in Malaysia and three shops in major Thai department stores after its first successful Sharing for Society launching in Bangkok’s Siam Paragon Department Store. innisfree Launching in Malaysia ETUDE eSpoir AMOS Professional AESTURA Sulwhasoo 100th Store in China Osulloc Farm Amorepacific Group established Amorepacific ME FZ LLC to expand our business in the Middle Eastern Markets, and signed the partnership agreement with Alshaya Group, one of the largest retail companies 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 in the region, in December 2016. In the last few years, we reviewed the business environment analyzed Sustainability Vision business feasibility, and fostered regional expertise through “Hyecho”, the group’s global talent Sustainability Focus Area management program, to prepare our business entrance into the region. In the third or fourth quarters Sustainability Commitments of 2017, we will launch the first ETUDE House flagship store in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) – the center of the Arabian beauty trends where markets for perfumes and color cosmetics have huge potential. Appendix 5 We are planning to introduce our products in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman to further Independent Assurance Statement Mamonde Store in Malaysia expand our presence in the Middle East. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 34 2. 2016 Highlights 35 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message innisfree continued to record the strong growth in the global market in 2016 thanks to its high-quality Strengthening Brand Value Brand Portfolio and innovative cosmetic products. In China, in addition to releasing the products focusing on local Business Overview customers’ preferences, we opened 130 additional stores in various cities. In the ASEAN market, we Vision opened the first store in Hai Bà Trùng District of Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam to accelerate our business With emphasis on innovative technology, high-quality products, originality, and creativity, Amorepacifc Group AP WAY is focusing on developing the ‘singularity’ of each brand. As part of the efforts to enhance the brand power, we Financial Performance activities in ASEAN mega cities. In 2017, we will focus on the U.S. market to further strengthen our Governance global business activities while continuing to strengthen our foothold in the existing markets. we continued to discover new customer groups and nimbly responded to the needs of customers for each brand. Ethical Management Total Brand Sales Exceeding KRW 1 trillion At the same time, we conducted various events to mark the 50th anniversary of Amorepacific’s ginseng research Risk Management and launched a new natural hair care brand ‘Fresh Pop’ inspired by the theme of super food therapy. We are also Opening the 300th Store in China, the 1st Store in Vietnam Materiality Analysis prioritizing the launch of unique products for each brand to enhance our brand competitiveness. Stakehoder Communication 2016 Highlights 2 Marking the 50th Anniversary of Sulwhasoo has convened a series of global events in 9 countries to mark the 50 th anniversary of ‘ABC Ginseng Cream’ – one of the first Amorepacific products that inspired Expanding Global Business Activities Sulwhasoo Ginseng Research the launch of the Sulwhasoo brand. In the last 50 years, Amorepacific launched several Strengthening Brand Value innovative cosmetic products using the properties of ginseng. After launching our first Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation ginseng product, ABC Ginseng Cream, in 1966, we presented a series of products using Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship ginseng, including ‘Sulwha’, a product highlighting the healing property of ginseng Strengthening Sustainability of Partners cosmetics, and Seolhwa, one of the first Asianl herbal medicinal cosmetic products. All Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues innisfree Store in Vietnam these research efforts contributed to launching the Sulwhasoo. By combining the latest Following the introduction of Hera in SKP, Beijing’s top luxury department store, in July 2016, we dermatological science with our focused research on ginseng and other Asian herbal 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 ingredients, Sulwhasoo became the first Korean beauty brand to generate KRW 1 trillion 2016 Performance for Sustainability engaged in active sales and marketing activities in China. The introduction of the Hera product line in annual sales in 2015. Sulwhasoo products are being offered in 11 countries and are Sustainability Management Structure to Chinese customers provides an important opportunity to position us as a global leading K-beauty gaining brand recognition as a luxury global brand centering on Asian beauty. Amorepacific brand. We also popularized Hera’s brand narrative – pursuit of inner and outer beauty of women with Innovation for Customers Korean beauty wisdom – to Chinese customers who are very interested in beauty techniques, trends and | Watch the video here. Harmony with Nature cosmetics that are popular in Korea. In 2016, Hera opened a total of 10 stores in six Chinese cities such Harmonious Growth as Beijing and Shanghai, and plans to launch 8 additional stores in 2017 to introduce its bestselling Sharing for Society products such as UV Mist Cushion and Rouge Holics and to share Asia’s latest beauty trends with our innisfree Chinese customers. ETUDE Launching Hera in China eSpoir AMOS Professional 50 Anniversary Emblem of th AESTURA Sulwhasoo Ginseng Research Osulloc Farm | Watch the video here. Sulwhasoo Flagship Store 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 In 2016, we opened Korea’s largest single-brand beauty flagship store, which artistically Sustainability Vision expressed our ginseng research. This flagship store’s design was inspired by lanterns, Sustainability Focus Area which bring light to darkness, to reflect our desire to spotlight and shine the path to beauty Sustainability Commitments through our products that represent Asian beauty wisdom. In addition to conveying the brand story, this flagship store aspires to be a high-quality beauty-culture complex where Appendix 5 customers can experience our products, spas, and beauty counseling and serves as a Independent Assurance Statement Hera Store in China signature international landmark for our brand. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 36 2. 2016 Highlights 37 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Launching the In April 2016, Amorepacific Group launched Fresh Pop – a natural haircare brand designed to revitalize Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Brand Portfolio Natural stressed hair and scalp under the concept of ‘shampoo made of healthy superfood ingredients for healthy Business Overview Hair Care Brand hair.’ The brand name is fashioned by combining two words, ‘fresh’ and ‘pop’ to associate its brand image Vision with energy, youthfulness, fun and excitement. As the brand name tells, Fresh Pop offers fun and refreshing We have launched a series of innovative marketing campaigns to appeal to the digital generation. These AP WAY “Fresh Pop” hair cleansing experiences with fruity packaging and fresh herbal fragrance extracted from five main campaigns integrate highly experimental digital content as to maximize customer’s positive experiences while Financial Performance superfood ingredients. To celebrate the launching of the brand, Fresh Pop opened the Fresh Pop Shampoo Governance they browse and purchase our products. In addition, we launched programs such as start-up competitions and stores to introduce different haircare solutions for various hair types. The Fresh Pop includes six products Ethical Management in-house ventures aimed at accelerating innovation to meet the rapidly changing demands and needs of our that address various concerns customers express based upon their hair types and scalp conditions. The Risk Management customers while fostering a more innovative eco-system for the beauty industry. products are currently available in Korea’s major supermarkets and drug stores. We also continue to develop Materiality Analysis new products and services that provide healthy and fun natural hair care experiences to our consumers. Stakehoder Communication Digital Communication Launching the “Truth of Cushion” Digital Marketing Campaign As the inventor of cushion products, Amorepacific Group has consistently worked to improve its R&D 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities capabilities to make the product more appealing and convenient. To provide more detailed information Strengthening Brand Value on the innovative cushion technology and its history, we launched a digital campaign called “the Truth of Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Cushion” in November, 2016. This campaign features a number of on-line videos that provide a behindFulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship the-scenes look at our “cushionists”, a group of experts who developed our unique cushion products, Fresh Pop Strengthening Sustainability of Partners and explain the three key elements to making a high-quality cushion product. We also shared several Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues LANEIGE In our newly renovated flagship store in central Seoul, Myungdong, we are offering custom-made fun stories about our cushion products along with some on-line quiz to increase customer engagement. Launching of cosmetic products, including My Two-Tone Bar, which enables customers to choose their own preferred The campaign hit 9.5 million views and attracted 460,000 visitors to our campaign website while 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Custom-Made colors. My Two-Tone Bar was inspired by one of signature products of LANEIGE, the Two-Tone Lip 100,000 people participated in the quiz. Amorepacific Group will continue to improve its communication 2016 Performance for Sustainability Products Bar, which was launched to offer the trendy and sophisticated two tone lipstick makeup experience to with customers through various entertaining, informative and interactive digital campaigns. Sustainability Management Structure everyone. To order a custom-made two tone bar, our customers will first engage in the beauty mirror Amorepacific application – a technology which analyzes one’s skin through digital scanning – to identify suitable colors Innovation for Customers for their skin tone. Based upon this, customers will consult our in-store make-up artists to choose the two Harmony with Nature most suitable colors and create their own Two-Tone Lip Bar. LANEIGE also offers engraved personalized Harmonious Growth messages on the packaging for special occasions. At the Sparkling Beauty Bar Zone in our flagship store, Sharing for Society we also began offering a custom-made moisturizing cream-LANEIGE My Water Bank Cream. This service innisfree is available only to those who made reservation, as it requires the special analysis of customers’ skin ETUDE conditions to identify their most optimal skin care products. Through these experiences, we attempt to eSpoir offer more than a traditional, passive customer experience. We encourage the active participation of our AMOS Professional customers to find their beauty solutions and have received very positive reviews from customers who | For more details, please visit the campaign website. AESTURA appreciate that their personal preferences are reflected through custom-made products. Osulloc Farm innisfree In-Store Virtual Reality (VR) Experience Some of innisfree stores now have an in-store VR zone where customers can virtually experience Jeju 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 island where the ingredients of innisfree are sourced from. Our first VR service “Jeju Flying Bike” at the Sustainability Vision innisfree store of Disney Land in Shanghai offers customers a virtual experience of traveling the beautiful Sustainability Focus Area island of Jeju by riding a bike. In particular, the virtual activity of flying in the sky and crossing the ocean Sustainability Commitments on a bike ride is very popular among Chinese customers. Our second VR content service titled “Someday in Jeju Island” is available in our two flagship stores in Seoul, Korea. The service provides customers with Appendix 5 an opportunity to explore Jeju island together with a very popular Korean celebrity. The VR content was Independent Assurance Statement Sparkling Beauty Bar Zone in LANEIGE Flagship Store viewed by 10 million users and was highly popular among our customers. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 38 2. 2016 Highlights 39 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Supporting In-House Venture Incubation, Lean Startup Brand Portfolio | Watch the viedo here. In-House Venture and To respond to our customers’ needs proactively and foster a culture of in-house innovation, the Business Overview Startups Amorepacific Group launched the Lean Star-Up program with more than 20 teams consisting of Vision employees from across various departments presenting highly creative ideas. Based on creativity, AP WAY Financial Performance execution-ability, and teamwork, we selected the two most appealing ideas, and established the Lean Governance Start-Up taskforce team. We introduced Gaondodam, a new naturalist brand made with organic Ethical Management indigenous ingredients, and OutRun, a new sun protection brand for customers who enjoy outdoor Risk Management sports. They are being sold on-line. Instead of following the existing organizational structure, the Materiality Analysis innisfree “Jeju Flying Bike” Virtual Reality two innovation task force teams were given autonomy to freely focus on their research and enhance Stakehoder Communication Digital entrepreneurship. As a result, they created Gaondodam with five products and Outrun with two products. ARITAUM, Integrated Digital Experience Counselling To satisfy our customers’ various needs, ARITAUM has been offering a wide range of digital counseling services With continuous product upgrades and rigorous quality assurance, Gaondodam was recognized as the 2016 Highlights 2 to customers. Mamonde is offering the Perfume Touch sservice that helps customers to choose their favorite number one organic cosmetic brand by Joongang Daily’s 2016 Notable Brand competition. Amorepacific Expanding Global Business Activities fragrance at the Sachet Vending Machines. This store also introduced a Nail Fit program where customers can Group will continue to nurture this innovation culture within our group to present innovative products Strengthening Brand Value print their preferred nail art design through high-quality and high-speed printers. IOPE is providing advice on skin meeting our customers’ needs. Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation solutions to each customer by using BioLap – a bio-skin solution which diagnoses each customer’s skin conditions, Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship and LANEIGE now invites customers to experience the Beauty-Mirror application. Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Mamonde Perfume Touch This customer experience service allows our consumers to test and enjoy various scents 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Mamonde offers. After taking a fun personality 2016 Performance for Sustainability test, the Perfume Touch helps customers find the scent that matches their preferences. Sustainability Management Structure Available Stores Amorepacific ARITAUM flagship store, ARITAUM Gangnam, Innovation for Customers ARITAUM Myungdong Central, Harmony with Nature and ARITAUM Shinchon Yonsei University. Harmonious Growth Nail Fit Sharing for Society This unique nail care service allows customers to innisfree select their preferred nail-art design from over Gaondodam OutRun ETUDE 500 designs and colors and have it printed on their nails. eSpoir Beauty Start-Up, AP TechUp+ Available Stores AMOS Professional To remain competitive in a fast changing market environment, Amorepacific Group is fostering and ARITAUM Flagship Store, ARITAUM Gangnam, AESTURA ARITAUM Shinchon, and ARITAUM Shinjang. incubating notable beauty start-ups by combining the group’s R&D infrastructure and business Osulloc Farm capabilities with professional start-up incubation know-how. As part of such efforts, we launched the AP TechUP+ program in collaboration with Future Play, a tech-focused venture accelerator. With open 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 competitions, we received 110 business proposals focusing on a range of new technologies including Sustainability Vision LANEIGE – In-store Augmented Reality (AR) Zone internet of things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), and 3D-printing from 100 teams, and selected 5 most Sustainability Focus Area Following the introducing its first AR application – Beauty Mirror – where customers can test make-up through competitive teams after evaluating all the proposals jointly with Future Play. We plan to foster and Sustainability Commitments their smart phone’s mobile camera, LANEIGE continues to upgrade its service by adding new functions such as incubate strong and high-performing beauty tech start-ups through the accelerating process. Through tools that offer the best makeup colors that match with the customers’ skin color. At its Myeongdong flagship the AP TechUP+, we identify new business opportunities, foster innovative business culture, and offer new Appendix 5 store, there is another AR-based service called ‘Play LANEIGE camera’ that provides useful product information start-ups the funding and infrastructure to scale up their business models. We believe that encouraging Independent Assurance Statement when customers take pictures of LANEIGE products. TechUP+ Contest Announcement Poster creative beauty start-ups will ultimately contribute to expanding the industry’s innovative eco-system. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 40 2. 2016 Highlights 41 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Interview with Stakeholders Brand Portfolio Business Overview “Through our partnership over the last year, we were able to “The most important thing to focus on gynecological cancers Vision witness the efforts of Amorepacific China on Chinese women’s is to manage effectively their development and progress. This AP WAY As a global corporate citizen, Amorepacific Group is seeking to create shared value that promotes local economic public welfare and related outcomes. We were also able to includes early detection and post-surgery/diagnosis recovery. Financial Performance activities and inclusive growth. In addition to our operation in Korea, our offices in China and Vietnam have understand the company’s keen interest in women’s health. These two activities require particular attention from the public Governance carried out various activities to have positive social impact. These activities include raising awareness about We believe that Amorepacific’s efforts do not only help improve on women’s health issues. I sincerely hope that Amorepacific Ethical Management common cancers mostly affecting women through supporting prevention education, cancer screening and women’s awareness on critical health information but also Group’s Makeup Your Life campaign will increase the public Risk Management post-surgery care for female cancer patients. Especially, Makeup Your Life, signature global campaign, support encourage the public engagement in this issues and address the awareness on women’s health and provide hope and confidence Materiality Analysis women’s health, and nurturing inner and outer beauty of these women. concrete health problems facing low-income women. Through to more Chinese women.” Stakehoder Communication the expansion of this program, we hope that more Chinese women can have healthier life.” 2016 Highlights 2 By Yu Zhang (张羽), Expanding Global Business Activities Expanding CSR Amorepacific Group expanded our signature campaign MakeUp Your Life which began in Korea in 2008 Medical Doctor, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, By Jianmin Zhang (张建岷), Strengthening Brand Value Activities in China to China in 2011. In 2016, we undertook a range of activities that support female cancer patients to Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oncology & Peking Union Medical College Hospital (北京协和医院) Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation improve their quality of life by helping them recover their beauty and confidence. Especially, we offered a Vice Secretary-General, China Women’s Development Foundation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship comprehensive program for cancer prevention, screening, and recovery to increase the public’s awareness Strengthening Sustainability of Partners on two common cancers (breast cancer and cervical cancer). Amorepacific China carried out Moripao Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues (茉莉跑) Marathon – a cause-related race promoting the importance of breast health and vital role of Makeup Your Life Since 2015, Amorepacific Vietnam has participated in the Makeup Your Life campaign. Through our regular check-ups in preventing breast cancer. Campaign in Vietnam campaign in Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi, we supported a total of 125 cancer patients, and sponsored a talk 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 | 2016 CSR Activities in China show featuring female cancer patients who are going through chemotherapy including a famous female 2016 Performance for Sustainability Program Description announcer who survived malignant brain tumor and a doctor of breast cancer. Sustainability Management Structure Establishment of the Amorepacific In February, in collaboration with the China Women’s Development The 1st Women’s Health Marathon – Moripao in Shanghai Amorepacific Fund for Women Foundation (中国妇女发展基金会), Amorepacific Group established Innovation for Customers the Amorepacific Special Fund for Women, and sponsored activities that prevent and treat two cancers that mostly affect women – Harmony with Nature breast cancer and cervical cancer Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society Support of the Medical Diagnosis and From August to October, in six counties （县） in two provinces (省) 1), innisfree Screening Service of Breast and we sponsored medical activities that aim to prevent and diagnose Cervical Cancers breast and cervical cancers. The free medical tests were given to a ETUDE total of 12,078 women, and detected a total of 114 cases where eSpoir patients had tumors. In addition, we reached out to approximately Number of AMOS Professional Recipients 12,078 43,500 women through a total of 95 special lecturers on breast and cervical cancers. AESTURA Osulloc Farm Sponsorship of the Women’s Health In April, we sponsored the 1st Women’s Health Marathon – Moripao Marathon – Moripao with the participation of approximately 3,200 people in Shanghai. Through this sports event, we contributed to promote the public’s 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 awareness on the importance of breast self-examination and breast Number of health. Sustainability Vision Participants approx. 3,200 Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Makeup Your Life Campaign 40 beauty partners and makeup artists of Amorepacific China volunteered by offering beauty classes to approximately 180 female cancer patients living in Ghangzu, Shanghai, and Beijing. With Appendix 5 Number of customized beauty know-how and health information, we helped Participants approx. 180 female cancer patients and restore the confidence in their beauty. Independent Assurance Statement Screening Service in China Makeup Your Life activity in Vietnam Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index 1) These locations include: Xishui County, Meitan County, and Suiyang Xian County in Guizhou Province and Gannan County, Baiquan County, and Tailai County in Heilongjiang Province. About This Report 42 2. 2016 Highlights 43 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Commitment to As part of our commitment to fostering the culture of fair business relationships that benefit all of our Brand Portfolio Inclusive Growth for business partners, Amorepacific Group is actively pursuing activities aimed at strengthening ‘mutual and Business Overview Business Partners sustainable’ growth. Based upon our partner strategies centered on financial support, human resources Vision Recognizing that our business partners’ sustainability performance is beneficial for our long-term capacity building, and support of technological competencies and profit increases, we undertook a series AP WAY competitiveness, Amorepacific Group has been supporting our partners with various activities. These activities Financial Performance of activities for our partners. We are proud that these efforts were positively recognized by the Korean Governance help them improve their sustainability innovation capabilities, and promote fair business relationships Commission for Corporate Partnership as we were ranked as “Excellent” in the Inclusive Growth Index. Ethical Management throughout our value chain. Through these efforts, we are sharing our sustainability values with business partners Risk Management and creating a systematic sustainable supply chain management process as we expand our global operations. • HRD Consortium Educational Support • Operation Fund for Mutual Growth: Materiality Analysis 49 Courses of 2,222 employees KRW 24.6 billion • Manpower dispatched for quality and technology • 100% Payment in Cash within Stakehoder Communication Financial transfer 10 Days for Suppliers agreed on Strengthening We require all of our business partners to comply with our sustainability assessment framework, assess their current Support 960 hours of 14 employees Fair Trade Supply Chain competency, and offer capacity building and consulting support to improve their sustainability performance. • Financial support to 116 employees of • Introducing the Win-Win Payment 2016 Highlights 2 high-performing suppliers for overseas training System1) Sustainability Expanding Global Business Activities Supply Chain Sustainability Management Process • Benefit Sharing Initiative: 15 projects Strengthening Brand Value Offering Trainings, Supporting • Strengthening suppliers’ capacity on Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Requiring to Comply with Assessing technological innovation the Sustainability Guidelines Sustainability Capabilities Consulting and Suppliers' Growth and Joint patent application: 2 cases Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Monitoring Progress Innovation Sharing patent free of charge: 8 cases Human Support for Strengthening Sustainability of Partners • Supporting high-performing suppliers’ Resources Technological exhibition at foreign expos Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues | Revision of the Amorepacific Suppliers Sustainability Guidelines Capacity Capabilities and Building Business For more details, To ensure supply chain sustainability, we revised the Guidelines which include 27 important items for supply chain upport Growth please visit the Partner website. such as human rights, labor, health, safety, environmental protection, and ethical management. We include the 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 guidelines in our contracts with suppliers and require all our partners to comply with this. 1) This payment scheme allows 1st tier supplier to offer our Group’s credit to 2nd and 3rd tier suppliers in order to ensure 2016 Performance for Sustainability prompt payment and minimize the bankruptcy risks to small enterprises in the 2nd and 3rd tier supply chain. Sustainability Management Structure | Assessment of Suppliers’ Sustainability Capabilities Amorepacific In 2016, based upon the “Amorepacific Suppliers Sustainability Guidelines”, we assessed 85 of our suppliers’ Innovation for Customers current capabilities to implement our sustainability guidelines. The assessment was made based upon input Technological Innovation through the Benefit Sharing Initiative Harmony with Nature gathered through surveys, site visits, and a series of interviews with individuals responsible for health, environment, Since 2015, Amorepacific is implementing an incentive-based partnership mechanism to develop innovative technologies and Harmonious Growth safety, and business ethics in partner companies, and we offered consulting services to help our business partners products in collaboration with suppliers. Partners who are engaged in joint innovation tasks with Amorepacific are rewarded with Sharing for Society improve their corporate sustainability practices and regularly monitor their progress. additional incentives. In 2016, we undertook a total of 15 cases and shared the profits amounting to KRW 337 million. innisfree Mapping of Suppliers’ Sustainability Capabilities ETUDE Number of Suppliers Total Score Detailed Score | The Notable Project of the Benefit Sharing Initiative eSpoir 2015 92 78.9 Safety Environment Ethics Since our joint research with Gumi A-Tech Solutions began in 2015, we began producing our packaging materials with the new AMOS Professional technoloty as of January 2017. The old packaging technology was not only expensive, but also had limited production capacity. With this 2016 85 83.9 88.8 83.4 80.7 AESTURA joint effort, we further refined the unique technological know-how of plastic molding process that Gumi A-Tech Solutions developed for Osulloc Farm Specific Areas of Improvement and Action Plans for Improvement cellphones and applied the new technology to our packaging materials. As a result, our production capacity has improved six times. Areas of Improvement Action Plan for Improvement | Expected Outcomes 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Safety • Need to develop manuals clearly outlining the roles and responsibilities of health and safety managers • Offering trainings and Sustainability Vision • Need for effective disaster response manuals management workshops on Amorepacific Gumi A-Tech Solution Sustainability Focus Area corporate sustainability Environment • Need to develop environmental policies and strategies • Realizing the thick cosmetic • Developing and acquiring original Sustainability Commitments • Providing corporate sustainability • Need to establish the management, collection, and container design based upon technology manuals and sharing operational monitoring system of environmental sustainability related data the new molding technology • Expanding the sales network know-how on how to implement • Improving the quality of • Reducing cost through Amorepacific’s Appendix 5 sustainabilit practices Business • Need to establish internal business ethics guidelines and technology standards of business financial support • Providing customized consulting Independent Assurance Statement Ethics compliance standards partners through knowledgeservices that help business partners PRIME RESERVE Verification Statement GHG Inventory • Need to enforce fair and ethical labor practices in sharing address key areas of improvement Epidynamic Activating Creme compliance with Korea’s labor laws and regulations GRI G4 Index About This Report 44 2. 2016 Highlights 45 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Improvement Amorepacific Group set up a new team dedicated to product quality assurance to strengthen the product safety Brand Portfolio Plans management system from sourcing of raw materials to distribution of final products, and is making an effort to Business Overview inspire customer confidence in product safety through transparent and open communication. Vision Recall of Our Toothpaste Products | Strengthening the Organizational Capacity AP WAY Financial Performance On September 2016, Amorepacific ordered a recall of some of its toothpastes after it was confirmed that these Establishing We established a special TF dedicated to ensuring the company’s compliance with the required Taskforce (TF) Governance products contained a preservative not approved by the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. We promise global product safety standards and improving the product safety management processes. on Quality Ethical Management to further strengthen our entire safety management process from the stage of sourcing ingredients to the Renovation The TF will update the product safety management system. Risk Management end stage of production and distribution. We always consider customer safety to be our greatest priority and Materiality Analysis Strengthening We will improve the entire product quality management process from sourcing of raw materials promise to offer only the best and safe products. Organizational Stakehoder Communication to development, production, and distribution of all our products. We will also strengthen our Capability on R&D and SCM unit organizational capabilities to promptly identify risks and respond effectively. Background The safety concerns over our toothpaste products erupted because some of our toothpastes included unapproved 2016 Highlights 2 chemicals called methylisothiazolinone (MIT) and chloromethylisothiazolinone (CMIT) mixture for its preservative. Taskforce on · Establish the process on global product safety standards Expanding Global Business Activities After the issue was raised, the company confirmed that the sodium laurilsulfate (SLS) surfactant that we purchased Quality Renovation · Identify areas of improvement for product safety Strengthening Brand Value from one of our suppliers included CMIT/MIT as a preservative. CMIT/MIT have been used throughout the world, Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation 1) and in Europe, it is allowed up to 15 ppm. The amount of it found in our toothpastes was less than what the Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship R&D SCM current screening method can detect. For this reason, internal and external third-party safety assurance testing Sustainable Quality Assurance Lab Quality Division Strengthening Sustainability of Partners methods did not find it in our products. However, we fully acknowledge our stakeholders’ safety concerns over · Strengthen quality control on the process of · Standardizing product safety procedures Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues product development and sourcing of raw materials · Strengthening pre-screening system the inclusion of the CMIT/MIT in our products, and thus, ordered a proactive recall of all the affected toothpaste · Provide customer safety information · Strengthening audit on suppliers’ products products to ensure customer safety and restore their trust. | Strengthening the Product Safety Verification Process 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 1) European Commision, Cosmetics, ‘Preservatives Allowed in Cosmestic Products’ 2016 Performance for Sustainability We developed the Raw Material Qualification Gate – a new raw material’s safety Sustainability Management Structure Exchange and Immediately after we confirmed the inclusion of CMIT/MIT in our toothpaste products, we decided to recall all the Development and verification process in which Amorepacific examines the safety of all the ingredients used Sourcing of Raw Amorepacific Refund products. On September 27, 2016, we published an official apology to our customers and stakeholders through from development to production stages. Materials our website and began recalling the products. We immediately banned the sale of these products and informed our Innovation for Customers customers that we either exchanged the recalled products with other toothpaste products not containing CMIT/MIT Harmony with Nature We launched the Product Qualification Gate to prevent the inclusion of any materials that Product Harmonious Growth or refunded at any retail stores or Amorepacific customer centers. To further ensure the safety of our products, we recan weaken our consumers’ confidence in our product safety. Development evaluated the inclusion of CMIT/MIT in all of our products, including ODM (original design manufacturing) products, Sharing for Society and we discarded all the affected toothpaste products (approximately 388 tons) and submitted the document innisfree Based upon the ‘Product Management System Standards’, we are currently upgrading our confirming the full discarding of the products to the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. All the products were ETUDE procedures, which require the detailed monitoring and reporting of all stages of product recalled until January 2017 (approximately 3,900 tons), and all of them were discarded as of February 14, 2017. development including listing the names of producers and inspectors. The document also eSpoir outlines the detailed roles and responsibilities of producers and auditors. With regular audits, AMOS Professional Sept 23, 2016 Confirmed that SLS included CMIT/MIT. we will continuously monitor the compliance and help all of our employees and partners Timeline integrate these procedures into their work. Furthermore, to ensure the consistent quality of AESTURA Sept 26 Made a list of products that contained SLS and submitted a voluntary recall plan to Toothpaste product safety throughout the Amorepacific Group, we are running an internal committee on Osulloc Farm the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. Production Products Recall product safety. We will also establish the random monitoring of raw materials, packaging, Sept 27 Assessed the latest status of products to be recalled in our own inventory and that of our distributors and retailers. and products to improve early detection and rigorous product monitoring. & Our Responses Published the public apology to customers and information on exchange and refund policy on the website. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sept 28 Began to voluntarily recall the products through retailers and customer centers. Sustainability Vision To professionalize the audit of suppliers, we will train internal experts on this and upgrade Sent the letter requesting to stop selling the products and informing our policy on recall of the products to three largest retail chains. (E-Mart, Homeplus, and Lotte Mart) the existing supplier audit system. Furthermore, through regular product safety committee Sustainability Focus Area meetings, we will identify high-performing suppliers and support them. Sept 29 To further enhance product safety, Chinese and U.S. subsidiaries began to recall the related products. Sustainability Commitments Oct 10 A third-party inspector confirmed that the amount was less than what the currently available We plan to provide all the detailed information on key ingredients and our safety policies testing method can find. Launch of through the appropriate communication platform to ensure that our customers feel Appendix 5 Oct 25 Completed voluntary recalling. Products confident to use our products. Independent Assurance Statement Nov 14 Submitted a voluntary recall plan to the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. Verification Statement GHG Inventory Feb 14, 2017 Completed the discarding of all recalled products. GRI G4 Index About This Report 2016 Corporate Overview 1 Sustainability CEO Message Brand Portfolio Performance Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication Building a Harmonious World 2016 Highlights 2 Benefitting the Nature, People, and Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value the Company Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues By fully integrating our corporate sustainability vision 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 into corporate strategies and operations, Amorepacific 2016 Performance for Sustainability Group contributes to making positive change in the Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific corporate ecosystem. By leveraging our expertise and Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature core competencies, we seek to address the global Harmonious Growth environmental and social challenges. We will continue Sharing for Society innisfree our journey to create the sustainable future. ETUDE eSpoir AMOS Professional AESTURA Osulloc Farm 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments 3 Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 48 3. Sustainability Performance 49 Corporate Overview 1 Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Group CEO Message 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision In an effort to create a more beautiful future to our customers and stakeholders, Amorepacific Group strives to Each year, we identify and implement new sustainability management activities and related targets based AP WAY create harmonious coexistence between people, business, and the natural environment, and to nourish these upon the Group’s four strategic priorities – customers, environment, employees and business partners, and Financial Performance Governance efforts together. social contribution. Amorepacific Group’s Sustainability Management Committee within our Board, which Ethical Management is our highest decision making body, review and make decision on strategic sustainability issues. In 2016, Risk Management 2016 Key Numbers of Sustainability the Sustainability Management Committee convened two meetings and decided to integrate the progress of Materiality Analysis strategic sustainability issues into relevant senior managements’ key performance indicators to strengthen our Stakehoder Communication Customer Environment 4) Employees Society Good Product Good for Planet & Partners Good Citizenship sustainable business practices. Good Relationship 2016 Highlights 2 Sustainable Products 1) Greenhouse Gas Emission 5) Employees Engagement Social Contributions Expanding Global Business Activities Expense Strengthening Brand Value Sustainable 591 products 1.302tCO eq 2 /KRW 100 mn 83 points 23.994 KRW bn Management CEO Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship ▼ 13.2% ▼ 12.4% ▲ 1.0% ▲ 28.6% Organizational Strengthening Sustainability of Partners ㆍComprised of the executives of Structure Sustainability Management Committee Amorepacific Group Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues ㆍFinal decision-making body in regard to Ratio of R&D Expenditures Energy Consumption Ratio of Women in the Patients Participated in sustainability management issues to Sales Management 7) ‘Makeup Your Life’ Campaign 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 26.0% 1,254 Growth Support Division 2.12% 0.484 2) 6) 2016 Performance for Sustainability TOE /KRW 100 mn patients Sustainability Management Structure ▼ 0.16%p ▼ 12.6% ▲ 3.3%p ▲ 9.2% ㆍSustainability management coordinator Amorepacific Sustainability Management Team ㆍEstablish sustainability management strategies and identify potential projects Innovation for Customers Patent Water Consumption Supplier Sustainability ‘Pink Ribbon’ Campaign Harmony with Nature ㆍImplement sustainability management and support sustainable-related projects Registered/Applied 3) Assessment Scores Participants (since 2001) ㆍOperation of working groups such as sustainable technology, eco-friendly Harmonious Growth Sustainability Working Groups 1,099 10.187 83.9 572,077 consumption, SHE (Safety, Health, and Environment), and mutual growth Sharing for Society cases tons/KRW 100 mn points individuals innisfree ▲15.8% ▼ 9.9% ▲ 6.3% ▲ 13.7% ETUDE Strategic Directions eSpoir 1) This figure includes number of sustainable products from Amorepacific and innisfree. Year-over-year change AMOS Professional 2) This figure includes only ratio of R&D expenditures to sales from Amorepacific. 3) The 2016 figure includes the outputs produced by the entire Amorepacific Group and its subsidiaries, and thus is different from the 2015 statistics. ▲ N% Customer Employees & Partners AESTURA 4) The environment impact assessment excludes our operations in France. Good Product Good Relationship 5) Greenhouse Gas emission calculation methods are based upon the IPCC 2006 guideline. Osulloc Farm ㆍReinforcing product safety ㆍPursuing HR development and 6) Tonne of Oil Equivalent (TOE): A unit of energy defined as the amount of energy released by burning one tonne of crude oil. ㆍCreating growth opportunities balance between work and personal life 7) Ratio of women in management calculated based on those working in China and Korea. through sustainable research Beauty ㆍEstablishing fair and long-term partnerships 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 and innovation Major Awards and Recognitions Sustainability Vision for Environment Society Sustainability Focus Area Good for Planet Good Good Citizenship Sustainability Commitments ㆍMinimizing environmental impact ㆍFulfilling social responsibility as a throughout the entire value chain corporate citizen through community Listed in Dow Jones Sustainability Index Korea for Listed in FTSE4Good Index for 6 Consecutive Years Recognized by CDP Korea as a Climate Change Response Listed in 2016 MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes, Winner of Korea’s Most Admired Companies – All Star Enterprises to improve economic and ecological involvement and cause-related marketing Appendix 5 efficiency (eco-efficiency) 7 Consecutive Years Carbon Management Sector Global SRI Indexes and Cosmetic Sector – Released Independent Assurance Statement Winners in the Consumer by the Korean Management Staples Industry Association Consulting (KMAC). Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index * Except for the CDP Korea award, all these awards and recognitions went to Amorepacific – a major subsidiary of the Amorepacific Group. Amorepacific Group received the CDP Korea award. About This Report 3. Sustainability Performance 51 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Development of Amorepacific continuously seeks to improve the sustainability of our packaging, and our focus areas Brand Portfolio Sustainable Packaging include: reducing packaging materials through resource-efficient and sustainable design; using recycled Business Overview materials; encouraging the reuse of packaging; and using packaging materials made with renewable Vision About Our Company Since its establishment in 1945, Amorepacific has been pursuing our vocation as an Asian resources. AP WAY beauty creator by promoting the essence of Asian beauty. We opened Korea’s first cosmetic Financial Performance | IOPE Air Cushion and LANEGIE BB Cushion: Reducing the volume and weight of Packaging research and development center, and have produced innovative products combining Asian Governance To improve the sustainability of our cushion packaging, we introduced a new design to reduce the Ethical Management natural ingredients and latest cosmetic and dermatological technology. volume and weight of cushion cases and used high-precision injection machine to increase overall Risk Management sealing ability and reduce unnecessary space between cushion cases and refill containers. As a result IOPE Materiality Analysis Innovation for Customers | Air Cushion cases weighed 42% less and were 17% smaller in volume and LANEGIE BB Cushion cases Stakehoder Communication were 17% lighter with 13% less volume. These changes reduced plastic use by approximately 55 tons. Sustainable Products 2016 Highlights 2 Reduction of IOPE Air Cushion Reduction of LANEGIE BB Cushion Expanding Global Business Activities Amorepacific integrates social, environmental, and ethical considerations into the entire product lifecycle, Case Volume Case Volume Strengthening Brand Value 17% 13% from product development to consumption, to provide our customers with an experience of using sustainable Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation products and to foster sustainable consumption. This focus further strengthens the environmental sustainability Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship of our retail stores and reduces the environmental footprints of our packages. We continuously upgrade our Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues sustainability framework to increase the positive contributions of our products and to improve our service to our Reduction of Plastics in 2016 customers, society, and environment. 55ton 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 IOPE Air Cushion 2016 Performance for Sustainability Development Amorepacific offers a range of sustainable cosmetic and personal care products. Our products are categorized by Sustainability Management Structure of Sustainable their impacts, which include customer-safety, environmental sustainability, and local community empowerment. Amorepacific Products We have established a set of rigorous standards for each category to increase our consumers’ trust of sustainability| iIli Body Lotion Five Sets: Innovative Packaging Design to Minimize Product Remains Innovation for Customers certified products. Our internal sustainability standards are as strict as the ones established by specialized certification Generally, regular body lotion pumps cannot expel all of the body lotion from containers, so there is a Harmony with Nature organizations, and we are continuously upgrading our standards to reflect changing regulations and findings from small amount of body lotion wasted when the body lotion products are disposed. To minimize the waste, Harmonious Growth external experts. In 2016, we offered a total of 392 sustainable products to our customers around the world. Amorepacific used the airless pump technique for our containers, which reduced up to 5% of the wasted Sharing for Society Amorepacific Promise lotion in the five types of body lotion products we offer including illi Total Aging Care Intense Lotion. innisfree | Types of Sustainable Products This effort increased the total amount that consumers can use from this product and the longevity of the ETUDE product. Increased product longevity ultimately led to reduction in packaging material. eSpoir CustomerEnvironmentallySociallyFriendly Friendly Friendly BEFORE AFTER AMOS Professional Products Products Products AESTURA Osulloc Farm Airless Pump · Trusted natural and · Carbon footprints products · Beautiful Fair Trade products, organic products inspiring and refill/replace products universal design products, and customer confidence social contribution products 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 | Notable Sustainable Products Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Carbon Footprints Products 1) Beautiful Fair Trade Products Universal Design Products Happy Bath Grapefruit Essence Cooling Body Wash Hanyul Rice Essential Skin Emulsion mise-en-scène Damage Care Shampoo Airless Sustainability Commitments For this product, we measured and certified the amount of This product includes Korean angelica roots and This product uses braille to help people with visual GHG produced throughout the entire product life, and cnidium officinale makino from a small farm in Seosan, impairment distinguish between the similarly designed Appendix 5 found the total GHG emission was 748gCO2eq. Southern Choongchung province which we signed the containers of shampoo and conditioners and enhances illi Ceramide Ato Lotion Deep Tube Remainder Special dual structure-designed Independent Assurance Statement Beautiful Fair Trade agreement, and contributes to the the accessibility of this product. containers allow customers to economic development of the area. use our products without remains Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index 1) All of our products with the carbon footprint mark are certified by the Korean Environmental Industry & Technology Institute. About This Report Innovation for Customers | 52 3. Sustainability Performance 53 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Sustainable Technology Innovation Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision Developing the Process As of 2016, in addition to customer safety issues, we included environmental sustainability and social Product Development Air pollution in Asia is quite serious, as particulate matter (fine dust), haze (which causes AP WAY and Framework for responsibility indicators in assessing the quality of ingredients. We also developed and refined specific Responding to reduced visibility), and smog affect billions of people. The impacts of particle pollution are Financial Performance Governance Sustainability Assessment evaluation criteria for three pillars of sustainable technology (i.e., customer, environment, and society), Outdoor Air Pollution alarmingly severe in the Northeast Asia region that includes China and Korea. Particulate and focused on digitizing our evaluation process. Starting in 2017, all of our new products’ ingredients will Ethical Management for Ingredients matter (PM) consists of solid and liquid particles in the air that, when inhaled or absorbed be assessed on the three areas of sustainability. In addition, we will record and save the outcomes of our Risk Management through skin, can cause serious health problems. In 2013, the World Health Organization Materiality Analysis sustainability assessments in a master, digital database, improve our environmental impact assessment (WHO) categorized fine PM as a cancer-causing agent. In response, since 2014, we have Stakehoder Communication framework, and identify additional evaluation criteria to be added. Finally, we will set up the Sustainable conducted a range of research to provide skin care solutions that can help our customers Technology Advisory Group consisting of biodegradability experts, ecotoxicologists, and other specialists in protect their skins from fine PM. To conduct this research, we compared the skin conditions Sustainability Assessment the field to seek their expertise and advice to further enhance the sustainability of our ingredients 2016 Highlights 2 of two types of customers – the ones living in PM air pollution areas and residents of areas Process for Ingredients Expanding Global Business Activities declared to be safe from severe PM air pollution. Strengthening Brand Value Assessing the Sustainability of Verifying the Sustainability Identifying Areas We also did a comprehensive analysis of about 25,000 genes in our skin cells to investigate Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation All Ingredients (Customer Safety, Entering the Assessment of Ingredients According for Sustainability the harmful effect of PM-related electric generation on our skin. Based upon the research, Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Environmental Sustainability, Outcomes into the database to the Categories of Improvement and Relevant and Social Responsibility) Each Product Solutions we generated the findings confirming that fine PM accelerates the skin aging process by Strengthening Sustainability of Partners creating substances that cause skin irritation. Then, we developed approaches to protect Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues our customers from PM in order to address the needs of Chinese and Korean customers. Research on Animal We have fully recognized the importance of alternative methods for animal testing before the February These approaches consist of the following: first, we introduce the ‘skin defense technology’ 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Alternative Testing 2017 enactment of Korea’s revised Act on Cosmetic Products that bans animal testing. Amorepacific has which helps customers protect their skin from PM when they are outdoors. Second, we 2016 Performance for Sustainability Methods been undertaking a range of research projects on alternative methods for animal testing since 1997. provide a cleansing technology to remove the remains of PM on the skin. Third, we offer a Sustainability Management Structure Based on continuous research, we voluntarily discontinued all animal testing for cosmetic materials and technology to ease PM-caused skin damage. We are presenting optimal skin care solutions Amorepacific products since 2008, publicly declared our commitment on this topic, and prohibited animal testing to our customers who are impacted by PM air pollution and have also paved the way for Innovation for Customers for cosmetics except in situations in which animal testing is mandated by local governments and their innovative anti-pollution beauty products. Harmony with Nature laws in 2013. Currently, we are using alternatives to animal testing for skin irritation, skin sensitization, Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society photo-toxicity, absorption toxicity, ocular irritation, vaginal mucous membrane irritation, oral mucous innisfree membrane irritation, and endocrine disruption to assess the safety of raw materials and products prior to Particulate Matter Defense Technology Particulate Matter Removal Technology ETUDE clinical test. In close collaboration with the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety, Korean academics, Protects skin from fine dust by generating Uses the absorption properties of a polymer to eSpoir industry groups, and international experts, we are conducting research on alternative methods for negative energy on the skin to repel particulates absorb and remove particulate matter from the skin AMOS Professional animal testing, and we are focused on ensuring product safety without animal testing. Additionally, to AESTURA continue assuring product safety, we are strengthening our collaboration with toxicologists. Osulloc Farm For more details, 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 read our research on “Alternative Methods to Sustainability Vision Animal Testing” from Amorepacific Group’s website. Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement LANEIGE All Day Anti-Pollution Defensor Mamonde Lotus Micro Cleansing Foam Research on Animal Alternative Testing Methods Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Innovation for Customers | 54 Number of Sustainable Innovation for Customers Products 460 1 2014 Corporate Overview 2015 489 CEO Message 2016 392 Sustainable Stores Brand Portfolio Business Overview Number of Patents 1) Korea Overseas 466 Vision Applications 392 AP WAY Sustainable Our stores represent our brand values and are the prime way our products are introduced to customers. By focusing 360 328 Applications In-Store Interior on the integration of sustainability thinking into all aspects of our store design and operation, we are making 290 296 Financial Performance Governance Materials our utmost efforts to reduce our environmental footprints. We prioritize the use of environmentally sustainable 145 148 139 118 Ethical Management in-store interior materials across all of our stores and regularly monitor the sustainability performance of our Registrations 92 105 Registrations Risk Management stores. To mainstream environmentally sustainable thinking in our store operations, we included the use of Materiality Analysis environmentally sustainable interior materials as one of the important performance indicators. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Stakehoder Communication From the second half of 2015, we mandated all new Aritaum stores to use environmentally sustainable in-store Number of Published interior materials. Specifically, to reduce the possibility of “Sick Building Syndrome”, we only use the Korea Eco Academic Papers 2) 62 2014 2016 Highlights 2 Label products for plaster boards, woodworking adhesives, and water paint. For energy efficiency, in 2016, we 2015 52 Expanding Global Business Activities updated our manuals to mandate all Aritaum stores to use LED products, which use less energy. This requirement 2016 51 Strengthening Brand Value will be applied to all new stores and renovated ones. Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Sustainable In-Store R&D Expenditure Ratio of R&D Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Interior Materials (KRW mn) Expenditure to Sales (%) Strengthening Sustainability of Partners 119,556 108,506 Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 97,108 2.51 2.28 2.12 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Resolution of Customer Korea Overseas (China) Complaints Resolve (%) Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature 98.1 98.1 99.1 90.4 Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society 2014 2015 2016 2016 innisfree Item 1 Plaster Board 2 Woodworking Adhesives 3 Water Paint 4 Store Lighting Fixtures Average Consultation Korea (points) Overseas (China, %) ETUDE Impacts Improved instore air quality by reducing the emission of toxic air pollutants such Reduction of energy with Satisfaction Rate eSpoir 93.6 86.6 as volatile organic compounds, toluene, and formaldegyde highly energy efficient 78.9 Lighting AMOS Professional 98.6 AESTURA Osulloc Farm 2014 2015 2016 2016 Sustainable In addition to using space in a more environmentally sustainable way, we are also expanding the use of Packaging compostable wrapping papers and packing bags to further reduce our environmental footprint and raise our Number of calls 2014 2015 2016 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 received by our Materials customers’ environmental sustainability awareness. Three of the packing materials our Aritaum store use are customer service Sustainability Vision sustainably produced, and one example is shock-absorbing packaging made of corn starch. In the future, we plan centers Korea 194,633 182,502 315,505 3) Sustainability Focus Area to further improve the sustainability of our packaging materials, including shopping bags, with design innovation Sustainability Commitments Overseas (China) 15,662 33,421 52,505 and new technologies. 1) It differs from the one in 2015 report, due to extending coverage to all over the Amorepacific. Appendix 5 2) It differs from the one in 2015 report, due to change of the criteria. 3) In 2016, our call volume increased because we began to receive calls on e-commerce related inquiries. Independent Assurance Statement We also received a number of calls as a result of the recall of our toothpaste products. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Harmony with Nature | 56 3. Sustainability Performance 57 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Responding to Climate Change Research and Amorepacific focused on reducing the emission of CO2 using improved technology that can be applied Brand Portfolio Development during the production stage. Since 2014, our R&D Center, in collaboration with the Supply Chain Business Overview Low-Temperature Management (SCM), successfully developed and applied the low-temperature emulsion technology Vision Amorepacific deeply values harmonious relations between nature and humanity. Fully recognizing the urgency AP WAY Emulsion Technology to reduce the energy use when producing lotions and creams which use the emulsion. The existing and seriousness of global environmental challenges such as climate change, we are prioritizing environmental Financial Performance technology mixed oil with water at high temperature and cooled the emulsified material. To improve Governance sustainability activities throughout our business strategies and operations to minimize our environmental the efficiency of the existing technology, we tested three other types of processes: a) low temperature Ethical Management footprints. emulsion which uses cold water when mixing with hot oil b) emulsifying oil in water at high temperature, Risk Management and cooling the mixture with cold water c) emulsifying at room temperature. Materiality Analysis We identified optimal emulsifying technologies for each product types, which applies innovative Stakehoder Communication Product Life Amorepacific applies rigorous environmental sustainability standards to the entire lifecycle of our products (from solutions to readjust the processing temperature and mixture combination. By applying this technology, Cycle Response research and development to disposal of products) to minimize our environmental footprints. Towards this, we we produced 37 products and reduced the emission of CO2. In 2017, we plan to expand the use of this 2016 Highlights 2 to Climate develop production technology requiring the minimum use of energy, optimize energy efficiency, and promote ecotechnology in all production facilities and will continue to accelerate the development of technology that Expanding Global Business Activities Change driving to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. To increase customer awareness of our eco-friendly lifestyle, can contribute to the reduction of CO2 emission throughout our production process. Strengthening Brand Value Amorepacific focuses on increasing the number of products certified for carbon footprints and embarked on a Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation public campaign on recycling cosmetic bottles. Energy Reduction Rate with Low-Temperature Emulsion Technology 1) Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship 1 Simple Low-Temperature 2 Multi-Stage Low-Temperature 3 Room Temperature Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Strategies 2016 Progress Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Sourcing and • Support business partners’ low carbon production mechanism • Development of the low-temperature emulsion polymerization technology and approx. 20% approx. 40% 100% Research & • Develop low carbon technologies used in 37 products 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Development 1) The reduction rate measures energy use of each technology to achieve the required temperature. 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure • Improve energy efficiency across • Reduction of GHG with 76 cases of Amorepacific production process improvement of energy efficiency: 465 tCO2eq Production Amorepacific undertook an array of activities to improve energy efficiency across all of our facilities and Innovation for Customers Production • Use renewable energy • Use of renewable energy: 196,543kwh generated through solar power Increase Energy offices. In 2016, with a total of 76 specific activities, such as improving the fuel efficiency of boilers, we Harmony Harmony with Nature withNature • Conversion to LED lights: 26% Efficiency were able to reduce a total of 465 tCO2eq and KRW 530 million. Additionally, we share a notable energy Harmonious Growth (Beauty Campus Osan) reduction case through our internal cross-functional task force on climate change. Sharing for Society • Encourage the implementation of • Improvement of fuel efficiency – 5% increased innisfree eco-driving practices by contracted (compared with 2012) ETUDE Transportation & logistics and transportation companies Distribution 2016 Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction eSpoir • Encourage energy efficient shipping strategies CO2 emission Cost AMOS Professional Reduction Saving AESTURA • Measure product carbon footprints • Number of carbon footprints Osulloc Farm • Expand the certification of low carbon certified products: 8 Consumption production • Consumer campaigns: LANEGIE ‘Refill Me’ and • Undertake consumer campaigns on primera ‘Love The Earth’ 465 tCO2eq KRW 530 mn 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 sustainable consumption Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area • Continue the used bottle recycling • Collected 123 tons of used bottle for recycling champaign Sustainability Commitments Disposal Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 58 Harmony with Nature | 3. Sustainability Performance 59 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message | Improving Energy Efficiency Water Stewardship and Waste Management Brand Portfolio On an annual basis, we undertake activities to optimize the energy use of certain machines that are high in Business Overview energy consumption by improving the fuel efficiency of boilers and replacing old facilities. At Beauty Campus Vision Osan, we installed occupancy sensors and timers to improve energy efficiency, and at Mass Cosmetic By recognizing water shortage and natural resource depletion as urgent global challenges, Amorepacific is AP WAY Production site, we improved the energy efficiency about 10% after replacing the old heating system with a undertaking various efforts to reduce water consumption throughout our production cycle. We have worked Financial Performance high efficient heating system. Governance consistently to reuse and recycle waste water from our production facilities to improve water efficiency and to Ethical Management | Expanding the Use of LED Lighting contribute to the circular economy. Risk Management We are installing LEDs – high efficiency lighting – across our facilities to reduce the energy use from the Materiality Analysis lighting. Particularly, at our Beauty Campus Osan, we plan to replace all lighting with LEDs by 2020. We Stakehoder Communication are also gradually replacing lighting with the LED ones at our headquarter office, regional branches, and 2016 Reducing Water Consumption storage and distribution sites to reduce energy use and improve work place environment. Recycling of Use or Rain 2016 Highlights 2 | Use of the Video Teleconferencing System Water Water Expanding Global Business Activities As our business goes global, we travel overseas more frequently. In an effort to reduce the CO2 emission Strengthening Brand Value associated with frequent travelling, we have installed video teleconferencing systems in all of our facilities, so our employees can communicate easily with our business partners and clients in other countries without traveling. 28,000tons 35,000tons Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Transportation & We are establishing an environmentally sustainable logistics and transportation system by applying 27KRW mn saved 72KRW mn saved Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Distribution smart technology. In collaboration with the logistics and transportation contractors, we installed digital Energy Efficient tachographs (DTG) in vehicles transporting our products, and monitored driver activities such as idle 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Logistics and rotation, sudden brakes, over-speeding, and sudden use of accelerators. The information collected helped 2016 Performance for Sustainability us communicate with drivers about eco-friendly driving techniques. Recycling and We are reducing water consumption by introducing wastewater recycling system in our production Transportation Sustainability Management Structure | Fuel Efficiency of Distribution Vehicles | CO2 Emission of Distribution Vehicles (Scope 3) Reusing Water facilities. At our Beauty Campus Osan, we retreat the wastewater discharged from the water treatment System Amorepacific facilities of the plants. In 2016, using our wastewater recycling system, we reduced approximately · Improved rate compared to 2012 5% · 2016 3,348 tCO²eq 1,300 tons of water waste and plan to increase the amount of recycled water by gradually improving Innovation for Customers Harmony withNature Harmony with Nature our recycling capabilities. We saved approximately 28,000 tons of water by reusing the condensed water Harmonious Growth Consumption ‘Amorepacific Promise’ – our sustainable product – creates benefits for our customers, minimizes our produced during the ionization process and the recycling wastewater. Sharing for Society Products Certified environmental impact, and pursues harmony with local communities. The following types of Amorepacific innisfree for Carbon Promise products are specifically develop to minimize environmental impact: carbon footprint certified Optimizing Water Use At our Mass Cosmetic Production site, recognizing that condensate water was being contaminated by the ETUDE Footprints products, products using recycled packaging materials, and refill/replace products reducing the latent water vapor of the heating and cooling system, we introduced a water quality management system eSpoir environmental impacts of containers. With the Amorepacific Promise products, we invite our customers to to monitor the contamination. With this, we were able to reduce the severity of water contamination and AMOS Professional optimized water consumption. In addition, we will introduce technology that extracts heat to minimize AESTURA consume and live sustainably. * For more details, please see the “Developing Sustainable Products” section in page 50. the condensate formed. Osulloc Farm Disposal In an effort to promote a circular economy through a sustainable and creative recycling and waste Waste Management By reducing the amount of waste across our facilities and increasing the recyclability of waste, 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Consumer management process, Amorepacific has been organizing our signature consumer campaign, GREENCYCLE, Sustainability Vision Amorepacific contributes to the building of the circular economy. At our Mass Cosmetic Production site, Campaign designed to increase the recyclability of used cosmetic containers, including used container collection. Sustainability Focus Area we improved the technology and process of wastewater treatment and reduced the amount of sewage ‘GREENCYCLE’ In 2016, we collected a total of 123 tons of used containers and carried out a joint research activity in Sustainability Commitments sludge – the residual material produced as a by-product during industrial wastewater – by about 5%. To partnership with a specialty recycling company on various creative and innovative ways to upcycle and reuse identify more effective ways to recycle and reuse wastewater, we analyzed the types and traits of waste the collected containers. Appendix 5 produced in each production site. * For more details, please see the “GREENCYCLE Campaign” section in page 75. Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Harmony with Nature | 60 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1) Harmony with Nature 35,316 2014 0.912 Total, tCO₂eq Corporate Overview 1 2015 0.778 37,097 CEO Message Basic Unit, 2016 0.711 40,128 Conservation of Biodiversity tCO₂eq/KRW 100 mn Brand Portfolio 2014 2015 2016 Business Overview Vision Korea 29,880 31,454 34,106 Biodiversity is fundamental to healthy human life. However, with short-term focused development, the loss of AP WAY Overseas (China) 5,436 5,643 6,022 Financial Performance biodiversity is alarming. As the cosmetic industry, of which Amorepacific is part, uses large amounts of biological Governance resources for ingredients, we have been undertaking a range of activities to preserve biodiversity and to share the Energy Consumption 2) Ethical Management profits gained through those activities. Risk Management 2014 0.136 11,646 Total, TOE 4) Materiality Analysis Restoring and Soybeans that originated from the Manchurian and Korean Peninsula have been essential elements in 2015 0.147 12,016 Stakehoder Communication Proliferating Korean Korean diets throughout its history. Yet, as industrial agricultural practices focused on commercially Basic Unit, 2016 0.140 13,171 TOE/product-tons Indigenous Rare competitive soybeans, the diversity of cultivated beans deteriorated. To contribute to restoring the biodiversity of soybeans and identify unique properties that can be commercially used for the cosmetic 2014 2015 2016 2016 Highlights 2 Soybeans industry, we did research on restoring and nurturing rare native beans. In 2016, Amorepacific researched Korea 9,957 10,219 11,216 Expanding Global Business Activities the distinctive properties and effects of Korean Napjakong (flat beans), Pureunkong (green soybeans), and Strengthening Brand Value Overseas (China) 1,689 1,797 1,955 green kernel black beans and succeeded in materializing their unique properties as ingredients for our Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation cosmetic products. The products incorporating these rare soybeans include primera Wild Seed Firming Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship 2) Line, innisfree Jeju soybean Firming Series, and Hanyul Seoritae Skin-refining Cream. Furthermore, we also Water Consumption Strengthening Sustainability of Partners conducted research on the metabolome of beans that were previously neglected due to limited applicability Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 2014 5.289 451,596 Total, tons and commercial viability and confirmed their positive effects on skin refining and improvement. We applied 2015 5.262 430,495 primera Wild Seed Firming Cream the findings on the bean metabolome to create an ingredient for the Sulwhasoo Goa Line Renewal product. Basic Unit, 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 5.129 480,867 tons/product-tons 2016 Performance for Sustainability Build Greenhouse for As part of our joint research efforts with Chollipo Arboretum in Korea, we built a special biodiversity 2014 2015 2016 Sustainability Management Structure Endangerd Species greenhouse dedicated to preserving endangered native plants. Completed in June 2016, this greenhouse Korea 358,916 364,145 398,531 Amorepacific is being used to preserve and proliferate endangered Korean plants such as Prickly Waterlily, Korean Overseas (China) 92,680 66,350 82,336 Innovation for Customers Water Crowfoot, Dwarf-woodland Korean iris and Abeliophyllum Distichum Nakai. In the coming years, Harmony withNature Harmony with Nature we will identify environments where these plants can grow without human interventions and introduce 2014 2015 2016 Harmonious Growth them into these natural habitats. Wastewater Discharge 3) 221,092 219,571 234,152 Sharing for Society Total, tons Support for the We support research projects that develop databases on various native plants in order to raise awareness innisfree 2.629 2.806 2.630 Basic Unit, tons/product-tons Publication of on biodiversity and its research. Specifically, we support the publication of the Magnolia Book, which ETUDE will describe detailed information and characteristics on over 600 types of magnolias that Chollipo Non-recycled Waste Amount 3) 549 551 1,038 eSpoir ‘Magnolia Book’ Total, tons Arboretum cultivates, and this book will be published in 2017. In addition, we learned that the cold 0.007 0.007 0.012 Basic Unit, AMOS Professional and Research on tons/product-tons tolerant, Korean native camellias, which are grown on a northwest island in Korea, are being threatened AESTURA the Proliferation of COD Generation 3) 5) 8,735 10,415 13,566 by habitat destruction. To preserve its unique quality of cold tolerance, we began research on this Total, kg Osulloc Farm Camellia camellia and succeeded in propagating about 600 of them. In 2017, we will replant these camellias in 0.104 0.133 0.152 Basic Unit, kg/production-tons their natural habitat. NOx Emission 3) 6) 2016 Environment 2016 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Investment 3) Operating Cost 46.5 Sustainability Vision 11,230 Sustainability Focus Area Facility kg investments 9.8 KRW 100 mn Sustainability Commitments 1) Applicable Sites: All sites in Korea (SCM, Research Institute, Corporate HQ, Regional Offices, and Sales Offices); China SCM Production Site 2) Applicable Sites: Korean and Chinese Production Facilities 3) Applicable Sites: Korean Production Facilities Appendix 5 4) Tonne of Oil Equivalent (TOE): A unit of energy defined as the amount of energy released by burning one tonne of crude oil. 5) Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Independent Assurance Statement 6) Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Chollipo Arboretum Korean native camellias Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Harmonious Growth | 62 3. Sustainability Performance 63 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Growing Together with Our Employees Happy Workplace To foster a creative and happy work place, the Amorepacific operates various programs. Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision Amorepacific seeks to provide an optimal, creative work environment in which all of our employees can fulfill AP WAY their potentials. We respect the rights of individual employees, foster talented individuals with various abilities, Financial Performance Governance and provide competitive and reasonable compensation based upon performance. All of our efforts related to This program is designed to provide team leaders with an Ethical Management human capital management contribute to creating a corporate culture based on trust. opportunity to share their gratitude with their team members. The Risk Management team leaders will each identify a specific team member who they Materiality Analysis Human Capital Our human capital management strategy is based upon the AP WAY, which reflects our vision for changing the wish to acknowledge, send that team member a card and a gift, and Stakehoder Communication Management world through beauty. AP WAY outlines three pillars of our business philosophy (i.e., service to humanity, respect for offer that team member a day-off to spend with his or her family. individuals, and the creation of the future) and elaborates five key values which seek to guide our action (i.e., openness, 2016 Highlights 2 integrity, innovation, proximity, and challenge). Our human capital management strategy upholds the AP WAY, Gratitude and This symbolic tree of wishes is created in a special biennial Expanding Global Business Activities fostering conscientious and action-oriented ‘creative beauty masters’. Strengthening Brand Value Complement program in which employees can submit a list of special | Key Objectives of Human Capital Management | Role of Human Capital Management wishes that they would like their companies to address. We Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Relays Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship offered this program twice in 2016, and selected the 50 Promoting and Internalizing Corporate Values Strengthening Sustainability of Partners wishes we addressed. Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Creativity Engagement Supporting Organizational Development to Strengthen Corporate’s Core Competencies Happy Work Place 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Creative Hope Tree 2016 Performance for Sustainability Masters Programs Systematic Support for Employees’ Gradual Sustainability Management Structure Professional Development In-House Professionalism Empathy Amorepacific Clubs Offering Human Resource Development (HRD) Innovation for Customers Solutions for High Performance Harmony with Nature We support in-house clubs to encourage our employees Harmonious Growth Harmonious Growth | Key Performance Outcomes Sharing for Society to enjoy various recreational and cultural activities. These Changing Management of Strengthening Leadership Education to Foster Special Lecture innisfree clubs encourage less hierarchical and casual networking Organizational Culture Creative Masters Series ETUDE • Implementing corporate value • Leadership capacity building of • Curriculum design and education for opportunities for employees, and they are designed to increase practices – MY WAY 2016 senior management specialists in strategic positions eSpoir • Establishing the Code of Conduct and Leadership workshops, senior management employee job satisfaction. In 2016, the total number of inEducation on strategic decision making, AMOS Professional specific change management plans coaching, Leaders Agora (discussion forum), digital intelligence, and house clubs increased to 18 from 4 in 2015 with the addition This program was launched to provide our employees with an and Seoul National University’s executive emotional intelligence AESTURA MBA courses of new clubs such as board games, yoga, LEGO, and floral opportunity to participate in intellectually stimulating lecturers Osulloc Farm Talent Management Programs Global Talent Management Strengthening the Capacity arrangements. 431 employees participated in these clubs. at the workplace. We offer lectures that can strengthen our of Beauty Partners • Developing Amorepacific’s unique teaching • Offering standard manuals on • Trainings on management capacity building employees’ exposure to humanity and invite their feedback to 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 methods and curriculum customer engagement per each brand for supervisors working with beauty partners provide the most popular and relevant lecturers. In 2016, we Sustainability Vision • Devising the strategy to strengthen the • Offering K-Service Journey • Strengthening the quality of professional applicability of trainings to employees’ Trainings for beauty trainers in China, certification programs and process offered 4 special lecturers, including the one with Tea-ho Kim, Sustainability Focus Area day-to-day work Hong Kong, and Singapore • Establishing the memorandum of understanding Trainings for beauty partners (contracting (MoU) with universities for industry-academic a famous Korean TV producer who made the most successful Sustainability Commitments sales agents and customer service associates) partners (i.e. Samyook Pubic Health University, in Taiwan, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam Osan University, and Choongchung University) comedy program in Korea and the other with Chan-ho Park, Korea’s first baseball player to compete in the U.S. major league. Appendix 5 Corporate Value Practices 91 sessions 3,207 participants Independent Assurance Statement Management Capacity Building for Supervisors Working with Beauty Partners 6 courses, 12 sessions 246 participants Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 64 Corporate Overview 1 Move towards Inclusive Growth, CEO Message Respect for Diversity Amorepacific provides equal opportunities to all its employees according to their competencies and Brand Portfolio qualifications and in accordance with the Code of Ethics. Fair evaluations and rewards are given based on Business Overview job performance, while discrimination in the processes of recruitment, job assignment, and promotion Vision due to gender, place of birth, nationality, race, religion, disability, or educational background is strictly AP WAY forbidden. We also comply with the rules and regulations of all countries where we operate and make Financial Performance “After diagnosed with disability, I felt that hope for a better future was far from me.” the utmost effort to prevent any egregious human rights violations, and are actively supporting working Governance mothers and people with disabilities. Ethical Management Soo-hyun Lee (pseudonym) who worked as a private English instructor was diagnosed with disability Risk Management | Programs to Support Expecting Mothers seven years ago due to cerebral hemorrhage. In addition to physical pains, she experienced financial Materiality Analysis To support expecting mothers and mothers in postpartum recovery, we started a special program. This difficulty as it was difficult to find a suitable employment opportunity. With her new job at Amorepacific Stakehoder Communication program informs the various entitlements we offer to pregnant workers such as reduced working hours, WeDream, she has finally found the pathway for a better future. maternity leave, hospital visits during working hours, and the elimination of overtime work. We also 2016 Highlights 2 address the physical concerns of pregnant employees by replacing their chairs with ones better designed Because of prejudice and social stigma which affects recruiters’ neutrality in making hiring decisions, Expanding Global Business Activities for women in pregnancy, offering foot stools, and providing extra blankets. This program also educates people with disability in Korea are often faced with difficulty in finding suitable employment Strengthening Brand Value other employees about the importance of maternity leave and supporting expecting parents. As a result, opportunities despite their willingness and capabilities. The widespread prejudice is extremely Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation the use of maternity leave by expecting mothers has increased. Expecting mothers have expressed discouraging to people with disability. In an effort to provide people with disabilities with employment Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship appreciation for the systematic support they received from their colleagues, and indicated the usefulness Strengthening Sustainability of Partners opportunities, Amorepacific established a subsidiary “WeDream”. In October 2016, WeDream was of the materials we supplied in relieving their physical discomfort. Finally, we have strongly encouraged Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues certified as people with disability friendly work environment by the Korea Employment Agency for the parental leave for work and life balance, offered reduced working hours during the child’s critical Disabled. WeDream employees are responsible for packaging our products as part of our Beauty Campus development stages, and invited parents to register their children in our in-house daycares. Osan’s distribution support center, and we will continue to expand a range of tasks that our employees 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 will undertake while considering the severity and types of disability of our employees. 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Lee told us that her work with WeDream gave her a new sense of hope and pride as a valuable member Innovation for Customers of society. Through WeDream, Amorepacific is committed to providing opportunities where people with Harmony with Nature disability can engage in quality work to pursue our vision of “A MORE Beautiful World” through the Harmonious Growth Harmonious Growth Inclusive growth efforts. Sharing for Society innisfree ETUDE Trust-Based LaborAmorepacific has not had conflicts or disputes between the labor union and management for the past eSpoir Management Relations 25 years because of the trust we have built through regular communication. As of the end of 2016, the AMOS Professional number of employees in the labor union was 2,993, with 51.7% of the employees holding memberships. AESTURA Employees are also free to join or leave the labor union at any time. A collective agreement is concluded Osulloc Farm once every two years, and it is applicable to all of the employees. Furthermore, in addition to the regular labor-management council and its meetings, we are actively communicating through various other 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 informal communication channels to share business strategies and address any areas of concerns. Sustainability Vision The labor-management council operates at each production site, and every quarter, they consult on Sustainability Focus Area the matters necessary to promote employee health and welfare, resolve their difficulties, and ensure Sustainability Commitments a harmonious balance between career and family life. The management in each business sector and the executives of the labor union meet regularly for bilateral communication. To foster the mutually Appendix 5 beneficial labor and management culture, we have convened regular workshops where executives from Independent Assurance Statement the management and labor union leaders can participate jointly. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Harmonious Growth | 66 3. Sustainability Performance 67 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Health and Safety of Employees Store Safety | Establishment of the Store Safety and Health Coordinating Committee Brand Portfolio The safety of stores requires a more comprehensive approach to SHE risk management, as Business Overview both our employees and customers use the space. To systematically manage the SHE risks that Vision Amorepacific considers employees’ safety and health as one of the top management priorities because healthy can occur in our stores, we established the Committee on Store Safety and Health in 2016. AP WAY employees are fundamental to running an ethical and competitive company. For all of our employees, we The Committee discusses the key areas of safety and health issues for customers and other Financial Performance stakeholders visiting the stores with SHE managers across the group and representatives from Governance implement a number of programs that reinforce our SHE policies and related operational procedures. In 2016, our partner companies to develop recommendations for further improvement. Ethical Management we extended the implementation of our SHE policies and procedures to all of our subsidiaries and further Risk Management strengthened the safety standards of all of our stores. | Store Safety Risk Assessment and Emergency Response Capacity Building Materiality Analysis To identify the health and safety risks in our stores, we assessed their compliance on 35 areas Stakehoder Communication Safety, Health and | Group-Wide SHE Management Structure of SHE items. In 2016, we partnered with the Korea Electrical Safety Corporation to conduct a Effective implementation of the SHE policies and procedures requires active internal Environment (SHE) System detailed risk assessment of potential high risk fire hazards in 146 stores. As a result, we identified 2016 Highlights 2 communications and strong buy-in from the top management. SHE issues are regularly a total of 627 areas for further improvement and are working to address those risks. We also Expanding Global Business Activities reviewed at the board’s Sustainable Management Committee, our highest decision making offered a series of trainings based upon the AP SHE Procedures to the supervisors and managers Strengthening Brand Value body, and are addressed at the Group SHE Sub-Committee, a decision making body among responsible for store operations. In 2017, we will strengthen the risk management process that Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation senior management. In addition, SHE issues are regularly discussed at the Supply Chain helps prevent and manage fires and will develop related policies and operational procedures. Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Management Committee, and an in-house SHE working group is convened to foster Strengthening Sustainability of Partners communication among working-level staff members. Health and Wellness | Follow-Up and Support of Employees with Health Risks Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Programs for Employees For our employees’ wellness, we offer various programs. In 2016, 101 employees were Headquarter voluntarily participated in an “Annual Check-Up Follow-Up Program” to support their efforts 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 R&D Center SCM and to reduce the health risks identified during the annual check-up. This program was developed 2016 Performance for Sustainability Local Offices in collaboration with medical institutes, and we will expand the coverage of this program and Sustainability Management Structure · Regular Monitoring of · Sub-Committee on Safety and · SHE committee for Retail business promote its benefits to our employees. Amorepacific Laboratory Safety Environment SHE Committee Innovation for Customers · Research Infrastructure · Assessment of Safety of · Committee on Store Safety and Health Safety Assessment Production Facility Infrastructure · Regular Monitoring of Risks Trainings on Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) Harmony with Nature · Assessment of Research · Assessment of Safety of Storage and the Use of Automated External Defibrillators (AED) Working Environment Space for Chemical Materials Harmonious Growth Harmonious Growth · Assessment of Legal Compliance on SHE Throughout 2016, we offered useful health tips through in-house communication platforms SHE Management Process Sharing for Society at least once a month and provided key public safety and health information through our in| Revising the Group’s SHE Standards innisfree Plan | Establishing the SHE Management System house broadcasting center at least three times a month. Also, we provided two emergency In 2014, Amorepacific introduced the Group’s SHE Standards to comply with the laws and ETUDE response education trainings on CPR and the use of AED to strengthen our employees’ capacity regulations of countries where we operate, as well as to meet the global SHE standards. eSpoir Execution | Operationalization, Education/Training, to respond to health emergencies. We will continue to offer similar educational programs. Emergency Response Manuals In 2016, we updated the SHE standards to further optimize our SHE processes. The AMOS Professional revised standards include a total of 31 subjects according with Plan-Do-Check Act (PDCA) | Health Fund and Stop Smoking Fund AESTURA Evaluation | Monitoring and Evaluation on SHE framework, a set of guidelines with which all Amorepacific Group’s facilities and business Osulloc Farm Management Performance Amorepacific operates a program that supports the well-being of our employees. Similar to the partners must comply. last year, we partnered with the public health clinic to run a health fund for employees who need to Improvement | Identifying Areas of Improvement / Health Fund Counseling reduce weight and body fat and a stop smoking fund for employees who wish to quit smoking 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Taking Necessary Measures to Improve These Issues | Further Refining the Group’s SHE Audit Standards Sustainability Vision We also further refined our SHE audit process to continue to monitor and evaluate our SHE | Launching a Standing Work Program to Prevent Musculoskeletal Disorders Sustainability Focus Area performance according to the revised SHE standards and operational processes. The revised To prevent musculoskeletal disorders, we are offering a standing work program. In 2015, 20 Sustainability Commitments SHE Audit Standards include a total of 436 items that will be audited to regularly monitor employees volunteered to participate in the pilot stage of this program and had positive results. and assess our global compliance with SHE standards, and it mandates the review of our In 2016, we launched the program officially and invited 100 employees who indicated the Appendix 5 production facilities, distribution centers, research institutes, retail stores, and offices. For experience of musculoskeletal disorder related symptoms to participate. It is hoped that this Independent Assurance Statement efficient implementation, we provided a training program to develop in-house SHE auditors. Standing Work program will lead to improved performance and health of our employees. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Harmonious Growth | 68 3. Sustainability Performance 69 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message | Sharing the Patent to Strengthen SME Competitiveness Growing Together with Our Business Partners Brand Portfolio In collaboration with Jeju Techno Park and Jeju University, Amorepacific shared the patents Business Overview we own with SMEs without charge to enhance their competiveness and accelerate the Vision Amorepacific has been undertaking a series of activities based upon our partner strategies and centered on financial commercialization of patented technology. This effort was designed to share the benefits AP WAY support, human resources capacity building, and the support of technological competencies and profit increases. Financial Performance of our research with broader society, and we gave a total of 8 patents to 6 SMEs who Governance We are committed to fostering the culture of fair business relationships that benefit all of our business partners. responded to our October 2016 offer. We will actively support the commercialization of Ethical Management these patents by providing technology consulting to SMEs. Risk Management Mutural Growth Financial Support | Supporting the Financial Health and Sustainability of Our Business Partners Materiality Analysis with Business Partners Open Communication | Convening the Mutual Growth General Assembly with Business Partners Stakehoder Communication We provide loans to our suppliers at low interest rates using our KRW 20 billion Win-Win Partnership Annually, we convene two meetings with the management of our business partners in Fund that provide direct assistance to partner companies and our KRW 4 billion mutual growth Fund that we jointly developed with the Industry Bank of Korea (IBK). Furthermore, we run a KRW 600 million an attempt to enhance communication. The Mutual Growth with SCM Partners General 2016 Highlights 2 Assemblies are convened at the start of every year, and the Win-Win Seminars are held mutual growth Investment Fund to provide financial assistance to enhance our business partners’ Expanding Global Business Activities at the end of every year. At the Mutual Growth General Assembly held in March 2016, Strengthening Brand Value capacity. In April 2016, we revised our payment policy to ensure that within ten days of the receipt of an we recognized the best performing business partners with awards and entered into the Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation invoice, we completely pay, in cash, to all the small and medium-sized enterprises with whom we have Mutual Growth Compact with 65 small and medium size enterprises who work with us. Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship a mutual growth compact. By using the mutual growth partnership loan and cash payment monitoring At the Win-Win Seminar in December 2016, we shared the best practices on innovation Strengthening Sustainability of Partners system, we extend a Inclusively beneficial payment system, offering prompt payment, to small enterprises among business partners in the same industry, reviewed the 2016 performance records, Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues in the 2nd and 3rd tier supply chain. and discussed our 2017 procurement strategies. Human Resources Capacity Building Support 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 | Meetings with Second-Tier Suppliers | Support Business Partners’ Participation in Overseas Training 2016 Performance for Sustainability We convene regular meetings with second tier suppliers to strengthen our collaboration Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific provides financial support to suppliers’ participation in overseas training to enhance their with second tier suppliers and promote a culture of Mutual growth in Korea’s business Amorepacific competitiveness. Annually, we support the overseas trips of these partner companies. In the past, they travelled to Japan to learn about the Toyota Production System (TPS) and Japanese innovation strategies. ecosystem. In 2016, we brought seven strategically significant second tier suppliers Innovation for Customers In 2016, we supported these partners’ trip to Germany to study the German Government’s Industry 4.0 together to share our vision and strategies on procurement, solicit supplier concerns, and Harmony with Nature Strategy. Through these trips, partners were able to reflect on business strategies they can apply to meet discuss ways to further enhance our efforts on Inclusive growth. Harmonious Growth Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society the needs of customers in the digital era. | Mutual Growth Newsletter Series innisfree | Support the Welfare of Employees of our Business Partners Starting in 2016, Amorepacific began to send regular newsletters to our suppliers to share ETUDE We are providing assistance to enhance the welfare programs that benefit our best performing suppliers’ relevant information on our company and key activities and to encourage our company’s eSpoir employees. In September 2016, we introduced a program that provides in-kind support to those who Mutual Growth Newsletter various Mutual growth programs. AMOS Professional lost their family members. AESTURA Mutual Growth with | Door-To-Door Sales Partnership Council Osulloc Farm Support for Technological Innovation Door-to-Door Sales Associates In 2013, we launched the “Door-to-Door Sales Partnership Council,” consisting of five | Business Partners Study Group on Innovation and Managers senior executives of Amorepacific and 17 elected managers who oversee door-to-door 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Amorepacific supports the establishment of a community of learning among business partners in sales agents. These managers participate in quarterly meetings regularly to provide advice Sustainability Vision the same industry to foster innovation. We offer professional consulting service to address business Sustainability Focus Area on our overall sales policies and discuss the practical challenges facing door-to-door sale challenges in the areas of pricing, production, product quality management, distribution, production Sustainability Commitments agents. Our management representatives integrate various opinions that were conveyed to technology, and management of equipment. In 2016, a total of 8 business partners engaged in a Study them into our business strategies to strengthen our sales activities. In 2016, two meetings Group on Innovation, which identifed areas of improvement and potential solutions, including the Appendix 5 were held in April and December. Quality Assurance (QA) process, 5 Business Management Processes (i.e., organization, arrangement, Independent Assurance Statement cleaning, cleanness, and habituation) and production site management. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 70 71 Korea Overseas (China) Harmonious Growth 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Corporate Overview 1 Women in CEO Message Workforce (%) Good Jobs Strategy for In 2016, we focused on implementing activities that enhance our business partners’ Brand Portfolio 65.3 65.9 67.3 75.6 75.9 76.1 Beauty Partners competitiveness and strengthen the motivation of beauty partners. Specifically, we made Business Overview an effort to enhance the competitiveness of beauty partners by offering a series of training Vision programs, and we helped improve beauty partners’ motivation and satisfaction through Female in AP WAY Management (%) Financial Performance financial incentives, improvements to the work environment, and wellness programs. 20.1 18.5 25.2 43.1 51.5 47.7 Governance Professional Development Trainings Ethical Management | 6 Annual APBU Ehwa-Amorepacific Academy th Risk Management Accident 0.20 In collaboration with the Ehwa Women’s University’s Continuing Education Center, 0.16 Materiality Analysis Rate (%) 1) we offer our beauty partners an opportunity to strengthen their professional expertise. 0.09 0.10 Stakehoder Communication In 2016, 60 beauty partners completed the Ehwa-Amorepacific Beauty University 0 0 (APBU) Executive Education program by taking courses on female leadership, coaching, 2016 Highlights 2 communication, and other beauty industry related skills. Frequency Rate of Expanding Global Business Activities Injury (%) 2) 1.05 0.52 Strengthening Brand Value 0.45 0.82 | Trainings for Global Make-Up Artists and Trainers Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Amorepacific offers trainings to strengthen the skills of global make-up artists and make0 0 Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship up trainers. The programs include specialized courses entitled “Introduction to 20th Century Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Make-Up Trends” and “High-Level Professional Make-Up Techniques”, and workshops Education & Training 81.1 83.3 Hours per Person (H) 3) 71.4 Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues teaching make-up styles and applied techniques of K-Pop and K-Drama celebrities led by K-Beauty Make-Up Artists. 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability Improving Welfare Sustainability Management Structure | AMORE Counselor Benefit Society 2014 2015 2016 Amorepacific AMORE Counselor Benefit Society was a voluntary association established in 1982 to Education & Training 124 Innovation for Customers promote the pride and welfare of counselors (sales associates). Annually, we provide Cost per Person (10,000 KRW) 3) 109 Harmony with Nature KRW 2 billion to 36,000 counselors working in Korea for medical expenses, tuition for 65 Harmonious Growth Harmonious Growth children, weddings for children, funeral service expenses, and emergency disaster funds. Sharing for Society The AMORE Counselor Benefit Society is run by the Management Committee consisting of innisfree 2014 2015 2016 15 counselors elected from 31 sales teams and a Chief Executive Officer. The Committee ETUDE convenes twice a year to review the annual budget, discuss the group’s sales strategies, and Amount of Mutual Growth eSpoir Fund in Operation AMOS Professional share concerns within the field along with ideas for further improvement. (KRW 100 mn) 239 245 246 AESTURA Fostering the Good Work Place Osulloc Farm | Mind Care Program 2014 2015 2016 We are making an effort to proactively respond to the emotional demands of our sales Business Partner Number of Business Partners Number of Participants 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 associates at work. The programs we offer to address beauty partners’ stress levels include Capacity Building Sustainability Vision Program 2014 182 2014 1,337 the ‘Delivery Dreamers’, a program designed to listen to the concerns of beauty partners Sustainability Focus Area 2015 234 2015 1,275 and offer counseling and monthly workshops on stress management. We will continue to Sustainability Commitments 2016 289 2016 2,222 focus on addressing the emotional well-being of our partners and develop a mechanism Global Make-Up Training that can support them in stores. Appendix 5 1) Accident Rate = (Number of Accidents / Number of Workers on Yearly Average) * 100 2) Frequency Rate of Injury = (Number of Accidents / Number of Working Hours) * 1,000,000 Independent Assurance Statement 3) The number of hours and cost were based on those employees working for Amorepacific Group in Korea. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Sharing for Society | 72 3. Sustainability Performance 73 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message New CSR Vision Corporate Social Contribution Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision A MORE Beautiful World Makeup Your Life Beginning in 2008, Makeup Your Life campaign is designed to support female cancer patients by using makeAP WAY At Amorepacific, we believe that every woman has the innate passion and capacity in nurturing better and up and skincare advice and hair-styling. This campaign focuses on helping these patients overcome various Financial Performance more beautiful lives for herself, her families, her communities and the world. We trust the strength of women psychological challenges during their treatment and recovery by discovering their inner beauty and fostering Governance Ethical Management in creating a more beautiful world. All of us benefit when every woman thrives and embraces their strength positive self-esteem. In 2016, our 697 AMORE counselors engaged with 1,049 cancer patients through a total of Risk Management of caring for others. Amorepacific’s important purpose is to beautify women’s lives. Our vision aims to 35 hospital events. For those who were unable to visit the hospitals, we offered visitation service for 4 one-on-one Materiality Analysis contribute to “A More Beautiful World” where every woman can live her best life as she desires. sessions. One of the visits was collaborated with Kyung Hee University Healthcare System and Amos Professional. Stakehoder Communication 1) 1) Beautify Women’s Lives Number of Cancer Patients Recipients (since 2008) Number of Volunteers (since 2008) 2016 Highlights 2 With a single flower blooming for the world, Amorepacific promotes its CSR vision and undertakes various 12,360 4,347 global programs to realize women’s dreams for the world, share happiness with more people and cultivate Expanding Global Business Activities 1) The number of participants include those who engaged in the campaign through our corporate headquarters and overseas subsidiaries. beauty around the world. Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation | Amorepacific CSR Brand (Vision) Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues | Three Core Initiatives 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Natural Nurturing Women 2016 Performance for Sustainability Ecosystem Culture Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Innovation for Customers | Social actives Corporate Social Harmony with Nature Brand with Purpose Public Foundation Contribution Harmonious Growth Employee volunteer and community Sharing for Society service program Beautiful Beautiful Employee Sharing in Kind Funding Sharing Activities Makeup Your Life innisfree ETUDE Pink Ribbon In 2000, Amorepacific founded the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation, for the first time in Korea, and has promoted eSpoir To create A MORE Beautiful World, Amorepacific manages various programs that aim to create positive impacts on the society focused on three core initiatives: Women, Nurturing Culture, and Natural Ecosystem. Campaign the Pink Ribbon Campaign to raise awareness of breast health. This campaign, which began in 2001, has attracted AMOS Professional | Contributing to beautifying women’s lives by enhancing women’s approximately 570,000 people over the past 16 years. In 2016, we launched a year-long ‘Promise to Love My AESTURA · Women health, wellbeing and economic empowerment Heart’ slogan to reach out to more people about the importance of breast health. A signature program of this Osulloc Farm · Natural Ecosystem | Contributing to making a beautiful life and a beautiful world through promoting campaign is the Pink Ribbon Love Marathon, which began in 2001, and attracted over 299,000 people and raised a lifestyle that values harmonious coexistence between humans and KRW 3.2 billion to support the Korean Breast Cancer Foundation over the last 15 years. In addition, we offered 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 nature’s healthy beauty a Pink Tour education program focusing on breast-health information and cancer-prevention knowledge, and Sustainability Vision · Nurturing Culture | Discovering various cultural values that permeate every aspect of our lives to ran a Pink Generation program who citizen-ambassadors share the key message of the campaign to their peers. Sustainability Focus Area blossom into greater beauty and contributing to revitalizing those values by The Amorepacific also organized a Pink Ribbon Festival to support breast cancer survivors with an opportunity Sustainability Commitments communicating them to our people to showcase their music and dance talents, and operated the mentorship program between cancer survivors and All the strategic investment efforts that Amorepacific undertakes and supports, including the group-wide CSR those who were fully recovered from the breast cancer. With all of these programs, we can contribute to not only Appendix 5 programs, brand-specific cause-related marketing focused on sustainability, support of public foundations, women's physical health, but also their true well-being. Independent Assurance Statement and volunteering and donations, contributes to fostering “A MORE Beautiful World”. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index | For more details, check out the Amorepacific social contribution portal and our youtube channel. About This Report 74 3. Sustainability Performance 75 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message | Key Figures of Pink Ribbon Campaign Last 16 Years 1) GREENCYCLE Amorepacific undertook a range of activities to improve the quality of public participation in our signature Brand Portfolio Number of Participants in Education Number of People Who Funding for Brest Cancer Surgery Campaign environment campaign – GREENCYCLE, which began as a recycling program of used cosmetic containers. In 2016, Business Overview Session of Breast Health Received Screening Service with the newly established empty cosmetic containers recycle process, we produced 3,000 jumping ropes with Vision 243,357 29,337 936 2.5 recycled containers, and donated them to children’s centers in the cities of Jeju and Osan in Korea. In addition, AP WAY individuals KRW bn Financial Performance we displayed and sold 300 accessories such as rings, bracelets, and necklaces made with recycled containers. We Financial Contributions to Governance Total Number of Participants of also demonstrated how these used cosmetic containers can be upcycled by showcasing the large tree made of Research on Breast Cancer Pink Ribbon Campaign Ethical Management (since 2001) these containers at Dongdaemun Design Plaza in Seoul. Additionally, we promoted the upcycling potential of Risk Management 572,077 159 1.7 used containers through an experience-oriented exhibition “Useless, but Useful”, guerrilla gardening, Seoul Street projects KRW bn Materiality Analysis Art Festival, and Glass Flower Exhibition near Duksoo Palace, and presented creative recycled products such as Stakehoder Communication pencil cases, using remainder of pouch. Through this creative environment campaign, we will continue to develop Annual Participants of Pink Ribbon Marathon the innovative approach to green supply-chain management, and encourage stakeholders to participate in this 2016 Highlights 2 299,383 campaign. Expanding Global Business Activities 1) All the Pink Ribbon Campaign projects were financed through individual and other corporate donations in addition to Amorepacific’s financial contributions. Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Heemang Store Heemang (meaning “Hope” in English) Store is a start-up assistance program designed to support low-income The Number of Collected Used Containers and their Impacts on GHG Reduction Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship single mother households and financed through the JANGWON Sung-whan Suh’s Beautiful World Endowment Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Fund of the Beautiful Foundation at our late former chairman, Sung-whan Suh’s will. The Fund provides lowResponse to Product Quality and Safety Issues income single mothers with a microcredit of KRW 40 million without requesting any collateral or guarantee to 1,132 help them start their own business. To assure the sustainability of sharing, the loan repayments are reinvested as 1,031 1,029 Same Amount of Planting Young 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Pine Trees Heemang Seed Money towards funding other female entrepreneurs. Since we opened our first Beautiful World (CO2 Absorption) 2016 Performance for Sustainability Fund Heemang Store (Mijeyeon) in July 2004, a total of 300 stores have been supported as of December 2016. Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Number of Heemang Stores (since 2004) Repayment Rate of Heemang Store Loans Innovation for Customers 300 stores 83% 134 129 123 Collected Used Cosmetic Harmony with Nature Survival Rate of Store 2) Harmonious Growth Average Income of Store Owners Containers (Tons) 1) (1.5 times higher than average small business Sharing for Society owners in Korea) innisfree 86% 2.54 KRW mn 2014 2015 2016 ETUDE 2) Calculate survival rate based on the last three years. 1) Collected by Amoreapcifc only. eSpoir AMOS Professional AESTURA Osulloc Farm 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Heemang Store GREENCYCLE Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 76 3. Sustainability Performance 77 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Employee Amorepacific encourages its employees to participate in volunteering activities to spread the value of sharing and Public Art Project of To support Korea’s up-and-coming young artists and enhance the accessibility of contemporary art to the Brand Portfolio Sharing Activities make positive impact on society. In addition to volunteering activities, our employees regularly donate items to Amorepacific Musuem general public, Amorepacific has been sponsoring our signature contemporary art project called apmap Business Overview the BeautifulStore, participate in the matching gift program, in which an equal amount of the money donated (apmap) (Amorepacific Museum of Art Projects) since 2013. The fourth series of the apmap – “apmap 2016 Vision by employees is contributed by the company, and make a small monthly donation from their salary. We also yongsan – make link” was held at a Yongsan family park in Seoul and Amorepacific’s new headquarters, AP WAY Financial Performance introduced the Sharing Mileage Program, which rewards employees for their voluntary service to help them easily and attempted to convey the meaning of connection transcending time and space with two simultaneous For more details, Governance access to volunteering. visit the Amorepacific exhibitions. These exhibitions sought to capture the zeitlichkeit (temporality) of Yongsan, central Seoul’s Art Museum website. Ethical Management spatial reality by presenting its past, present, and future, and also conveyed the connectivity between | Employee Sharing Activities Risk Management urban areas, nature, and human beings that are present in this space. Especially, the exhibition in central Materiality Analysis Volunteering Activities Donation of Goods Matching Gift Salary Sharing Seoul attempted to foster the natural interaction between participants and arts. We will continue to Stakehoder Communication promote Korean contemporary arts and enrich local communities through our apmap series. 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Beautiful Sharing 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability A MORE As of 2016, Amorepacific designated the first Fridays of each month as A MORE Beautiful Day to support our Sustainability Management Structure Beautiful Day employees and stakeholders to make a new culture that supports good deeds. Since its launch in September 2016, Amorepacific a total of 1,400 employees participated in a monthly activity, and we will continue to promote the value of good Innovation for Customers deeds. Major activities include: soap making sessions to support children in developing countries who will benefit apmap 2016 yongsan – Full Bloom Harmony with Nature from sanitized handwashing, knitting sessions to make scarves for elderly people who live alone, making gift packs Harmonious Growth for prospect 1 graders from low income families, and baking cookies. In addition, our employees participated st Sharing for Society in special lectures with external experts on sharing, donated used clothes and products, and reduced the use of innisfree disposable products. With the campaign, we aim to internalize an attitude so that it can naturally permeate our ETUDE eSpoir daily lives and create A MORE beautiful day. AMOS Professional AESTURA Osulloc Farm 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 A MORE Beautiful Day apmap 2016 yongsan – A Journey of Footsteps Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Sharing for Society | 78 3. Sustainability Performance 79 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand with Purpose primera Since 2012, we have embarked on a special annual ‘Love the Earth’ campaign on the Brand Portfolio Love the Earth & international Earth Day in April in support of the global efforts on sustainable development Business Overview Let’s Love Campaign in line with primera’s brand value. Especially this campaign has supported to restore the Vision Sulwhasoo As part of Sulwhasoo’s unique cultural mécénat (patronage), an annual signature cultural event wetlands since 2015 given the importance of wetlands. In 2016, we organized the special AP WAY | Watch the video here. Sulwha Cultural “Sulwha Cultural Exhibition” is convened to promote the true beauty of Korea and enhance Financial Performance events for consumers where they can experience wetlands, and learned from San-ha Kim Governance Exhibition its artistic value by reinterpreting the Korean traditional culture in a modern perspective. Our event of the Biodiversity Foundation about the essential role of wetlands in maintaining the Ethical Management encourages collaboration between traditional artisans and contemporary artists and creates the unique healthy ecosystem. Some part of the proceeds from the sales of our products during the Risk Management art piece which conveys the beauty while transcending and meshing traditional boundaries between campaign was donated to the Wetland Preservation Project of the Biodiversity Foundation. Materiality Analysis different artistic styles and techniques of the collaborating artists. The 2016 Sulwha Cultural Exhibition Furthermore, primera has been undertaking the Let’s Love campaign to improve the living Stakehoder Communication celebrates its 10th anniversary, and invited the installation artists, media artists, and other contemporary conditions of female children and adolescents in low income families in Jamui, India. The artists to share their artistic imagination to portray Korea’s most popular traditional folklore: The Two portion of the proceeds from the sales of Mango Butter Comforting Body Lotion are used 2016 Highlights 2 Love Stars, Altars and Vega. Especially, in collaboration with Gwan-chae Jeong, Korea’s 115th Important to donate a mango sapling to families in Jamui, and we purchase the mango seeds from Expanding Global Business Activities Intangible Cultural Heritage who has special skills in natural dyeing, we produced a few art products these trees as part of our Beautiful Fair Trade agreement. This campaign contributes to Strengthening Brand Value such as handkerchiefs and diaries, and invited our consumers to support cultural preservation with their economic growth of this community, and allows the girls in the community to have a better Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation purchase. Some part of the sales proceed were donated to support traditional Korean cultural activities education. In the last three years, we donated a total of 3,200 saplings, and this is our Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship 2016 Sulwha Cultural Exhibition through the Korean Cultural Heritage Administration. signature campaign to create shared value which pursues business benefits and community Strengthening Sustainability of Partners development. Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues LANEGIE Recognizing the infinite possibility and preciousness of water, LANEIGE has carried out a range of social | Refill Me Campaign activities that address water stewardship and conservation in countries with water scarcity. Since 2010, 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 we have supported the Waterful Sharing campaign, in partnership with Save the Children and UNICEF, 2016 Performance for Sustainability | Watch the video here. which allows these organizations to provide water tanks, rain water harvesting systems, and support the Sustainability Management Structure ways to collect clean water for children living in water stress countries. Beginning in 2016, we regrouped Amorepacific all of our water-related activities into a global campaign called Refill Me, and launched it in 13 countries Innovation for Customers where our offices are located. We are embarking this campaign to encourage our customers and Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth stakeholders to play a part of role in addressing the urgent global challenge of water scarcity. We sold Sharing for Society approximately 80,000 eco-friendly and BPA free ‘Refill Me Bottles’ and communicate to our consumers innisfree and stakeholders to reduce pollution with disposable plastic waste and foster healthy habits of drinking primera Love the Earth (Celebrating the Annual Earth Day) ETUDE water. We donate globally some part of the proceeds from the sale of these bottles to support the eSpoir projects related to water conservation. AMOS Professional AESTURA Osulloc Farm 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments primera Let’s Love (Supporting Girls in Jamui, India) Appendix 5 Campaign Enblem Refill Me Bottle Set Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Sharing for Society | 80 Social Contribution Amount of Ratio Compared to Expenditure (KRW mn) Sales (%) Sharing for Society Expenses 0.5 20,921 15,842 21,312 0.3 0.4 Corporate Overview 1 2014 2015 2016 CEO Message Public Foundations Ratio Compared to 3.9 2.5 Brand Portfolio Pre-tax Profits (%) 2.0 Business Overview Vision Amorepacific established and performs various activities in 3 public foundations (AMOREPACIFIC Foundation, 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 AP WAY AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation and Korea Breast Cancer Foundation) other than social contribution Financial Performance ‘Makeup Your Life’ Number of Campaign Patients Governance activities directly performed by the corporation. Each foundation supports social contribution activities in areas 1,424 Participate in 1,254 Ethical Management of academic culture research, women’s health and welfare. 1,048 ‘Makeup Your Life’ Campaign Risk Management 750 575 542 Number of Materiality Analysis Volunteers Stakehoder Communication AMOREPACIFIC Established in 1973, AMOREPACIFIC Foundation supports various domestic and overseas research activities about Foundation Asian beauty, women, and culture to promote and disseminate knowledge. In 2016, we supported 30 projects to 2014 2015 2016 study of ‘women and culture’ and contributed to explore and promote the promising young researchers as well as 2016 Highlights 2 ‘Pink Ribbon’ Financial Assistance for to share these knowledge with the public. Also with the project of “Asian Beauty Series”, a funding program for a Campaign Surgery and Screening Expanding Global Business Activities (KRW mn) 39,612 Number of publication focused on Asian beauty, our books delivering insights on beauty to public were published. These books Participants in Strengthening Brand Value 284 261 286 Education Session of include: “In India, Beauty is akin to god” by Lee, Ocksoon, “East Asian Traditional Interior Design and Beauty” by 29,440 Breast Health Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Park, Sunhee, “Heavenly Beauty on Earth” by Kang, Heejung, “Immortal Story of Beauty” by Yu, Kangha. 24,105 Number of Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship 21,435 21,231 Marathon To the started in 2012, we have supported to deepen our intellectual understanding on various issues related to Participants Strengthening Sustainability of Partners 13,900 Asian beauty by offering a series of lectures on India, East Asia Traditional Interior Design, and Asia’s Religious Arts Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues and Folklores. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 ‘Heemang Store’ Number of Stores (since 2004) 2016 Performance for Sustainability Campaign 300 Sustainability Management Structure 262 Amorepacific 231 Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature 2014 2015 2016 Book Covers of Asian Beauty Series ( vol. 2, 3 & 4) 2016 Summer Lecture on Beauty Harmonious Growth Employees’ Number of Average Hours of Volunteer Sharing for Society Sharing Activities Participants AMOREPACIFIC The AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation focuses on supporting the self-reliance and fulfillment of underprivileged innisfree Welfare women. Since 2005, the Foundation has made financial assistance to the renovation projects of women’s centers 2014 3,060 ETUDE 11.0 Foundation to improve the lives of women. By upgrading the existing program in 2016 to emphasize the balance between eSpoir 2015 3,062 10.8 life and space, we helped a total of 175 women’s centers and non-for-profit organizations improve their space. In 10.7 AMOS Professional addition, we supported these organizations utilize their renovated spaces to fulfill our core mission of empowering 2016 3,184 AESTURA 2014 2015 2016 marginalized women in society and improving their quality of life as well as to serve as a public sphere of local Osulloc Farm communities. The AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation strives to be a companion for a beautiful world where every Public Foundation AMOREPACIFIC AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Korean Breast Cancer Expenses 1) (KRW mn) Foundation Foundation Foundation woman can thrive and fulfill her full potential as she desires. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 537 498 764 490 477 573 1,920 2,433 2,733 Sustainability Vision Korea Breast Established in 2000, the Korean Breast Cancer Foundation is carrying out various social projects related to breast Sustainability Focus Area Cancer health, including the Pink Ribbon Campaign, breast-health education, medical support for breast-cancer patients Sustainability Commitments Foundation and financial support for academic research. In 2016, to celebrate the foundation’s 16th anniversary, we had a special activity ‘Pink Ribbon Healing Camp’ in which recovering cancer patients and those who were fully recovered Appendix 5 from breast cancer met and interacted. We will continue to promote the beautiful and healthy lives of women as a 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Independent Assurance Statement social hub of breast health, raising awareness of breast cancer and supporting its treatment. 1) 2016 expenditure of each foundation are based on their third-party audit reports. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 3. Sustainability Performance 83 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message | Eco Hankie Campaign Brand Portfolio The Eco Hankie Campaign is a major environmental effort we launched in 2010 to encourage the habit of using Business Overview a handkerchief instead of tissues with the slogan “Use a Hankie, Save the Earth!”. Through this campaign, we Vision About Our Company innisfree, the natural brand launched in 2000, is dedicated to spreading beauty with the healing aim to convey to our customers that we can save trees, protect forests, and contribute to reducing the impacts of AP WAY energy of the pristine island of Jeju. As a global sustainability brand, innisfree consistently Financial Performance global warming by reducing the use of paper tissues. Every year, we present handkerchiefs with a new design, and strives to keep its five promises: use natural ingredients, follow good consumption practices, Governance in 2016, we presented a set of eco handkerchiefs with the design inspired by beautiful ocean scenery from Jeju Ethical Management engage in eco-friendly campaigns, utilize green design, and support safe, healthy, and natural and images of the pearl diving women of Jeju. We also hosted a special movie screening called Hankie Cinema for Eco Hankie Risk Management customer experiences. which, our customers could use their handkerchiefs as entrance tickets. Materiality Analysis Key Sustainability Activities Green Promise – Our Promise to All of Our Customers and the Nature | Green Bicycle Campaign Stakehoder Communication To create a healthier and more sustainable world, innisfree sets our annual sustainability We are introducing Green Bicycle, another environmental campaign in global cities. We organized a Green Bicycle performance indicators called “Green Promise” to share our progress in the areas of consumer Tour in Beijing to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in urban areas through the widespread use 2016 Highlights 2 engagement, sustainable sourcing, and corporate contributions. Through the Green Promise of bicycles. With the slogan of “Low Carbon Transportation, Ride a Bike, Save My City”, bicycle tours were staged in Expanding Global Business Activities indicators, we are communicating with all of our stakeholders about our environmental footprint. Chengdu, Kunming, and Nanjing, and at each tour 100 residents traveled around the city on bicycles. Going forward, Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation we will organize this campaign both in major metropolitan cities and other medium sized cities in China to share the 2016 Green Promise Key Performance Outcomes Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Green Bicycle Campaign value of green living as well as to position us as a global brand spearheading environmental protection. Strengthening Sustainability of Partners PROMISE 1 PROMISE 2 PROMISE 3 Joyful Sharing: for Our Neighbors and the Nature Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Commitment to Planting More Than Commitment to Sourcing More Than 70% Commitment to Donating More Than | innisfree Forest Campaign 10,000 Trees Every Year with Forest of Our Ingredients from Nature 1% of Our Yearly Net Sales Profits Campaign (excluding makeup products) To preserve forests, we began a Forest Campaign in 2012. In Korea, we are undertaking activities designed to 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 protect Gotjawal (Jeju’s forest) by turning the private lands in this area into public properties using a part of the 2016 Performance for Sustainability Trees Planted Percent of Average Natural Ingredients Total Contribution Sustainability Management Structure proceeds from the sales of our Forest product lines. We also plan to restore the waste disposal site in Sungsan, Jeju 14,000 78.6% KRW 3,580 mn Island and make it into an eco-forest. Additionally, we engage in activities to protect environmentally vulnerable Amorepacific Innovation for Customers *approx. 2.9% of yearly net sales profits regions outside of Korea. Every year, with our customers, we plant trees in inner Mongolia, which experiences Harmony with Nature intense desertification. In 2016, we planted 3,000 mangrove trees in Thailand to preserve marine eco-systems. Harmonious Growth Going forward, we will continue expanding our efforts on forest preservation with diverse activities where our Sharing for Society customers can easily participate. | Watch the video here. Changing the World through Daily Green Lifestyles innisfree | PLAYGREEN Campaign ETUDE To make green lifestyles more accessible and easy, we initiated a three-phase eco-friendly eSpoir “PLAYGREEN” campaign. In the first phase, we invite our consumers to simply upload photos of AMOS Professional them embracing the green lifestyle by using the innisfree mobile application, PLAYGREEN. For AESTURA second phase, we invite our customers to various environmental themed lectures every quarter. Osulloc Farm The third phase is our annual PLAYGREEN Festival, where all of our customers who embrace the green lifestyle come together to enjoy fun outdoor activities in nature. In addition to having 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision the festival at its initial location in Korea, we held our 1st one in Shanghai, China so our Chinese Sustainability Focus Area customers could also participate in this special event. Going forward, innisfree will further Sustainability Commitments expand our campaign globally, especially by strengthening the digital contents to engage more customers from around the world. In addition to increasing our customers’ awareness of green Appendix 5 lifestyles, we hope to position PLAYGREEN as our signature global eco-campaign. PLAYGREEN Festival Poster in China Independent Assurance Statement | Watch the video here. innisfree Forest Campaign Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 84 3. Sustainability Performance 85 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message | Innisfree Moeum Foundation innisfree Signature Sustainable Products Brand Portfolio Established in 2015 with the purpose of adding values to Jeju Island, Innisfree Moeum Foundation seeks to Business Overview Certified Green Technology Product Beautiful Fair Trade Product Product Containing Natural Ingredient preserve Jeju’s authentic beauty while promoting sustainable growth. The foundation plans to raise awareness on The Green Tea Seed Serum Bija Trouble Spot Essence The Minimum Toner Vision Jeju Oreum (volcanic cone) and its ecological value by publishing “Oreum Book” and undertake the activities that It is created by extracting the hydrating innisfree entered into fair trade agreement A minimal toner with hypo-allergenic formula AP WAY innisfree Moeum strengthen the brand value of Jeju Island, including an art and culture competition on Jeju Island and providing properties of organic, fresh, green leaves. with Songdang-ri, Jeju Island that contains 99% natural ingredients for Financial Performance Foundation Logo Compared to using dried green tea leaves, (an uncontaminated and pristine village) for sensitive skin. financial support for young Jeju farmers. this technology reduces CO2 emission by the Bija nut, which is known for its excellent Governance 50%. It also uses natural preservatives and skin protection properties. The Bija nuts Ethical Management | Watch the video here. | Green Christmas Campaign recycled plant compost technology. In 2014, we use are produced in an environmentally Risk Management It was certified by the Korean Ministry for sustainable manner, and our contract provides With the slogan of “Giving Warmth to Our Neighbors through Our Joyful Sharing”, innisfree’s Green Christmas Food, Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries as a new source of income to local farmers. Materiality Analysis campaign celebrated its seventh year in 2016. This campaign aims to promote a sharing Christmas culture rather a “Green Technology Product” Stakehoder Communication than a materially extravagant celebration of Christmas. Not only can people enjoy themselves by participating in the campaign, but their participation also helps those who are in need. Annually, we also present various innisfree Green Christmas DIY KIT 2016 Highlights 2 DIY products so our customers can experience the pleasure of creation and experience the warmth of sharing. In Expanding Global Business Activities 2016, we introduced a Green Christmas DIY Music Box titled “Touching Your Hearts and Spreading Happiness”. Strengthening Brand Value A portion of its proceeds was donated to the Save the Children, which supports the medical care and education of Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation children with hearing disability. In 2016, we had the Green Christmas campaign in seven countries. Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship | Clean Jeju Campaign Strengthening Sustainability of Partners innisfree employees, franchisee owners, and our customers joined force to undertake voluntary activities that Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues contribute to the preservation of the Jeju environment. In 2016, over 200 volunteers participated in the campaign Happy Work Place for Our Employees and it focused specifically on cleaning Jeju Olle, one of the most popular trails on the Island. In addition, 150 | Six Sense Day – Promoting Work-Life Balance 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 employees and university students replaced the rubber mat used to pave two other hiking trails located in famous To encourage our employees to enjoy the work-life balance, innisfree introduced the ‘six sense day’ program. At 5:50 2016 Performance for Sustainability Oreum on the island. The rubber mat was replaced with more environmentally friendly mats made of coconut pm on every Wednesday, employees are advised to leave work at 6 pm through internal broadcasting. Advising Sustainability Management Structure palm trees. employees to leave at that time is done to discourage employees from working too long and as an encouragement Amorepacific for them to spend more time doing activities they enjoy outside of work. The performance of each team on the use Innovation for Customers of six sense day is monitored regularly to ensure that employees across the company enjoy the work-life balance. Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth | Health Fund for Employee Wellness Sharing for Society In 2016, we introduced the Health Fund to support our employees’ health and wellness. Through the fund, we innisfree offer various financial incentives such as bonuses, sporting goods, and resort vouchers to those who volunteered to ETUDE improve their own health (e.g. reducing body fat and increasing muscle) through exercise and diets. eSpoir | Green Beer Party for Happy Work Place AMOS Professional To promote communication and collaboration among employees and encourage horizontal corporate culture while AESTURA increasing employee satisfaction, we offer a quarterly beer party. This gathering is a voluntary after-work activity in Osulloc Farm which 20-30 employees share their talents and play board games to get to know each other. Clean Jeju Campaign 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Developing Sustainable Products Mutual Growth Sustainability Vision innisfree is focusing on the development of sustainable products to meet our customers’ growing demands and | Supporting the Dream of Beauty Partners – Dream Stores Sustainability Focus Area demonstrate our leadership in global, natural cosmetic products. In 2016, to improve our positive social and The Dream Store Program provides a chance for Green-Us (beauty partners) to own and operate their own innisfree Sustainability Commitments environmental footprints, we introduced a total of 199 new sustainable products including: Beautiful Fair Trade stores. This is a professional development program that not only provides store ownership opportunities, but also products, Green Technology Certification products1) which fresh green tea leaves manufacturing technology creates a platform to realize the dream of Green-Us. Participants in this program were selected after they went Appendix 5 applied to and products with recycled packaging. By continued focus on the sustainability of our products, we will through the three-month program. The first Dream Store was opened in 2014, and as of December 2016, a total Independent Assurance Statement further reinforce our authentic brand value centered around environmental sustainability. innisfree Dream Store of 12 stores were opened. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index 1) Consisting of products certified to be produced with green technology standards approved by the Korean Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. About This Report 3. Sustainability Performance 87 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Mutual Growth Brand Portfolio | Strengthening Win-Win Growth with Business Partners – New Beginning for the Next 10 Years Business Overview In celebrating our brand’s 10 anniversary, we are doubling efforts on empowering our partth Vision About Our Company ETUDE House is a makeup brand helping women fulfill their dream of becoming more beautiful ners in the value chain. In addition to the pink hotline – a special telephone counseling service AP WAY and having magical days. With the launch in 2005, we promote the fun and easy makeup for business partners – which we have been offering since 2014, this year, we diversified our Financial Performance culture and offer trendy products infused with ETUDE House’s lovely aesthetics. Currently, it is Governance communication channels with our supply chain partners. For example, in the first half of Workshop with Franchise Store Owners Ethical Management enjoying tremendous popularity as the top K-Beauty makeup brand, not just in Korea, but all 2016, we convened the workshop with franchise store owners and other monthly meetings. In Risk Management over Asia, including China, Japan, Thailand, and Singapore. December 2016, we convened “2016 Together, We Can Festival” to bring our employees and Materiality Analysis beauty partners together the end of year holiday party, and introduced the new online chat Key Sustainability Activities Great Place to Work Stakehoder Communication platform “Makeup Artists Talks” where professional makeup artists answer questions from | Tomorrow’s Happiness through My Job 1) the field sales office. Which received very positive reviews from our beauty partners. In 2017, To promote our employees’ happiness and wellness, as well as increase our employees’ job 2016 Highlights 2 we will continue to listen to the voice of our partners who work at the forefront of customer satisfaction, ETUDE has been introducing various human resource development programs, Expanding Global Business Activities engagement, so that we can foster a culture of sustainable growth based on fair relationships. such as the family-friendly workplace and work-life balance initiatives. In addition, we have Strengthening Brand Value been implementing several programs to ensure that our employees can pursue both parenting Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Counseling Content and professional growth. In May 2016, we invited the children of our employees, so they could Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strategic Marketing POS (Point of Sales) System; observe their parents’ workplace. This program was called “Mom, Dad, where are you going?”. Pink Hotline Customer Information Management Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Additionally, to support a family-friendly environment along with a healthy work-life balance, 080-810-0707 Operating Hours Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Weekdays 10:00-19:00 we offer gift packs to expecting mothers, introduced the Happy Clean Day to encourage (excluding lunch hour) 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 employees to leave the workplace on time, and produced a video in which our employees and 2016 Performance for Sustainability management promoted the use of vacation days. To further support our employees’ balanced CSR Activities to Support People’s Dreams Sustainability Management Structure and healthy lives, we offer a series of wellness programs that received very positive reviews | Volunteer Programs Amorepacific from our employees. These programs include support for quitting cigarettes, a program to · Talent Sharing of Professional Makeup Artists Innovation for Customers exercise called “Show Me the Health Body”, and “Emotional Healing Camp” to support stress ETUDE has been offering makeup talent sharing programs since 2014. In 2016, we expanded Harmony with Nature management and self-help. Through this effors we were recognized as a “Family Frienly Harmonious Growth the coverage of our recipients. In March, we offered our makeup service to foreign women Workplace” by the Korean Ministry of Women and Family. With more creative and family Sharing for Society who are married to Korean men, and in July, we further expanded our coverage to women with friendly programs, we will continue to strengthen the quality of our work place. innisfree disabilities. ETUDE · Gifts Drive Thanks Dreaming Day eSpoir Launched in 2016, Thanks Dreaming Day is a gift drive program that invites participation from AMOS Professional all of our employees. For example, on Korea’s thanksgiving day, our employees were invited to AESTURA pack and deliver the gifts to low income families with single parents and elderly people without Osulloc Farm family members. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 | Cheering for the Dreams of Young People DREAM Sustainability Vision After conducting in-house surveys on our new CSR focus, we identified youth empowerment Sustainability Focus Area as our key focus area, and named the initiative DREAM. Beginning in 2017, we will run the Sustainability Commitments DREAM Scholarship Program. This program will support economically disadvantaged young students in the pursuit of their dreams. It will also convene special inspirational lecture Appendix 5 “Mom, Dad, Where Are You Going?” Contest Poster“In Search of ETUDE’s Special Dreams” programs for young people to further support their ability to reach their goals. Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index 1) In Korean, the pronunciation of “tomorrow” and “my job” are same. They are both pronounced as Nae-il. About This Report Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision About Our Company eSpoir is a leading Asian professional make-up brand which offers a transformative experience About Our Company AMOS professional is a specialized hair styling product manufacturer that supplies goods and AP WAY to customers who want to make a bold change and find their new look. We are always trying services to hair salons. At present, we have two signature brands, AMOS professional and the Financial Performance to convey the value of our products more effectively by combining unique colors, textures, and premium brand, AYUNCHE. Amos professional has maintained its No.1 status in sales among Governance Ethical Management shades with the creative techniques of professional make-up artists. the Korean hair styling brands. Through partnership and training programs, we support the Risk Management competitiveness and sustainability of Korean hair designers. Materiality Analysis Customer Satisfaction Activity Consulting Service on Color Match Stakehoder Communication eSpoir has been running a special program called “Foundation Coordinating Service” through Key Sustainability Activities Mutual Growth | Education Center for Hair Designer Training which our professional makeup artists assists our customers to identify the most appropriate 2016 Highlights 2 color pallet and texture to express oneself naturally. Interested customers make a reservation We have been running education centers to provide training for hair designers on hair-styling Expanding Global Business Activities via their mobile smart phones, and received consulting service from professional makeup techniques and the rapidly changing hair trends. We expanded the number of 6 education Strengthening Brand Value artists. We have received positive responses from our customers as a result of our differentiated centers nationwide to 40, so as to increase the educational opportunities of hair designers. We Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation and professional makeup know-how. are trying to meet the desire of hair designers for strengthening their professional competence Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship through hands-on training with experts. AMOS professional will continue to strengthen our Strengthening Sustainability of Partners curriculum to provide quality education services to hair designers. Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues | Team AMOS Program for Hair Designer Training 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Team AMOS is a training and mentoring program for young hair designers. Participants in 2016 Performance for Sustainability the Team AMOS program not only hone hair design and style techniques, but also refine their Sustainability Management Structure understanding of hair products, latest trends, and the business management of hair salons. Amorepacific After completing the one-year training program, participants are invited to join the Hair CreaInnovation for Customers tive Group where they can support product development or can opt out to work as professional Harmony with Nature Team AMOS instructors at one of our education centers. It was in its 12th year of operation in 2016, and Harmonious Growth Team AMOS participants showcased various creative arts at the 2016 Salon Spirit Journey. Sharing for Society Foundation Coordinating Service innisfree Promoting K-Beauty through Global Makeup Classes Our CSR Activities for Women and Local Communities ETUDE Together with the Seoul Tourism Organization, eSpoir has offered a monthly Korean Wave Star | Donation to the Beautiful Foundation eSpoir Makeup Experience program for international tourists visiting Korea. We also showcased our Since 2010, by using our core competency, we have been supporting female breadwinners AMOS Professional makeup techniques and tips at various international events such as China International Travel to open their own hair salons together with the Beautiful Foundation. For this program, AESTURA Mart in Shanghai and International Travel Expo, Ho Chi Minh City and demonstrated our knowwe donate hair products, make financial contributions, and support their professional Osulloc Farm K-Beauty Makeup Class how on trendy K-beauty makeup techniques. These activities helped highlight our brand’s development. In 2016, we sponsored 14 women who are single parents to complete the unique identity and our high quality products to customers around the world. professional hairstyling training program. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Launching Innovative Products and Demonstrating Our Leadership Sustainability Vision | Talent Donation of Professional Hair Stylists In 2016, eSpoir launched the Nowear Signature series, which adds innovative color formulas Sustainability Focus Area Our signature CSR program “Hair artist on the go” is facilitating the talent donation of our and shades to its regular Nowear lipsticks. The Nowear signature series, which we developed Sustainability Commitments professional hairstylists. In 2016, our professional hairstylists showcased to citizens and tourists with professional makeup artists, boasts new tight glow silk texture and fascinating authentic various hair styling techniques at the “A MORE Beautiful Day” event in central Seoul which celebrated red color patterns, and demonstrates our leadership as a new makeup trend setter. eSpoir will Appendix 5 the 71th Anniversary of Amorepacific. We also joined force with Amorepacific Group’s signature CSR Nowear Signature Lipstick continue to offer cutting-edge products and set the trends of cosmetic markets. Independent Assurance Statement Talent Donation of Professional Hair Stylists campaign Makeup Your Life by providing hairstyling for cancer patients who wear wigs. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Osulloc Farm Corporate Overview CEO Message 1 Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision About Our Company AESTURA is a medical beauty brand offering innovative beauty solutions to hospitals and clinics. About Our Company Osulloc Farm is a premium tea company which integrates all tea-related processes including cultivation, proAP WAY With the premium brand CLEVIEL and the dermal cosmetic brand AESTURA, we are prioritizing to ducing, harvesting, and sales, and strives to popularize the traditional culture and create beauty with plants Financial Performance position these as Asia’s hidden champion brands to accelerate our growth. grown in healthy soil. Osulloc Farm makes enormous efforts in harvesting the best tea leaves grown in our four Governance organic plantations in Jeju Island and Gangjin through technological farming method. By incorporating modern Ethical Management technology into traditional tea-making know-how, Osulloc Farm is recognized as a high-quality premium tea Risk Management brand in various global markets including Japan, U.S., and European countries. Materiality Analysis Key Sustainability Activities Implementing a Voluntary Compliance Program (CP) on Ethical and Stakehoder Communication Fair Business Relations Key Sustainability Customer Satisfaction Activities July 2014, AESTURA introduced a voluntary compliance program on ethical and fair business Activities Osulloc Farm became the first tea company which received a rigorous hazard analysis critical control point 2016 Highlights 2 relationships. We es-tablished the CP secretariat, produced the guidelines on this program, and (HACCP) certification on all of its production facilities from the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety in Expanding Global Business Activities distributed it to all of our employees. Every month, we shared with our employees about the CP 2002. In addition to strictly complying with the HACCP requirements, our products meet Global Food Safety Strengthening Brand Value violation cases to prevent future incidents. In 2016, we offered trainings about CP to our sales Initiative (GFSI)’s FSSC 22000 (Food Safety System Certification 22000) benchmark standards. FSSC 22000 is Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation employees. an internationally recognized food safety certification system for food manufacturers, based on ‘ISO 22000 – Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Food Safety Management’ and ‘ISO/TS 22002-1: Prerequisite Programmes on Food Safety’. By continuing to Strengthening Sustainability of Partners AESTURA Seminar Series upgrade our robust food safety management system, we are making the utmost efforts on quality control to Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues AESTURA has been running a research and advisory study group in partnership with derma tologists meet the requirement of our customers around the world. at major university hospitals in Korea. In 2016, 35 professors from major university hospital 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Mutual Growth dermatology departments participated in six study groups. Each group focused on special themes, 2016 Performance for Sustainability Osulloc Farm seeks to provide safe and healthy food products to all of our customers by working closely including skin diseases, product quality analysis, new medical beauty solutions, and medicineSustainability Management Structure with farmers and food processors. In 2016, the Korean Government introduced the Preventive Control resistant skin diseases. The knowledge gained from these groups help us improve our products and Amorepacific Management Plan to assure the safety of all food products produced and processed by companies and meet the needs of our customers. Innovation for Customers farms that are currently exempt from the mandatory HACCP certification. As a member of the Private Harmony with Nature Sector Advisory Group of this Plan, Osulloc Farm provided food safety management and prevention controls Harmonious Growth Aesthetic Academy trainings to small food processing companies registered in the Gwangju City Branch of the Ministry of Food Sharing for Society In order for aesthetic products to be most effective, it is critically important to have the precise and Drug Safety. Osulloc Farm will continue to work closely with small companies by offering consulting innisfree application based on in-depth understanding of those products. We are therefore running service and providing capacity building programs. ETUDE “AEUSTURA Aesthetic Academy”, an online and in-person education programs for doctors on our eSpoir products. Doctors can participate in the training at their convenience, which includes question and Sharing Our Water Resources with Local Communities AMOS Professional answer sessions with other certified health professionals. This year, we continued to offer trainings to Osulloc Farm entered into the partnership agreement with the Jeju Eastern Region Fire Department on water AESTURA demonstrate the application technics of CLEVIEL, RETENSE and artefill. By further strengthening the resource sharing, and convened a workshop on our collaboration in June, 2016. This agreement provides Osulloc Farm platform’s content, we will offer more dynamic and practical assistance to doctors. greater access to water reservoir of Jeju residents in the Eastern district, and allows our company to contribute MoU Signing with Jeju Fire Department to local communities around our tea plantations. In 2017, we plan to sign a memorandum of understanding 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 with the Jeju Western Region Fire Department and the Seogwipo Fire Department to further strengthen our Employees Voluntary Activity – Social Contributions Sustainability Vision contribution to local communities. Aiming to spread the value of sharing and to exert positive influence on society, AESTURA has been Sustainability Focus Area implementing social contribution programs for our employees. Each team has a designated leader, Employees Volunteering Activities Sustainability Commitments who organizes the team’s own volunteering activities, and we provide financial assistance and training Osulloc Farm builds mutually beneficial relationships with farms in Jeju Island, many of which often to these teams to promote a culture of sharing and voluntarism. In 2016, in addition to making inexperience a shortage of labor. In 2016, our employees volunteered to support the harvesting work of Appendix 5 Employees Volunteers Delivering Briquette kind donation of our products, our employees donated coal briquette to low income families. four citrus orchards near our worksite. We will continue to work closely with our local communities while Independent Assurance Statement providing meaningful volunteering opportunities to our employees. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management 2020 Materiality Analysis Sustainability Stakehoder Communication Commitments 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability A MORE Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Beautiful Innovation for Customers World Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society innisfree ETUDE eSpoir AMOS Professional AESTURA Osulloc Farm Amorepacific Group’s New Headquarter 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Areas Corporate Overview 1 A MORE Beautiful World Amorepacific Group’s 2020 Sustainability Commitments focus on three key strategic areas: sustainable lifestyles, inclusive growth, and environmental protection. CEO Message Our unique approach assists various stakeholders in learning about and embracing Brand Portfolio Business Overview sustainable lifestyles, promoting inclusive economic and social development and Vision preserving the environment for future generations. AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication Sustainable Inclusive Lifestyle Growth 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Three 지속가능경영 Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Focus 3대 지향점 Areas Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability Amorepacific Group seeks to become a Great Company that makes the world more Sustainability Management Structure beautiful and healthy through the wisdom of Asian beauty practices, and we are Circular Amorepacific making strides towards achieving our goal of becoming one of the global Economy Innovation for Customers top 3 and Asia’s number 1 beauty company by 2025. As an engaged global Harmony with Nature corporate citizen, Amorepacific Group has strengthened its corporate sustainability Harmonious Growth vision to actively support the global movement of sustainable development. Sharing for Society This reflects our commitment to fulfill our social and environmental responsibilities, innisfree which have expanded through an increasing global presence. Amorepacific Group’s ETUDE new corporate sustainability vision is our promise to our customers and society. eSpoir It is our firm commitment and great ambition to actively contribute to a more Sustainable Lifestyle Inclusive Growth Circular Economy AMOS Professional AESTURA beautiful and sustainable future for future generations. The Amorepacific Group’s • We are pursuing activities aimed at • As a responsible, global corporate • We will improve resource efficiency. Osulloc Farm corporate sustainability vision and three focus areas, adopted in 2016, were raising awareness of sustainable citizen, we aim to advance • We will accelerate the use of developed with the input of over 2,695 key stakeholders including our consumers, lifestyles, consumer choices the development of all stakeholders, renewable energy sources. supporting sustainability, and particularly our employees, • We will fully integrate 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 employees, business partners (including suppliers, beauty partners, and retail social and environmental issues to business partners, and local circular economic principles into Sustainability Vision partners), shareholders, and NGO representatives. Our corporate sustainability vision advance sustainable development. communities, to become all corporate operational activities and Sustainability Focus Area also reflects the views of over 100 external and internal specialists representing • We desire to assist various a sustainable company which processes, ultimately contributing to Sustainability Commitments management, academia, expert organizations, and business associations whose stakeholders to embrace and enables inclusive growth. environmental conservation for views were gathered through a series of consultative meetings. implement sustainable lifestyles. the next generation. Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 94 95 2020 Sustainability Commitments To achieve our Sustainability vision by 2020, Amorepacific Group plans to undertake a range of activities Corporate Overview 1 based upon our three focus areas and eight commitments. We seek to improve the quality of CEO Message our customers’ lives, advance inclusive social development, and enhance sustainability of natural Brand Portfolio Business Overview resources and the ecosystem. Inclusive Growth Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Risk Management 3 4 Create a great place to work by Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication Sustainability Vision Enhance our customers’ improving employees’ health and welfare. awareness of A MORE environmentally and 2016 Highlights Expanding Global Business Activities 2 Beautiful World socially sustainable lifestyles. Strengthening Brand Value Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation 5 Contribute to inclusive growth Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship by actively supporting Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues our business partners’ development and growth. 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure Integrate environmental and 2 6 ‘20 by 20’ Amorepacific social consideration into Innovation for Customers Sustainable Lifestyle the design and operation of Support the health, wellbeing, and Harmony with Nature our stores and disclose economic empowerment of 200,000 Harmonious Growth women to beautify their lives. Sharing for Society our improvement. innisfree ETUDE eSpoir 8 1 Improve resource AMOS Professional Incorporate at least one benefit for Circular Economy efficiency by promoting AESTURA environment or society into more Osulloc Farm reuse and recycle. than 40 percent of our new products. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Focus Area 7 Reduce our CO2 emissions by Sustainability Commitments 30% per tonne of production Appendix 5 from a 2015 baseline. Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 96 97 Our Commitment 1 Our Commitment Our Commitment Our Commitment 2 Incorporate at least one benefit for Integrate environmental and Corporate Overview 1 environment or society into more than social consideration into the design and CEO Message Brand Portfolio 40 percent of our new products. operation of our stores and disclose Business Overview Vision our improvement. AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management The reason we act The basis this commitment made The reason we act The basis this commitment made Risk Management Materiality Analysis Our consumption patterns are closely linked to various social • Since 2011, we have been running the Amorepacific Our stores represent our brand values and are the primary • To create environmentally sustainable stores benefiting our Stakehoder Communication and environmental issues such as pollution, depletion of Promise initiative – our internal certification standards for platform to introduce our products to customers and other customers and employees, since 2015, we have been natural resources, and the increasing inequality facing our sustainable products focusing on environmental sustainability, stakeholders. Integrating sustainability into all aspects of our implementing our guidelines on the use of eco-friendly 2016 Highlights 2 society. Popularizing sustainable consumption which prioritizes empowerment of local community, and customer confidence. store design and operation is essential for us to communicate in-store interior materials in our stores. Expanding Global Business Activities the integration of social and environmental sustainability can In 2011, we had a total of 311 products that met the Amorepacific our values and commitments to our customers. • The exterior and interior designs of our innisfree stores were Strengthening Brand Value be an important step to addressing these issues. As a consumer Promise criteria, and in 2016, we were able to offer a total of The store sustainability we envision does not only focus on infused with vertical gardens, and the signature flagship Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation product company, Amorepacific Group believes that it is 591 products that met that criteria denoting our high internal eco-friendly design but also encompass creating a space where innisfree Jeju House incorporated an environmentally Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship our responsibility to integrate sustainability more deeply into sustainability standards. our beauty partners enjoy working and customers with special sustainable architectural design using solar panels and Strengthening Sustainability of Partners our products and promote sustainable consumption that • Through our Beautiful Fair Trade agreement, we have been needs feel fully respected. We are striving to co-create our a natural ventilation system. Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues benefit all stakeholders of our society. purchasing 9 ingredients sustainably cultivated in Korea and stores with our stakeholders to generate spaces for promoting other countries in 2016. This initiative includes the sourcing of sustainable consumption. camellia from Jeju Camellia Village and Mango butter from 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 the Jamui region in India. Our efforts aim to integrate our 2016 Performance for Sustainability sustainability commitment into our sourcing decision and process. Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific The way to achieve The way to achieve Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature Less & More · Amorepacific Group introduced internal guidelines on the environmental and social benefits of stores, and Harmonious Growth We will strengthen the sustainability of our products by reducing their negative environmental we plan to expand our efforts to implement these guidelines throughout our stores. Sharing for Society impacts while improving their positive influence to society. innisfree ETUDE · In 2017, we updated the Group’s guideline on sustainable products and identified 19 ways our products can deliver more We will launch a series of educational programs and campaigns to help our consumers eSpoir positive social or environmental impacts. deepen their understanding of sustainable consumption and lifestyles. We identified 15 ways to make positive environmental impacts, including increased use of natural ingredients, AMOS Professional · We will expand the use of FSC (Forest Stewardship Council)-certified papers and bioplastics for packing materials offered in use of sustainable forestry papers, use of plant-based plastics, and verify of product's water footprint. AESTURA our stores and will embark on educational programs and environmental campaigns to raise our customers and We defined 4 ways to deliver positive social values such as the Beautiful Fair Trade products and universal design. Osulloc Farm beauty partners’ awareness on sustainable consumption and lifestyle. We plan to expand the use of bioplastics and recycled plastics to improve the environmental sustainability of our product packaging. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 We will continuously reduce the environmental footprints caused during the construction, Sustainability Vision operation, and demolition of our stores. Sustainability Focus Area · We will expand the use of environmentally sustainable interior materials and energy efficient lighting and Sustainability Commitments equipment in our stores. Our stores will provide an optimal shopping experience to all of our stakeholders, customers, and beauty partners including those with disabilities and other socially vulnerable groups. Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Our store environment will reflects the needs of our stakeholders including beauty partners and Verification Statement GHG Inventory those with disability. GRI G4 Index About This Report 98 99 Our Commitment 3 Our Commitment Our Commitment Our Commitment 4 Enhance our customers’ awareness of Create a great place to work by Corporate Overview 1 environmentally and socially sustainable improving employees’ health and welfare. CEO Message Brand Portfolio lifestyles. Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management The reason we act The basis this commitment made The reason we act The basis this commitment made Risk Management Materiality Analysis We believe that companies and their brands can play a · Through various brand campaigns focusing on sustainable We believe that engaged, motivated, and committed employees · We have been implementing initiatives that support a Stakehoder Communication key role in encouraging consumers to participate in value-based lifestyles, we have communicated the importance of are directly linked to increased satisfaction and confidence among work-life balance through various employee support and consumption and can create positive social and environmental environmental, social, and ethical issues in choosing our customers and other stakeholders. As our business becomes great work place programs. 2016 Highlights 2 impact by providing a creative and inspiring platform to their products and throughout the consumption of those products. more global, we are attracting customers and stakeholders from · With our maternity program and flexible work arrangement, Expanding Global Business Activities further their commitment to advancing sustainable development. Brand Key Activities various cultural backgrounds. For our continuous innovation and we strive to create a good work place for female employees. Strengthening Brand Value Through sustainability focused brand activities, companies can sustainable growth, we believe it is essential that our workplace We have also increased the number of women in senior LENEIGE Refill Me Campaign Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation not only communicate their own unique values and sustainability By inviting our customers to use Refill Me Bottles, this respect and support everyone by fostering a tolerant workplace management by 26% as of 2016 Through our intentional campaign allows them to contribute a portion of proceeds to Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship philosophies but also serve as a catalyst to mobilize consumers culture that celebrates diversity. focus on recruiting and supporting talented women. water conservation activities as well as to moisturize their skin. Strengthening Sustainability of Partners around ethical and value-based consumption that benefits our · As of 2016, 97% of our workplace in our overseas branches innisfree PLAYGREEN Campaign Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues society and environment. was locally hired, and we are making an effort to increase This campaign focusing on green lifestyles provides an talent recruitment within our operating markets. opportunity for our consumers to learn about various ways to practice sustainable lifestyles. · In 2016, through WeDream, our subsidiary certified as 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 The activities include an annual PLAYGREEN Festival and 2016 Performance for Sustainability the Eco Hanckie Campaign. people with disability friendly work environment by the Korean Employment Agency for the Disabled, we employed Sustainability Management Structure primera Love the Earth Campaign Amorepacific 30 people with disabilities. This campaign promotes the biodiversity values of Innovation for Customers wetlands, and donated a portion of the proceeds from the sales of the campaign related products to the Korean Harmony with Nature Biodiversity Foundation. Harmonious Growth Let’s Love Campaign Sharing for Society The proceeds from the sales of the products that used mango butter sourced from India’s Jamui are donated back to the innisfree Jamui society. The donation was used to purchase new mango ETUDE trees for families with female children. eSpoir The way to achieve The way to achieve AMOS Professional AESTURA We will firmly integrate sustainability into our brands and products through continuous research on | We will improve the job satisfaction rate of our employees. 1) Osulloc Farm sustainable consumption and by assessing the sustainability of our products and brands. · We will continue to improve our employees’ job satisfaction level by diversifying employee benefits and entitlements, · We will undertake more research on the lifestyles and sustainable consumption of our consumers and will identify strengthening work independence and autonomy, and offering space for creativity and innovation. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 opportunities to increase the value and sustainability of our products. Sustainability Vision · We will develop an assessment system for product and brand sustainability. | We will improve our support for women in leadership and increase the global diversity of our workplace. Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments · To improve diversity in our work place, we will foster female leaders, increase the number of locally hired professionals, and By strengthening social responsibility activities for each brand, we will offer opportunities for nurture talent globally. our consumers to participate in sustainable consumption. Appendix 5 · We will enhance brand-specific activities to increase consumer awareness of sustainable lifestyles. Independent Assurance Statement | We will further strengthen safety and health programs both in Korea and other global locations. · We will contribute to creating social and environmental values in global markets. Verification Statement GHG Inventory 1) To be assessed based on employee responses obtained through our work satisfaction survey. GRI G4 Index About This Report 100 101 Our Commitment 5 Our Commitment Our Commitment Our Commitment 6 Contribute to inclusive growth by ‘20 by 20’ | Support the health, Corporate Overview 1 actively supporting our business partners’ wellbeing, and economic empowerment of CEO Message Brand Portfolio development and growth. 200,000 women to beautify their lives. Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management The reason we act The basis this commitment made The reason we act The basis this commitment made Risk Management Materiality Analysis By fostering inclusive growth and sustainability of all of business · In an effort to improve business partners’ sustainability As a company that has grown alongside women, Amorepacific · Amorepacific is a company that has been growing Stakehoder Communication partners throughout our value chain, Amorepacific Group hopes performance, we introduced the Amorepacific has taken a keen interest in the lives and dreams of women, alongside women. Therefore, out of our three core initiatives to contribute to decreasing inequality, promoting long-term suppliers Sustainability Guidelines and assessed and strives to cultivate women’s independence and gender (women, natural ecosystem, and nurturing culture), 2016 Highlights 2 economic growth, and strengthening social cohesion. our major partners’ sustainable management practices. equality through economic empowerment and support to beautify and support women’s lives is our main priority. Expanding Global Business Activities By offering quality work and economic opportunities to our · In 2015, we introduced the benefit sharing on women’s health and well-being through reducing the · As one of our main activity, Amorepacific Korea, along with Strengthening Brand Value beauty partners and business partners (suppliers and joint research initiative, and by December 2016, mortality rate of female cancer and improving the lives of the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation, is carrying out Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation contractors), we are contributing to a mutually beneficial and we completed a total of 26 projects with various female cancer patients. a Pink Ribbon Campaign to promote the importance of Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship positive cycle of inclusive growth. business partners. breast cancer prevention and self-examination. Began in 2001, Strengthening Sustainability of Partners · We have been operating the Mutual Growth Fund with had over 570,000 participants by the end of 2016. Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues KRW 24.6 billion. We launched the Good Jobs Strategy Amorepacific continues to fund The Korea Breast Cancer collaboratively with our beauty partner managers to Foundation to provide breast cancer education and improve the working conditions of beauty partners. fund breast cancer surgeries for low-income women through 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Areas of improvement included compensation, entitlements, designated contributions. 2016 Performance for Sustainability benefits, and the professional development of beauty partners. · We carrying out Heemang(meaning ‘Hope’ in English) Sustainability Management Structure Store campaign through a partnership with The Beautiful Amorepacific Foundation. Heemang Store provides microcredit of up to Innovation for Customers KRW 40 million without qualification, warranty or credit ratings. Harmony with Nature Heemang Store established its first store in 2004, and as of Harmonious Growth 2016 has 300 stores opened. Sharing for Society innisfree The way to achieve The way to achieve ETUDE eSpoir | We will support our business partners’ capacity for corporate sustainability. | Annually support 49,000 women to improve their health and well-being. AMOS Professional · To improve our partners’ sustainability performance, we will increase the percentage of business partners who are able to · With integrated support programs, we can contribute to not only women’s physical health, but also in pursuing their true AESTURA meet ‘good performance’ sustainability targets to more than 80 per cent (this is an increase from 56% in 2016) by assessing well-being. We perform various activities from a lifecycle perspective related to breast health in order to achieve those goals; Osulloc Farm business partners’ sustainability and providing necessary support to strengthen their capacity. We will double the number of We want to make sure women can live a healthy and happy everyday life through raising awareness in young women in their the benefit sharing projects and provide financial contributions to strengthen business partners’ core competencies and twenties and thirties, educating women in their thirties and forties to protect themselves through self-examinations and breast 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 promote our business partners’ innovation and sustainable growth. health, supporting women in their forties and fifties with costly examinations and surgery fees, as well as supporting much Sustainability Vision needed psychological recovery programs where most participants are breast cancer patients in their fifties. Sustainability Focus Area | We will provide quality work to our beauty partners. Sustainability Commitments · In collaboration with beauty partner managers, our company will continue supporting the improvement of beauty partners’ core | Annually support 1,000 women to enhance their economic empowerment. competencies through education and certification programs and will also support the improvement of their working conditions. · We are supporting adolescents who dream of becoming makeup artists through makeup technique education and mentoring. Appendix 5 In addition, not only do we give substantial financial support to women in their forties, but we support them to have a greater Independent Assurance Statement influence on society by forming the foundation of becoming independent. We also strive for women to confidently live as Verification Statement GHG Inventory a member of society by recovering their self-esteem, and to realize true gender equality, both economically and socially. GRI G4 Index About This Report 102 103 Our Commitment 7 Our Commitment Our Commitment Our Commitment 8 Reduce our CO2 emissions by 30% per tonne of Improve resource efficiency by Corporate Overview 1 1) production from a 2015 baseline. promoting reuse and recycle. CEO Message Brand Portfolio Business Overview Vision AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management The reason we act The basis this commitment made The reason we act The basis this commitment made Risk Management Materiality Analysis The international community adopted the Paris Agreement on · With the goal of reducing CO2 emission per unit of sales by Increased waste as a result of mass production and unsustainable We optimized water usage in production facilities, recycled first Stakehoder Communication Global Climate Change in December 2015 in an effort to 30% by 2020 compared to our 2010 level, we undertook consumption have been detrimental to the environment, and treatment water waste, and reused condensed water in ionization reduce the impacts of climate change. As we enter into a new a range of activities aimed at reducing the direct and indirect this increases the need to promote the circular economy. in order to improve water efficiency and expand the reusing and 2016 Highlights 2 climate era that emphasizes a low carbon economy, various use of energy. In 2014, we achieved our reduction target. Through the circular use of resources, Amorepacific Group hopes recycling of waste water. Expanding Global Business Activities countries are introducing regulations to mitigate climate change We also have undertaken an array of activities to reduce to reduce our impacts on the environment as well as to improve Furthermore, we have undertaken various activities to reduce the Strengthening Brand Value and are encouraging the active contribution of companies. CO2 emission throughout our value chain resource efficiencies. amount of waste water that cannot be recycled as well as improve Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation As a responsible corporate citizen, we hope to achieve carbon free recyclability of all the water we use in our production facilities. Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship status by undertaking the following activities: reducing · Developing low-energy use production technology We set the goal of reducing the amount of non-recyclable waste Strengthening Sustainability of Partners CO2 emission from our corporate activities, increasing the use of · Promoting eco-driving and evaluate CO2 emission from per unit of production by 35% by 2020 compared to 2010, and Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues renewable energies, expanding our CO2 emission management distribution vehicles in 2012, we achieved our reduction target. scope to all of our value chains, and engaging in the activities · Developing low-carbon products that will offset the GHG emissions. 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 2016 Performance for Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure Amorepacific Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature The way to achieve The way to achieve Harmonious Growth Sharing for Society | We will further increase energy efficiency and expand the use of renewable energy. We will reduce the amount of water use per tonne of production by 22% innisfree · In our new corporate headquarters, approximately 7% of our energy use (3.5MW) will come from in Korea and 41% in China from a 2015 baseline. 1) ETUDE renewable sources such as solar power and geothermal energy. · We will undertake a range of innovative activities such as recycling of waste water, increasing rain water eSpoir · In the Beauty Campus Osan, Mass Cosmetic Production Site, and Beauty Campus Shanghai use and developing a cleaning technology that requires the minimum use of water. AMOS Professional about 2% of energy use will be from solar panels. AESTURA Osulloc Farm | We will improve the resource efficiency of our packing materials. | We will develop long-term strategies to realize a carbon-free status. · In addition to decreasing the waste water produced in beauty facilities, we will work on innovative packaging solutions by integrating resource efficient packaging design and recycle and upcycle friendly packaging design to reduce packaging waste. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 1) Applicable sites: Amorepacific production sites These innovations may include Sustainability Vision (Beauty Campus Osan, Mass Cosmetic Production Site, Sulloc Tea Production Site, and Beauty Campus Shanghai) Sustainability Focus Area · Expanding bioplastics Sustainability Commitments · Expanding recycled packaging materials · Reducing packaging volume and weight · Improving the recycling technology for used cosmetic containers Appendix 5 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory 1) Applicable sites: Amorepacific production sites (Beauty Campus Osan, Mass Cosmetic Production Site, Sulloc Tea Production Site, and Beauty Campus Shanghai), Unit of production (per tonne of production) GRI G4 Index About This Report 104 105 2020 Sustainability Commitments and 2017 Targets Sustainable Development Goals Corporate Overview 1 Sustainable Lifestyle Integration of · Incorporating more than one aspect of environmental/ Positive Impact on social sustainability into 24% of new products CEO Message Amorepacific Group incorporates the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs, which was adopted by the United Nations on Sep, Environment or Society into New Brand Portfolio 2015) into our 2020 Sustainability Commitments. The SDGs outlines 17 goals and 169 sub-targets in all areas of sustainable Products Business Overview development, including poverty, public health, education, gender equality, environmental conservation, job creation, inequality, Vision Operating · Improving In-Store Environmental Sustainability and peaceful societies and rule of law. Through the 2020 Sustainability Commitments, we will implement various programs that AP WAY Sustainable Store New and Renovated Aritaum and ETUDE House Stores in Korea can contribute to advancing the SDGs and join force with the international community to address pressing global challenges. will use 100% of LED lighting Financial Performance Using environmentally sustainable materials to produce shopping Governance bags and buffer packaging Ethical Management In the new innisfree Green Cycle Store, more than 70% of interior materials will be from upcycled, used cosmetic bottles Risk Management Materiality Analysis Promoting Value · Expanding each brand’s social responsibility activities globally Stakehoder Communication Based Consumption [Sulwhasoo] With the Beauty from Your Culture campaign, and Consumer Empowerment reach 5,000 customers from Korea and other markets 2016 Highlights 2 [LANEGIE] Running the Refill Me campaign in 9 countries for water-cause-related fundraising Expanding Global Business Activities Strengthening Brand Value Inclusive Growth Fostering Great · Improving Working Conditions Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Place to Work Introducing the innovation space in new corporate headquarters Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Updating the benefits, welfare and wellness programs for employees Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Strengthening · Further strengthening the sustainability performance and Mutually Beneficial growth of suppliers 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Partnerships Ensuring that the sub-targets of ‘good’ sustainability performance in 2016 Performance for Sustainability major suppliers increases by 63% Sustainability Management Structure · Continued implementation of the Good Jobs Strategy for Amorepacific beauty partners Offering opportunities for professional development to beauty partners Innovation for Customers Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth Strengthening Our · Implementing a women’s health and wellbeing program for Positive Impact to 49,000 women Sharing for Society Society Supporting projects related to the awareness of cancers affecting innisfree women, cancer prevention, financial assistance for cancer treatment and ETUDE diagnosis, and psychological counselling for recovering cancer patients eSpoir · Implementing a women’s empowerment program for 1,000 women AMOS Professional Offering professional makeup trainings and mentoring Giving financial support to low-income, single mothers for start-up activities AESTURA Osulloc Farm Circular Economy Going · Reducing CO2 emission per tonne of production by Carbon Free 7% compared to 2015 1) 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Introducing renewable energy in our Mass Cosmetic Production Site and Sustainability Vision Beauty Campus Shanghai Sustainability Focus Area Sustainability Commitments Innovation on · Reducing Water Use per tonne of production by Resource Efficiency 7% in Korea and 28% in China compared to 2015 1) Appendix 5 Using bioplastic for containers in at least 70 products Developing recycling technology for cosmetic containers Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory 1) Applicable sites: Amorepacific production sites (Beauty Campus Osan, Mass Cosmetic Production Site, Sulloc Tea Production Site, and Beauty Campus Shanghai) GRI G4 Index About This Report 106 107 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE NO.: PRJC-558923-2017-AST-KOR-E Brand Portfolio Business Overview Introduction Amorepacific Group (“APG”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Vision Group, to undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2016 (the “Report”). The directors of APG AP WAY have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance Financial Performance work is to the management of APG in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements Governance are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have Ethical Management been provided in good faith. Risk Management Appendix Scope of The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1st January to 31st December 2016. This included: Materiality Analysis Stakehoder Communication assurance · Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 2016 Highlights 2 · Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach Expanding Global Business Activities to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and Strengthening Brand Value Independent Assurance Statement qualitative data in the Report. Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Verification Statement GHG Inventory TM1) Basis of our We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustain , which is based on our professional Strengthening Sustainability of Partners GRI G4 Index opinion experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues About This Report 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in February and April 2017. The site visits were made to APG Head Office and Factories. We undertook the following activities as part of the 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 assurance process: 2016 Performance for Sustainability · challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the Sustainability Management Structure robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; Amorepacific · interviewed representatives from the various departments; Innovation for Customers · conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated Harmony with Nature 5 reporting system and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; Harmonious Growth · reviewed the outcomes of stakeholder consultation report and the materiality assessment report. Sharing for Society · site visit and test of data gathering process; innisfree Domestic: Beauty Campus in Osan, R&D Center in Yongin and L&D Center (Yongin Campus) ETUDE Overseas: Amorepacific China office and Shanghai Beauty Campus in China eSpoir AMOS Professional Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of APG’s AESTURA associated companies, subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL Osulloc Farm did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as APG’s Sustainability Vision website (www.amorepacific.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included Sustainability Focus Area in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures Sustainability Commitments and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. Appendix 5 DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based Independent Assurance Statement on this Assurance Statement. Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website. (www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html) About This Report 11 0 Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly VERIFICATION STATEMENT Corporate Overview 1 describe the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4. The verification team has observed that there is general awareness of sustainability context across all different levels of the organization. Further GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INVENTORY DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE CEO Message opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; Amorepacific Group NO.: AS_ PRJC-558901-2017-CCS-KOR Brand Portfolio Business Overview | Stakeholder Inclusiveness Introduction DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”) was commissioned by Amorepacific Group to verify the Amorepacific Vision Group’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2016 (“the report”) based upon a reasonable level of assurance. APG has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Employees, Business Partners, and AP WAY Amorepacific Group is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis set out within the WRI/WBCSD GHG Local community, Governments, External experts including professors and consumer group, Shareholders. APG protocol: 2004 and the principles set out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management Financial Performance engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of Amorepacific Group only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability Governance of approaches to engagement with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. In the future, APG could or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. Ethical Management engage stakeholders in the region where APG resents more, address the reasonable expectations and interests of Risk Management Scope of The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions), Energy indirect emissions (Scope stakeholders and report corresponding actions taken in the Report. Materiality Analysis Assurance 2 emissions) and Other indirect emissions (Scope 3 emissions) from Amorepacific Group boundary of the report; · Organizational boundary for Amorepacific: HQ/Sale offices, Sites (Osan, Daejeon and Jincheon), Stakehoder Communication | Sustainability Context Distribution centers (Gangbuk, Gwangju, Gimcheon, Daejeon, Busan, Songtan, Incheon, Jincheon and Osan), APG has stated the ‘2025 Vision’ and 2020 sustainability goals and objectives. In addition, APG is helping readers understanding how 2020 sustainability goals are linked to UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). The R&D/HRD, Local Business unit (Gwangju, Daegu, Daejwon and Busan), Delivery and transportation by centers 2016 Highlights 2 (Other indirect emissions) Expanding Global Business Activities reasons for selecting 2020 sustainability management goals and plans to achieve them are also addressed in the · Organizational boundary for PACIFICPACKAGE: Cheonan report. In particular, APG has presented various performance indicators with which the performance and goals of Strengthening Brand Value · Organizational boundary for AESTURA: Ansung sustainability management can be monitored. Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation · Organizational boundary for COSVISION: Daejeon Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship | Materiality · Organizational boundary for Osulloc Farm: Hannam, Premium factory, Seokwang, Dolsongi and Wolchulsan (Jeju) · Organizational boundary for Amorepacific Shanghai: Shanghai (China) Strengthening Sustainability of Partners APG has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. 35 issue pools were used on internal and Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues external stakeholder survey to rate the material issues. 7 material issues are prioritized accordingly. APG takes into Verification The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from 13th February through 31st March 2017 and performed in accordance Approach with the verification principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all account the consistent way of selecting material issues so that the decision made by the management and daily 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 operation are fully aligned with strategic sustainability management. The audit team has reviewed the materiality the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable verification opinion with 5% materiality level, concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission 2016 Performance for Sustainability assessment process and confirms relevant material issues prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process; Sustainability Management Structure | Completeness · We have reviewed and verified the SHEQM system of Amorepacific Group Amorepacific The Report has covered the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances of APG (activity data, GHG emission calculation results, emission factors, and other parameters) Innovation for Customers for the reporting period. The reporting boundary has been set to include all affiliates in APG. Amorepacific, a major · We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data Harmony with Nature affiliate, includes not only domestic sites but also some performances of overseas corporation. We recommend you Harmonious Growth Conclusions Based on the above verification core elements, it is DNV GL opinion that the data and the information reported in the GHG to gradually expand your reporting boundary on overseas performances. assertion are free of errors, omissions and misrepresentations providing a fair and balanced quantification, in compliance to the Sharing for Society above reported verification criteria. innisfree | Report quality: Accuracy and Reliability The GHG Emissions of Amorepacific Group for the year 2016 were confirmed as below; ETUDE The audit team has sampled data and tested accuracy. Based on the test, the intentional error or misstatement is Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Amorepacific Group from Yr 2016 Unit: ton CO2 equivalent. eSpoir not noted from the data and information disclosed in the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin Amorepacific Direct emission Energy indirect emissions Scope 1 Other indirect emissions Total emissions AMOS Professional and interpretation of the data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. Group (Scope1) (Scope2) and Scope 2 (Scope3) AESTURA Amorepacific 6,306 27,799 34,106 3,348 37,454 Osulloc Farm Competence and DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment PACIFICPACKAGE 414 4,709 5,123 5,123 Independence and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team AESTURA 1,467 3,686 5,153 5,153 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 COSVISION 664 2,989 3,652 3,652 which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements Sustainability Vision Osulloc Farm 2,117 949 3,066 3,066 or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. The assurance has complied with DNV GL’s Sustainability Focus Area Amorepacific Shanghai 783 5,239 6,022 6,022 Sustainability Commitments Code of Conduct during the engagement. Total 11,751 45,371 57,122 3,348 60,470 April 2017 In Kyoon Ahn ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2. ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 (Total emissions of Amorepacific included Scope 3 emissions) Appendix 5 Seoul, Korea Country Representative 31st March 2017 Sang-Rey Chang In-Kyoon Ahn Independent Assurance Statement DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Lead Verifier Country Manager Verification StatementGHG Verification Statement GHGInventory Inventory DNV GL Business Assurance Korea GRI G4 Index This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (31st March 2017). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Amorepacific Group is subsequently brought to our attention. About This Report In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 11 2 5. Appendix 1 13 Corporate Overview 1 GRI G4 Index CEO Message Brand Portfolio GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page Business Overview 1. General Standard Disclosure 2. Specific Standard Disclosure Vision AP WAY Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 6~7 Economic analysis (incl. strategy relates to sustainability, impacts of the activities in relation to the stakeholders) Economic DMA Disclosure on management approach 32 Financial Performance Organizational G4-3 Name of the organization 6.3.10, 18-19 Performance G4-EC1 5.3 22-24, 32-36 Direct economic value generated and distributed Governance profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6.4.1-6.4.5, 8-17 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities 56-61, 82-83 Ethical Management G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 6.8.5, 18-19 due to climate change 6.3.7, 6.3.10 6.4.362 Risk Management G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 7.8 18-19 Market Presence DMA Disclosure on management approach operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at 6.4.4 6.8.1-6.8.2 1) Materiality Analysis G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 25 significant locations of operation Stakehoder Communication G4-8 Markets served 18-19, 22-24 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations 6.4.3, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 71 (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers beneficiaries) of operation 6.8.5, 6.8.7 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 18-19 Indirect Economic DMA Disclosure on management approach 40 2016 Highlights 2 G4-10 The total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region 18-19 Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 6.3.9, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 40-41, 72-81 Expanding Global Business Activities G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 64 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Strengthening Brand Value G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 42-43, 68-71 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.3.9, 6.6.6-6.6.7, 40-41, 72-81 Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership or 18-19, 25 6.7.8, 6.8.1-6.8.2, its supply chain 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by 56-61 Strengthening Sustainability of Partners the organization Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or 48 Environmental other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Materials DMA Disclosure on management approach 50 G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) UNGC, KBCSD G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4 54, 58 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Identified material G4-17 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 5.2, 116 Energy DMA Disclosure on management approach 56 2016 Performance for Sustainability aspects and subsidiaries, and joint ventures (List all entities in the consolidated financial statements) 7.3.2-7.3.4 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 61 boundaries Sustainability Management Structure G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Aspect Boundaries and explain how the Reporting 28 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.4 48, 61 Amorepacific Principles has been implemented G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4-5 57 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 28 Water DMA Disclosure on management approach 59 Innovation for Customers G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the organization 28 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 61 Harmony with Nature G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization 28 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4 59 Harmonious Growth G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and 48, 55 Biodiversity DMA Disclosure on management approach 60 Sharing for Society the reasons for such restatements G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 6.5.6 60 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 48, 55 high biodiversity value outside protected areas innisfree Stakeholder G4-24 The list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 5.3 29 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in 6.5.6 60 ETUDE engagement G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 29 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas eSpoir G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and 29 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 60, 83-84 AMOS Professional by stakeholder group Emissions DMA Disclosure on management approach 56 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and 29 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 6.5.5 61, 111 AESTURA how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 6.5.5 61, 111 Osulloc Farm its reporting; Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 6.5.5 58, 111 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 7.5.3, 7.6.2 116 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 6.5.5 48, 61 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report April, 2016 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 57 G4-30 Reporting cycle 116 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 61 Sustainability Vision G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 116 Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3-4 61 Sustainability Focus Area G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 112-115 Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 61 Sustainability Commitments G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 109-111 Products and DMA Disclosure on management approach 50 Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 49 Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 6.5.3,5.4, 6.5.5, 50-54 body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and 6.7.5 Appendix 5 social impacts. G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 51 Independent Assurance Statement Ethics and integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 7.7.5, 4.4, 26 Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 6.5.4, 6.6.6 58 Verification Statement GHG Inventory conduct and codes of ethics 6.6.3 materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce GRI G4 Index 1) Amorepacific Group’s entry-level wages are higher than the local minimum wage in every location according to the internal policies; however, the exact wages cannot be disclosed. About This Report 11 4 5. Appendix 1 15 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand Portfolio GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page Business Overview Supplier DMA Disclosure on management approach 42 Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 64 environmental Compulsory Labor Vision G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 7.3.1 42-43 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or 6.3.10, assessment G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 7.3.1 42-43 compulsory labor 6.6.6 AP WAY actions taken Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 64 Financial Performance procedures that are relevant to operations Governance Supplier Human DMA Disclosure on management approach 42 Ethical Management Social Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Report the percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 6.3.3-6.3.6 42-43 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and 6.3.3-6.3.6 42-43 Risk Management | Labor practices and decent work actions taken Materiality Analysis Employment G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 6.4.4,6.8.7 63, 85, 86 Stakehoder Communication employees, by significant locations of operation | Society G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 64 Local Communities DMA Disclosure on management approach 40, 72 Occupational G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health 6.4.6 64 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 6.3.9, 6.5.1-6.5.3, 40-41, 72-81, 82-84, 2016 Highlights 2 Health and Safety and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety assessments, and development programs 6.8 87, 89-91 Expanding Global Business Activities programs Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.3, 6.6.6 26, 42 Strengthening Brand Value G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 6.4.6, 6.8.8 71 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.3 26 Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 4.6 44-45 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4.6 66-67 non-compliance with laws and regulations Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship Training and DMA Disclosure on management approach 62 Supplier DMA Disclosure on management approach 42 Strengthening Sustainability of Partners Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 62, 71 Assessment for G4-SO9 Report the percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on 6.3.5, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 42-43 Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues Impacts on Society G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 6.4.7, 6.8.5 62 society 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 7.3.1 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 6.4.7 62 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impact on society in the supply chain and 6.3.5, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 42-43 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 by gender and by employee category actions taken 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 2016 Performance for Sustainability Diversity and DMA Disclosure on management approach 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 64 7.3.1 Sustainability Management Structure Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 6.3.10, 6.4.3 64-65 Amorepacific according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of | Product Responsibility diversity Customer Health DMA Disclosure on management approach 44 Innovation for Customers Supplier DMA Disclosure on management approach 42 and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.450-51 Harmony with Nature Assessment for G4-LA14 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6, 42-43 safety impacts are assessed for improvement 6.7.5, 6.8.8 Labor Practices Harmonious Growth and actions taken 7.3.1 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.244-45 Sharing for Society G4-LA15 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6, 42-43 concerning the health and safety impacts of porducts and services during their lifecycle, 6.7.46.7.5,6.8.8 grievance mechanisms 7.3.1 by type of outcomes innisfree Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for 6.7.1-6.7.5, 6.7.9 44-45 ETUDE | Human Rights Service Labeling product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and eSpoir Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 42 service categories subject to such information requirements AMOS Professional include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 3.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 29 G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning 6.3.5 64 Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 44-45 AESTURA aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of Communications Osulloc Farm employees trained Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 64 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 64 Sustainability Vision Association and and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to 6.3.8, Sustainability Focus Area Collective support these rights 6.3.10, 6.4.5, 6.6.6 Sustainability Commitments Bargaining Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 64 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 6.3.7, 6.3.10, Appendix 5 6.6.6, 6.8.4 Independent Assurance Statement Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report 11 6 1 17 Corporate Overview 1 CEO Message Brand Portfolio 2016 Business Overview Vision Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report AP WAY Financial Performance Governance Ethical Management Purpose This report was created to disclose Amorepacific Group’s sustainability management Risk Management activities to stakeholders and to collect various opinions to reflect them in management. Materiality Analysis The scope of the Amorepacific Sustainability Report, which has been issued annually since Stakehoder Communication 2009, was expanded in 2016 to be issued as Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report with the aim to communicate with a broader audience. 2016 Highlights 2 Expanding Global Business Activities Scope This report provides information on the sustainability management activities and Strengthening Brand Value performances of Amorepacific Group. In the case of Amorepacific, the domestic production Leading Digital Beauty and Innovation sites and offices (headquarters in Seoul, R&D Center, HR Development Center, Regional BU, Fulfilling Global Corporate Citizenship and production sites for beauty care, mass cosmetics and steamed green tea products) were Strengthening Sustainability of Partners mainly under review, while the performances of the overseas subsidiaries were included in Response to Product Quality and Safety Issues only some of the cases. 2016 Sustainability Performance 3 Period Covered This report covers Amorepacific Group’s activities from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 Performance for Sustainability 2016. Data from 2014 and 2015 were included for comparative purposes. Information Sustainability Management Structure obtained until March 2017 was reflected in some of the data. Amorepacific Innovation for Customers Report In order to enhance the accuracy and reliability of the report, the content was verified by an Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth Verification independent verification institution, DNV GL. Sharing for Society innisfree Standards The 2016 Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with ETUDE Followed the G4 Core Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the main agenda of ISO eSpoir 26000 and the internal report preparation standards. AMOS Professional AESTURA Osulloc Farm Date of publication 2017. 05. 12 Publisher Kyung-bae Suh 2020 Sustainability Commitments 4 Publishing organization Amorepacific Group Sustainability Vision Production Sustainability Management Team, Growth Support Divison, Amorepacific Sustainability Focus Area Design vergum Sustainability Commitments Signature Tower, 100 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 04542 Appendix 5 Tel +82. 2. 879. 3451 Fax +82. 2. 879. 4109 Independent Assurance Statement E-mail csr@amorepacific.com Verification Statement GHG Inventory GRI G4 Index About This Report
