COP 2017 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 11/08/2017 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Pulse Printing Products Ltd continues to incorporate the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact as appropriate into our policies and standards, as these principles complement our own business values and goals. I am proud to reaffirm Pulse’s continuing support for the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe the progress we made over the past year in support of ten UNGC principles and our drive to continually improve. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Gary Sheppard Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Pulse Printing Products Ltd (Pulse PPL) continues to support and protect the internationally proclaimed human rights legislation (e.g. UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights) as well as all UK relevant legislation (e.g. Human Rights Act 1998). Pulse PPL strives to ensure that procurement functions (dealing with third party contracts and suppliers) endeavour to seek partners upholding the same principles through their operations and supply chains where practical. We are committed that we are not complicit in any form of human rights abuses through neither direct, nor beneficial nor silent complicity. Our equality policy gives consideration to human rights and discrimination. It is implemented throughout the business and outlined in the staff handbook. Our corporate and social responsibility policy is integrated into our daily business activities. All policies and management systems are reviewed on yearly bases and audited as per schedule.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Pulse PPL is continually monitoring our supply chain through self assessment questionnaire and there is a procedure in place for the approval of new suppliers. We are pleased to confirm that Pulse PPL is continuing to be accredited to OHSAS 18001:2007 standards. Pulse PPL supports Modern Slavery Act 2015 by Anti slavery and human trafficking policy. All of our employees are encouraged to report suspected misconduct and unethical behaviour directly to their supervisors.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. There have been no reported breeches of our human right policies. We are proud members of SEDEX which we use in control of our supply chain management and we use third party assurance to assess our suppliers. All policies and procedures are reviewed on yearly bases by top management team to ensure relevance and suitability to the business and ultimately signed off by the managing director of Pulse PPL. LABOUR  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights Pulse PPL undertakes to comply with national legislation and regulations relating to the application of the relevant international charters and declarations wherever it operates and/or undertakes its business activities; mainly relating to discrimination (in any form), employment, working condition, freedom of expression and association and reporting of human rights and other violations. Compliance with UK legislation on labour is strictly followed as the foundation on Pulse’s procedures on labour principles. Pulse PPL has no objections for employees to join trade unions and follows the procedures on freedom of association and collective bargaining as set by English law (Under the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992). Our recruitment process complies with the law on minimum age however our own policy states that no person under the age of 18 is allowed to work in the manufacture. All Pulse employees are issued with a Contract of Employment clearly stating their terms and conditions of employment with clearly stated pay rates, sick leave, maternity and paternity leave, etc. This we consider as fair, just and fully in compliant with English Rules, Laws and Regulations. Employees are in addition provided with Manuals explaining the Company’s Culture, Commitment and Procedures.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. OHSAS 18001:2007 certification significantly improved our Health and Safety management system. All health and safety information for staff is displayed on H&S board. Any work related issues can be raised to employee’s representatives who will in turn raise them at quarterly H&S meeting attended by top management. Minutes from the meeting are freely available to all staff. We also actively encourage our employees to express their concerns through “see itsortit report-it” scheme. Training courses (internal/external) are regularly attended by employees to ensure their personal growth and development.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Pulse PPL has not been involved with any investigation or legal cases relating to the contravention of UNGC Labour Rights principles or UK legislation. Pulse PPL has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions. ENVIRONMENT  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Pulse PPL is committed to continuously improve our environmental performance. We will achieve this through the efficient use of the resources, preventing pollution, minimising waste and the promotion of recycling. Pulse PPL has and will continue to support and work closely with suppliers and customers to help each other in achieving mutual targets on sustainability. Pulse PPL has implemented an Environmental policy and complies with all relevant UK environmental legislation and regulations. The environmental policy is understood by all key personnel.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. All employees are made aware of the risk to the environment by accidental release of the chemicals. This is included in the induction of every new employee and reinforced during everyday activities of the factory. There are procedures in place to minimise the environmental impacts to achievable minimum. Targets that were set last year to reduce electricity and water consumption were achieved. New targets were set for 2017. There is a program in place to reduce waste by reducing the need for cleaning mixing vessels and therefore reducing waste water by recycling the vessels for the same product. We are also reducing the wastage of raw materials by getting almost 100% of the product from its original containers and therefore reducing the residual waste to a bare minimum. The most of the non conforming products are being reworked and recycled. Pulse PPL does not use brand new IBCs; we use either laundered (97.5%) or reconditioned (2.5%) IBCs. We are constantly on a lookout for new ways to reduce our environmental impact. Pulse started implements ISO 14001:2015 and BSI gap analysis has been performed in May 2017. Full certification should be achieved by the next reporting period. This will further improve our environmental performance.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Pulse PPL has never had a reportable environmental incident. We have never been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. ANTICORRUPTION  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Pulse PPL is committed to conducting all of our business in an honest and ethical manner and has adopted the anti-bribery policy to promote honest and ethical conduct and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations as set by UN Convention against corruption. Pulse PPL gives the utmost importance to the anti-bribery policy and applies a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by any of our employees and other stake holders.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Employees are encouraged to raise concerns about any issue or suspicion of malpractice at the earliest possible stage. If they are unsure whether a particular act constitutes bribery or corruption, or if they have any other queries or concerns, these should be raised with their line manager.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anticorruption performance. There have been no reports of misconduct to a present date.
