CREATING the exceptional SUSTAINABILITY R EPORT 2016 T01  Our sustainability targets 2016 This is an overview of the targets we set in our Sustainability Report 2015. Except where otherwise stated, the data refer to 2016. You can find more detailed information on target attainment in the relevant chapters of this report. Strategy Governance Employees Value chain The Safety and growth and compliance and products environment Target ­attainment Page no. Strategy and growth Step up dialogue with key stakeholder groups 24 Governance and compliance Update the Code of Conduct for Evonik’s employees by 2017 33 Employees Develop and introduce a Group-wide HR KPI system 39 Ongoing development of Group-wide master policies on remuneration and fringe benefits 41 Value chain and products Continue to analyze potential risk suppliers through the TfS initiative annual target a 50 Renewed review of suppliers assessed in 2012 and 2013 a 50 Conduct at least 20 initial supplier sustainability audits through TfS annual target a 50 Continue follow-up of audits performed in 2015 a 50 Continue internal sustainability training for at least 60 percent of procurement staff affected by the TfS initiative a annual target 50 Total R&D expenses of over € 4 billion by 2025 b 53 Further structuring of the sustainability analysis of Evonik’s business, plus plans for external validation of the method c 56 RSPO certification of three further Evonik sites d 52 The environment Conduct at least 60 ESHQ audits annual target 59 Reduce specific greenhouse gas emissions by 12 percent by 2020 e 61 Reduce specific water intake by 10 percent by 2020 e 64 Safety Accident frequency indicator ≤ 1.3 annual target 71 Improvement in incident frequency indicator f (Cefic Process Safety Performance Indicator) in the manufacturing units ≤ 48 annual target 72 Follow-up on Employee Survey 2015: derive and implement safety-related measures by year-end 2017 g 70 Risk evaluation for at least 99 percent of all substances marketed in quantities exceeding 1 metric ton p. a. 76 Further evaluation of all products containing > 0.1 percent of chemicals of very high concern 76 a Previously reported in the section on supplier management in the chapter “The business”. | b Previously reported in the section on research and development in the chapter “The business”. | c Previously reported in the section on sustainability analysis of our business in the chapter “Sustainability management”. | d Previously reported in the section on biodiversity in “The environment”. | e (Reference base: 2012); 80% target attainment by 2018. | f Number of incidents per 1 million hours worked, taking 2008 as the reference base (expressed in percentage points: 2008 = 100). | g For 90% of measures introduced. ▯ Target achieved ▯ Target partially achieved or target horizon extends beyond 2016 ▯ Target not achieved You can find a table containing an overview of our targets for 2017 and beyond on page 83. T02 Sustainability indicators for the Evonik Group The following overview contains the main indicators for our six sustainability areas of action. You can find more detailed information in the relevant chapters. 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sales in € million 12,708 12,917 13,507 12,732 Strategy and Adjusted EBITDA in € million 1,995 1,882 2,465 2,165 growth Adjusted EBITDA margin in % 15.7 14.6 18.2 17.0 ROCE in % 15.1 12.5 16.6 14.0 Female Supervisory Board members in % 10 15 20 35 Governance and Female Executive Board members in % 20a 20 20 20 Training in antitrust law 642 514 493 937 compliance Training in fighting corruption b 946 404 1,600 828 Training in the Code of Conduct 3,924 1,542 c 2,823 12,025 Internal investigations 42 28 27 33 Commitment Index d 148 (2010) 157 (2012) e 151 –f Employees g Employee turnover in % 6.0 3.9 4.7 4.7 Average length of service in years –h 15.1 15.0 14.9 CPD per employee in hours 13 i 9 13 16 j k Female managers in % 18.8 20.1 20.8 22.0 Procurement expenses in € billion 8.5 9.1 8.3 7.6 No. of sustainability audits (TfS) –l 93 179 241m No. of sustainability assessments (TfS) –l 2,605 2,580 1,773 n Value chain Use of renewable raw materials in production in % 9.6 8.8 8.6 9.2 R&D expenses in € million 394 413 434 438 and products R&D ratio in % o 3.1 3.2 3.2 3.4 Proportion of resource-saving products in % –l –l ~ 50 ~ 50 External sales of chemicals segments covered by life cycle analyses in % –l –l ~ 70 ~ 70 p Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions in million metric tons 5.9 5.9 5.6 5.4 Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions in million metric tons q 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.0 The Water consumption in million m3 r 74.5 78.1 71.3 65.7 environment Output in million metric tons 10.06 10.35 10.36 10.58 Hazardous production waste in thousand metric tons 218 212 213 227 Non-hazardous production waste in thousand metric tons 152 156 153 124 Accident frequency s 0.9 1.2 1.0 1.2 Incident frequency t 50 53 55 43 u Health ratio in % 94.9 95.9 95.4 95.3 Safety Occupational Health Performance Index v 5.1 5.4 5.3 5.5 Occupational Disease Rate w 0.28 0.40 0.30 0.36 Outgoing shipments, hazardous goods in thousand metric tons 5,600 5,849 5,531 4,025 Outgoing shipments, other goods in thousand metric tons 3,546 3,531 3,438 4,078 a Since October 1, 2013. | b Managerial employees. | c The training concept was altered in 2014 so the figure is not fully comparable with the other years. | d Commitment Index on employee satisfaction, maximum score 200. | e Since 2012 the employee survey has been conducted every three years. | f The next employee survey is planned for 2018. | g Continuing operations only. | h No data available. | i Refers to Germany; worldwide from 2016. | j Since 2016 the figure excludes apprentices in Germany. k Management Circles 1 – 3; continuing operations only. | l No data compiled for this year. | m Thereof Evonik: 29. | n Thereof Evonik: 145. | o Ratio of R&D expenses to sales. | p CO2 equivalents. | q CO2 equivalents, net (market-based). | r Includes water used to generate steam, in the manufacture of products, to cover evaporation losses, and process water. | s Number of accidents involving Evonik employees and contractors’ employees under Evonik's direct supervision per 1 million working hours. t Number of incidents per 1 million ­working hours (reference base: 2008). | u Refers to Germany; calculated from: (Target working hours – Sickness-related hours lost)/­ Target working hours. | v Max 6.0 (index takes account of key aspects of occupational medicine, health promotion and emergency medical management). | w Number of newly identified cases of occupational illnesses per 1 million working hours. CONTENTS THE 2 Foreword 4 HOW WE IMPLEMENT ESSENCE SUSTAINABILITY 4 Using energy efficiently 6 Training for young refugees 8 Precision work in construction 10 Safety in the Greater China region OF A YEAR. 12 Taking control of their lives 14 Sustainable development goals 15 SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 16 Strategy and growth 26 Governance and compliance 38 Employees 47 Value chain and products 57 The environment 69 Safety 78 Society 82 ANNEX At Evonik, we believe that ­r esponsible action and business success are inseparable. We began early on to entrench environmental and social criteria in our corporate decisions so that we could strike out in new and sustainable directions. Our ­Sustainability Report for 2016 shows how successfully we are doing that. The essence of a fiscal year: We have continued to analyze the sustainability of our business operations and increasingly aligned our innovation-related activities toward sustainability. Our sustainability-related activities support the Sustainable ­Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations in many ­a reas. In the future we want to firmly embed these activities in our corporate strategy and our management processes. Today our contribution toward reaching the SDGs already ranges from resource-conserving products such as the high-performance insulation material CALOSTAT to our new combined-cycle power plant in Marl, which reduces CO2 emissions by up to 280,000 tons annually. Projects like these demonstrate that if you want to change something, you have to be creative. Unusually creative. We wish you inspiring reading. 2 From left: KLAUS ENGEL Chairman of the Executive Board THOMAS WESSEL Chief Human Resources Officer Dear readers, Sustainable management and responsible behavior In terms of its extent and depth, this report has are two of the cornerstones of Evonik’s business stringently applied the criterion of materiality. model. For us, the year 2016 is a special milestone in this regard. For one thing, we have been inIn our conversations with employees, customers, cluded for the first time in the top group of the investors, and business partners, we are reminded renowned indexes Dow Jones Sustainability World every day of the close connection between enviand Europe. For another, we’ve been pleased ronmentally and socially responsible behavior on to have our work doubly honored by the German the one hand and economic success on the other. Sustainability Award 2016—with the award in Protecting our climate and our environment is one the research category and the general award as of the major global challenges of our time. We beone of the five most sustainably operating major lieve this means we should continue to work with companies in Germany. We regard these honors full commitment to attain our ambitious environas a motivation to steadfastly continue moving mental goals—but there’s more to it than that. Susalong our chosen path. tainability has long since developed into a growth driver and a key criterion in purchasing decisions. Our guiding principle is our sustainability strategy. It defines the necessary areas of action for our Our product portfolio and the orientation of our company’s balanced management of economic, enresearch and development activities reflect this vironmental, and social factors. These definitions development. So does our in-house Innovation are the result of our materiality analysis, which we Award, with which we honor outstanding research are continuously refining and deepening in an inperformance. In the year 2016, all of the nominatensive dialogue with our stakeholders. In 2016 we tions in the category “New Products/System Solucontinued our development of the corresponding tions” were products whose applications contribdialogue events and management processes. ute to sustainability. They include an especially environmentally friendly biosurfactant made of All of this is reflected in the new structure and renewable raw materials; an additive that in compresentation of content in this sustainability report. bination with silica and silanes further reduces the 3 rolling resistance of tires, thus further lowering In addition to the environmental aspects, we are fuel consumption and CO2 emissions as well; and increasingly focusing on the protection of fundaa synthetic transmission oil that boosts the energy mental human rights. That’s why we and our efficiency of wind turbines. colleagues on the Executive Board consider it important to document Evonik’s positions regarding In order to make sustainable products’ contribuhuman rights above and beyond the existing codes tion to business success reliably measurable and of responsible corporate management. In the years thus controllable, in 2016 we continued to refine ahead, at the global level we will steadily monitor the sustainability analysis of our business operacompliance with this policy statement on human tions. As part of this process, we refined our methrights. ods and subjected them to validation by independent auditors. Through all of these activities, we are emphasizing our determination to act as a good corporate citizen In the operation of our production facilities all and our firm commitment to the principles of the over the world, we assign absolute priority to plant UN Global Compact. We are also taking a further safety, and thus the protection of employees, step by firmly anchoring the sustainable developneighbors, and the environment, ahead of sales ment goals defined by the United Nations in the and profits. Our corporate culture initiative Safety corporate strategy and the management processes at Evonik is strongly established at the Group. of Evonik. Through this initiative we give all of our approximately 35,000 employees a binding and verifiable In every company, highly motivated and highly set of guidelines that specify how individual betrained employees are a key factor of sustainable havior helps to avoid accidents and helps to ensure success. We would therefore like to especially compliance with the strictest safety standards. thank all those who during the year under review once more helped to translate our company’s high But good sustainability management doesn’t begin expectations and ambitious goals into daily behavwith a company’s own products and production ior and shared successes. This contribution does processes. Through even earlier factors such as our not end at the factory gates. Instead, it includes purchasing volume, we exert considerable influa wide variety of activities and commitments in ence on our social and environmental surroundthe neighborhoods surrounding our locations. ings. We are conscious of this responsibility. Consequently, we are further increasing transparency We hope this report offers you an interesting readand sustainability along our entire supply chain. ing experience. We will be pleased if the following We are also successfully demonstrating this pages provide you with a practical motivation approach as a founding member of the Together or two and give you an impression of why we can for Sustainability initiative. proudly say that Evonik achieved a great deal in 2016. KLAUS ENGEL THOMAS WESSEL Chairman of the Executive Board Chief Human Resources Officer 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES 1 Using energy efficiently The word energy is derived from an ancient Greek external audits. Now for the first time, it has word meaning working within. Within Evonik, received certification according to the ISO 50001 many experts have been working for years to standard for all of its companies in Germany maintain a balance between economic growth and as a whole. Outside Germany as well, some of decreased energy consumption. For these efforts, Evonik’s large and small locations have already 2016 was another important year. been audited according to this international standard. The centralized energy management system we introduced in 2015 is helping to continually Evonik’s internationally uniform energy manageimprove energy efficiency at Evonik and reduce ment system applies to all of the company’s CO2 emissions. Thus it’s locations and activities, whether they are in the making a key contribution areas of production, research or administration. to climate protection and A key component of this system is a shared awareresource conservation. ness throughout the Group of the need to consume energy in sensible and economical ways. In trainThese processes are having an impact internally ing courses held all over the world, every Evonik and are also being monitored by external auditors. employee is sensitized to the need to apply this In 2016 Evonik underwent further extensive principle. Many suggestions for improving and HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 5 2 The new power plant, which uses combined heat and power technology, generates an electrical output of 60 megawatts and a thermal output of 100 megawatts. Its fuel efficiency rate is approximately 90 percent. “Together with renewable energies, natural-gas power plants that work with combined heat and power technology will play an important role in the energy mix in the future,” says Andreas Steidle, 3 who heads Evonik’s energy management team. In addition to electricity, the production facility in Marl primarily requires steam. Steidle calculates that if Evonik wished to produce this steam from renewable raw materials, it would have to burn three million tons of wood annually; this corresponds to the lumber produced by half of the forest area of the federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Combined heat and power technology is therefore the first choice wherever facilities require electricity and heat all year round. At other locations, Evonik buys the steam from external suppliers. 1 The gas-fired power plant in Marl has For example, in Darmstadt it comes from a waste an efficiency rate of 90 per cent. incineration plant. “We find out on site which 2 The commissioning ceremony of the ­energy generation system is most appropriate,” power plant in May 2016. says Steidle. “Then we adapt the system to match 3 The plant produces the steam required local requirements.” in the Chemical Park around the clock. The gas-fired power plant in Marl is also a backup power plant for the renewable energies in the electrical grid. If the amount of solar and wind power is insufficient, the gas-fired power plant can immerefining energy management are flowing diately step in and feed electricity into the public from Evonik locations into the overall process. grid. In this way it protects the electrical grid from fluctuations and possible outages. In addition to these continuous efforts to use energy more efficiently, in 2016 Evonik made its bigIn spite of these impressive successes, the energy gest step toward reducing its CO2 emissions when experts at Evonik are continuing their work. As it commissioned a combined-cycle gas turbine Steidle explains, “This is an ongoing process whose power plant to replace a coal-fired unit at its bigmainspring is the commitment and enthusiasm of gest location in Marl. This cogeneration power the employees. That’s why we want to further inplant, which was built in partnership with E.ON, tensify the sharing of experiences in 2017, among reduces the facility’s CO2 emissions by up to other things. That way we’ll keep generating ideas 280,000 tons per year. That corresponds to the about ways to boost our energy efficiency and thus CO2 emissions of a city of 30,000 inhabitants. help implement Evonik’s sustainability strategy.” 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES 1 Training for young refugees When Somayeh Jafari, a 32-year-old woman from Iran, came to Germany, all she had was a suitcase. Invisible, yet heavier than any suitcase, is the sense of loss she has carried ever since. She left her ­family, friends, and familiar surroundings behind. ­Sajid Khan, 21, who fled from Bangladesh in the hope of starting a new life in Germany, has a similar story. After their initial, often difficult, experiences in this foreign land, both of them are seeing something like normality return to their lives. Both are participating in a training program at Evonik. “The best way to gain a foothold here is to develop your career prospects,” says Hans Jürgen Metternich, Head of Training North at Evonik. Evonik expanded the Starting a Career program for the 2015/16 academic year to include a measure financed and operated by the Evonik Foundation for young refugees Evonik. Since August 1, 2016, both of them have like Jafari and Khan. The program been trainees at the Marl location. Jafari is learnwas launched by the social partners of ing to be a chemical technician, and Khan is an upthe chemical industry to help young people who and-coming chemical laboratory technician. They are not yet ready to begin a traineeship. For eight are not the only refugees who have successfully months, the participants gather practical expericompleted the program. Of the 30 refugees who ence in scientific and technical fields, supported by have completed the program, 21 were able to disocio-educational counselors. Refugees also take rectly begin a traineeship at Evonik or another German lessons. “Language is the key to integracompany after graduating. Three of the 30 are attion,” says Metternich. Refugees and young people tending secondary school, and four have begun who are not refugees complete the program tojobs that are covered by national social insurance. gether. “All the participants learn from and with one another,” he adds. “I had already sent out many job applications before the Evonik Foundation enabled me to particiJafari and Khan have benefited from this concept. pate in Starting a Career,” says Jafari, who had Both have completed the first Starting a Career been unable to find employment in Germany infor Refugees program, improved their German, spite of her Iranian degree as a construction engiand gotten to know the professional environment neer. Khan had also sought employment in his in Germany. Their commitment has impressed new home country for a long time without success. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 7 The 1  refugees Sajid Khan and Somayeh Jafari are trainees at Evonik. As 2  part of Starting a Career, the young people receive support from socio-educational counselors. 3 Refugees and non-refugees learn together. 2 3 “I’m very thankful for the opportunity to follow up the Starting a Career program with a training program at Evonik,” he says. In the meantime he has even been elected to the committee representing young people and trainees in Marl. Evonik has operated the Starting a Career pro­gram for 17 years, during which about 1,100 young people have completed it. For many of them it was ­distress are an opportunity for Germany if we a springboard to vocational training programs. ­succeed in integrating them into the labor market “Thanks to the Evonik Foundation’s measure, the as fast as possible,” Metternich explains. program now also opens up new perspectives for young refugees and gives them a key boost as they After all, refugees don’t leave their homes willmake a new start in Germany,” says Metternich. ingly; they leave because they are in a hopeless situation or because war has put their lives at risk. The Evonik Foundation intends to give even more Without friends or family in Germany, Jafari and refugees a chance in the future, with 20 being Khan often feel lonely. The training program has ­i ncluded in the program every year over a period offered them social integration in Germany and of three years. “The people who come to us in is the first step toward a self-determined future. 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES 1 Precision work in construction On this sunny but cool spring day, these particular The heating, hot water provision, and lighting of row houses in Herzogenaurach, Bavaria, aren’t public and private buildings account for 40 percent very warm—not yet, at any rate. Eight families will of overall energy consumption in Germany. They be moving into these modern brick houses, but not also represent almost 20 percent of the country’s until the end of 2017. Till then, the workmen will total CO2 emissions. Innovations from companies have a lot to do. They are wielding their screwsuch as Evonik are making a key contribution to drivers, saws, spatulas, planes, and other tools at Germany’s effort to reach its climate protection many points in the shell structures. These are nortargets. For the construcmal routine activities. Nonetheless, this construction sector, scientists tion site is very special, because the new buildings at Evonik have developed are part of a research project at the Technische an innovative insulation Hochschule Nürnberg. Evonik is participating in material that significantly boosts buildings’ energy the project. Together with other companies, the efficiency: CALOSTAT. Evonik launched this partners are planning and constructing innovative high-performance insulation material, which is energy-storing houses that generate more energy based on silicon dioxide, on the market three years than they consume. It’s an unusual project that ago. Building contractors and architects are very points out one path to the future of construction. interested in this product. They use CALOSTAT HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 9 not only for new buildings such as the ones in attractive for building renovation in city centers, Herzogenaurach, where the facing bricks of the where houses stand close together and in many shell structures, for example, have been filled with cases there’s no room to apply thick layers of insuthe insulation material, but also for the subsequent lation material. “With our product, the insulation thermal insulation of older houses. That’s because thickness can be reduced by up to 50 percent most older buildings are insulated either inadeby comparison with traditional materials—with quately or not at all. Energy-saving renovation the same level of insulation,” explains Bettina can reduce an older building’s energy needs by as Gerharz-Kalte, who heads the Thermal Insulation much as 90 percent. CALOSTAT is an insulation unit at Evonik. A shell structure insulated with material characterized by very low thermal CALOSTAT keeps heat inside the house in conductivity. That makes this product especially winter and outside it in summer. That also reduces air conditioning costs. A further benefit of this high-performance insulation material is that CALOSTAT is nonflammable and thus fulfills in2 creasingly stringent fire prevention requirements. But the team of experts that developed CALOSTAT has set its sights on more than just the purely technical properties of this material. They also consider the needs of customers and users, and they work with partners to develop system solutions. Thanks to a facade panel that can be used to insulate public buildings or high-rises, Evonik was included in the KlimaExpo.NRW exposition in 2016, a climate protection initiative of the 3 state government of North Rhine-Westphalia. This insulation panel makes it possible to save energy in many ways. For example, a building in which it is used as a facade element can reach the passivehouse standard, even though the element is only 12 centimeters thick. “Feedback from our customers and partners is important for the further development of our product,” says Gerharz-Kalte. The impressively small environmental footprint of CALOSTAT has also 1 These houses in Herzogenaurach made it popular on the market. The insulating will generate more energy than they material can be recycled without any problems or consume. disposed of as normal construction waste, because 2 The facing bricks have been filled it consists almost entirely of mineral raw ma­ with CALOSTAT. terials. For CALOSTAT, Evonik has received the 3  C ALOSTAT also connects existing Material Health Certificate in gold from the and new construction. Cradle to Cradle Product Innovation Institute in the USA. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES 1 Safety in the Greater China region Raw materials for the cosmetics industry, lightweight construction materials for the aerospace sector, and high-grade plastics are some of the products Evonik manufactures in the Greater China region, which includes China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Evonik operates ten production facilities in the region, including plants in Shanghai, ­Jilin, and Nanning. About 3,000 employees work in these facilities, which posted sales of about €1.3 billion in 2016. “Of course we’re proud of our ultramodern production facilities and the quality of our products. But we’re equally proud of our high level of occupational and plant safety,” says Yonggang Bu, Head of the region’s Environment, Safety, and is setting a good example: 99 percent Health unit. of all the employees in this region completed the fourth module of the At Evonik, safety and health are the top priority Safety at Evonik initiative last year. throughout the company. For years now, it has had good overall safety figures all over the world. What’s more, employees, executives, and safety Targeted measures in the Greater China region, experts in the region are attending additional as well as throughout the Group, support the workshops that deal with near-accidents—danger­continuous improvement of its levels of safety. ous situations in which an accident was avoided at the last minute. The aim is to ensure that all the The Safety at Evonik initiative, which was participants are aware of possible risks in their launched in 2013, further reinforces the company’s work environment and can react appropriately in safety culture. The basic aim of the initiative is to case of an emergency. “We are encouraging our change the behavior of all employees, supervisors, employees to report every near-accident. An analy­ and managers. A set of safety guidelines has estabsis of these situations will help us find out how lished basic principles of action and standards that we can avoid real accidents,” says Yonggang Bu. are binding all over the world. These principles On paper, the number of reported near-accidents are being embedded at Evonik through training at the locations in the Greater China region was courses that are divided into six modules. In the significantly higher in 2016 than in 2015. At first years ahead, all of the company’s employees will glance, that’s a setback—but at second glance it’s complete these modules. The Greater China region the desired result of the training sessions. “We’ve HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 11 2 3 Evonik’s 1  top priority is the safety of its processes and facilities all over the world. managed to raise our employees’ awareness of One 2  of Evonik’s ten production this important theme. Thanks to our systematic facilities in the region is located reporting process, we can now further expand in Shanghai. our prevention systems,” Yonggang Bu explains. 3 Safety first: Evonik employees in China. In order to guarantee safety, he and his team conduct regular audits at the Evonik facilities. During these audits, the safety experts investigate whether Evonik’s stringent company-wide standards are being complied with. Possible problems are openly discussed. Finally, the team gives the management recommendations for future throughout the world on the basis of the Group’s activities. high standards. They visit the facilities and join local managers and staff members to identify In addition, Evonik’s Global Process and discuss potential hazards. This is how Evonik Safety Competence Center (GPSC) sets a good example not only in the Greater China offers participants opportunities region but also on the global level. “We will conto have discussions and learn from tinue to forge ahead with our safety precautions one another using examples of best practice. The at the technical and organizational levels,” says experts from the interdisciplinary staff of GPSC Yonggang Bu. After all, every accident is one develop safety concepts for all Evonik facilities accident too many. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES 1 Taking control of their lives The number of people with handicaps in southern and integrate people with disabilities. It plans to Africa is estimated to be over 18 million—that’s conduct educational campaigns in order to draw at least ten percent of the total population. “Many attention to their difficult situation. It also orgaof these people are left to their own devices, espenizes home visits to provides people with regular cially in rural regions,” says Andreas Wörster, care and support and makes wheelchairs and the founder of the aid organization Utho Ngathi walkers available so that they can participate in Disability Projects, which has headquarters in community activities. Siegen and Johannesburg. “In many cases, people with handicaps are housebound and live outside Evonik began its involvement with the aid organithe village community. Our goal is to integrate zation by donating wheelchairs for children. “It’s them into community life.” Wörster, a 51-yearvery moving to see how a wheelchair can change old German, is convinced that this can be done a person’s life for the better by making him or her through education, the development of individual mobile,” says Heinrich Ruth, who is responsible capabilities, and an adequate income. He’s familfor Evonik’s business with amino acids for animal iar with the realities of the situation, as he has feed in Africa. It soon became clear to Evonik that lived in South Africa for the past its cooperation with Utho Ngathi should be a long27 years. Evonik has supported term one. The company wanted to strengthen its the work of his aid organization for commitment to people with disabilities in souththe past three years. ern Africa—and also to contribute its business skills. “In order to be recognized, people need to Utho Ngathi has created a wide variety of projects have meaningful work that contributes to their in South Africa and Zambia in order to support society,” says Ruth. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 13 Wörster and Ruth decided to work together “Evonik really got the ball rolling,” says Wörster. on implementing a project that would provide Evonik’s Employer Branding unit has linked the rural population with better Utho Ngathi with students from RWTH Aachen sources of valuable protein and University who are members of the international more closely integrate people with student network Enactus. Together, these partners disabilities. have built a solar-powered fish farm in a village in Zambia, which is now being managed by villagers Many people in southern Africa are still mal­ both with and without handicaps. The chicken nourished because they have no access to farming is also ongoing. Two more henhouses high-quality food and balanced meals. Many were built in February 2017, one of them for of them cannot afford to buy meat, fish or eggs. laying hens. In addtion, the Evonik Foundation has also pledged to support Utho Ngathi financially The two men soon came up with a plan. Utho until 2020. Ngathi and Evonik are building henhouses holding 300 birds each in the rural village region of Macubeni in eastern South Africa. People both with and without disabilities can work here and earn a living. At the same time, the additional 2 supply of meat can improve the villagers’ diet. The construction work started in July 2016. While Evonik employees in South Africa joined Utho Ngathi in Macubeni to build the henhouses, Evonik colleagues in Germany and in South Africa organized a donation campaign to finance the project. Several thousand euros were collected. “In addition, we got a local producer of animal 3 feed, one of our large customers in this region, on board,” says Ruth. This producer donated high-quality animal feed and taught the future operators of the henhouses how to take care of the chickens, carry out cleaning operations, and ensure good hygiene. In August, the first chicks were moved into the three henhouses in Macubeni. By now, several Chicken 1  farming enables people generations of chickens have already been raised with disabilities to lead a selfand sold. Ten villagers work in the henhouses— determined life. people with handicaps and people without them Henhouses 2  were built in work together with a will. Utho Ngathi pays them Macubeni with the help of Utho a small salary from the profits gained from the Ngathi and Evonik. chicken sales, and enough money is still left over The 3  villagers look after the chickens to support six villagers who make home visits to with great zeal and commitment. people with handicaps. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Sustainable development goals In fall 2015 the United Nations published 17 global sustainpages 4 to 13 of this report. We will continue to examine the able development goals, known as SDGs for short, to be SDGs and their significance for our business in detail in 2017. achieved by 2030. They replace the eight Millennium DevelThat is a further step toward establishing them firmly in our opment Goals, which expired in 2015. corporate strategy and management processes. In 2016 we analyzed how our sustainability activities support the SDGs in various fields. You can find some examples on End hunger, achieve food security and Ensure healthy lives End poverty in all its improved nutrition and promote well-being forms everywhere and promote sustainable for all at all ages ­agriculture Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education Ensure availability and Achieve gender equality and and promote lifelong sustainable management of empower all women and girls learning opportunities water and sanitation for all for all Promote sustained, inclusive Build resilient infrastructure, Ensure access to affordable, and sustainable economic ­promote inclusive and ­reliable, sustainable and modern growth, full and productive sustainable industrialization energy for all employment and decent work and foster innovation for all Make cities and human Reduce inequality within Ensure sustainable consumption ­settlements inclusive, safe, and among countries and production patterns ­resilient and sustainable Protect, restore and promote ­sustainable use of terrestrial Conserve and sustainably Take urgent action to ­ecosystems, sustainably manage use the oceans, seas combat climate change forests, combat desertification, and marine resources for and its impacts and halt and reverse land sustainable ­development ­degradation and halt biodiversity loss Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Strengthen the means of sustainable ­development, ­implementation and revitalize provide access to justice the Global Partnership for for all and build ­effective, ­Sustainable Development accountable and ­inclusive ­institutions at all levels HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 15 Contents ﻿ CONTENTS Strategy and growth 16 Employees38 Business model Our human resources strategy 39 Strong market positions, a clear culture HR organization and management 40 of innovation, sustainable business activities 17 Activities relating to our HR strategy in 2016 40 Decentralized corporate structure 17 Further facts and figures 46 Fiscal 2016 Value chain and products 47 A good performance in 2016 18 Upstream: supply chain and raw materials 48 Major events 18 Procurement and sourcing Creating extensive value 18 Gate to gate: production and processes 51 Production inputs and output Materiality analysis Research & development Our materiality analysis 18 Downstream: customers and Six areas of action for sustainability 21 end-customer applications 54 Stakeholder management Our products and markets Systematic identification of the stakeholder groups Customer satisfaction of relevance for Evonik 22 Sustainability analysis of the business Advocacy24 The environment 57 Trustful collaboration 24 Our management system 58 Sustainability management Climate change and emissions into the air 60 Organization of sustainability management 25 Evonik Carbon Footprint 62 Our objectives for 2017 25 Water management 64 Accolades for our sustainability performance 25 Waste management 66 Biodiversity68 Governance and compliance 26 Corporate governance 27 Safety  69 Opportunities and risks 28 Occupational and plant safety 70 Compliance30 Health protection 72 Voluntary commitments 35 Transportation safety and logistics 74 Human rights 37 Product stewardship 75 Donations and sponsorship 37 Society78 How we live our social commitment 79 The Evonik Group 79 Evonik Foundation 80 ANNEX82 The chapters “Strategy and growth”, “Governance and compliance”, “Employees”, “Value chain and products”, “The environment” and “Safety” were subject to a limited assurance review by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH (PwC) (indicated by ). 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES STRATEGY AND GROWTH ONGOING DEVELOPMENT TARGETS FOR 2017 AND OUTLOOK 2016 was a good year for our business and we worked intensively on our • Ongoing development of methods and indicators for major sustainability issues. sustainable portfolio management Based on this, we are taking further • Analysis of sustainability requirements in individual steps to apply sustainability criteria ­markets and regions in the management of our • Harmonization of internal sustainability reporting processes operating performance. and monitoring systems KEY FIGURES FOR EVONIK IN 2016 RECOGNITION • Sales € 12.7 billion OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE • Adjusted EBITDA € 2.165 billion • Adjusted EBITDA margin 17.0 % Sustainability is a growth driver for Evonik. The following accolades received in 2016 testify to our performance: • ROCE 14.0 % Inclusion GERMAN SUSTAINABILITY IMPLEMENTATION for the AWARD first time Sustainability management Evonik is one of in the the five most sustainable renowned • Sustainability analysis of large corporations Dow Jones all business lines extended ­Sustainability Index in Germany and method validated World and Dow Jones • Stakeholder approach sharpened ­Sustainability Index and implemented through Europe various dialogue formats • Ongoing alignment of the reporting process DEUTSCHER to materiality NACHHALTIGKEITSPREIS Top 5 Deutschlands nachhaltigste • Internal Expert Circles Großunternehmen 2016 set up on sustainability issues Page Topic | GRI indicators 17 Business model | G4-2, G4-8 18 Fiscal 2016 | G4-2, G4-4, G4-9, G4-13, G4-20, G4-21, G4-EC1 18 Materiality analysis | G4-18, G4-19, G4-22, G4-23, G4-26, G4-27 22 Stakeholder management | G4-11, G4-16, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-37, G4-53, G4-LA4, G4-LA5, G4-HR4, G4-SO1 25 Sustainability management | G4-2, G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-48, G4-49 HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 17 Strategy and growth Business model Decentralized corporate structure Our specialty chemicals operations are divided into three Strong market positions, a clear culture of chemical manufacturing segments, which operate close to ­innovation, sustainable business activities their markets and customers and have a high degree of entreEvonik is one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals preneurial independence. The Nutrition & Care segment ­companies. We concentrate on attractive growth markets— produces specialty chemicals, principally for use in consumer especially health, nutrition, and resource efficiency. Our goods for daily needs, and in animal nutrition and healthcare strengths include the balanced spectrum of our business products. The Resource Efficiency segment supplies activities, end-markets and regions. Around 80 percent of high-performance materials for environment-friendly and sales come from market-leading positions, which we are energy-efficient system solutions for the automotive, paints, ­systematically expanding. coatings, adhesives and construction industries and many Our specialty chemicals make an indispensable contri­ other sectors. bution to the success of our customers’ products in global The Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency segments competition. Close cooperation with them enables us to build operate in attractive markets. They both offer customers up a deep knowledge of different businesses and end-markets, ­customized, innovation-driven solutions and the aim is for leading to products that are tailored exactly to specific customer them to achieve above-average, profitable growth through requirements. Technology centers and customer competence innovations, investments and acquisitions. centers throughout the world support this claim. The heart of the Performance Materials segment is the Research & development are important drivers of profitable production of polymer materials and intermediates, mainly for growth. Our strong innovation culture and well-trained and the rubber, plastics and agriculture industries. highly motivated managers and employees form the basis for The Performance Materials segment is characterized by this. processes that make intensive use of energy and raw materiA wide range of activities help us to gain and develop talals. It therefore concentrates on integrated, cost-optimized ented employees and position Evonik as a preferred employer technology platforms, efficient workflows, and economies of in order to retain them. scale. Our strategic goal for this segment is to contribute Our sustainability strategy takes up the growth markets earnings to finance the growth of the Evonik Group. In the identified in our corporate strategy and defines areas of future, investments and, where appropriate, alliances will action geared to balanced management of economic, ecological concentrate on securing and extending our good market and social factors. We undertake to comply with internationally ­positions. recognized standards, and more far-reaching internal guidelines In addition, the Services segment offers services for the and principles of conduct. See “Governance and compliance”, chemical segments and external customers at our sites and page 26. supports the chemicals businesses and the management holding Our sustainability reporting complies with the Global company by providing standardized Group-wide administraReporting Initiative (GRI G4, core). We are a member of the tive services. GRI’s Gold Community. C01 Corporate structure Evonik Segments Nutrition & Care Resource Efficiency Performance Materials Services 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Fiscal 2016 Major events On May 6, 2016 Evonik signed an agreement to purchase the A good performance in 2016—Acquisitions specialty additives business of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., strengthen growth segments Allentown (Pennsylvania, USA) for US$3.8 billion (approxiPleasing volume trend mately € 3.5 billion). The acquisition was closed on January 3, Driven by good demand for our products worldwide, all 2017 following the approval of the relevant antitrust authori­segments registered pleasing volume growth. However, there ties. The two businesses are an ideal fit: Evonik and the Air was a substantial reduction in selling prices, partly because Products specialty additives business target the same customers lower raw material prices were passed on to customers. in their core markets, but with different and complementary Overall, sales declined 6 percent to € 12,732 million. products. The new business will be integrated into our Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency growth segments. Adjusted EBITDA at a good level On December 9, 2016 Evonik signed an agreement to Adjusted EBITDA was € 2,165 million, down 12 percent from acquire the global silica business of J. M. Huber Corporation, the high prior-year figure. The main reasons for this decline Atlanta (Georgia, USA), for US$630 million. In this way, we were lower selling prices, while higher volumes and lower aim to strengthen our position in this profitable, low-cyclical raw material costs had a positive effect. The adjusted EBITDA business, especially in North America and Asia. The transaction margin was good at 17.0 percent (2015: 18.2 percent). is contingent upon the approval of the antitrust authorities but is expected to be completed in the second half of 2017. Another very good return on capital employed We intend to integrate the business we are acquiring into our Within our value-oriented management approach, our success Resource Efficiency growth segment. is measured principally by ROCE, which was 14.0 percent in You can find further information on fiscal 2016 in our 2016 and therefore well above our cost of capital. In our regAnnual Report 2016. ular review of the cost of capital, this was confirmed as being unchanged at 10.5 percent before taxes in 2016. Creating extensive value Our innovations enrich and simplify people’s daily lives in Total value added many different ways. At the same time, we help secure the Value added is calculated from sales and other revenues less basis of life for the growing world population. The chart the cost of materials, depreciation and amortization and “Evonik’s resources and value contributed in 2016“ on the other expenses. Overall, value added declined 5 percent to next page shows how we create value for our customers, € 4,616 million. The largest share of value added—68 percent society, the environment and our company. (2015: 65 percent)—went to our employees. 9 percent (2015: 10 percent) was paid to the state in income and other taxes. A further 5 percent (2015: 5 percent) went on interest payMateriality analysis ments. Shareholders of Evonik Industries AG received 18 percent of value-added, compared with 20 percent in the previOur materiality analysis ous year. Our sustainability activities are based on our materiality ­analysis. In our materiality analysis in October 2015, we identiT03 Breakdown of value added fied and prioritized the key sustainability topics for Evonik. We surveyed around 500 representatives of stakeholder G4-24 in € million 2016 2015 groups of relevance for Evonik. They included customers, Total value added 4,616 4,838 suppliers, local residents around our sites, analysts, investors, Split and representatives of universities, research institutes, proEmployees 3,128 3,121 fessional associations, political parties, non-governmental State 401 470 organizations and the media. The stakeholders were selected by G4-25 Creditors 229 245 Evonik experts who are in close contact with the respective stakeholder groups.1 Evonik employees took part in the survey G4-26 Non-controlling interests 14 11 on the intranet. In a second step, we included selected sustainNet income 844 991 ability experts within the Evonik Group, representatives of relevant corporate functions and representatives of the workG4-18 force. 1 Evaluation based on groups for which analyzable results were obtained. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 19 Strategy and growth C02 Evonik’s resources and value contributed in 2016 OUR VALUE RESOURCES CONTRIBUTED Stakeholders Society 34,351 NUTRITION & CARE € 69 million employees spending for vocational training approx. 31,000 The Nutrition & Care 95.3 % suppliers segment produces specialty employee health ratio chemicals, principally for use approx. 37,500 in consumer goods for daily € 2.5 billion customers needs, and in animal n ­ utrition wages and salaries € 7.6 billion and healthcare products. € 10.3 million procurement volume donations and sponsorship The environment RESOURCE The environment 9.32 million metric tons EFFICIENCY € 37 million raw material inputs investment in The Resource Efficiency environmental protection 9% segment supplies high-­ renewable raw materials performance materials for – 17 percentage points ­environment-friendly and reduction in specific greenhouse 68 PJ gas emissions b net energy input energy-efficient system solutions to the automotive, 92.2 million metric tons 6.4 million metric tons paints, coatings, CO2eq avoided by direct and indirect adhesives and construction using Evonik productsc CO2eq emissions a industries, and many other 70 % 73 million m3 sectors. of sales covered by water consumption life cycle analyses PERFORMANCE Financials MATERIALS Financials € 6,041 million The heart of the € 12.7 billion property, plant and equipment Performance Materials sales as of December 31, 2016 segment is the production € 362 million € 960 million of polymer materials and income taxes capital expenditures in 2016 intermediates, mainly for the rubber, plastics and ­agriculture industries. Knowledge Knowledge approx. 230 € 438 million new patents filed R&D expenses SERVICES > 24,500 2,700 patents and R&D employees The Services segment patent applications offers services for the chemical segments and external Production customers at our sites and supports the chemicals Products & solutions approx. 90 businesses and the management production sites holding company by providing > 4,300 products & solutions 6.5 km2 standardized Group-wide largest production site ­administrative services. approx. 50 % Marl (Germany) of sales generated with resource-efficient products d a Scope 1 and 2 (market-based). b Reference base 2012. c In accordance with WBCSD Avoided Emissions Guidance 2013. Figure refers to 2015. d Products that are proven to make a contribution to resource efficiency during application. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES G4-18 The results of the materiality analysis were presented to the an internal workshop, and was also based on further talks G4-25 decision-making bodies and the Executive Board. with departments within the company and with external G4-26 In the year under review, we validated our materiality stakeholders. analysis and confirmed its relevance. This took place through C03 Materiality analysis 2015 / 2016 G4-18, G4-19, G4-27 Stakeholders Relevance: very high 1 2 3 4 6 7 5 18 19 8 9 20 11 10 12 Relevance: high 15 13 16 21 14 22/25 26 27 17 28 23 30 31 29 Relevance: average 24 Evonik Relevance: average Relevance: high Relevance: very high Aspect Relevance Area of action Aspect Relevance Area of action 1 Plant safety Very high ▯ 17 Growth markets High ▯ 2 Occupational safety Very high ▯ 18 Water management Average ▯ 3 Compliance Very high ▯ 19 Emissions into the air Average ▯ 4 Customer satisfaction Very high ▯ 20 Health protection and promotion Average ▯ 5 Product stewardship Very high ▯ 21 Climate change Average ▯ 6 Transportation safety and logistics High ▯ 22 Sustainability management in the 7 Responsible management/ supply chain (standards) Average ▯ corporate governance High ▯ 23 Health Average ▯ 8 Innovations/technologies High ▯ 24 Population growth Average ▯ 9 Sustainability strategy and management 25 Dialogue and cooperation as part of corporate strategy High ▯ with stakeholders Average – 10 Waste management High ▯ 26 Regional commitment at the sites Average – 11 Morals and ethics (in business) High ▯ 27 Equal opportunity Average – 12 Appeal as an employer High ▯ 28 Employability (demographic change) Average – 13 Efficient use of scarce 29 Work/life balance Average – resources/materials High ▯ 30 Focus on population in cities Average – 14 Qualification/training, advanced training High ▯ 31 Diversity Average – 15 More sustainable products High ▯ 16 Products and solutions/life cycle ­considerations High ▯ HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 21 Strategy and growth Six areas of action for sustainability (see footnotes to chart C04). This sharpens the focus of our G4-18 The results of the materiality analysis performed in 2015 are reporting on materiality and enhances the consistency of the G4-19 grouped in six areas of action. To drive forward development report, which is now systematically structured on the basis of of the reporting process, the allocation of the various topics these six areas of action. to the areas of action and their names were modified in 2016 C04 19 identified sustainability topics are bundled in six areas of action G4-18, G4-19 STRATEGY GOVERNANCE EMPLOYEES AND GROWTH AND COMPLIANCE 9 Sustainability strategy and management 3 Compliance 12 Appeal as an employer as part of corporate strategy 7 Responsible  management/ 14   Qualification/training, advanced training 17  Growth markets corporate governance 11 Morals and ethics (in business) VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT SAFETY AND PRODUCTS 4 Customer satisfaction 10 Waste management 1 Plant safety 8 Innovations/technologies 18 Water  management 2 Occupational  safety 20 Health protection and promotion 13  Efficient use of scarce resources/  19 Emissions into the air materials 21  Climate change 5 Product stewardship 15  More sustainable products 6 Transportation safety and logistics 16 Products and solutions/life cycle considerations 22  Sustainability management in the  supply chain (standards) G4-22 T  he “governance/compliance” area of action has been renamed “governance and compliance”, “employer excellence” has been renamed “employees”, and “sustainable products and solutions” has been renamed “value chain and products”. G4-23 The following sustainability topics have been allocated to other areas of action: “innovations/technologies” (from “strategy and growth” to “value chain and products”), “­customer satisfaction” (from “strategy and growth” to “value chain and products”), “sustainability management in the supply chain (standards)” (from “governance and ­compliance” to “value chain and products”). In view of the way in which we manage sustainability topics, we have separated morals and ethics (in business)/sustainability management in the supply chain (standards), which were bundled together in the Sustainability Report 2015. Morals and ethics (in business) has been assigned to “governance and compliance”, while sustainability m ­ anagement in the supply chain (standards) has been assigned to “value chain and products”. As a result, the number of sustainability topics identified has increased from 18 to 19. Topics 17 (growth markets), 23 (health), and 24 (population growth) have been combined in topic 17 “growth markets “(previously “particular challenges and business options”). 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES In 2016, our activities focused on the operational alignment timely identification of future trends and requirements. In G4-27 of our Corporate Responsibility structures, and on optimiz2016, we reviewed and systematically classified the stakeing stakeholder management. This comprised the following holder groups of relevance for us. In view of their impor­measures: tance, local residents around Evonik’s sites are now classed as G4-22 • Systematic identification of the stakeholder groups of a separate stakeholder group. The stakeholder groups were ­relevance for Evonik then bundled on the basis of issues and further differentiated • A deeper insight into sustainability issues in dialogue with according to whether they have a direct or indirect influence stakeholders on Evonik. • Systematic involvement of Evonik’s regions and their diverse contacts to stakeholders in the dialogue on susDialogue with our stakeholders takes place both at operatainability issues tional level—for example, with customers and suppliers—and G4-26 at Group level through associations and advocacy groups. The format varies depending on the target group and issue. Stakeholder management Systematic identification of the stakeholder groups of relevance for Evonik G4-24 Dialogue with our stakeholders is important to give us a betG4-25 ter understanding of different perspectives, and to ensure C05 Evonik’s stakeholder groups G4-24 Customers Direct influence Employees Shareholders Legislators Suppliers Lenders Authorities Local residents The business Financial markets Regulatory bodies Society/community Associations Analysts/rating agencies Politicians Scientific community Indirect influence Non-governmental Competitors organizations Media HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 23 Strategy and growth C06 Stakeholder engagement 2016 G4-26, G4-27 Stakeholder groups a Examples of stakeholder engagement Key issues • Quality, reliability of supply, prices • Trade shows, talks with customer, reports • Innovations CUSTOMERS • Stakeholder dialogue “Healthy nutrition for • Governance and compliance a sustainable world” • Support to help customers achieve their ­sustainability targets • Wages and salaries • Employee surveys • Vocational and advanced training • Intranet, employee magazine • Safety • “Roundtable” discussions and networks • Combining work with raising a family EMPLOYEES • Social media platforms • Leadership quality • Workshops on specific issues, • Current business development e. g., human rights • In-house changes • Customer focus • Price, quality, payment practice • Supplier workshops, e. g., our “Sustainability Day” • Governance and compliance SUPPLIERS • TfS event in Mumbai • Safety • Environmental protection • Annual Shareholders’ Meeting • Attractive dividend policy SHAREHOLDERS • Roadshows/conferences • Current business performance and outlook • Talks with rating agencies • Ratings and rankings CREDITORS • Talks with lenders • Current business development and outlook • Involvement in the work of associations • Dialogue partner in the opinion-forming process • Governance and compliance • Stakeholder dialogue: “Healthy nutrition for • Safety LEGISLATORS a sustainable world” • Environmental protection • Brainstorming workshop in Brussels on • Appeal as an employer “sustainable food” • Environmental protection • Talks with authorities • Safety AUTHORITIES • Brainstorming workshop in Brussels on • Permitting procedures “sustainable food” • Governance and compliance • Appeal as an employer • Safety • Open days • Appeal as an employer • Invitations to tours and discussions LOCAL RESIDENTS • Local activities • Environmental and neighborhood hotlines • Current business development • Survey on acceptance, Wesseling site • In-house changes a Only includes stakeholders with a direct influence. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES More intensive dialogue in 2016 Since 2016, the Evonik regions with their wide-ranging G4-18 In 2016, we stepped up our dialogue with stakeholders contact to stakeholders have been integrated more G4-24 in order to take a deeper look at certain sustainability closely into the dialogue on sustainability issues. The G4-27 G4-25 topics. For this purpose, we specifically contacted focus varies, depending on the cultural specifics of each G4-26 stakeholder groups that were underrepresented in our region. Overarching topics such as education and trainmateriality analysis in 2015, such as politicians and non-­ ing, and activities to strengthen local cohesion and governmental organizations. Key stakeholder dialogues infrastructure have proven particularly important. Our in 2016 included: goal is to further extend collaboration with the regions • “Healthy nutrition for a sustainable world”, orgaon sustainability. nized by the Corporate Responsibility division in collaboration with the Animal Nutrition Business Line in November 2016. This event was deliberately dialogue-oriented, with a panel discussion, marketplaces on various topics, and opportunities for online interaction. In addition, Evonik employees could follow it in real time via a live blog. The findings from this stakeholder dialogue are used directly in sustainability activities, especially by the Animal Nutrition Business Line. •  Future food production was also the central focus of a brainstorming workshop organized by our Corporate Office in Brussels in fall 2016. Around 25 representatives of EU institutions, national representative offices, associations and companies were invited to attend. • The Evonik meets Science forum has been tailored to contact with universities and research institutes for many years. The focus of the forum held in Bonn The stakeholder dialogue “Healthy nutrition for a sustainable world” 2016 was “New materials for sustainable innovation.” was held in Berlin in November 2016. Advocacy Trustful collaboration Evonik plays an active part in many societal debates and is a Trustful collaboration between representatives of the manageG4-26 partner in opinion-forming processes at regional, national, ment and employees is vital for Evonik’s success. This collabEuropean, and international level. Our offices in Berlin and oration takes account of operating conditions and the laws Brussels are important interfaces for dialogue between repapplicable in the various countries. resentatives of politics and public life. Our employees there In Germany, the fundamental rights of our employees and network closely with politicians, trade associations and the their representatives to be consulted are anchored in statutory general public, support them in shaping political conditions, regulations such as the Codetermination Act and the legislation and take up issues in the areas of digitalization, energy and on executive staff councils. There are elected bodies repreclimate protection, the environment, sustainability, research senting our employees at all sites in Germany. Works Councils & development, and labor market and trade policy. represent exempt and non-exempt employees, while executive We took part in consultations, hearings, and discussions. In staff councils represent our executives. Timely discussion of addition, we follow legislation in the area of employment and all major changes with these bodies is ensured. The time social policy with particular interest, most recently on issues prior to the implementation of such measures is several such as the minimum wage, temporary staffing, and workplace weeks or months, depending on the significance of the regulations. upcoming changes. Where necessary, during this period HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 25 Strategy and growth written agreements are made on the upcoming measures and Decision-making competence for Group-wide sustainability their impact on employees. There are comparable rules on projects is delegated to the CR Panel, which is chaired by the the type and scope of consultation and negotiation in many Head of Corporate Responsibility. The members are the straother regions where Evonik has employees. tegic CR Partners of the segments, the corporate functions, The information and consultation rights of employees on and representatives of the workforce. The CR Panel meets at cross-border European issues are represented by the Evonik least twice a year. Europa Forum, which is composed of employee and employer While the CR Panel has a strategic focus, the Global Correpresentatives. porate Responsibility Committee concentrates on operational At company level in Germany, employees’ interests are realization and on supporting the segments and corporate represented by employee representatives on the Supervisory functions in these topics. Board. Operational support is provided by project-related G4-26 Evonik does not restrict employees’ rights to freedom of CR Expert Circles. In 2016, CR Expert Circles were set up on assembly or the right to collective bargaining. These rights “sustainability labeling of Evonik products,” and “low carbon are also ensured in countries where freedom of association is technologies.” not protected by the state. This is shown by the fact that, based on our sites worldwide, there are employee represenOur targets for 2017 tatives for about 84 percent of our employees. • Ongoing development of methods and indicators for ­sustainable portfolio management •  Analysis of sustainability requirements in individual markets Sustainability management and regions •  Harmonization of internal sustainability reporting processes Organization of sustainability management and monitoring systems The Executive Board bears overall responsibility for sustainability at Evonik, and direct responsibility is assigned to the Accolades for our sustainability performance Chief Human Resources Officer, who is also responsible for all Evonik was included in the important Dow Jones Sustainability climate-related aspects at Evonik. The Corporate ResponsiIndex World and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe bility (CR) division bundles the strategic framework, in close for the first time in 2016. We achieved particularly high collaboration with other central functions and the operational scores for all environmentally related criteria. segments, and coordinates the Group-wide implementation Evonik is also included in the sustainability-oriented index of sustainability activities. families FTSE4Good Global and STOXX® Global ESG Leaders. Responsibility for sustainability management in the Important sustainability rating agencies such as Oekom Evonik Group is set out in a corporate policy. The revised Research and Sustainalytics also rank us among the leaders in edition came into effect at the start of 2017. the chemical sector. The global strategy for sustainability issues is adopted by In addition, our work received two accolades from the the HR Executive Committee, which comprises the Chief German Sustainability Award 2016—one in the research Human Resources Officer, the human resources officers of ­category, and as one of the five most sustainable large corpothe segments, and the heads of Corporate ESHQ, Corporate rations in Germany. Responsibility, and Human Resources. C07 Sustainability management at Evonik Executive Board | Overall responsibility for sustainability Chief Human Resources Officer | Responsible Executive Board member Executive Committee HR Segments Corporate Responsibility Panel Corporate Divisions Global Corporate Responsibility Committee Regions CR Expert Circles 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Good and responsible management TARGETS a of the company is an important element of Evonik’s corporate • Supervisory Board: ≥ 30 % men and ≥ 30 % women philosophy. Our materiality analysis • Executive Board: ≥ 20% or 25% female membersb also shows its high relevance for our company as a sustainability topic. • Female managers at top 2 levels below Executive Board: 20% per level by year-end 2019 That includes compliance with the applicable laws, internal regulations • Antitrust law: draw up a risk roadmap for all business lines and define measures and binding voluntary commitments. • Code of Conduct: introduce externally operated whistleblower system WHAT WE STAND FOR 33 CORPORATE VALUES TRAINING SESSIONS 12,025 Courage to innovate, responsible action, sparing no effort INTERNAL Code of Conduct CODE OF CONDUCT INVESTIGATIONS 937 17 www.evonik.com/coc Our main compliance rules are set Antitrust law out in our Code of Conduct, which 828 CODE OF applies worldwide and is binding for CONDUCT all Evonik employees. WITH We always play by the rules—wherever we are. • Revised in 2016; effective ­CONSEQUENCES Fighting corruption from spring 2017 • Available in 27 languages SUPERVISORY BOARD The Supervisory Board supervises the work of the Executive Board GLOBAL SOCIAL POLICY 10 shareholder representatives and 10 representatives www.evonik.com/gsp of the workforce 20 OUR VALUES FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY, HEALTH AND QUALITY (ESHQ) www.evonik.com/esh members 13 male 7 female EXECUTIVE BOARD POLICY STATEMENT ON HUMAN RIGHTS www.evonik.com/policy-statement CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS WOMEN 16.7 % 19.5 % www.evonik.com/coc-supplier in management 1st management 2nd management positions c level level Page Topic | GRI indicators 35 Voluntary commitments | G4-15, G4-16, G4-56 27 Corporate governance | G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-38, 37 Human rights | G4-HR3, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR12, G4-39, G4-43, G4-44, G4-51, G4-52, G4-57, G4-LA12 G4-LA16 28 Opportunities and risks | G4-2, G4-45, G4-46, G4-EC2, 37 Donations and sponsorship | G4-SO6 30 Compliance | G4-14, G4-49, G4-50, G4-57, G4-58, G4-EN29, G4-EN34, G4-LA16, G4-HR4, G4-HR7, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-SO11, G4-PR9 a Extract. b 20 % up to June 30, 2017; 25 % from July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2022. c Refers to the top two management levels below the Executive Board at Evonik Industries AG. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 27 Governance and compliance Corporate governance For the period from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019, the Executive Board has set a target of 20 percent female Good and responsible management of the company is an managers at the first two management levels below the Execimportant element of Evonik’s corporate philosophy. It also utive Board. So far, the targets were 8.0 percent for the first plays a significant role in our sustainability strategy. The prinmanagement level and 18.8 percent for the second management ciples of corporate governance relate mainly to collaboration level. The key reason for selecting a three-year period instead within the Executive Board and Supervisory Board and between of the statutory maximum of five years is that it is easier to these two boards. They also include the relationship between predict the number of staff leaving and the succession conEvonik and its shareholders, and other people and organizations stellation, allowing timely scope for fine-tuning where necthat have a business relationship with the company. essary. At the end of December 2016 the proportion of Evonik's Executive Board and Supervisory Board are female managers was 16.7 percent at the first management explicitly committed to responsible corporate governance and level and 19.5 percent at the second management level. identify with the goals of the German Corporate Governance Code. As provided for by the foreword to the Corporate Supervisory Board Governance Code, this includes scope to deviate from its recThe Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Executive ommendations if this is necessary to reflect enterprise-­ Board. It appoints the members of the Executive Board and specific requirements. The latest declaration of conformity names one member as the Chairman of the Executive Board. with the requirements of the German Corporate Governance It also decides on the remuneration of the members of the Code has been published on our website.1 According to the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board examines the comdeclaration of conformity as of December 2016, there are pany’s annual financial statements, the Executive Board’s proonly two deviations from the Corporate Governance Code. posal for the distribution of the profit, the consolidated financial These relate to transmission of the Annual Shareholders’ statements for the Group and the combined management Meeting via modern communication media and the availability report. The Executive Board is required to obtain the approval of voting proxies during the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. of the Supervisory Board on decisions of fundamental imporBoth exceptions are based mainly on organizational reasons. tance, which are defined in a separate list. The Supervisory Board has the following committees: an Executive Committee, Executive Board an Audit Committee, a Finance and Investment Committee, a The Executive Board of Evonik Industries AG is responsible Nomination Committee and a Mediation Committee in for running the company in the company’s interests, taking accordance with the German Codetermination Act of 1976.2 into account the interests of the shareholders, employees and The Executive Board provides regular, timely and extensive other stakeholders. For details of the Executive Board’s general information for the Supervisory Board on all matters of releresponsibility for sustainability topics see “Strategy and growth”, vance for the company. Major sustainability aspects are included page 25. The Executive Board discusses sustainability, especially in context. On this basis, Evonik’s sustainability activities are aspects relating to the environment, safety and society, several also discussed at meetings of the Supervisory Board. For times a year at its meetings. example, the Executive Board’s report to the Supervisory Board meeting in fall 2016 included Evonik's sustainability Percentage of women on the Executive Board strategy. and in management The Supervisory Board has set a target of at least 20 percent Composition of the Supervisory Board female members of the Executive Board by June 30, 2017. In accordance with the provisions of the German CodetermiThe Executive Board satisfies this requirement as it comprises nation Act, the Supervisory Board comprises twenty members, one woman and four men. For the period from July 1, 2017 to ten representatives of the shareholders and ten representatives June 30, 2022, the Supervisory Board has raised the target for of the workforce. The Supervisory Board regularly reviews the proportion of women on the Executive Board to 25 percent. the efficiency of its work and reports on this in the Report of the Supervisory Board, which is contained in Evonik’s Annual Report 2016. Annual training sessions are held for members of the Supervisory Board to ensure they can meet the rising demands made on the Supervisory Board. 1  www.evonik.com/responsibility. 2 The exact composition of the committees is published in the Declaration on Corporate Governance at: www.evonik.com/declaration-on-corporate-governance. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES The German law on equal participation of women and men in p ­ erformance and the overall performance of the Group. As management positions in the private and public sectors came one of our significant sustainability topics, occupational into force in spring 2015. In compliance with the statutory safety (accident indicator) influences the remuneration of the requirements and its own targets, Evonik’s Supervisory Board Executive Board. comprises at least 30 percent women and at least 30 percent The remuneration report in the Annual Report 2016 men. At present, the Supervisory Board comprises seven ­contains further information on the remuneration of the women and thirteen men. To ensure the independence of Executive Board and Supervisory Board. members of the Supervisory Board, Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate Governance Code specifies that a Supervisory Board member should not have any personal or business Opportunities and risks ­relations with the company, its executive bodies, a controlling shareholder or an enterprise associated with the latter which As a specialty chemicals company with a presence throughout may cause a substantial and not merely temporary conflict of the world, Evonik is exposed to a range of influences that may interests. The Supervisory Board considers all current members constitute either opportunities or risks. Timely identification to be independent because, in its view, election as an and mitigation of risks is therefore the basis of our extensive employee representative does not conflict with such inderisk and opportunity management. pendence. At Group level, risk management is assigned to the Chief Further information on corporate governance at Evonik can Financial Officer and is organized on a decentralized basis in be found in the corporate governance report, which is available line with Evonik’s organizational structure. The corporate on our website and is also part of the Annual Report 2016. divisions, segments and service units bear prime responsibility for risk management. They are responsible for early identifiPerformance-oriented remuneration cation of risks, estimating their implications, introducing suitof senior management able preventive and control measures, and the related internal The Supervisory Board is responsible for the contracts of communication. Their risk officers coordinate the relevant employment with the members of the Executive Board. It sets risk management activities. A central Corporate Risk Officer the total remuneration package for each member of the Execcoordinates and oversees the processes and systems. Valiutive Board, comprising a basic salary, variable shortand dation of the Group-wide risk situation and verification that long-term components, pension benefits, the reimbursement risks have been taken into account appropriately in figures of expenses, insurance, and various other fringe benefits. The is undertaken by the Risk Committee, which is comprised contracts with members of the Executive Board and all execof representatives of the corporate divisions and chaired utives include remuneration elements based on personal by the Chief Financial Officer. The risk management system C08 Structure of risk management Supervisory Board Executive Board Corporate Risk Officer Risk Committee Corporate Center Segments Services and other units Risk Coordinators & Risk Coordinators & Risk Coordinators & Risk Officers Risk Officers Risk Officers Business Lines Risk Officers HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 29 Governance and compliance is overseen by the Supervisory Board, especially the Audit Human rights Committee. Evonik monitors the observance of human rights along its In line with our mid-term planning, risks are evaluated value chain. We have established several policies and proover a period of three years. Opportunities and risks are cesses to minimize the associated risks. Our commitment is defined as positive or negative deviations from the plan. We underpinned by the Policy Statement on Human Rights adopted evaluate risks on the basis of our risk catalogue using the by the Executive Board in summer 2016. See page 36. COSO enterprise management model. The organizational units conduct an extensive annual risk inventory. This is Supply chain ­supplemented by quarterly reviews of all opportunities and As a specialty chemicals company, Evonik needs a broad risks relating to the present year to spot changes in the spectrum of raw materials. The increasing volatility of proopportunities and risks that have already been identified and curement entails both opportunities and risks. This applies, in identify new risks and opportunities. particular, to renewable raw materials, whose availability and The opportunity and risk report in Evonik’s Annual Report market price are influenced by climate factors. We align our 2016 provides information on risks and opportunities relating procurement strategy and procurement management to to sustainability such as environmental risks and legal/compliwarding off bottlenecks and risks, for example, the purchase ance risks. To supplement this, this section lists the risks and of conflict minerals. Moreover, we expect our suppliers to opportunities associated with sustainability that our experishare our principles of entrepreneurial responsibility and to ence shows are of particular interest to sustainability analysts accept their own responsibility towards their employees, and investors and to sustainability rating agencies. In the business partners, society and the environment. If our suppliers future, we intend to link these more closely with the opporviolate these principles, Evonik is exposed to reputational and tunities and risks that Evonik already identifies through its financial risks. To prevent this, we have introduced our own established opportunity and risk management process. Code of Conduct for Suppliers, supplemented by stringent supplier assessments. See “Value chain and products”, page 49. Fighting corruption and the Code of Conduct All Evonik employees are required to act lawfully in a business Sustainability analysis of our business environment. The rules are set out in our new Code of ConOur sustainability analysis identifies additional opportunities duct. Failure to comply with this obligation can result in risks and risks in our business. The key elements in the list of criteria for the company. Training helps raise employees’ awareness. used for this analysis are ecological and societal sustainability One focus is on fighting corruption. To report misconduct in aspects from our materiality analysis. See “Value chain and the Group, employees have access, among other things, to a products”, page 56. worldwide hotline. See page 32. Environment and safety Employees We actively manage risks to people and the environment at our The expertise and commitment of our employees are important production sites by steadily optimizing occupational and plant factors in our business success. Losing high performers and safety and product stewardship. We identify risks at all levels of bottlenecks in gaining qualified staff are potential risk factors. the organization and have policies and management systems To counter this, our Human Resources division uses a range of to address them. Compliance is monitored regularly by internal measures to attract and retain employees. Our sustainability and external audits. We have anchored a common safety culture activities are another benefit in the competition for talented throughout the Group. A Global Process Safety Competence employees because they help raise our profile as an attractive Center operating from locations in Germany, China and the employer. See “Employees”, page 38. USA analyzes potential process risks around the world to guarantee high standards of process safety. For further information see “The environment” and “Safety”. Further information can be found in the opportunity and risk report in the Annual Report 2016. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Compliance House of Compliance The compliance areas of specific relevance to Evonik are bun“Responsible action” is one of our corporate values. Observing dled in a House of Compliance. They include antitrust law, compliance rules strengthens the trust of our business partners, fighting corruption, the Code of Conduct, foreign trade and shareholders and general public in Evonik and its employees. customs law, capital market law, data protection, taxes and Therefore, every employee is required to respect our complihuman resources. Corporate Audit has an advisory function. ance rules. That includes compliance with the applicable laws, Environment, safety, health and quality are bundled in a sepinternal regulations and binding voluntary commitments. The arate corporate division with the same name, which has funcmain compliance requirements are set out in our Code of tional responsibility for these topics (see “The environment” Conduct. and “Safety”). Other areas of relevance for compliance are corporate security and IT security. C09 House of Compliance Supervisory Board Executive Board Compliance Committee Fighting Corruption and Capital Market Law Foreign Trade and Data Protection Human Resources Corporate Audit Antitrust Law Taxes Code of Conduct Customs Law Compliance Management System The role of the House of Compliance is to define minimum charge of developing and implementing the related concepts Group-wide standards for the compliance management systems and standards for the Evonik Group. At decentralized level, for these areas and ensure that they are implemented. The the Business Compliance Officers and Regional Compliance process of forming a consensus, sharing experience and Officers perform the operational compliance functions for ­coordinating joint activities takes place in the Compliance the segments and business lines. The Business Compliance Committee, which is composed of the heads of the respective Officers also provide legal advice for the operational units. units, who have independent responsibility for their areas, and The minimum Group-wide standards for the organizathe Head of Corporate Audit. The Compliance Committee is tional units’ compliance management systems are set out in chaired by the Head of Antitrust Law & Compliance. the Compliance Policy. Every organizational unit has specified the minimum standards for its area and established the Compliance Management System tools and processes shown in the next chart on the basis of The compliance organization is headed by the Chief Complidefined values and specific targets. The necessary measures are ance Officer, who reports to the Executive Board member with in place to avoid compliance risks and systematic misconduct, responsibility for compliance. The compliance organization is identify infringement of the rules, apply appropriate sancresponsible for fighting corruption and for all aspects set tions, and correct faulty processes. forth in the Code of Conduct that are not allocated to any other corporate division. The Compliance Team, which is headed at Group level by the Head of Antitrust Law & Compliance focuses principally on strategic issues and is also in HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 31 Governance and compliance C10 Compliance Management System (CMS) Responsibility of Management Values and Objectives Prevention Detection Response Continuous Improvement • Risk analysis • Investigations • Corrective measures • Policies & standards • Whistleblower system • Sanctions • Processes • Monitoring & audits • Lessons learnt • Training • Reporting • Awareness raising/communication • Advice & support Compliance Organization Risk analysis approach. All administration is handled via our IT-based Future To identify potential risks as early as possible, every unit is Zone platform. The relevant employees will be selected autorequired to perform regular risk analyses. They take up the matically via SAP and individually flagged up for the next date. relevant rules and voluntary commitments entered into by Training frequency is defined on the basis of risk and is Evonik that affect their area of operation and ensure timely every two or three years. Alternating face-to-face and online identification and implementation of the relevant changes. training is planned for everyone in the target groups. Training Based on the results of this risk analysis and other findings, for the other target groups on the issues covered by the Code each organizational unit issues binding general standards as of Conduct is exclusively online. Completion of the training applicable, along with instructions on the precautions to be sessions is monitored by the administration system. Grouptaken for business activities where there are special compliwide, training is carried out by compliance officers using ance risks. ­uniform training materials, which are adapted as necessary to Risk analyses on fighting corruption and antitrust law were take account of regional factors. performed in all operating units in the Evonik Group in 2015 and 2016. On this basis, a risk roadmap was drawn up to fight Raising awareness and providing advice corruption in each business line. The results have been disEvery organizational unit is responsible for raising employees’ cussed individually with the heads of the business lines and awareness of the importance and scope of the rules on each measures to minimize risks have been defined. Some of these compliance issue. That includes advising and supporting them will be specified in more detail in 2017 and will then be in questions relating to a particular issue. This allows timely implemented. One focus will be business relations with stateidentification and evaluation of risks. The aim is to ensure that owned companies and dealing with officials. Other topics are Evonik’s business decisions and activities meet the applicable working with sales intermediaries and consultants, and compliance rules. In our training sessions, we inform employees implementing compliance rules in joint ventures in which where they can get advice. Evonik has a stake. Internal investigations Training Internal investigations into alleged compliance violations, Training concepts have been developed for all aspects bundled along with possible improvements and sanctions, are based in the House of Compliance. They also define the type, on uniform principles and standards. They are applicable for ­frequency and content of training, and the target groups. all units that perform internal investigations, not just those in Each organizational unit is responsible for their realization. the House of Compliance. We pay special attention to training in the areas of antitrust law, fighting corruption, and the Code of Conduct. Based on a uniform Group-wide training concept, the target groups for these issues are defined by function and hierarchical level and allocated to the relevant training levels using a risk-based 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES In the reporting period, 33 internal investigations were conThe units notify the Head of Antitrust Law & Compliance or ducted by the compliance units in the House of Compliance the Chief Compliance Officer of material risks and violations of into suspected violations of rules. 21 allegations were received the rules, and of the results of investigations and the measures via internal reporting channels (e. g., email, phone), while derived from them as soon as they become aware of them. twelve were received via external channels (e. g., email, letter). The following measures were taken on the basis of these Review of the compliance management system internal investigations: The employment contracts with four Every organizational unit must regularly check the appropriateemployees were terminated. Six employees received a warning ness and effectiveness of its compliance management system. or reprimand and one employee was transferred In addition, regular checks are performed by Corporate to a different position. In six cases, further measures were Audit. In 2016 the compliance management system for fighting taken, e. g., training or awareness raising. corruption and the Code of Conduct was audited in conforNo significant fines and no non-monetary penalties were mance with audit standard 980 of the German Institute of imposed on Evonik in 2016 for failure to comply with laws or Auditors (IDW PS 980). regulations.1 The pillars of the House of Compliance Whistleblower system Every employee is required to report possible or actual violaAntitrust law tions of the Code of Conduct to the responsible department or Fair competition provides an incentive for innovation and Compliance Officer without delay, regardless whether they high-quality products for the benefit of consumers. Evonik relate to the employee or to his/her colleagues. In such cases, fosters fair competition and complies with antitrust and comemployees can contact the following persons or organizations: petition law. All employees are required to abide strictly by • Their line manager antitrust law and the related internal regulations. • The Chief Compliance Officer or Head of Compliance The global Antitrust Law team is led by the Head of Anti• The head of the responsible organizational unit trust Law & Compliance, who reports to the Head of the • The Legal & Compliance division or the Business or Legal & Compliance division. It is composed of a corporate Regional Compliance Officer by phone or email team that advises the operating units on both strategic and • The hotline via an intranet form antitrust issues. In addition, the global team includes lawyers in North America, Latin America, China and Russia who speThe hotline is monitored by the Legal & Compliance division, cialize in antitrust law. which treats all allegations received as absolutely confidential if requested to do so. External third parties can submit allegaThe following training sessions on antitrust law were held tions to the Chief Compliance Officer anonymously by letter in 2016: or by email. Employees are informed of the whistle­blower system and contact channels in training sessions. T04 Training in antitrust law We investigate all alleged violations and treat all information Employees with the greatest possible confidentiality. Evonik does not Worldwide trained Management Other tolerate any disadvantage to employees who report possible or Total 937 737 200 actual violations or cooperate in the investigation of such violations—except if the allegations comprise an abuse of the By region whistleblower system. Germany 458 385 73 Other European countries 22 22 0 Compliance reporting Greater China 199 119 80 In the annual compliance report to the Executive Board, the North America 161 142 19 Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board (condensed verLatin America 7 7 0 sion) and the segment boards, the specialist departments report on the major risks, events and measures relating to the SEAANZ 13 9 4 compliance management systems for which they are responMENA 8 7 1 sible. Each unit reports directly to the regional head and the Japan 18 17 1 other responsible members of the management. Korea 11 10 1 India 39 19 20 Sub-Saharan Africa 1 0 1 1 Violations in 2016; significance threshold €100,000. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 33 Governance and compliance Targets countries affected. The Code of Conduct sets minimum stan• Complete the risk analysis, draft a risk roadmap for each dards and takes precedence over less stringent national laws. business line, discuss the results with the heads of the In the event of conflict, mandatory national laws take prece­relevant business lines and define action to minimize dence. the risks The Code of Conduct will be available online in 27 lan• Train Evonik’s lawyers in Germany in the revised rules on guages as soon as it is introduced. It applies to all Evonik dealing with investigations by authorities employees, the Executive Board and the governance bodies • Update the training materials for specific target groups, of all Evonik companies. They are required to comply with e. g., sales support staff the rules set forth in the Code of Conduct, to ensure they are familiar with its content, and to take part in the relevant training. Code of conduct and fighting corruption All managers and supervisors are required to set an example. Evonik is committed to fair competition for the benefit of its They therefore have a special responsibility and must ensure customers, shareholders and other stakeholders. In addition, that their employees observe the rules of this Code of Conduct. we respect the independence of officials. Therefore, we ban all forms of corruption, including “facilitation payments”. We Compliance rules for business partners deliberately set stricter standards than the law in some counEvonik has issued a special code of conduct for suppliers, setting tries. Evonik forbids all forms of corruption and has a zero out binding requirements for these business partners. See tolerance principle. Our rules on preventing corruption are “Value chain and products”, page 49. summarized in section 9 of the Code of Conduct, the Master Intermediaries, above all sales intermediaries, are subject to Gifts and Hospitality Policy, together with regional implemena compliance check before the establishment of the business tation regulations, and the Policy for the Use of External relationship and every five years thereafter. Intermediaries Third Parties for Distribution and Dealing with Authorities also have to sign a compliance declaration. (Policy on External Intermediaries). Every employee can Risk-based compliance checks (due diligence) and any access checklists on the compliance site on the intranet. These necessary measures are also applied to business partners contain the key points of each policy. The corruption-related involved in acquisitions, joint ventures, corporate venture risks inherent in donations and sponsorship are explained at projects and major investment projects. These are based on training sessions with the aid of specific examples. uniform rules for the Evonik Group. The new Code of Conduct contains extensive rules on conflicts Training in fighting corruption and the Code of Conduct of interest in the following cases: Overview of training in fighting corruption in 2016: • Secondary employment • Financial interests in competitors, business partners or T05 T  raining in fighting corruption and the other companies connected to Evonik Code of Conduct • Business transactions and decisions involving relatives and Employees other related parties Worldwide trained Management Other Total 828 636 192 Unless statutory provisions rule otherwise, employees must report all incidents to their supervisor and the responsible HR By region department, which is required to make a prompt decision on Germany 301 234 67 each case. Other European countries 260 233 27 Our activities in 2016 focused on completely revising the Greater China 187 105 82 Code of Conduct and continuing the risk analysis on fighting North America 35 35 0 corruption. Latin America 4 2 2 The updated Code of Conduct comes into force in spring 2017 on the basis of a resolution of the Executive Board and SEAANZ 9 6 3 is applicable for the Evonik Group worldwide. When impleMENA 0 0 0 menting the Code of Conduct in the future, we will ensure Japan 27 17 10 that it is effective and enforceable for all employees in all Korea 1 1 0 India 2 2 0 Sub-Saharan Africa 2 1 1 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Overview of training in the Code of Conduct in 2016: accountability in this area. Supported by training, all relevant employees and governance bodies receive an in-depth insight T06 Training in the Code of Conduct into the regulations of the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the German Securities Trading Act. Employees Worldwide trained Management Other In 2016 the focus was on implementing the extensive new regulations of the EU Market Abuse Regulation, which came Total 12,025 1,943 10,082 into effect on July 3, 2016. This included, in particular, the By region legal requirement to provide information for members of the Germany 9,189 1,377 7,812 Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Evonik on the new Other European countries 218 28 190 obligations relating to directors’ dealings. In addition, the system Greater China 525 88 437 used for the insider list was modified and the capital market compliance instructions were revised. North America 1,614 352 1,262 Latin America 125 18 107 Data protection SEAANZ 209 47 162 The organization of data protection and rules on reliable proMENA 7 4 3 cessing of personal data are set out, among other things, in Japan 35 5 30 the Compliance Policy and a separate data protection regulation. Korea 40 10 30 The Corporate Data Protection Officer monitors observance India 56 14 42 of these requirements and assists the organizational units in Sub-Saharan Africa 7 0 7 implementation. In particular, his role is to monitor correct usage of information processing programs that handle personal data. Increasing global data sharing requires additional Targets technical and organizational security measures. These are • Start of activities to introduce the new Code of Conduct monitored continuously. Web-based training programs are •  More detailed structuring and implementation of measures mandatory for all employees. Information on the relevant derived from the risk analysis requirements and responsibilities was made available to • Group-wide installation of an anonymous whistleblower employees on the intranet. A challenge at present is implementsystem operated by an external provider ing the new European data protection law, which comes into effect in May 2018, and integrating it into the established Foreign trade and customs law data protection management system. Every employee is required to observe the applicable foreign trade and customs regulations. The provisions of the corporate Taxes policy on the House of Compliance and the compliance manThe corporate policy on taxation defines responsibilities for agement system, and the rules on compliance with global trade taxes. Procedural rules and training programs for the Tax regulations are designed to ensure compliance with applicable department and, above all, other units raise awareness of this trade regulations. Our trade compliance organization comissue and the need to comply with tax law. In view of the wide prises a special department with Group-wide responsibility, range of national tax regulations, Evonik has issued uniform a special IT system and a Group-wide network of around internal rules to standardize cross-border measures. These 70 people, including the trade compliance officers responsible take precedence over less stringent national tax regulations. for the operating units. Capital market law As a publicly listed company, we are subject to a large number of capital market regulations. Compliance with these is supported by our capital markets compliance officer. Evonik has issued Group-wide operating procedures to ensure capital market compliance. These provide an overview of the regulations and obligations that have to be observed by Evonik and its employees. They include, in particular, a ban on insider trading and unlawful disclosure of insider information, regulations on own-account trading by managers, and the obligation to disclose insider information. The operating procedures also define standards of behavior for employees and their HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 35 Governance and compliance Human resources Through our presence in growth markets, we operate in Evonik aims to ensure that all employees act in accordance regions and countries where there are heightened security with the principal labor and social standards and respect risks. We conduct specific risk analyses to address these. internationally recognized human rights. The goal of our Information is provided for employees on business trips human resources and social policy is therefore to offer a on the security situation at their destination. In addition, we working environment that respects the individuality of all issue recommendations on conduct and travel guidelines, and employees and encourages their initiative. We create the provide support in emergencies. basis for good and trustful collaboration, where performance and rights are recognized. All employees should have the IT compliance opportunity to develop their potential. Therefore, we have Binding Group-wide policies and regulations outline the safe given an undertaking to observe internationally recognized use of information systems. The responsible unit monitors standards of conduct such as the Guidelines for Multinational implementation of the legal and in-house compliance Enterprises issued by the Organisation for Economic Cooperrequirements. In the reporting period, the internal control ation and Development (OECD), and the International Labour system was extended and the related processes were autoStandards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). mated. The IT Compliance Index, which measures compliance We immediately take counteraction if these are not observed. with the relevant rules, remained at a good level in 2016, although the requirements increased. Corporate Audit State-of-the-art information security and data protection Corporate Audit supports the Executive Board and subsequent technologies are used throughout the Group. In addition, a management levels in the performance of their supervisory special cybersecurity program was taken into service in 2016. duties and continuous improvement of business processes by Optimized systems management constantly improves operaperforming independent, objective audits. This is part of tional security, especially the security of critical IT systems. In Evonik’s worldwide internal control system (ICS). A targeted, view of the continuously rising threats, we regularly review our systematic approach is used to evaluate a range of issues and security measures, and implement and proactively adapt riskprocesses to check that they are correct, reliable, effective and based countermeasures. cost-efficient, protect assets, and comply with laws and reguTraining, including compulsory training in some cases, lations. The role, powers and responsibilities of Corporate and constant information (e.g., via the intranet and internal Audit are defined in a corporate policy. social networking platforms) ensure that employees are always A key focus is auditing the internal control system and the aware of the need for IT compliance. risk management system. To reduce risks, eliminate shortcomings and weaknesses, and improve processes, relevant measures are then agreed with the unit audited. Voluntary commitments Other compliance-related activities We are convinced that reliable and responsible management of the company is the basis for Evonik’s long-term business Corporate security success and acceptance by society. Protecting our employees, sites, plants and shipments from We have therefore given undertakings to comply with criminal acts has top priority for us. Moreover, protecting our internationally recognized standards, and more far-reaching know-how is a key success factor. internal guidelines and principles of conduct. The corporate policy on Security and the related regulations form the basis for timely identification of major risks, so action can be taken to reduce them. Implementation is the responsibility of the operational units under the strategic leadership of the Corporate Security division. Where necessary, the regional security organization can provide support. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES C11 Voluntary commitments World Business Council for Global Reporting Together for UN Global Chemie3 Responsible Care  Sustainable Initiative Sustainability Compact Development (WBCSD) External a econsense – WBCSD Forum for ILO – Code of OECD Guidelines Low Carbon ­Sustainable International Responsible for Multinational ­Technology Development Labour Conduct for Enterprises ­Partnerships of German Standards Business Initiative Business Our Values Code of Policy for the Code of Internal Conduct for Global Social Statement Environment, Conduct for Evonik’s Policy on Human Safety, Health Suppliers employees Rights and Quality a See glossary for further information. The starting point for responsible corporate management at As a signatory to the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® Evonik is the Code of Conduct, together with the Global Global Charter, we also have an obligation to continuously Social Policy and our values for the Environment, Safety, improve our performance in health protection, environmental Health and Quality (ESHQ). In summer 2016 the Executive protection, product stewardship and safety. Our ESHQ Values Board adopted a Policy Statement on Human Rights. As an define protecting people and the environment as core elements important issue, human rights are included in the updated of our actions. They outline Evonik’s understanding of ESHQ. Code of Conduct that comes into effect in spring 2017. Together with more detailed guidelines and procedures, they In the Global Social Policy, Evonik defines the principle of form Evonik’s ESHQ regulations. social responsibility to its employees. This includes a commitFor information on our Code of Conduct for Suppliers ment to comply with internationally recognized standards of and our activities as a founding member of the chemical conduct. See page 35. industry’s Together for Sustainability initiative, see “Value By joining the UN Global Compact, Evonik gave an underchain and products”, page 50. taking that, within its sphere of influence, it would respect Evonik is involved in many competency networks on susand promote labor rights and human rights, avoid discriminatainability, both nationally and internationally. These include tion, protect people and the environment, and fight against econsense, an association of leading German companies that corruption. As a member of the Global Compact, we also operate in the global arena, and Chemie³, the sustainability want to make a contribution to achieving the 17 sustainable initiative of the German chemical industry. In addition, Evonik development goals. Our sustainability activities support these is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable in many areas. Development (WBCSD) and is committed to its Vision 2050: Evonik is committed to the Code of Responsible Conduct “9 billion people living well, within the limits of the planet.” for Business, which includes fair competition, social partnership, We are also committed to the WBCSD’s climate initiative, the the merit principle and sustainability. Low Carbon Technology Partnerships Initiative. Evonik regularly reports on its climate performance as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). See “Environment”, page 64. We are a member of the Global Reporting Initiative’s Gold Community and our reporting complies with the GRI G4 Guidelines, core level. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 37 Governance and compliance Human rights Donations and sponsorship We undertake to respect human rights. The basis for this The Executive Board defines the aims and conditions for the comprises our Code of Conduct, the Code of Conduct for Group’s donations and sponsorship. It has delegated coordiSuppliers, our Global Social Policy, and the Policy Statement nation and monitoring to the Board Office/Communications on Human Rights adopted in 2016. division on the basis of specific policies and guidelines. For example, individual donations of supra-regional significance Discrimination and sponsorship from a threshold of € 100,000 require the Our Code of Conduct and Global Social Policy forbid disapproval of the Executive Board. The segments and regions crimination on the basis of origin, race, religion, age, gender, can decide on regional and site-specific activities within an sexual orientation or disability. Employees who feel they have annual budget approved by the Executive Board. In the been discriminated against have a right to lodge a complaint. Evonik Foundation, the management is responsible for coordiContacts for reporting cases of discrimination are available at nating and supervising donations. The Executive Board of the all sites. Evonik Foundation defines the areas of focus. Information on the complaints procedure is provided in In 2016, the Evonik Group was once again involved in internal media and in many cases in personal discussions. many donations and sponsorship projects (see “Society”, Moreover, appropriate measures and activities have been page 78). These included donations totaling € 220,000 to established in all regions to avoid discrimination. These are political parties in Germany. Of this amount, € 90,000 was accessible to all employees and reach over 90 percent of our donated to the CDU/CSU, € 90,000 to the SPD, € 20,000 to workforce. Eight cases of discrimination were reported in Bündnis 90/Die Grünen, and € 20,000 to the FDP. 2016. They were followed up and action was taken to eliminate In 2016, Evonik renewed and refined its entry in the joint discrimination. list of lobbyists maintained by the European Commission and European Parliament. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES EMPLOYEES The high skills and motivation of TARGETS FOR 2017 our employees worldwide are crucial for Evonik’s success. Gaining, • Establish a learning strategy for the ongoing developing and retaining ­development of various employee groups first-class employees is therefore one of our top priorities. • Roll out updated employer branding campaign • Conduct a pulse check on employee satisfaction EMPLOYEES DIVERSITY 34,351 24.7 % EMPLOYEE SURVEY WOMEN TRAINING Group-wide 83.9 % 1,973 151 including response rate follow-on measures out of 200 22.0 % VOCATIONAL TRAINING in management ­positions commitment € 69 million index CONTINUING­ PROFESSIONAL ­DEVELOPMENT 14.9 YEARS 7.1 % EMPLOYEES with disabilities a AVERAGE € 500 LENGTH OF SERVICE 2016 105 4.7 % per employee p. a. 16 DIVERSITY COUNCIL NATIONALITIES hours per employee p. a. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER SET UP AWARDS AND ACCOLADES b DEUTSCHLANDS BESTE AUSBILDUNGSBETRIEBE for employer branding TESTSIEGER FOCUS 14/16 www.deutschlandtest.d e 98 % PASS RATE vocational training Page Topic | GRI indicators 39 Human resources strategy 42 Identification and diversity | G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3, 40 HR organization and management | G4-35 G4-LA12 40 Attracting employees | G4-EC6 43 Employee satisfaction | G4-53 40 Vocational and advanced training | G4-LA10 45 Leadership | G4-LA10, G4-LA11 41 Performance and remuneration | G4-11, G4-52, G4-LA2, 46 Further facts and figures | G4-10, G4-LA1 G4-LA9, G4-LA13 a In Germany. b Selected awards and accolades. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 39 Employees As a specialty chemicals company, Evonik’s goal is profitable and continuing professional development are important topics growth worldwide. The excellent level of our employees’ at Evonik. We specifically prepare our employees for ongoing skills and their high motivation are essential for our success in changes and new market trends. This is ensured by a wide demanding markets. Consequently, it is important how we range of development programs and individual training for attract, develop and retain our employees. The results of our employees, from new hires to Group executives. The success materiality analysis confirm the significance of being an of these measures is reflected both in our very good scores attractive employer, and of our employees’ skills, vocational for employee satisfaction, and in the intensive use of our talent training and continuing professional development. Managing pool to fill internal vacancies. Further indicators are total diversity is another focal area of human resources management spending on training activities and—in Germany—the high at Evonik. pass rate at the end of vocational training. G4-26 We engage in regular exchange with our stakeholders to For us, diversity means utilizing the entire spectrum of check the internal and external perception of our market experience, competencies and viewpoints that our employees positioning and our global employer brand. Other indicators contribute in their daily work. As a reflection of the varied are employer rankings and selective surveys of our target requirements, attitudes and perspectives found in society and groups. Within Evonik, our most important tool is the global our markets, diversity is an important driver of our competiemployee survey, which is held regularly every three years. We tiveness and innovative capability. pay especial attention to employee satisfaction, the level of The project to define a system of key performance indicaemployee turnover and the average length of service in the tors to guide and optimize our global HR work was successGroup. fully completed in 2016. Tracking of these indicators will start In view of the rapid pace of change in our markets and in 2017. our goal of continuous improvement, skills, vocational training C12 HR strategy leading. together. discovering. together. progressing. together. connecting. together. performing. together. 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Our human resources strategy Activities relating to our HR strategy in 2016 The basic elements of Evonik’s human resources strategy are positioning the company as an attractive employer, training Attracting employees and continuing professional development, and corporate Evonik wants to offer its employees an attractive working diversity. To drive our continuous development in line with environment that encourages ideas, rewards commitment, this, we have defined five areas of action: and maintains their physical and mental capabilities. We also • Attract (discovering.together.) incorporate these dimensions into our employer branding in • Develop (progressing.together.) order to attract the most talented employees and managers to • Perform (performing.together.) Evonik. • Retain (connecting.together.) • Lead (leading.together.) In 2016, our employer branding activities included: • Employee roadshows at our sites to foster identification Our annual strategy process ensures continuous development and team spirit of our HR activities in all of these areas. •  A solar-operated fish farm project with the Enactus student network. Students from RWTH Aachen, the not-forprofit organization Utho Ngathi Südliches Afrika e. V., and HR organization and management our Animal Nutrition Business Line helped people in Zambia learn fish farming and use it as an additional source of The Executive Committee HR is the highest decision-making income body for HR. It adopts the global HR strategy and takes deci• The annual Evonik Student Network Day, which brings us sions on the Group-wide HR organization. This committee into contact with relevant universities and student networks comprises the Chief Human Resources Officer of Evonik • Internships to enable students to get to know Evonik better Industries AG, the human resources officers of the segments, • The Evonik Perspectives program to maintain contact and the Head of Corporate Human Resources. The Global with students whose performance is above average HR Committee supports the Executive Committee HR in defining the global HR strategy and takes further decisions Evonik regularly achieves very good scores in employer rankon its implementation in the Group. The permanent members ings. This documents the success of our employer branding of the Global HR Committee are representatives of the HR activities. In the ranking by Focus magazine in cooperation departments in the segments, regions, corporate functions with the kununu employer assessment portal, we once again and service units. Operational support comes from HR secured a position among the top 10 in the Chemical & PharmaExpert Circles comprising specialists on specific issues. ceuticals category in 2016. Similarly, in a study conducted by DEUTSCHLAND TEST C13 Structure of Human Resources steering bodies and Focus Money, Evonik was ranked as the best company in the German chemical industry for vocational training. In China, we were included in the list of the most popular Executive Committee HR employers published by the Top Employer Institute in both Global HR Committee 2015 and 2016. HR Expert Circles Vocational training and continuing professional development Our personnel development is geared to the early identification and development of talented employees and those with potential. We focus on the individual needs of our employees. In this way, we lay the foundations for our policy of filling key positions from within the company. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 41 Employees A wide range of training and continuing professional develorganized and financed by the Evonik Foundation. In total, opment programs are offered at segment, regional and site 90 pre-training places have been made available in the level to ensure that our employees are well prepared for their 2016/2017 project period, including 20 especially for young work and can build on their skills. refugees and 20 for young people from Germany who had In the reporting period, we focused especially on execunot found a vocational training place. About 530 new apprentive development and extending functional competencies. tices, including eleven refugees, started their training at Overall, we invested around € 500 per employee 1 in continuEvonik in 2016. Apprentices accounted for around 8 percent ing professional development in 2016. The average number of our workforce in Germany, which is still well above the of hours of training is 16 hours per employee per year.2 These national average. In all, we invested € 69 million in vocational indicators cover 94 percent of employees worldwide. training of employees. The Evonik Development Landscape, which is based on Our high commitment to vocational training is also our competency model, provides a wide range of personal reflected in the examination results. Over 98 percent of our and professional development modules covering leadership apprentices passed their examinations, and around 9 percent and management, function-specific programs, project managereceived an overall grade of “very good”. ment, and personal competencies. The offerings are tailored to our business requirements and are regularly evaluated by Performance and remuneration us. The programs also take account of the regional requireFair, marketand performance-oriented remuneration is ments of our employees. The high quality of the content and anchored in our remuneration policies and human resources methods used around the world is highlighted by the fact that tools worldwide. Our overall remuneration concept is accomour activities are perceived as best practice within the industry. panied by Group-wide policies on remuneration and fringe In Singapore, our Asia Pacific Development Landscape benefits. In this way, we foster our employees’ motivation employee development program received a bronze award in and performance, honor their contribution to Evonik’s sucthe HR Excellence Awards 2016. cess, and underpin our attractiveness as an employer. Important objectives for talent development at Evonik are Remuneration is set on the basis of objective criteria such as personal responsibility, diversity, internationality and entreresponsibility, competencies and success. Personal attributes, preneurship. In 2016, we set up a pilot project on Self Orientasuch as gender, age, etc., play no part in the process. Collective tion. In addition, we are gaining experience of a cross-company agreements on remuneration cover 100 percent of our social entrepreneur leadership program. employees in Germany and around 75 percent of our employees Our strong commitment to training and continuing proworldwide. Around 97 percent of our sites and regions have fessional development is part of our corporate responsibility in performanceor profit-oriented incentive systems. These the areas of social and human resources policy. The number systems cover around 99 percent of our employees. They also of apprentices and skilled employees hired at the end of their apply for part-time employees, provided in some regions that training is directly aligned to the personnel requirements of they meet the prescribed minimum working hours. This is individual units. In this way, we can offer young people clear well received by our workforce, as evidenced by the positive future perspectives when they successfully complete their feedback on remuneration and fringe benefits in our training and counter the effects of demographic change. employee survey. At year-end 2016, around 1,950 young people were being In 2017 our employee share program “Share” will be trained by Evonik. That figure includes roughly 390 who offered for the first time to employees in China and Singapore, were being trained on behalf of other companies. Training as well as to staff in Germany, Belgium and the USA. The comprised more than 40 recognized vocational training high participation rates are an expression of our participatory courses and combined vocational training and study programs corporate culture. The participation rate of around 38 percent in at 17 sites. 51 places for young people who are not yet ready 2016 was a new record. Around 10,000 employees, including for an apprenticeship were taken up on the “Start in den apprentices, purchased nearly 380,000 shares through the Beruf” pre-training program. This program was specifically “Share” program and were allocated around 130,000 bonus extended to offer eleven places to refugees as part of a project shares through the company’s subsidy program. 1 For 2016, for the first time, we were able to compile worldwide data on continuing professional development. In some cases, the data contains both direct and indirect costs, e. g., travel expenses in connection with training. Some of the calculations are based on estimates. 2 For the first time, the hours calculated exclude apprentices in Germany. Training courses attended by German apprentices (in parallel with in-house vocational training) in 2016 are included in the data on vocational training. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Evonik offers voluntary social benefits to employees in all Following establishment of our Diversity Council in 2016, regions where it has a presence. These are available to more diversity is now is now firmly anchored in the organization of than 97 percent of our employees. More than 99 percent of Evonik’s top management. The Diversity Council is a high-­ our employees have statutory or company pension insurance caliber body comprising members of the Executive Board and and health insurance. This also applies for part-time employees, executives from various organizational units. It coordinates as long as they work the prescribed minimum number of the ongoing development of our diversity strategy and the hours in some regions. implementation of effective measures for the entire Group. The diversity strategy is also the strategic foundation for T07 Personnel expense Evonik's resolutions on implementing German legislation on gender quotas.1 It confirms our intention of stepping up tried in € million 2016 2015 and tested measures to support women in managerial posiWages and salaries 2,498 2,520 tions. The proportion of female managers 2 has already Social security contributions 377 370 increased from 20.1 percent in 2014 to 22.0 in 2016. At the Pension expenses 205 209 most senior management level below the Executive Board 3, Other personnel expense 48 22 the proportion of female executives was stable at around 3,128 3,121 10 percent in this period. T08 Percentage of women in management Diversity and retaining employees in % 2016 2015 2014 We see diversity as a key to corporate success. Diversity means fostering creativity, trying out new things, and better underSenior management 9.6 10.4 10.5 standing the needs of our customers. Shared corporate values All management functions 22.0 20.8 20.1 and an established corporate culture ensure high employee retention at Evonik. Our diversity strategy includes gender networks, WoMen­ Employees with disabilities accounted for 7.1 percent of the toring, and clear diversity targets for executives. For us, workforce at Evonik in Germany. That is well above the diversity goes beyond focusing on gender and origin. The quota of 5 percent set for the country. diversity of disciplines pursued during training, experience of The average age of our employees on the reporting several organizational units or functional areas, and mixeddate was 41.8 years. Our workforce comprises more than age teams are equally important to us. We regularly evaluate 100 nationalities. our employee data on the basis of these criteria. C14 Age structure in % Under 21 years 4 21 – 25 years 7 26 – 30 years 11 31 – 35 years 11 36 – 40 years 11 41 – 45 years 12 46 – 50 years 15 51 – 55 years 15 56 – 60 years 11 Over 60 years 3 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 1 The German law on equal participation of women and men in management positions in the private and public sectors. 2 Corresponds to Management Circles 1 to 3 and includes Group executives, senior management functions at Evonik grades 6 and 7, and other management functions at Evonik grades 1 to 5. 3 Corresponds to Management Circle 1: Group executives. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 43 Employees We work with staffing agencies in Germany to cover shortIn the year under review, we provided Group-wide information G4-26 term or temporary bottlenecks. All agencies must provide on the results of the employee survey conducted in fall 2015. evidence of a valid operating permit. If agency staff have been By taking part in this survey and utilizing the opportunity for used for a job for more than six months, we examine whether candid feedback, our employees have actively shaped the it is a permanent job for which a permanent employee can be ­continuous development of Evonik over the years. The hired. Alongside appropriate remuneration, we make sure response rate of 83.9 percent (around 27,700 participants) that agency staff are covered by the high social and safety was the highest in Evonik’s history. The leadership quality standards applicable for our own staff. Since the chemical index scored 143 out of a total 200 points, while the commitindustry requires a large number of highly qualified employees, ment index scored 151 out of 200 points. Although these are fewer agency staff are used than in other sectors of manufacgood results overall, they also highlight scope for further turing industry. Evonik had around 670 agency staff as of selective improvement. December 31, 2016. That was around 3 percent of our total Following evaluation of the survey, priority is being given workforce in Germany. to employee development, leadership, fostering innovation and change, customer focus, and occupational safety. Going T09 Employees by contractual status forward, work on the potential for improvement will be coordinated by an international team comprising project coordinaDec. 31, of which tors, HR staff at the management holding company, global HR 2016 ­female in % Services, the segments and the regions. The time until the next Employees 34,351 24.7 employee survey in 2018 will be used to implement and evalof which employees on uate the improvements identified. This will be coordinated by permanent contracts 30,281 23.9 the staff responsible for the relevant areas of action. Here are of which employees on two examples: limited-term contracts 2,388 34.5 • Employees throughout the Group showed a desire for of which apprentices/trainees 1,682 a 25.9 better career opportunities for specialists. In response to a Including a proportion of apprentices abroad and apprentices with an Evonik this, a team of personnel development experts has drafted ­contract who are being trained for third parties. sample career paths for various specialist functions. Implementation is planned for the first half of 2017. Employee satisfaction •  The survey confirmed that candid communication Within our connecting.together. area of action, there are between managers and employees is especially important to close links between support for diversity and employee foster a high level of personal commitment. Many employ­satisfaction. The employee turnover rate 1 and average length ees indicated that they would like more and better feedback of service are indicators of the true level of employee satisfrom their managers. We therefore commissioned a Group-­ faction. In 2016, employee turnover was 4.7 percent, while wide team of experts to drive forward the existing leader­ the average length of service was 14.9 years. ship model in this respect and to come up with appropriate recommendations and tools. T10 Employee turnover and length of service 2016 2015 2014 Employee turnover in % 4.7 4.7 3.9 Average length of service in years 14.9 15.0 15.1 1 Indicator shows total employee turnover. 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES T11 Measures initiated following the employee survey a • In addition to providing information on healthy eating, we offer our employees a range of healthy options in our No. of canteens. ­measures • Combining work and family life has also been part of our Communication & cooperation 514 well@work approach for many years. The review of our Employee development 341 performance and the award of the “berufundfamilie” Leadership 321 certificate by the Hertie Foundation in 2016 documents Innovation and change 160 our commitment to a family-friendly human resources Customer focus 112 policy aligned to different phases of life. Core elements of Occupational safety 195 this policy are support in caring for children and close ­relatives, and flexible worktime models. Other topics 330 a Aligned to Evonik’s core topics. Worldwide, more than 94 percent of our workforce can seek advice on workplace-related, health, personal or family C15 Status of follow-up measures ­problems from social and employee counseling centers. Around 93 percent of our employees around the world have access to initiatives to help them combine working with Completed 32 % Identified 12 % family life. Examples in Germany are the provision of a large number of childcare places, vacation programs for more than 800 children, and extensive support on issues related to ­caring for elderly and sick relatives. In Germany, there were 621 employees on parental leave in 2016. Nearly one third of them were already on parental Not yet completed 56 % leave at the turn of 2015/2016. The proportion of male employees on parental leave was 41 percent. In 2016 they took an average of 1.6 months parental leave, while female employees took an average of 6.9 months. Apart from a few exceptions, all employees who returned to work after parental An interactive intranet site enhances the transparency of leave in 2015 were still working for us a year later. communication: All employees can use this to access inforThe regular, contractually defined working hours for mation on the status of activities. approximately 78 percent of our employees are based on colAll measures are entered in a reporting database, which lective agreements. We are not aware of any fines imposed tracks the implementation status. In all, 1,973 measures had on the company in 2016 for exceeding statutory working been implemented by the end of December 2016. 514 of hours. We limit employees' regular working hours to 48 hours them are designed to strengthen communication and coopera week unless shorter working hours are applicable. That also ation, while 341 focus on employee development. applies when integrating new entities such as Evonik Catalysts The Executive Board and Executive Committee receive Pvt. Ltd. in India, which was acquired in mid-2015. About one regular updates on this project. in ten employees at this company had not yet been transiMaintaining and promoting the health and employability tioned to this aspect of our Global Social Policy at year-end of employees is an important element in Evonik’s corporate 2016. The transition process will be completed in the course responsibility. Our well@work program supports this goal. In of 2017. More than 83 percent of our employees benefit from 2016 this program focused on three aspects: exercise, a healthy annual vacation rules that exceed the statutory provisions in diet, and career and family. their country. Since there are no statutory rulings in the USA • We improve knowledge of exercise through talks and the and the United Arab Emirates, the situation there is based on intranet, and also offer practical opportunities for exercise customary regional practice. in the workplace. In addition, our employees have access to a wide range of sports activities. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 45 Employees Some employees ask about the possibility of taking paid or lives. However, interest in the options offered is very low: unpaid leave for an extended period, for example, to ensure On average it is in the low single-digit percentage range the compatibility of private and professional phases in their (based on total headcount). T12 Percentage of part-time employees by gender and region Part-time employees 2016 Part-time employees 2015 in % Female Male Total Female Male Total Regions/countries 18.2 2.0 6.0 18.0 2.0 5.8 Germany 27.8 2.3 8.5 27.1 2.3 8.2 Other European countries 15.2 5.7 7.3 16.2 5.6 7.3 North America 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Asia-Pacific 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 The system can also be used for the annual employee develT13 Extended periods of leave opment reviews, where employees and their line managers Percentage of employees discuss individual goals, potential and development. In the who have the option of taking reporting period, more than 5,000 employees and managers an extended period of paid in China and North America used this system for development in % or unpaid leave (>3 months) reviews. Other countries are to be rolled in during 2017. Germany 100 Committed leaders are essential for value-oriented Other European countries 49 ­management of the company. In 2016 a further 25 corporate North America 96 talents therefore made a contribution to a not-for-profit Central and South America 84 housing construction project in Vietnam in collaboration with Asia-Pacific 85 Habitat for Humanity. Habitat for Humanity is an internaMiddle East, Africa 0 tional charity that uses donations to build housing for families and other needy persons around the world. In addition, as part of our talent development activities, around 30 corporate Leadership talents discussed topics such as ethics, values and morality Evonik strives for a uniform Group-wide understanding of with representatives of the protestant and catholic churches. leadership centering on a trustful relationship between This program was also piloted with an international group of employees and managers. That includes: about 15 participants from around the world. • A clearly defined common understanding of values that is implemented through uniform processes and binding Targets standards • Establish a learning strategy for the ongoing development • An institutionalized dialogue on leadership issues and of various employee groups goals across all levels • Roll out our updated employer branding campaign (inter• Employee objectives that are derived from the overriding nally and externally) corporate objectives and broken down to each employee’s • Conduct a pulse check on employee satisfaction individual working environment A global IT platform assists us in implementing our common understanding of leadership in our day-to-day work. The corresponding technology was installed in 2016 for around 11,000 employees with a view to further digitization of HR. Employees and their managers now have access to a flexible and transparent tool to agree, fine-tune and evaluate objectives. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Further facts and figures T14 Employee fluctuation 2016 a C16 Employees by region No. of ­ mployees e Fluctuation ­who left the Asia-Pacific 15 % rate in % company Middle East, Africa 1 % 4,982 employees 186 employees By gender Central and South America 2% Female 5.2 416 Germany 63 % 753 employees Male 4.6 1,171 21,783 employees North America By age 11 % 3,932 employees Under 30 4.7 348 Other European 30 to 50 3.0 497 countries 8 % 2,715 employees Over 50 7.7 742 4.7 1,587 thereof dismissed by employer 1.4 484 a Reference base: no. of employees in each category as of December 31, 2015. T15 Recruitment of employees from the labor market in 2016 a C17 Employees by gender No. of ­employees in % Male 75 % By region 25,860 employees Female 25 % Germany 874 4.0 8,491 employees Other European countries 149 5.5 North America 406 10.3 Central and South America 147 19.5 Asia-Pacific 551 11.1 Middle East, Africa 42 22.6 By gender Female 746 8.8 Male 1,423 5.5 By age Under 30 987 13.0 30 to 50 1,037 6.2 Over 50 145 1.4 2,169 6.3 a Reference base: employees by category in the continuing operations as of ­December 31, 2016 based on headcount in each category. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 47 Value chain and products VALUE CHAIN AND PRODUCTS 50% Our approach to sustainability includes the entire value chain. We drive forward approx. the transparency and sustainability of our suppliers and help our customers meet their sustainability targets. In collaboration with them, OF SALES generated with products we want to develop further products and for resource-efficient applications solutions for applications that are resource-efficient and environmentally compatible. € 438 million R&D EXPENSES 3.4% R&D RATIO TARGETS Supply chain REWOFERM® 446 SL A particularly environment-friendly product • Conduct at least 20 supplier with good skin tolerability sustainability audits a year Awards: • Continue the analysis of suppliers • Bio-based Material of the Year 2016 of critical raw materials through • SEPAWA Innovation Award 2016 TfS self-assessments • By 2020: 90 % of suppliers of critical raw materials covered Research & development • Over € 1 billion additional sales GEWINNER DEUTSCHER NACHHALTIGKEITSPREIS FORSCHUNG 2016 Ein Preis des Bundesministeriums für Bildung und Forschung in six growth fields by 2025 • Increase sales generated with GERMAN SUSTAINABILITY AWARD products and applications that are Winner of the research category less than five years old from 10% (2016) to 16 % in the mid term Sustainability analysis of the business • Increase sales of the chemical segments THIRD TIME IN SUCCESSION covered by sustainability analysis Gold rating for Evonik from from 70% to approx. 80 %­ Together for Sustainability Page Topic | GRI Indicators 49 Procurement and sourcing | G4-12, G4-13, G4-EC9, 52 Research & development | G4-EC4, G4-EC7 G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, 54 Products and markets | G4-4, G4-8 G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4-SO9 55 Customer satisfaction 51 Production inputs and output | G4-9, G4-EN1 56 Sustainability analysis of the business 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Progressive climate change, feeding the growing world popEvonik uses a wide range of raw materials in the production of ulation, and using limited resources responsibly are some of its products. Along with technical goods and services, they are the global challenges addressed by the United Nations’ sourced from a variety of suppliers. We have central positions ­sustainable development goals. Our products and solutions in important value chains—because we process substances, provide important answers to future-oriented questions like and provide functional specialty chemical products and innothese. vative system solutions based on them. All Evonik’s business processes are based on the principle The global focus of our business is evident from the fact of responsible management. Our approach to sustainability that 81 percent of our sales are generated outside Germany. We therefore includes the entire value chain. That means: In have production facilities in 25 countries on five continents addition to our own production and business processes and and are therefore close to our markets and our customers. the products we market (gate to gate), we always consider the Our activities along the value chain are split into six areas supply chain for our raw materials, goods and services of action, which are derived from our materiality analysis. (upstream) and the product benefits for our direct customers “Governance and compliance” covers the entire value chain. and their applications in their end-markets (downstream). Focal areas are sustainability management in the supply chain, We have observed growing demand from customers for efficient use of scarce resources/materials, innovations/­ products for energyand resource-efficient applications. In technologies, customer satisfaction, more sustainable products, response to this interest, we provide innovative solutions that and products and solutions/life cycle considerations. utilize our expertise as a world-leading specialty chemicals company. Our special strength is working in close partnership with our customers. That gives us a good strategic basis so we Upstream: supply chain and raw materials can ensure timely identification of promising developments in our markets and gain access to new growth areas. Evonik has a significant influence on society and the environEvonik’s product portfolio ranges from high-quality interment through its procurement volume. We are aware of this mediates to complex formulations and system solutions. Our responsibility. By selecting suppliers carefully, we do not simply markets cover a balanced and diverse spectrum, including secure and increase their sustainability standards, we also pharmaceuticals, consumer and care products, food and enhance the quality of the entire value chain. We therefore ­animal feed, paints and coatings, the automotive industry, focus on validation and evaluation of suppliers. In addition, mechanical engineering, and construction. None of the end we specifically monitor certain raw materials. These include markets that we supply accounts for more than 20 percent of renewable raw materials, and raw materials where there is a our sales. potential supply risk or reputational risk, for example, conflict minerals. C18 Value chain G4-20, G4-21 Upstream Gate to gate Downstream Evonik Customer/end-customer Value chain Supply chain/raw materials production/processes ­applications Strategy and growth ▯ ▯ Governance and compliance ▯ ▯ ▯ Employees ▯ Value chain and products ▯ ▯ ▯ The environment ▯ Safety ▯ ▯ HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 49 Value chain and products Procurement and sourcing Our goal is to drive forward transparency and sustainability Our goal is an efficient procurement organization to guarantee along the supply chain and bring about further improvements. long-term reliability of supply for the production of Evonik If suppliers have particularly serious shortcomings and no products and, at the same time, to secure competitive advanimprovement can be identified, we reserve the right to end tages for our operating businesses. our collaboration with them. Procurement is organized globally at Evonik and comprises As part of our strategic supplier management, we have direct procurement (raw materials, logistics and packaging) set the following targets, which are applicable throughout and indirect procurement (general and technical goods and the Evonik Group: services). Both are subdivided into strategic and operational • Conduct at least 20 supplier sustainability audits under procurement activities. Global procurement is managed from the shared audit principle of the Together for Sustainability Germany, with the support of regional units in Asia and in initiative. North and South America. • Continue the analysis of suppliers of critical raw materials Alongside economic requirements, our procurement through TfS self-assessments. strategy takes account of sustainability aspects such as health, • Evaluate the sustainability performance of 90 percent of quality, safety, social factors and environmental protection. In suppliers of critical raw materials by 2020 (status at yearaddition, we are a member of the UN Global Compact, which end 2016: > 70 percent). imposes binding principles. Validation and evaluation of our suppliers is an integral Validation and evaluation of suppliers part of sustainable supply chain management at Evonik. We Suppliers are evaluated using a method that identifies and therefore work systematically both to extend strategic relationquantifies risk factors. The aim is to safeguard the supply of ships with suppliers and to validate new suppliers. Validation raw materials and technical goods to Evonik and gain access is the first step in every new supply relationship. It comprises to new procurement markets and suppliers. economic and quality-related requirements as well as environIn 2016 we extended our validation process for new supmental, social and corporate governance aspects. We expect pliers. Alongside quality, environmental protection, safety, our suppliers to share our principles and to act correctly in all health and energy management, the routine assessment of all respects, which means accepting the responsibility towards potential suppliers now also includes antitrust law and fighting their employees, business partners, society and the environcorruption, labor and social standards, human rights, conflict ment. minerals, and responsibility within the supply chain. In all, These requirements are documented in our Code of Conaround 1,000 new suppliers of raw materials, technical goods duct for Suppliers, which is based on our corporate values, and services were evaluated using these c­ riteria. the principles of the UN Global Compact, the International The principles are also used to evaluate existing suppliers. Labour Standards issued by the International Labour OrganiStrategic suppliers are checked regularly, and improvement zation (ILO), and the topics addressed by the Responsible measures are adopted, depending on the outcome of the Care® initiative. assessment. Eleven suppliers were dropped in 2016. In one Tools used to evaluate suppliers include the system develcase, we were able to reactivate the supply relationship oped by Together for Sustainability (TfS), an initiative estab­following successful improvements. lished by the chemical industry to foster sustainability in the To minimize the risk to Evonik, evidence and self-assesssupply chain (see page 50). Here, we pay special attention to ments on compliance with the relevant German legislation our strategic suppliers and suppliers of strategic raw materials. (MiLOG, AEntG, SGB and HwO) were obtained from more than 1,000 suppliers and evaluated.1 1 MiLoG = German Minimum Wage Act; AentG = German Employee Secondment Act; SGB = German Social Code; HwO = German Ordinance on Craftsmen. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Together for Sustainability In October 2016, the Chinese Petroleum and Chemical IndusHarmonization of global standards in the supply chain creates try Federation (CPCIF) and TfS signed an agreement on closer transparency and makes it easier for both suppliers and cuscooperation. CPCIF gave an undertaking that it would tomers to assess and evaluate sustainability performance. The strengthen the industry in China and step up international chemical industry set up the Together for Sustainability (TfS) exchange. The aim of the agreement is to extend joint activities initiative for this purpose in 2011. Evonik is one of six foundin the area of sustainability. The agreement includes organizing ing members. The aim of TfS is the joint development and appropriate seminars and, above all, encouraging sustainability implementation of a global assessment and audit program for in the supply chain. In addition, the aim is to acquire Chinese responsible procurement of goods and services. In this context, companies as members of TfS. The responsible departments at TfS helps make environmental and social standards measurable both organizations will hold regular talks on possible addiand implement specific improvements. The initiative had tional activities in the future. 19 members at the end of 2016. The member companies have As a member of the initiative, Evonik is also subject to TfS already initiated more than 720 audits and 6,300 assessments assessments. At the start of 2016, we received a gold rating worldwide. for the third time in succession, ranking us among the top In 2016, we evaluated over 70 percent of suppliers of 2 percent of the companies assessed. ­critical raw materials using sustainability criteria. These criteria To further increase the procurement-specific and general include country risks, the supply situation and market availcompetencies of our employees, we continued our Shaping ability. In addition, we reviewed the sustainability performance Procurement and Developing Excellence (SPADE) vocational of other significant suppliers. training and continuing professional development program. A particular focus for us in 2016 was the process for folThis also helps to promote international and interdisciplinary lowing up on audits and assessments. Corrective measures sharing of experience. The training modules build on each were initiated with 46 suppliers, where major or critical deviother and are supplemented by units that examine specific ations were identified during audits. In 68 cases, supplier aspects in greater depth. A new modular learning catalog has assessments showed that insufficient attention had been been developed. It contains around 20 relevant modules, paid to sustainability aspects. Here too, corrective action was which can be presented as webinars or face-to-face training initiated. sessions. This supplements the SPADE Advanced training In addition, we initiated reassessments and re-audits of module. In the reporting period, around 69 percent of prosuppliers initially audited or assessed in 2012 and 2013. These curement staff took part in these and other training programs covered 38 assessment candidates and twelve audit candithat include sustainability issues. dates. In 2016 we audited sustainability standards at 29 supplier Procurement in 2016 sites and arranged for 145 sustainability assessments to be In 2016 we sourced raw materials and supplies, technical conducted by an external service provider. goods, services, energy and other operating supplies with a Another TfS conference was held in 2016. The venue this total value of around € 7.6 billion (2015: € 8.3 billion) from time was India. With 500 participants, the turnout was even around 31,000 suppliers. Local sourcing accounted for around higher than at the previous conferences in China and Brazil. 77 percent of this amount (2015: 75 percent). We define local A range of talks showed the participants the enormous sourcing as deliberate procurement from sources which are importance of sustainable supply chains. The focus on susgeographically close to our production site. Raw materials tainability aspects in India is increasing with the region's and supplies make up 59.3 percent of procurement volume growing importance for the global chemical industry. (2015: 59.0 percent). Spending on petrochemical feedstocks was around € 3 billion and accounted for 65 percent of our raw material base. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 51 Value chain and products Raw materials Efficient production facilities and a well-stocked innovation pipeline are crucial elements in Evonik’s business model. Conflict minerals Continuous improvements in both areas are therefore a matter In view of its very broad product portfolio, Evonik procures a of course to us. In many cases, we develop and use in-house wide range of different raw materials. We have implemented production processes that have a technological edge in order to strategic procurement concepts and management systems for ensure production is both resource-efficient and profitable. “critical raw materials”, whose availability is vital for our proOur largest production sites—Marl, Wesseling and Rhein­ duction processes. felden (Germany), Antwerp (Belgium), Mobile (Alabama, The Dodd-Frank Act requires companies listed on the US USA), Shanghai (China) and Singapore—have integrated stock market to disclose whether their products contain technology platforms used by various units. This results in potential conflict minerals. These are mineral raw materials valuable economies of scale and maximizes the use of material from the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighboring flows because by-products from one production line can be countries. Evonik is not listed on US stock exchanges and used as starting products on others. therefore has no legal obligation to comply with the reportContinuous process optimization has always been very ing requirements of the US stock market regulator. At the important for Evonik. The associated expertise is provided, same time, as a responsible company, Evonik meets its duty first and foremost, by our Process Technology unit and the of care with regard to conflict minerals in the supply chain Simplification, Excellence, Empowerment and Cooperation and checks the origin of such substances. Moreover, since the (SEEC) team. SEEC brings together process and technology start of 2016 we have required new suppliers to provide eviexperts from various organizational units with a wide range of dence of origin in the pre-qualification process. In our checks knowledge. It is supported by the company improvements and up to year-end 2016 we did not identify any use of conflict suggestion program. For the targets for resource efficiency in minerals in Evonik products. production, see “The environment”, page 57. Research and development is another important driver of our profitable growth. Innovations strengthen our leading Gate to gate: production and processes market and technology positions and give us access to new, high-growth businesses. Evonik’s innovative capability is eviMany of our products are based on the use of advanced prodenced, for example, by the number of patents. See page 53. cesses and technologies, which we are continuously improving. At many of our sites, we have backwardly integrated producProduction inputs and output tion complexes where key precursors are produced in adjacent Production inputs increased from 8.66 million metric tons to production facilities. The benefit for our customers is the 9.32 million metric tons in 2016. Output increased slightly to extremely high reliability of supply. Our world-scale facilities 10.58 million metric tons in 2016. are also a high entry barrier for potential competitors. T16 Production inputs and output in million metric tons 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Raw material inputs 9.51 8.16 8.23 8.75 8.66 9.32 thereof renewable raw materials 0.69 0.73 0.79 0.77 0.74 0.86 Use of renewable raw materials in production in % 7.3 9.0 9.6 8.8 8.6 9.2 Production 10.35 9.71 10.06 10.35 10.36 10.58 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Renewable raw materials Research & development Using renewable resources remains very important to Evonik. High innovative capability is essential for Evonik. It is an In 2016, they accounted for around 9 percent of production important driver of profitable growth and strengthens our inputs (2015: around 9 percent). The vast majority comprised leading market and technology positions. As a company, we are dextrose and saccharose, which were used as substrates in proud of our culture of innovation, which is firmly established fermentative production of amino acids. Natural fats and oils in our innovation management and management development. and their derivatives are used to produce precursors for the The vision underlying our research & development (R&D) is cosmetics, detergents and cleaning agents industry, and in “Evonik is one of the most innovative companies in the world.” technical processing aids. We endeavor to raise the proportion of renewable raw materials wherever this makes sense from In the light of this, in 2016 we took an important step to pave a technical, economic, ecological and social perspective. the way for the future. We restructured our innovation portfolio and now focus on six growth fields with above-average Palm oil growth rates: A small proportion of palm oil and palm oil derivatives are •  Sustainable Nutrition: Establishing additional products used in our production processes. Evonik has been a member and services for sustainable nutrition of livestock and people of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) since •  Healthcare Solutions: Developing new materials for 2010 and publishes its targets for palm oil in the RSPO’s implants, as components of cell culture media, and for annual progress report. The RSPO was set up to place global custom-tailored, innovative drug formulations production of palm oil on a sustainable long-term basis. •  Advanced Food Ingredients: Creating a portfolio of Evonik supports this process. health-enhancing substances and nutritional supplements Our Personal Care business has now had all nine sites that as a contribution to healthy nutrition use palm oil derivatives certified by an external auditor. This •  Membranes: Extending SEPURAN® technology for effishows that our organizational structure at these sites meets cient gas separation to further applications the RSPO requirements. Our Personal Care business there•  Cosmetic Solutions: Developing further products based fore achieved the target set for 2016, and has created the on natural sources for cosmetics and sensorially optimized basis for a continuous transition to certified raw materials. formulations for skin care products In addition, more than 50 personal and household care •  Smart Materials: Developing products and technologies products have been switched to RSPO-certified palm oil for additive manufacturing, electronic applications, and derivatives. In collaboration with our customers and suppliers, thermal insulation systems. we aim to extend our portfolio of certified products further in 2017. C19 Our claim: First-class in innovation Evonik is one of the most innovative Focus on growth fields companies in the world Inno Push radical innovation on vat isi io Open collaboration Ou n rv gy ate str First-class in innovation Increase the value of the innovation pipeline e Enhance risk-taking In no ltu r New products, applications, and processes must va cu Trust, openness and transparency make a substantial contribution to sales and profit ti o n o Improve knowledge sharing a ti n ta r ge t v s Inno HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 53 Value chain and products We have set ambitious targets for our R&D: Facts and figures 2016 • We aim to generate more than €1 billion in additional The value and quality of our patent portfolio have increased sales in the six growth fields by 2025. steadily in recent years. In 2016, patent-driven sales accounted • Sales generated with products and applications that are for 56 percent of total sales in the Evonik Group. less the five years old should increase from 10 percent (2016) to 16 percent in the mid term. T17 Innovative capability and patent protection at Evonik 2016 Evonik has an extensive patent strategy to protect new ­products and processes. No. of new patent applications filed approx. 230 Around 90 percent of our R&D is performed by our segPatents held and applications filed more than 24,500 ments. That includes, first and foremost, research geared speRegistered/pending trademarks 7,000 cifically to their core technologies and markets, and the development of new business. The Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency growth segments receive an above-average Our innovation pipeline is well stocked. It comprises a balanced share of our R&D funds. By contrast, the Performance Materials mixture of well over 500 projects. In 2016 we fine-tuned the segment focuses on optimizing processes and products. nature and scope of our innovation projects as part of the Our strategic innovation unit, Creavis, concentrates on realignment of our innovation portfolio. Since then, greater midand long-term projects that support Evonik’s growth priority has been given to larger midand long-term projects. and sustainability strategy and open up new business options. In the reporting period, some of our projects were again On the basis of the identified potential in the strategic funded by the European Union or the Federal Republic of growth fields, Creavis sets up project houses, which spend Germany. In all, we received around € 2.9 million for this. three years exploring an area of innovation in conjunction In view of the strategic importance of R&D, we have with the segments and external experts. raised R&D expenses by an average of 4 percent since 2011. For example, the Medical Devices Project House is currently In 2016, R&D expenses totaled € 438 million, a rise of 1 percent working on new solutions for medical technology and year-on-year. The ratio of R&D expenses to sales was 3.4 perextending Evonik’s competence in biomaterials and polymers. cent (2015: 3.2 percent). In view of our growth strategy, we In particular, it is addressing applications in implantology. The aim to retain this ambitious level and to invest more than Composites Project House ended in spring 2016 and was € 4 billion in R&D up to 2025. We are therefore sticking to integrated into the Resource Efficiency and Performance the target we set in 2015. Materials segments. Notable successes were materials and In the past three years, Evonik has also spent € 158 million processes that enable automated production of composites at on the construction of laboratory capacity and pilot plants. competitive prices. Examples are the new competence center for silanes at the Rheinfelden site in Germany, and the composites pilot plant for the Crosslinkers Business Line in Marl (Germany). C20 R&D expenses in € million 2012 393 2013 394 2014 413 2015 434 2016 438 0 100 200 300 400 500 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES C21 Breakdown of R&D expenses outstanding research achievements. All nominations in the category “New Products/System Solutions” in 2016 were for products with particularly sustainable applications. These Creavis were: • An environmentand skin-tolerant biosurfactant that is Performance Materials Nutrition & Care produced entirely from renewable regional resources (REWOFERM®) •  An additive that is used in combination with silica and silanes to reduce the rolling resistance of tires. This brings a further significant reduction in fuel consumption and CO2 emisResource Efficiency sions (POLYVEST® ST) • A synthetic base fluid for wind turbine gears, which increases their energy efficiency and service life (­VISCOBASE® 11-522) Open innovation as a success factor Our innovation unit, Creavis, manages its portfolio using the Evonik’s global R&D network comprises 35 locations with Idea-to-People-Planet-Profit (I2P3) process. Each strategic approximately 2,700 R&D employees. Key success factors for research project is assessed on the basis of environmental our R&D are close collaboration with customers and influences (planet) and societal aspects (people) as well as extended networking with external partners. The Industry economic criteria (profit). I2P3 was developed jointly by our Cross Innovation department brokers contact to new markets strategic research, the Life Cycle Management group, and the of potential interest for Evonik. In this way, new, market-­ Innovation Excellence group, with external support from the driven projects are identified in collaboration with sectors renowned Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and with which we do not yet have direct customer relationships. Energy. New alliances were established with a range of companies in Evonik also received the prestigious German Sustainabil2016. These show how we can use cross-sector collaboration ity Award in 2016 for its innovative capability. The award in and bundle competences along the value chain to tap into the research category went to a Creavis project: A new promarketable solutions with and for our partners. duction process for thermoelectric generators (TEGs) to utilize In addition, our corporate venture capital activities give us exhaust heat, which was developed in collaboration with an insight into innovative technologies and emerging busiProcess Technology. This reduces the production cost of ness activities. We invest in specialized technology funds and TEGs by up to 70 percent. TEGs can help improve fuel economy startups that are a good fit with our growth strategy. In this in vehicles by enhancing the efficiency of alternators. In the way, we speed up the pace of innovation. One example from steel, aluminum and glass industries, TEGs can harvest heat 2016 is the US start-up Nanotech Industrial Solutions, Inc., radiated by semi-finished products and exhaust gas systems. which provides a new technology platform for lubricant additives. This is an attractive complement to our competencies as the technology leader in oil additives. Downstream: customers and end-customer applications Focus on sustainability Sustainability is an important element in our corporate culEvonik’s customers are mainly industrial companies that use ture and our innovation culture. As a specialty chemicals our intermediates in their own products and solutions. Our company, we want to provide solutions that balance social, operating segments make a key contribution to enhancing the ecological and economic aspects—in collaboration with our product benefits that differentiate our customers in the marcustomers. Our market-oriented R&D plays a key role in ket and make them successful in global competition. improving the ecological footprint of our customers still further and differentiating us from our global competitors. We Our products and markets are therefore increasingly focusing our innovation pipeline on Working closely with our customers, we extend our solid products for applications that make efficient and environknowledge of their requirements, markets and trends. That G4-27 mentally compatible use of resources. That is demonstrated, helps us tailor products to their specific needs. Regional for example, by our internal Innovation Award, which honors ­specifics are taken into account through our numerous technology and competence centers. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 55 Value chain and products Alongside products and solutions, many of our businesses The membranes business is one of our growth fields and sell services along the entire value chain. A good example is shows how our innovative products give us access to new our Animal Nutrition Business Line, with its broad range of markets. SEPURAN® membranes developed by the Resource ­specialist services. Efficiency segment allow particularly efficient separation of At Evonik, the operating businesses are responsible for methane, nitrogen or hydrogen from gas mixtures. The customer relationship management, which is aligned to market ­SEPURAN® product family, which has been systematically and customer needs on a decentralized basis by our segments extended in recent years, now comprises membranes for the and business lines. Alongside competence centers and treatment of biogas, the separation of nitrogen, and the treat­customer-focused development centers, all employees play a ment of helium and hydrogen. In fall 2016 we held the part in this through their high expertise and professionalism. groundbreaking ceremony for a further production complex Overall, we have observed that customers increasingly for membrane modules in Schörfling (Austria). value products and solutions that make a contribution to ­sustainable development. That applies, for example, to the Customer satisfaction desire for improved resource efficiency. Leading market positions account for around 80 percent of G4-27 To make the sustainability performance of our products Evonik’s sales. Our aim is to be integrated into our customers’ transparent, we have intensified and driven forward the supply chains where possible. That allows optimal alignment methodology used for the related analyses. The process has of our research & development, production, marketing and been performed repeatedly in all business lines since 2013. distribution workflows to our customers’ requirements. For a more detailed overview of our progress in 2016, see High customer satisfaction is very important to maintain inside front cover. and extend our operating business. This is illustrated by the high priority accorded to this in our materiality analysis. Evonik’s resource-efficient products At Group level, we have a Marketing & Sales Excellence Evonik helps its customers meet the rising sustainability (MSE) team that offers special staff training and management requirements on the world’s markets. In particular, we use tools to support the continuous development and positioning the Evonik Carbon Footprint to assess products that are of our segments through customer focus. resourceand energy-efficient in the application phase. Customer satisfaction analyses are an example. MSE Examples are amino acids for animal nutrition, silica-silane ­bundles Group-wide customer surveys and provides the tools technology for “green” tires, additives for hydraulic fluids, and expertise needed to conduct such surveys. The aim is to and functional silanes to protect building facades. For further regularly measure customer satisfaction in order to define information, see the Evonik Carbon Footprint brochure on measures that raise customer loyalty across the board and our website at www.evonik.com/responsibility. identify scope for improvement in the development of Evonik also provides renewable raw materials as a basis ­products and services. The focus is on a holistic view of for future-oriented solutions for modern wind turbines, addi­customer relationships, including product quality, product tives for environment-friendly water-based paints, and ingredevelopment, pricing, service, communication, logistics, and dients for the cosmetics industry. complaints management. REWOFERM® SL 446, a new sophorolipid-based bio­ Evonik’s ten industry teams also make a cross-business surfactant from the Nutrition & Care segment, received two contribution to this. These teams pool solutions expertise for awards in 2016. REWOFERM® SL 446 is 100 percent bio-based. specific sectors or markets and provide a Group-wide Alongside very good cleaning properties, it has an excellent ­communication platform for dialogue with customers. In this toxicological and ecological profile and is fully biodegradable. way, we build expertise and at the same time increase our visibility in our key markets. Examples of the present industry teams are Automotive, and Paints & Coatings. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Sustainability analysis of the business C22 Sales of our chemicals segments covered Evonik responds to pressing future issues by developing susby life cycle analyses tainable products and processes. At the same time, we want to strengthen and expand our leading market positions. Not yet analyzed 30 %a LCA Methodology (cradle to gate) Our aim is to gain the most accurate possible insight into the 34 % sustainability challenges and opportunities of our business. We focus especially on market trends and future market Cross-referencing life cycle-based 2 % developments along the value chain. The sustainability analysis LCA of our business has therefore been driven forward and external Cross-referencing (cradle to grave) 18 % validation of the methodology has been undertaken. We LCA 9 % have therefore achieved the target we set ourselves for 2016. Life cycle-based analyses 7 % Our sustainability analysis is based on a method focusing on the value chains of our businesses and takes account of criteria from the supply chain through production to subsequent use. The list of criteria reflects key ecological and societal a Life cycle analyses planned in some cases. aspects of our materiality analysis. On this basis, we again worked with all three chemical segments in 2016. The ­sustainability analysis now covers around 94 percent of our Resource-saving solutions Group sales. The result is a structured presentation of the Evonik products offer customers resource-saving and energy-­ sustainability performance of all our businesses, which we efficient solutions for a wide range of applications. In this want to report on more extensively in 2017. way, we play a part in meeting the rising sustainability requirements of our markets. At the same time, we are Life cycle analyses ­continuing to develop our business opportunities in these Life cycle analyses are a focal area of our sustainability analysis. markets. See page 55. The high expertise and strong operational involvement of the Our sustainability analysis includes an extensive analysis Life Cycle Management group play a key role in ensuring that of the contribution made by our products to improving Evonik has wide-ranging knowledge of the environmental resource efficiency in their respective applications. This impact of its operations and is able to quantify this. We per­covers energy savings and the reduction in greenhouse gas formed further life cycle analyses in 2016, for example for the emissions, water consumption and the use of raw materials. silica-silane technology used in “green” tires. Around 70 perThe results confirm that in 2016 around 50 percent of the cent of the external sales of our chemical segments has now sales generated by our chemical segments once again came been covered. In the mid term, we aim to extend this to around from products that make a measurable contribution to 80 percent of the external sales of our chemical segments. improving the resource efficiency of their applications. Evonik’s procedure comprises a broad spectrum of methods, including life cycle assessments (LCA), which comprise either a cradle-to-gate analysis, covering all stages from product development through raw material and energy inputs to production, or a cradle-to-grave analysis covering the entire life cycle including subsequent use and disposal. Another tool is the life cycle-based calculation of the carbon footprint of our products. In addition, we use cross-referencing approaches, where findings, for example from existing LCAs, are used to evaluate similar products. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 57 The environment THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting our environment and the climate TARGETS are major global challenges of our age. Maintaining the natural basis of life for future generations is part of our corporate responsibility. Our environmental • Reduce specific greenhouse gas emissions by 12 % from 2013 – 2020 targets make an important contribution to this. We make continuous improvements to our processes, • Reduce specific water intake by and our capital expenditures and investment 10 % from 2013 – 2020 in ­environmental protection make use of • Continuously reduce hazardous state-of-the-art technologies. production waste 6.4 million PRODUCTION WASTE metric tons in thousand metric tons DIRECT AND INDIRECT CO2eq EMISSIONS a 227 hazardous 72.7 million m3 WATER USED b 124 non-hazardous 92.2 million metric tons Brochure on the Evonik Carbon Footprint www.evonik.com/responsibility AVOIDED GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS over the application life cycle of selected Evonik products AB NEW GAS AND STEAM TURBINE POWER PLANT IN MARL Rating Rating reduces greenhouse CDP Climate Change in initial participation in gas emissions and CDP Water use of surface water Page Topic | GRI indicators 58 Our management system | G4-35, G4-EN31 64 Water management | G4-EN8, G4-EN10, G4-EN22 60 Climate change and emissions into the air | G4-EC2, 66 Waste management | G4-EN23 G4-EN3, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, 68 Biodiversity | G4-EC8, G4-EN11 G4-EN20, G4-EN21 a Scope 1 and 2, total, net (market-based). b Including use to produce steam, in the manufacture of products, to cover evaporation losses and as process water. 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Protecting our environment and the climate are major global Corporate ESHQ uses a central audit system to regularly challenges of our age. Maintaining the natural basis of life for monitor implementation of the binding Group-wide strategy future generations is part of our corporate responsibility. and the management system. Based on the findings and analysis That includes steadily reducing emissions, continuous of our internal and external audits, site inspections and reviews, improvements in the efficient use of materials and resources, talks are held on possible improvements and how to impleand developing products that help us forge a link between ment them. The Executive Board is informed annually of the economic success and ecological progress. outcome of the audits. We have defined Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Our management parameters are monitored regularly via a (ESHQ) Values, which address our responsibility for the central sustainability reporting system (SuRe), which contains environment and our endeavors to continuously improve our a wide range of data on climate change, emissions into the products, processes and systems. For further information see air, water management, and waste management. “Value chain and products”. Overall, we compile more than 50 productionand Our materiality analysis provides further insight into plant-related sustainability indicators. These are captured issues of relevance for the environment area of action: climate locally on a plant-specific basis and can be evaluated via the change, emissions into the air, water management, and waste reporting system on the basis of management units, legal management. In these areas, we pay especial attention to structures or regions. The data capture and processing methods monitoring, analyzing and managing developments. are explained regularly at training sessions and are subject to We have set demanding environmental targets for the internal and external audits. In 2016 we successfully introduced period 2013 – 2020 (reference base: 2012). These provide a technically upgraded version of our central reporting system valuable guidance for a continuous improvement in our per(SuRe 2.0). The new system allows additional evaluations formance in protecting the climate and our environment. and is more user-friendly. Their development is monitored and reported in detail. Our central quantitative targets are reducing specific Organization greenhouse gases by 12 percent and reducing specific water The global ESHQ strategy is adopted by the Executive Comintake by 10 percent. Both of these targets are per metric ton mittee HR. Decisions on ESHQ issues relating to implemenof output. Our aim is 80 percent attainment of these targets tation of this strategy are taken by the ESHQ Panel, which is by 2018. In addition, we want to achieve a further reduction composed of representatives of the segments, regions and the in hazardous production waste by setting a qualitative target Technical Committee, and employee representatives. It is for this. chaired by the head of the Corporate ESHQ division. The role of the Global ESHQ Committee is to regularly discuss ESHQ issues and prepare decisions to be taken by the Our management system ESHQ Panel. This committee comprises representatives of the relevant functions in the segments and the heads of the The basis for our actions is an extensive, integrated manageregions. ment system that is aligned to our corporate structure. The Specialist knowledge of selected issues is bundled in ESHQ Corporate ESHQ division pools all Group-wide strategic Expert Circles, which are convened as required and are management and coordination tasks relating to the environresponsible for implementing specific environmental requirement. The head of the Corporate ESHQ division reports ments in the operational units. For example, there are Expert directly to the relevant member of the Executive Board (Chief Circles on climate strategy, environmental protection, and Human Resources Officer). management & audits. The structure of the management system is based on legal The operational segments and site services define the requirements and internal regulations such as policies and business-specific implementation of the decisions taken. The standard operating procedures. This supports a process of Corporate ESHQ division ensures cross-segment rules on the continuous improvement in environmental performance and relevant processes. compliance. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 59 The environment C23 Structure of the ESHQ steering bodies of output covered by ISO 14001 validation varies. However, it is always between 95 and 100 percent. Audits are conducted to monitor implementation by the segments, regions Executive Committee HR and sites. Alongside audits on specific issues, we conducted 60 ESHQ audits worldwide in 2016. ESHQ Panel We made successful progress with our environmental ­targets in 2016. Specific greenhouse gas emissions and speGlobal ESHQ Committee cific water intake both declined significantly, by 6 percentage points and 13 percentage points respectively. As well as ­targeted measures to raise energy efficiency and save water, ESHQ Expert Circles the reductions mainly come from structural upgrades at Marl Chemical Park in Germany. The highly efficient new gas and steam turbine power plant, which has replaced the old ­coal-fired plant, has high fuel efficiency, resulting in the avoidance of considerable amounts of CO2 emissions each year. In addition, specific CO2 emissions from natural gas, which is the primary energy source, are far lower than from Our activities in 2016 coal. The water data are also very positive. Unlike its predeOur management system for the environment, safety, health cessor, the gas and steam turbine power plant is cooled via and quality applies to the entire Evonik Group. In addition, a cooling circuit with recooling facilities rather than by oncewe require our manufacturing sites to be validated as conthrough cooling. The replacement of once-through cooling forming to ISO 14001, the internationally recognized environby closed-circuit cooling systems at our site in Kaba mental management standard. As a result of the necessary (­Hungary) also led to a considerable reduction in the use of start-­­up and preparatory phase for new units, the proportion freshwater. T18 Status of our environmental targets Change in % compared with 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target 2020 a Specific greenhouse gas emissions 100 93 92 89 83 88 Specific water intake b 100 95 112 c 107 94 90 a Energyand process-related emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol/Scope 2 emissions calculated using the market-based method. b Reporting on specific water intake has been recalculated retrospectively. Based on our regular analytical verification—checks on random samples of reported data and audits— gaps in reporting in one organizational unit were identified and corrected. c Start-up of the hydrogen peroxide facility in Jilin (China). In 2016 we invested €37 million (2015: €43 million) in measures of major investment projects such as the expansion of capacity to achieve a further improvement in environmental protection. for specialty silica in Ako (Japan) in 2015. The year-on-year decline was mainly due to the completion Operating costs for environmental protection facilities rose slightly to € 292 million in 2016 (2015: € 283 million). T19 Environmental protection investment and operating costs in € million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Operating costs for environmental protection 251 250 259 283 292 Investment in environmental protection 39 29 107 43 37 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Climate change and emissions into the air in our energy mix are reliability of supply and cost-efficiency. Many of our energy management systems meet the high Energy inputs standards of ISO 50001. We regard responsible use of energy as equally important on In our reporting, we distinguish between primary energy ecological and economic grounds. We use a broad spectrum of inputs, normally fossil fuels used to generate electricity and technical and organizational measures to raise energy effisteam, and secondary inputs, i. e., purchased electricity and ciency, including co-generation plants and expansion of intesteam. We also use secondary fuels such as thermal processing grated structures linking chemical production and energy of by-products from production, waste and sewage sludge. generation. Third-party production facilities are included in Substitute fuels accounted for around 9 percent of total these measures. We also consider using renewable energies. energy inputs in 2016, the same proportion as in 2015. Important criteria for assessing whether we can include them T20 Energy inputs in petajoules 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Gaseous fossil fuels 32.72 31.74 32.93 35.48 37.96 Solid fossil fuels 23.93 22.38 23.69 19.86 15.84 Liquid fossil fuels 0.27 0.20 0.18 0.23 0.24 Substitute fuels 7.42 7.96 7.62 7.75 7.71 Power, external input a 18.98 18.59 18.45 19.38 19.17 Power, external output 11.77 12.50 12.31 12.41 11.60 Steam, external input 6.18 5.15 6.34 6.59 6.27 Steam, external output 10.51 8.26 8.00 7.92 7.83 b Energy input, gross 89.48 86.03 89.23 89.29 87.20 Energy input, net (after subtraction of output)b 67.20 65.27 68.92 68.95 67.76 Production in million metric tons 9.71 10.06 10.35 10.36 10.58 Specific energy input, net 6.92 6.49 6.66 6.66 6.40 a Including captive hydroelectric and solar power. b Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. Alongside a large number of specific measures, the changes in The carbon footprint shows the volume of greenhouse gas Evonik’s energy mix and the reduction in total energy inputs emissions of a company, process or individual product in CO2 were driven principally by the replacement of a coal-fired equivalents, in other words, CO2 and the other greenhouse power plant by a highly efficient gas and steam turbine plant gases defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), in Marl (Germany). The slight reduction in the sale of power CH4, N2O, SF6, HFCs, PFCs and NF3. and steam to third parties was partly due to the shutdown of The standard used to report our greenhouse gas emisa third-party production facility at Marl Chemical Park and sions is the GHG Protocol. This includes direct CO2 emissions the associated change in the customer structure. (Scope 1 emissions) from energy generation and production, and indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2 emissions) from purGreenhouse gas emissions chased energy. Together with other greenhouse gases, the Emitting greenhouse gases into the air is a side-effect of all total is expressed as CO2 equivalents. production processes. Use of efficient technologies and production processes will help us achieve our goal of reducing specific greenhouse gas emissions by 12 percent by 2020 (reference base 2012 = 100). HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 61 The environment Scope 2 emissions were calculated in the past using the location-­ from the International Energy Agency in certain cases. To based method, which includes regional emission factors. ensure comparability, for 2016 the CO2 contribution to Scope 2 Since 2015, the majority of our sites around the world have emissions is therefore reported using both methods. In addialso calculated Scope 2 emissions using the market-based tion, we have recalculated our Scope 2 emissions retroacmethod, which takes account of the specific emissions of tively from 2012 using the market-based method. These data individual suppliers and market participants. This enhances are used to determine the specific GHG emissions for our accuracy and also enables us to meet the requirements of the CO2 target. The new method covered more than 95 percent GHG Protocol. In some cases, the data available is not suffiof our power-related Scope 2 emissions in 2016, and around cient for this method. We therefore use established factors 77 percent of external steam inputs. T21 Greenhouse gas emissions in thousand metric tons CO2 equivalents a 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 5,879 5,725 5,846 5,525 5,312 Methane (CH4) 14 14 14 14 12 Dinitrogen oxide (N2O) 63 130 66 50 53 Fluorinated hydrocarbons (HFC) 7.0 6.3 8.1 3.6 3.2 Total 5,964.0 5,875.3 5,933.7 5,593.2 5,380.2 Scope 2 b CO2 gross (location-based) 3,126 2,925 3,003 3,156 3,068 CO2 gross (market-based) 4,220 3,996 3,967 4,189 4,084 CO2 net c (location-based) 973 859 966 1,058 1,009 CO2 net c (market-based) 1,025 882 909 1,011 1,004 Output in million metric tons 9.71 10.06 10.35 10.36 10.58 Specific greenhouse gas emissions, net (market-based) in metric tons CO2 equivalents per metric ton output 0.72 0.67 0.66 0.64 0.60 Changes compared with the reference year (2012) in % 100 93 92 89 83 Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. a GWP factors: CO2: 1, N2O: 310, CH4: 21, HFC: 140 – 11,700. b Recalculated from 2012 using the market-based method of calculating Scope 2 emissions to ensure comparability. c Total Scope 2 = Power and steam sourced externally less power and steam supplied to third parties. The table shows the CO2 emissions associated with the purchase of electricity and steam as both gross and net values. The net figure shows the position after subtracting electricity and steam output for third parties from total inputs. That enables us to eliminate the proportion of energy-related CO2 emissions attributable to third parties at our large multi-user sites and generate company-specific indicators. Greenhouse gases are clearly dominated by CO2 emissions. In gas emissions declined by 3 percent despite a slight rise in line with Evonik’s fuel mix, most Scope 1 CO2 emissions output. Relative to output, net greenhouse gas emissions (72 percent) are due to the combustion of coal and natural were 6 percent lower than in the previous year. gas. Due to the structural modernization of the power plants The 30 European facilities operated by Evonik that fall in Marl (Germany), the proportion of coal-based CO2 emiswithin the scope of the European Union's Emissions Trading sions at Evonik declined to 28 percent in 2016 (2015: 33 perSystem (EU ETS),1 emitted 3.7 million metric tons of CO2 in cent), while the proportion of gas-based CO2 emissions 2016. The reduction of 0.3 million metric tons CO2 compared increased to 44 percent (2015: 39 percent). The high fuel with 2015 was mainly due to the new gas and steam turbine efficiency (89 percent) of the state-of-the-art gas and steam power plant in Marl (Germany). turbine power plant in Marl and realization of specific measures to raise energy efficiency resulted in far lower greenhouse gas emissions in 2016. Both gross and net greenhouse 1 In the management report in the Annual Report 2016 the number of plants covered by the European Emissions Trading System is given as 27 because the four power plants at Marl Chemical Park in ­Germany are managed as a single complex. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Responsible use of energy is a priority at all of our sites on Evonik Carbon Footprint 1 ecological and economic grounds. We therefore constantly strive to make the provision of energy more efficient, By paying special attention to the distribution of emissions improve energy generation still further, and optimize the among the various sources along the value chain, we are able to structure of our integrated energy management systems. Our provide an extensive overview of greenhouse gas emissions— commitment in this area is shown by the fact that many of our from the extraction of raw materials through production to sites have obtained or are preparing to obtain validation disposal of the products. These data have been reported since under ISO 50001, a global standard for energy management 2008. systems. As well as reducing pressure on resources by using The key parameter is the carbon footprint (CO2eq footco-generation plants at several of our large sites, we have print). The table below shows the development of greenestablished many integrated structures linking chemical prohouse gas emissions for Evonik's products, based on the conduction and energy generation. For example, large amounts firmed data for 2015, excluding the usage phase. The data of steam generated in exothermic processes at various procover Evonik’s direct energy and process emissions (Scope duction facilities are supplied to other plants via steam net1), emissions from purchased electricity and heat (Scope 2), works. This reduces steam production in our power plants, and categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12 from Scope 3. which in turn reduces consumption of fossil fuels. Another These include emissions from the production of purchased example is the use of liquid and gaseous by-products from raw materials, packaging materials, capital goods, energy-­ production as substitute fuels for energy generation. These related emissions outside Scope 1 and 2, emissions from include hydrogen and propene from the production of prussic inbound transportation of raw materials, from the disposal of acid, acrolein and acrylic acid. We also generate steam from production waste, business trips, commuting by employees, the exhaust heat from various incineration plants for waste, Evonik’s fleet of vehicles, energy requirements for offices, sewage sludge, exhaust gases and wastewater. and emissions from the disposal and recycling of products Apart from CO2 emissions from fuels, only N2O emissions sold. The reported data exclude, among other things, the (expressed in greenhouse gas equivalents) are of significance at usage phase of Evonik’s products. Evonik. Although they account for less than 1 percent of total The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions shown by the GHG emissions, fluctuations in these emissions are not insigEvonik Carbon Footprint from 25.7 to 24.7 million metric tons nificant for the overall development of our GHG emissions CO2eq between 2014 and 2015 is principally due to the routine because of their high greenhouse gas potential. N2O is only updating of emissions factors. This takes place every two emitted by a few production processes and measures have years and resulted in a reduction in emissions this time. As a been implemented to reduce these emissions. consequence, emissions from purchased raw materials decreased despite a slight rise in volumes. Moreover, the updated emissions factors resulted in a reduction in emissions from waste disposal and the disposal of purchased products. T22 Change in greenhouse gas emissions along Evonik’s value chain a in million metric tons 2011 2012 2013 b 2014 2015 CO2eq emissions 22.9 22.2 23.4 25.7 24.7 a Core specialty chemicals business (excluding the usage phase and the carbon black activities, which were divested in 2011). b Compared with the data for 2011 and 2012, the reporting threshold contains two additional Scope 3 categories from 2013 and three additional categories from 2014. 1 The updated figures for 2016 will be published in summer 2017 in our brochure “Evonik Carbon Footprint”. Therefore, the figures here relate to 2015. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 63 The environment The method used is closely based on the Greenhouse Gas The distribution of the various categories along Evonik’s Protocol Corporate Standard of the World Resources Institute value chain is shown in the next table. (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). T23 Greenhouse gas emissions along Evonik’s value chain a in million metric tons CO2eq 2015 Scope 1 Evonik production facilities 5.6 Scope 2 net, ­market-based Purchased energy (net, total purchased power and steam—sale of power and steam to third parties) 1.0 Scope 3 Category 1: Purchase of chemical raw materials, packaging materials and indirect goods 9.3 Category 2: Capital goods 0.5 Category 3: Energy-related activities (outside Scope 1 and 2) 0.7 Category 4: Inbound shipments of chemical raw materials 0.4 Category 5: Disposal and recycling of waste 0.4 Category 6: Business trips by employees 0.04 Category 7: Commuting by employees 0.1 Category 8: Leasing of goods, upstream (company cars, power and heating requirements for offices) 0.02 Category 9: Outbound shipments of products 0.5 Category 12: Disposal and recycling of products 6.2 Total 24.7 a Core specialty chemicals business (excluding the usage phase). CO2eq avoided by using Evonik products The increase in avoided emissions between 2011 and 2013 was Evonik markets a variety of products whose use makes a posmainly due to an increase in sales volumes. The significant itive contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions increase in avoided greenhouse gas emissions in 2014 was ­compared to conventional alternatives. The avoidance of essentially due to a modified data basis for amino acids in greenhouse gases shown here results from applications for animal nutrition. The underlying life cycle analysis was updated the following five products: “green” tire technology, amino in 2014. In the recalculation process, production data for acids for animal nutrition, foam stabilizers for insulating amino acids and the production of representative feed formumaterials, specialty oxides for energy-saving light bulbs, and lations were adjusted. In addition, an increase in sales volumes oil additives for hydraulic fluids. The amounts stated are of other products increased avoided greenhouse gas emissions avoided over the usage life cycle of the products, based on in 2014. volume sales of the products manufactured by Evonik in the Despite higher output in 2015, avoided greenhouse gas year given. The method used to compile the data is the WBCSD emissions were around the same as in 2014. This was mainly Avoided Emissions Guidance published in October 2013. because the underlying life cycle analysis for “green” tires was updated in 2015, resulting in lower specific avoidance of greenhouse gases. T24 Greenhouse gas avoidance during the application life cycle in million metric tons 2011 a 2012 a 2013 2014 2015 b CO2eq avoided 57.3 60.4 61.2 92.5 92.2 a The data for 2010 to 2012 have been recalculated and adjusted retroactively on the basis of the WBCSD Avoided Emissions Guidance. b Basis: selected Evonik products in the year under review. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Carbon Disclosure Project—Climate reporting Other emissions into the air at a high level Alongside emissions of greenhouse gases as reported above, Evonik constantly strives to improve its reporting on key energy generation and industrial production result in further environmental indicators and is engaged in intensive emissions into the air. Our goal is a further reduction and exchange with rating agencies such as the Carbon Disclosure greater control of such emissions. To achieve this, we use a Project. The CDP compiles detailed annual data on the range of technical and organizational measures. Our environgreenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption of commental management systems set the framework for us to panies worldwide. It also evaluates the opportunities and achieve the statutory thresholds. Relevant sources of emissions risks of climate change for their business activities and how are constantly monitored in accordance with statutory the management takes them into account in its strategy. The requirements. Our production and exhaust gas treatment CDP currently meets the information needs of more than 800 facilities are fitted with emissions monitoring devices. Action institutional investors with assets under management of over includes returning exhaust gases to production processes and US$ 100 trillion. The investors use the data to derive a climate thermal processing of residual gases with a high calorific risk profile for the companies, which they then use in their value as a substitute for natural gas. We also take the emisinvestment decisions. sions profile into account through state-of-the art technical In 2016, we were able to build on the very good results design and planning of new facilities. obtained in 2015. With a score of “A –” for climate change reporting, Evonik attained the status of an index/country leader in the MDAX, which positions it among the top 15 percent of the MDAX companies. T25 Other emissions into the air in metric tons 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Carbon monoxide (CO) 1,017 1,066 1,053 889 1,057 Sulfur oxides (SOX/SO2) 3,652 3,215 3,052 2,424 2,297 Nitrogen oxides (NOX/NO2) 4,963 4,734 4,739 4,478 4,528 Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC) 1,019 951 835 661 701 Particulates 441 363 366 257 359 Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn) 1.38 1.41 1.58 0.15 0.23 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances a in metric tons CFC-11 equivalents 0.05 0.07 0.09 0.16 0.07 a Ozone depletion potential (ODP) is a relative parameter indicating how dangerous substances are for the ozone layer compared with the reference substance, fluorinated hydrocarbon R11 (trichlorofluoromethane). SOx emissions predominantly come from energy generation Water management and the recycling of sulfuric acid. The decline in 2016 was mainly due to the replacement of a power plant block in Marl We are committed to responsible use of water, want to save (Germany) by a new gas and steam turbine power plant with water wherever possible and achieve a further reduction in lower emissions. Although coal inputs at the power plants our emissions into water. A good water supply is crucial for were lower overall, heavy metal emissions increased as a smooth production processes because water is one of the most result of the different composition of imported coal. This was important auxiliaries used in the chemical industry. Our goal the reason for the Group-wide increase in emissions of heavy is to reduce specific water intake, i. e., intake per metric ton of metals 2016. NOx emissions increased slightly in 2016, largely output, by 10 percent by 2020 (reference base 2012 = 100). We due to the rise in coal inputs as a result of higher production take into account surface water, ground­water and drinking output in Nanping (China), and changes in the fuel mix in water to reflect the special significance of freshwater. Hanau (Germany). Changes in the product mix, higher output and one-off factors were the principal reasons for the rise in NMVOC and particulate emissions in 2016. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 65 The environment Evonik mainly uses water for cooling and for process purConsumption of freshwater dropped substantially, by 10 perposes in production facilities, to generate steam in power cent, from 474.6 to 429.1 million m3 in 2016. This was mainly plants, and for sanitary requirements. To reduce the use of because a coal-fired power plant block in Marl (Germany) freshwater, we have established integrated supply systems was replaced by a modern gas and steam turbine power with graduated water qualities. For example, we use water that plant. Unlike its predecessor, the new plant is cooled using a is no longer suitable for cooling purposes to rinse filters or in closed-circuit system with recooling facilities. Similarly, at the industrial cleaning processes. In addition, the water that evapsite in Kaba (Hungary), once-through cooling was replaced orates from cooling circuits is often replaced by condensate by closed-circuit cooling, thus saving freshwater. or recycled drinking water. In accordance with ISO 14046, the The sea water required for once-through cooling of our intake of sea water for cooling purposes at our methionine world-scale DL-methionine plant in Singapore increased signififacility in Singapore is not taken into account in our overview cantly in 2016 because—unlike 2015—this was the first full of our water footprint; however, it is reported separately. year of operation. T26 Water intake by source in million m3 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 a Drinking water 18.2 18.4 19.2 18.5 18.1 Groundwater 84.7 77.7 80.9 80.1 75.8 Surface water 313.9 315.0 394.9 371.8 331.6 Recycling of water from third parties & use of rainwater 4.0 2.9 2.6 4.3 3.4 Total freshwater b 420.9 413.9 497.6 474.6 429.1 Salt water (sea water) – – – 41.9 130.9 Total 420.9 413.9 497.6 516.5 560.0 Output in million metric tons 9.71 10.06 10.35 10.36 10.58 c Specific water intake in m freshwater per metric ton output 3 41.2 39.2 46.3 43.9 38.7 Changes compared with the reference year (2012) in % 100 95 112 107 94 Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. a Water from municipal or other utilities. b The water data for 2012 – 2015 have been recalculated. Based on our regular analytical verification—checks on random samples of reported data and audits—gaps in reporting in one organizational unit (mainly once-through and closed-circuit cooling water) were identified and corrected. c Excluding water for remediation purposes. About 77 percent of the freshwater used in 2016 was surface Water used in closed cooling circuits is included when calcuwater, mainly from rivers. Just under 1 percent comprised lating the proportion of total water that is used for cooling. In ­recycled water and rainwater. 2016, nearly 72 percent of cooling of production facilities Most of our total water intake (around 96 percent) is used used closed-circuit systems with recooling facilities. The for cooling purposes in energy generation and production. remainder were cooled using once-through systems. Only For this, we mainly use surface water and sea water. Around 4 percent of the freshwater used is required for production 67 percent of the groundwater intake is also used for cooling. purposes. T27 Water discharge in million m3 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 a Once-through cooling water 340.7 339.4 419.5 445.2 494.3 Process water (including drinking water and water from sanitary installations) b 55.4 54.6 55.3 54.0 53.0 Total 396.1 394.0 474.8 499.2 547.3 Figures for 2012 – 2015 recalculated. a Including salt water. b Direct and indirect discharge and water sold to third parties. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES The difference between water intake and once-through cooling Production effluent undergoes multi-step chemical and physical water is due to the use of water, among other things, to produce treatment in our wastewater treatment facilities. Separate steam, in production, to cover evaporation losses and as prodrainage systems prevent production effluent and cooling cess water. In 2016 the difference was 65.7 million m3 (2015: water becoming mixed. This means that cooling water can be 71.3 million m3). discharged into rivers with rainwater without treatment. We have also built high-performance collector systems as part of Emissions into water our water protection measures. These are used for intermeOur sites aim to make a contribution to protecting natural diate storage of peak wastewater loads which could overburden water resources. The basic principles of the management of the wastewater treatment facilities. In this way, wastewater our industrial wastewater are the same as for waste managecan subsequently be fed gradually to the treatment plants. ment: “avoidance before reuse/recycling before disposal.” We also incinerate some sewage sludge in our own facilities, When planning new production plants, we therefore conand use the heat from the resulting incineration gases to gensider the use of processes that generate little or no waste­ erate steam. Wastewater discharged from our sites is carewater. That takes pressure off the environment and reduces fully monitored by regular sampling and continuous measuring the cost of water treatment. We continue these efforts in the equipment. In addition to in-house monitoring, we are subject operational phase. We also have high technology standards to supervision by the authorities in the form of unannounced and infrastructure for the disposal of wastewater at our sites. control visits to verify compliance with discharge limits. T28 Wastewater loads a in metric tons 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 4,787 4,767 4,302 4,808 4,633 Total nitrogen (N) 447 469 441 434 418 Total phosphorus (P) 96 97 95 84 107 Adsorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX) 1.8 1.7 1.9 1.7 1.9 Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn) 5.5 5.1 5.1 5.6 5.6 a The data on wastewater loads comprise all direct discharges into receiving water and proportionate indirect discharges. Chemical oxygen demand (COD) accounts for the highest Waste management proportion of wastewater loads. This is the concentration of all substances in the wastewater that can be oxidized under In line with sustainable development, we are constantly certain conditions. The reduction in the COD and total nitrogen endeavoring to improve waste integration and material flow loads was mainly attributable to local production fluctuations management. The following priorities have been set for and to process optimization. The increase in the total phoswaste management at Evonik: The first priority is to avoid phorus load (phosphates expressed as phosphorus) was princiwaste through continuous process improvements and by pally due to an increase in the use of phosphoric acid as a extending integrated production systems. If this is not possible, product stabilizer. waste should be recycled or used to generate energy, and as The rise in adsorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX a last resort, it should be disposed of safely. load) is essentially within the analytical variation for the ­measuring method because in many cases the values obtained are only slightly above the detection threshold. Heavy metal emissions were unchanged from the prior-year level. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 67 The environment We use catalysts to increase yields and reduce side reactions. integrated production structure. Dewatering is followed by Integrated material flows also make a contribution. The benthermal reprocessing by incinerating it in a separate incineraefits of integrated production sites and systems are also used tion plant with integrated flue gas treatment. Some of the for systematic waste management, for example in Marl (Gerexhaust gases from the production plants are used as substitute many), which is our largest site. Here, hydrocarbon residues fuels in this process. The incineration gases are then used to are used as a substitute for heating oil in the synthesis gas generate 20 bar steam. To conserve resources, at many of our plant, and waste sulfuric acid in the sulfuric acid plant is sites we use substitute fuels such as liquid residues from reprocessed. Sewage sludge can also be reused within the ­production processes. T29 Waste a in thousand metric tons 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Hazardous production waste 227 218 212 213 227 of which reprocessed 138 137 131 132 133 of which disposed of 89 81 81 81 94 Non-hazardous production waste 160 152 156 153 124 of which reprocessed 104 104 110 93 71 of which disposed of 56 48 46 60 53 Hazardous building and demolition rubble 32 23 19 8 14 of which reprocessed 4 3 6 2 5 of which disposed of 28 20 14 6 9 Non-hazardous building and demolition rubble 96 97 109 82 73 of which reprocessed 65 64 87 62 50 of which disposed of 31 33 22 20 23 Total 515 489 497 455 438 a Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. The total amount of waste decreased by 3 percent from (2012 = 100 percent). By contrast, the amount of non-hazardous 455,000 metric tons to 438,000 metric tons in 2016, but the production waste was 29,000 metric tons lower than in 2015. development differed by category. Hazardous production Considerably less recyclable biomass waste was recorded. This waste was 7 percent higher than in 2015 due to expansion of was primarily attributable to a drop in demand for certain capacity, new facilities, and increased disposal of sewage products. sludge. However, relative to output, hazardous production Building and demolition rubble can fluctuate considerably waste in 2016 was 9 percentage points lower than in 2012 between years because it depends on specific projects. In 2016 it declined by 3,000 metric tons (3 percent). T30 Waste management in thousand metric tons 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Incineration with recycling of heat energy 68 66 63 64 58 Disposal by incineration 84 84 90 81.5 93 Recycling (including composting) 181 185 224 176 127 Landfill 58 51 31 46 50 Chemical/physical/biological treatment 24 18 19 7 16 Other disposal methods 37 30 23 21 20 Other reprocessing methods 63 56 47 61 75 Total a 515 489 497 455 438 a Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES The percentage of waste reprocessed comprises recycled Biodiversity substances, incineration with recycling of heat energy, and other disposal methods. In 2016 it declined by 7 percentage Many of our sites are adjacent to conservation areas. In prinpoints year-on-year to 59 percent, mainly because of the ciple, the industrial premises used by Evonik do not include reduction in biomass waste. Evonik develops methods of any natural habitats (either protected or restored). recycling waste in accordance with the statutory framework. For example, we recycle or re-use precious metal catalysts and industrial packaging. T31 Evonik sites adjacent to conservation areas a Status of conservation area Evonik site Country Area in km2 Use (adjacent) Gramatneusiedl Austria 0.050730 Production 92/43/EEC area Hanau Germany 0.776949 Production 92/43/EEC area Lülsdorf Germany 1.035502 Production 92/43/EEC area Marl Germany 8.029755 Production 92/43/EEC area Wesseling Germany 0.328367 Production 92/43/EEC area Americana Brazil 0.300699 Production national Etzen-Gesäß Germany 0.039277 Production national Lenzing Austria 0.003585 Production national Mobile USA 6.772000 Production national Morrisburg Canada 1.318957 Production national Portland USA 0.012060 Production national a As of 2015. In 2015, five sites were adjacent to conservation areas that are An Evonik product for the treatment of ballast water makes a protected by the European Union's Directive on the Conservapractical contribution to maintaining biodiversity. Modern tion of Natural Habitats and of Wild Fauna and Flora (Council cargo ships take up to 100,000 metric tons of ballast water Directive 92/43/EEC). Six further sites are adjacent to conseron board to minimize the risk of capsizing during the voyage. vation areas that are regulated by country-specific legislation. In this way, many foreign organisms get into local ecosystems. The next update of these data is scheduled for 2017. This can cause a dramatic reduction in the original local bioOur site in Mobile (Alabama, USA) is close to the Fowl diversity, resulting in economic, ecological and health problems. River. Members of the local management team belong to the Our scientists have developed the PERACLEAN® Ocean Fowl River Forever steering committee that is working on a process to remove potential foreign organisms. The active plan to protect the water quality. All stakeholders are substances decompose into substances that are ecologically involved in order to describe the present situation, identify safe so the treated ballast water can be discharged without problems, define targets, and develop strategies. As members damaging ecosystems. Extensive testing in normal shipping of the steering committee, Evonik employees met with stakeoperations started in 2016. All international tests will be comholders several times in 2016 and played a part in shaping the pleted by mid-2017 and type approval by the US Coast Guard planning process. is expected for early 2018. A 4 km2 wildlife habitat area borders our site in Lafayette (Indiana, USA). Every year, Evonik organizes a butterfly Targets encounter in collaboration with the Purdue University • Reduce specific greenhouse gas emissions by 12 percent Department of Entomology. The general public is invited to in 2013 – 2020 identify and photograph regional butterflies. Entomologists • Reduce specific water intake by 10 percent in 2013 – 2020 also discuss the significance of the habitat for protecting • Reduce hazardous production waste endangered species and other aspects of biodiversity. Purdue University publishes an annual report on the results of the species count in the Evonik Wildlife Habitat Area. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 69 Safety SAFETY Safety and health protection are top TARGETS of our agenda. They have the highest priority, even before sales and profits. Protecting the health and employability of our employees, Product stewardship and preventing accidents and incidents at work, We have set the following global targets for in the operation of our production facilities, product stewardship up to 2020: during transportation and on the way to and from work are of central importance to • Risk estimate for >99% of substances placed on the market in quantities of Evonik. The Safety at Evonik initiative is firmly >1 metric ton p. a. established throughout the Group as part of our safety culture. In this way, we provide clear • Make GPS Safety Summaries available and measurable guidance for the personal conduct • Conduct a far-reaching assessment for all of our employees to prevent accidents and ensure products containing > 0.1% hazardous chemicals the highest standards of safety. of high concern (hChC) TRANSPORTATION SAFETY OCCUPATIONAL AND 4.0 million metric tons (2015: 5.5 million metric tons) PLANT SAFETY Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods 4.1 million metric tons ACCIDENT FREQUENCY Evonik employees (2015: 3.4 million metric tons) 1.0 Outgoing shipments of other goods 1.2 0 (2015: 0) 1.3 Transportation accidents INCIDENT FREQUENCY HEALTH PROTECTION Plant safety Health ratio 55 95.3 % (2015: 95.4 %) 43 Occupational Health Performance Index 5.3 48 5.5 Long-term target ≥ 5.0 Actual 2015 Actual 2016 Target Target achieved Page Topic | GRI indicators 70 Occupational and plant safety | G4-14, G4-16, G4-EN26, G4-EN27, G4-EN30 72 Health protection 74 Transportation safety and logistics | G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA8, G4-PR1 75 Product stewardship | G4-PR3, G4-SO2 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Occupational and plant safety to implementing a safety culture in all areas of occupational and transportation safety. In 2014 we developed binding principles Safety and health protection have priority over sales and of action, which are grouped in four themes. They define the profits at Evonik. This is confirmed by our materiality analysis appropriate behaviors and provide clear and measurable guidand regular discussions with our stakeholders. Protecting the ance for the personal conduct and leadership of all groups of health and employability of our employees, and preventing employees, from local personnel to our management. All accidents and incidents at work, in the operation of our proemployees worldwide receive training in this. duction facilities, during transportation and on the way to and from work are of central importance to Evonik. We take an Occupational and plant safety in 2016 all-round approach to safety, covering employees, their To review the effectiveness of our safety culture, we asked working situation, products and the general working enviour employees for feedback by including a special safety-­ ronment. related set of questions in our Group-wide employee survey G4-26 In the Evonik Group this is ensured by globally valid policies in 2015. The results were available at the start of 2016 and and operating procedures that are firmly anchored in an intewere intensively analyzed and discussed within the Group. grated management system. Observance of these rules is monThey showed that safety is well-established as a topic itored via a central audit system. At operational level, business-­ throughout the Group and is regarded as very important. No specific implementation is defined by the segments. Steering significant differences were identified between the various bodies at Group level ensure that mission-critical processes Evonik locations. Potential was identified for communication are implemented across the segments (see “The environment”, and involving employees in work on safety issues. To improve Structure of the ESHQ steering bodies, page 59). these aspects, we have introduced a new Safety at Evonik We analyze incidents carefully so we can learn from Toolbox to give our plants access to best practices from them. The lessons learned are communicated in our regular around the Group. Practical work with the toolbox is planned global newsletter “Learning from one another”, which for 2017. reports on topical safety issues. Our binding targets and key We stepped up process safety by integrating the Global performance indicators are used to check implementation of Process Safety Competence Center (GPSC) into the Technolthe requirements and identify the need for further action. ogy & Infrastructure unit. A new risk matrix has been develThe relevant parameters are accident frequency as a measure oped as a central measure. This defines a uniform procedure for of occupational safety and incident frequency as an indicator technical process safety analyses. To guarantee a uniformly of plant safety. high standard for safety concepts on preventing the release of Our crisis and incident management ensures that in the substances, fires and explosions around the world, analyses event of accidents and incidents everything is done to prevent are systematic and risk-based. Support is provided by and limit damage. We also play an active part in the relevant selected, experienced safety experts from the GPSC and the national and international associations. Global Safety Expert Network, which is under the functional The Safety at Evonik initiative is firmly established throughleadership of the GPSC. out the Group as a fundamental management approach geared C24 Framework of the safety culture The behaviors are linked—supporting each other through four common themes across the three groups of employees Theme Everyone Supervisors Managers Standards Follow rules Ensure compliance Set high standards Communication Speak up Encourage the team Communicate openly Risk management Be mindful Promote risk awareness Confront risk Involvement Get involved Involve the team Involve the workforce HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 71 Safety C25 Accident frequency indicator Number of accidents at work per 1 million working hours 2008 1.7 2009 1.2 2010 1.3 2011 1.5 2012 1.4 2013 0.9 2014 1.2 2015 1.0 2016 1.2 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 Accident frequency deteriorated but was There were no fatal accidents at work involving our employees below the ceiling set or contractors’ employees at our sites in the reporting period, Our focus on the safety of employees covers safety on the way nor were there any fatal traffic accidents involving employees to and from work as well as safety at work. Contractors’ on the way to or from work or on business trips. employees working at our sites are also included. In 2016, we The accident frequency indicator for contractors (number achieved our target with an accident frequency rate1 of 1.2 for of work-related accidents involving non-Evonik employees Evonik employees. That was within our defined maximum resulting in absence from work per 1 million working hours) limit of 1.3, but a slight deterioration compared with the preincreased slightly year-on-year to 3.1 (2015: 2.9). vious year (1.0). Discussing the accidents provided valuable pointers for developing and communicating accident prevention measures for the future. C26 Accident frequency indicator, contractors’ employees Number of work-related accidents involving non-Evonik employees resulting in abscence from work per 1 million working hours 2013 3.2 2014 3.6 2015 2.9 2016 3.1 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 Improvement in the incident frequency indicator by reliable concepts for protection. We monitor and evaluate Process safety at our plants is another focus of our global plant safety using the incident frequency indicator,2 which safety initiative. The concepts to prevent fire and the release covers incidents involving the release of substances, fire or of hazardous substances are regularly analyzed in detail. The explosion, even if there is little or no damage (process safety aim is timely identification of risks so we can implement performance indicator defined by the European Chemical appropriate measures to prevent the risks—complemented Industry Council, Cefic). 1 Number of accidents involving Evonik employees per 1 million working hours. This figure includes accidents involving contractors’ employees under Evonik’s direct supervision. 2 Number of incidents per 1 million hours worked in the production facilities operated by the segments, taking 2008 as the reference base (expressed in percentage points: 2008 = 100). 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES This indicator improved considerably to 43 points in 2016 Another common indicator of plant safety is often used in (2015: 55), and was also well within our ceiling of a maxiexternal comparisons. This is defined as the number of mum of 48 points. The measures taken in 2015 and 2016 are ­incidents per 1 million hours worked by all employees in the therefore having an effect. In particular, we will be stepping Group. Evonik’s performance rated by this indicator was 1.0 up the process safety measures introduced in 2016 to support (2015: 1.3). the positive development in 2017 as well. C27 Incident frequency indicator Number of incidents per 1 million hours worked, taking 2008 as the reference base 2008 100 2009 75 2010 76 2011 60 2012 46 2013 50 2014 53 2015 55 2016 43 0 20 40 60 80 100 Targets The key objectives and aspects of our occupational health • We set annual limits for the occupational safety and plant strategy are described in the Evonik Guidelines for Health safety indicators. For 2017 these are: Protection and Promotion. The corporate policy Occupational — Accident frequency rate: max. 1.3 Health and Health Promotion sets binding worldwide stan— Incident frequency, taking 2008 as the reference base: dards for assessing health hazards, occupational medicine, max. 48 emergency medical response, preventive check-ups, work• In addition, we want to revise our management developplace ergonomics, rehabilitation and reintegration, health ment concept on safety and align it to the new requirepromotion in the workplace, and dealing with alcohol and ments drug abuse. There are works agreements on health topics at many of our sites, especially in Germany. In line with statutory requireHealth protection ments, at our German sites we have Occupational Safety Committees that meet at least four times a year to discuss Global management of health protection and promotion at issues relating to occupational safety and the protection of Evonik takes a long-term, holistic approach, covering health. They are composed of employer and employee repreemployees, the working situation, products and the general sentatives, safety specialists, safety officers and occupational working environment. This approach includes high-quality medicine specialists, and cover more than 99 percent of our medical care where necessary, applying ergonomic and employees in Germany. There are also comparable bodies at health-related measures to structure working conditions, and sites outside Germany. a functioning emergency management system at plant level. Fulfillment of the requirements is checked regularly by In addition, we offer a selective range of health promotion corporate audits and regional environment, safety and health measures, which are bundled in the Group-wide well@work (ESH) audits, and through an extensive occupational health initiative. In this way, we help our employees adopt a healthy reporting system. Action is taken if there are indications of lifestyle. scope for improvement or deviations from the applicable guidelines. Where necessary, improvements are suggested or required. As an overriding indicator, we have established an Occupational Health Performance Index. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 73 Safety Emergency medical management In the intermediate term, we aim to establish programs in The Group-wide standard on Medical Incident and Emerthese five basic areas at all sites. There are already health progency Management defines binding basic requirements for motion offerings and measures of various types at almost all emergency medical management at Evonik’s sites. The exact sites around the world. equipment and human resources required at each site depend These basic programs are supplemented by campaigns, on production-related risks and the availability and quality of which concentrate on different topics each year, and general local infrastructure (e. g., emergency services and hospitals). medical check-ups to screen for treatable risk factors and Specific procedures have been defined for accidents ­diseases. The combined focus of the campaigns at our German where employees come into contact with chemicals and sites in the reporting period were diabetes, breast cancer and require special medical treatment. Emergency medical manearly diagnosis of breast cancer, and eyes and eye ­diseases. agement also includes pandemic plans and regular training The North America region also ran a region-wide campaign exercises. An extensive preventive program is in place for on the prevention and early diagnosis of diabetes. employees on business trips and foreign assignments, including At all of our German sites there are interdisciplinary a global emergency management system for medical problems health task forces that concentrate on implementing health and risks to personal safety. management as part of the Group-wide well@work initiative. Workplace-related preventive healthcare Occupational Health Performance Index The results of our hazard assessment help us take suitable The Occupational Health Performance Index comprises six preventive measures to avoid work-related illnesses and parameters—two from each of the following areas: occupahealth problems. Where we identify a heightened risk for tional medicine, health promotion and emergency medical specific employees, technical and organizational measures management—which we consider especially significant for have priority over the use of personal protective equipment. occupational health management. The index also takes Information and training of employees in risks and preventive account of the scope and quality of the measures implemeasures play an important part in avoiding health impairmented. It shows the extent to which internal requirements ments. At preventive medical check-ups, employees receive and targets have been implemented and enables us to meaadvice on their individual health risks and, where necessary, sure progress in the area of occupational health and drive appropriate precautions. forward continuous improvement. The index is calculated Evonik regularly reports on occupational illnesses. The annually. To maintain constant awareness of these issues, in indicator used for this is the Occupational Disease Rate 2016 we decided to define a long-term annual target of ≥ 5.0 (ODR), which is defined as the number of newly identified for this index. In 2016 the performance index was 5.5 compared cases of occupational illnesses per 1 million working hours. with 5.3 in 2015 (maximum: 6.0). The calculation includes all cases recognized in the reporting The Occupational Health Performance Index is currently period, including latent illnesses (i.e., those where the causes calculated for 64 sites around the world, which employ lie well in the past). The ODR was 0.36 in 2016 (2015: 0.30). 87 percent of Evonik’s workforce. For Germany, we also ­calculate a health ratio, which was 95.3 percent in 2016 The well@work company health (2105: 95.4 percent). This is the ratio of target working hours management ­program less sickness-related hours lost to target working hours. In the area of health promotion, Evonik supports long-term programs on exercise, diet, stress and work-life balance, Targets ­substance abuse and avoiding infections. The aim is to • Occupational Health Performance Index ≥ 5.0 encourage employees to adopt a healthy lifestyle. We also • Inclusion of further sites in the calculation of this index offer our employees fit-for-life seminars. These run over several (15 in three years) days and focus on a healthy lifestyle and maintaining longterm well-being and employability. 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Transportation safety and logistics transport units on all means of transportation to ensure validated safety for everyone involved. In 2016 we introduced Safe transportation of goods is extremely important for us. best practice workshops and thus established a uniform We use a uniform process to select logistics service providers ­procedure for securing our products during transportation. for transportation. We also regularly review their perforIn addition, Evonik has started to implement the CTU mance. In keeping with our understanding of sustainability, Code.1 This comes into force on December 1, 2018, along that includes evaluating the Responsible Care® performance with the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code, but of all transportation providers. Our aim is to minimize risk at is already mandatory for the transportation of dangerous all stages, from loading through transportation to unloading. goods in Germany. Risk assessment is an important tool for managing the risks Our experts analyze the transportation risks of products involved in transportation. with elevated risk potential to identify and evaluate safety The standards we set for the transportation of dangerous and environmental risks and introduce measures to minimize goods are even higher than the national and international regthem. Transportation risk analyses are examples of how ulations. In order to be registered by our logistics procurement Evonik puts safe transportation into practice. Alongside a unit for transportation, all logistics service providers have to number of analyses in Germany and elsewhere in Europe in recognize and acknowledge our requirements. These specify 2016, we conducted analyses in the USA, Mexico and China. that, as well as ensuring safety, the transportation of goods The concept for analyzing supply chains includes the followmust be sustainable, and the provider must meet its ecological ing points: as well as social responsibility and comply with all statutory • Identifying critical substances/products provisions. Further, we have defined minimum requirements • Identifying supply chains to be analyzed for customers who collect goods themselves or use their own • Pre-assessment to evaluate supply chains logistics service providers. • Transportation risk analyses In addition, Evonik maintains a close and constant dialogue • Monitoring “critical” supply chains and regions with other chemical companies and with logistics service providers to draw joint lessons from incidents and recommend T32 Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods precautionary measures. in thousand metric tons 2015 2016 a Activities in 2016 Air 0.3 0.3 Our regular truck inspection day, which is not pre-announced, Ocean 384 410 contributes to a continuous reduction in safety shortcomings. Inland waterway 1,081 750 For the third time, extensive checks were carried out on Rail 749 601 trucks at 13 sites. The checks included technical condition, Pipeline 1,814 838b personal protective equipment, securing of loads, labeling Road 1,502 1,426 and drivers. Total 5,531 4,025 Safety and care also have top priority at interfaces between production (storage tanks) and transportation (tankers and containers). To avoid product spillages, which T33 Outgoing shipments of other goods could result in accidents, environmental damage or traffic incidents, it is important to ensure that the numerous filling in thousand metric tons 2015 2016 a and emptying processes in our plants are carried out safely. A Air 3 3 regular week-long campaign on safe filling and emptying Ocean 898 1,106 processes is therefore held at our sites. Regular training of Inland waterway 22 103 employees to raise awareness of hazardous goods and help them meet statutory requirements in the transportation of Rail 173 457 such goods is essential and forms an integral part of Evonik’s Pipeline 16 40b safety culture. Road 2,326 2,369 Securing loads correctly is another important aspect. This Total 3,438 4,078 covers both the operational process of physically securing a Excluding goods collected by customers. loads and developing a strategy to harmonize and standardize b External shipments only. the procedure for securing loads and the equipment required. The aim is to use certified equipment for all types of cargo 1 CTU Code = Code of Practice for Packing of Cargo Transport Units (CTUs). HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 75 Safety The data on the shipment of goods in 2016 differ from those Product stewardship in 2015 as a result of internal harmonization of reporting. As a consequence, goods collected by customers and internal In the chemical industry, product stewardship ranks alongside shipments via pipeline are no longer included. plant, occupational and transportation safety as a vital We are using tracking and tracing systems in selected ­precondition for doing business. It is our “license to operate”. pilot projects. As well as allowing complete monitoring of all Evonik is no exception, as confirmed by the results of our stages in the transportation of hazardous goods, these systems materiality ­analysis. can monitor pressure and product temperature, and respond Through our products and solutions, we aim to make a to leaks. Safety-related data allow preventive action to be measurable contribution to avoiding environmental impact taken quickly to avoid transportation accidents. and enhancing people’s quality of life. That includes timely We use uniform Responsible Care® criteria to evaluate identification and evaluation of the potential health and envitransportation incidents. There were no reportable incidents ronmental risks in our portfolio. We therefore examine the in the shipment of goods in 2016. entire value chain of each of our products—from procurement In January 2016 we started to introduce a global transport of the raw materials to delivery to our industrial customers, management system in the Evonik Group. The benefits are who receive all relevant information on the handling and more flexible planning and greater transparency of process ­disposal of our products. That includes, for example, safety workflows, bringing greater flexibility for our customers as data sheets and technical information sheets. well. At the same time, freight, process and network costs As well as complying with all statutory requirements, such can be reduced. as the European Chemicals Regulation REACH 1 and the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Sustainability in transportation and logistics Chemicals (GHS), product stewardship at Evonik includes The principal ecological impact of the transportation of ­voluntary commitments that go beyond these regulations. goods is the use of fossil fuels. We therefore keep a close eye We have been committed for many years to the internaon protecting the climate and the environment in the transtional Responsible Care® initiative and the Responsible Care® portation of goods. In collaboration with Procurement, our Global Charter of the International Council of Chemical Assooperational logistics staff regularly examine ways of reducing ciations (ICCA), which includes the Global Product Strategy the number of road shipments by optimizing capacity and (GPS). Our long-standing commitment to this was renewed in using multimodal shipment by rail, inland waterway or ocean 2014 by the signature of the Chairman of the Executive Board. freight. This also reduces the impact on communities around The key elements of our product stewardship have been our sites, for example, as a result of noise, exhaust fumes and defined in a Product Policy. To supplement this, an operating vibrations. In 2016, this was aided by improved transportation procedure that was revised in 2016 defines how these commitconcepts, load optimization and pre-loading concepts. In ments are to be implemented within Evonik, together with addition, further action was taken in the area of sustainability. control mechanisms to monitor their observance. For example, strategic suppliers were selected for road transport of packaged goods. We are successfully shifting shipment Responsible handling of chemicals of packaged goods to intermodal transportation. Another In light of the global trade in chemicals and chemical products, example of the measures to enhance sustainability is aligning it is important to encourage broad communication on their the size of ships used to transport gaseous chemicals to safe handling and use. We ensure this through an extensive demand. worldwide information system. This includes information portals, safety data sheets—not just for dangerous prodTargets for 2017 ucts—in more than 30 languages, technical data sheets, GPS • Identify critical products and drive forward the developSafety Summaries, and extensive information on our website. ment of safety standards for their transportation There are also 24/7 emergency hotlines, including a translation • Develop a training concept to implement the CTU Code service, and email addresses. • Check products for potential classification as polymerizable substances 1 REACH = Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Trustful collaboration with our customers Evonik is systematically implementing REACH The life cycle of a product starts with research & development Under REACH, all substances produced, imported or placed and ends with recycling or safe disposal. Our specialist on the market in the EU in quantities of more than 1 metric departments provide advice for our customers at all stages in ton p. a. have to be registered. Evonik supports the aim of the product life cycle, from selection of the raw materials protecting health and the environment in the handling of through dealing with possible toxicological, ecotoxicological chemicals. To implement the complex REACH requirements, and physical chemistry risks and the resulting exposure-based we maintain a close dialogue with our suppliers and customers, risks, regulatory requirements relating to the planned applias well as with industry associations and authorities. cation, right up to transportation and disposal. Where necessary, So far, nearly 70 percent of the substances identified as we give customers training in how to handle our products. being relevant at present have been registered. We will complete all necessary REACH registrations on schedule by the Our chemicals management systems end of May 2018. We evaluate all substances placed on the market (>1 metric Alongside registration, evaluating dossiers and subton p. a.). Particularly dangerous substances are included stances, restriction and authorization are becoming more from lower tonnages. That allows a soundly based assessment important. We constantly compare the substance lists pubof the risks. Where necessary, restrictions are placed on certain lished by the authorities with our own portfolio to ensure usage patterns or, in extreme cases, a complete ban is issued timely identification of any of our substances that are on use in certain products. affected. If such substances are identified, we examine suitEvonik evaluates its substances using its own Chemicals able measures. We also collaborate closely with our customers Management System (CMS). This system, which was develto work out the next steps. In addition, we examine the raw oped in-house, supports us in global product evaluation, materials we procure. If any substances are categorized as analogously to a life cycle analysis. The content of the CMS being of very high concern or are on the list of potential candihas been harmonized with the GPS requirements. Two-thirds dates, we discuss the steps to be taken with our suppliers or of assessments had been completed by the end of 2016, and look for alternatives. We have set up email addresses for all GPS Safety Summaries for more than 150 substances had REACH-related inquiries from customers and suppliers to been made available on our website and the ICCA portal. The ensure they receive timely and full replies. summaries are in English; some are also available in Japanese, REACH will be a focal area of our activities in 2017. We Korean and Chinese. Following the completion of REACH on assume that there will be a significant increase in the number schedule in May 2018, we will focus on publishing further of our substances registered under REACH until complete GPS Safety Summaries. Cefic is working to simplify the fulfillment of the requirements in May 2018. In addition, preparation of these Safety Summaries and Evonik is playing ­follow-on activities are required for those substances that an active part in this. have already been registered (test proposals, evaluations, etc.). As an extension of the CMS, our Chemicals Management The regulatory requirements for chemicals are also rising SystemPLUS is used for products containing substances of very steadily in many other regions. The Evonik Group will therehigh concern. These are subject to a more detailed examination fore be driving forward global product stewardship through to bring about a further reduction in the negative impact on its own task force. people and the environment. In the reporting period, around 1 percent of our products met the criteria for evaluation on The Globally Harmonized System (GHS) the basis of CMSPLUS. The Globally Harmonized System of Classification and LabelIn addition, we play an active role in many national and ling of Chemicals (GHS) initiated by the United Nations clasinternational associations and initiatives that are driving forsifies dangerous goods and substances for labeling on packward scientifically based risk assessment. aging and in safety data sheets. Evonik ensured timely implementation of the GHS requirements in the European Union in 2015. The GHS is still not applied uniformly around the world. We have therefore set up an in-house database to gather information on progress, changes and national requirements for internal communication. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 77 Safety Nanotechnology through conventional chemical synthesis. Such products have Nanotechnology is a generic term for a wide range of developto be registered before they can be produced and placed on ments and innovations. Their common feature is the investithe market. That requires detailed explanations of the producgation, production and use of minute structures measuring tion processes and the micro-organisms used as well as safety around 1 to 100 nanometers. Evonik has decades of experience aspects. We have issued guidelines on safe and responsible of producing nanostructured materials. We handle the assouse of biotechnology. In this way, we meet demands of our ciated technologies responsibly and utilize the possibilities customers and the general public for transparent action and they offer. Nanomaterials can make a substantial contribution communication, and stringent risk prevention. to environmental protection and climate protection through new products and efficient system solutions for our customers. Animal protection For example, we see considerable opportunities in new We need toxicological and ecotoxicological data to assess the materials for high-end batteries and energy-saving applications safety of our products. As the first step, we examine all alterin the construction sector. natives in detail (QSAR, read-across, literature, non-animal In our measures to protect employees, customers and testing). Various task forces have therefore been set up, for consumers when handling nanomaterials, we are guided by example to pool expertise in in-silico methods and evaluate the latest scientific research findings on hazards and risk evalin-vitro methods for the skin sensitization endpoint. For uation and by epidemiological and toxicological studies. instance, in 2016 we entered into a cooperation agreement Evonik also supports the establishment of new methods of with Epithelix for the development of an in-vitro method for investigation aligned to the specific effects of nanomaterials, the respiratory sensitization endpoint. which refine the evaluation of risks. For example, we are Despite this, from a scientific and legal perspective, tests involved in the OECD Working Party on Manufactured on animals are often the only way to meet the necessary data Nanomaterials, where we work closely with leading research requirements. Evonik only arranges for animal tests to be institutes. We are also involved in various research projects performed by test institutes that are validated in accordance such as NanoScreen and NanoToxClass. These are investigatwith the applicable national and international legal provisions ing, for example, the potential impact of the release of nanoand ensures that they meet animal protection standards. As a materials from products. In this context, we are working with responsible company, we have also drawn up our own animal the ECETOC 1 Nano Task Force. We are also continuously protection guidelines. investigating the potential hazards and safe handling of these materials. The results of our research are communicated Targets openly and transparently to our stakeholders. Representatives We have set the following targets for product stewardship of Evonik take part in the German government's NanoDialog, for the period up to 2020: where experts from industry, science, authorities and industry • Establish a risk estimate for > 99% of substances that are associations discuss the opportunities and risks of nanotechplaced on the market in quantities of >1 metric ton p. a. nology. (Chemicals Management System, CMS). • Make GPS Safety Summaries for these substances availBiotechnology able via the Evonik website and the ICCA’s GPS portal Evonik utilizes the opportunities offered by biotechnology (CMS). for efficient and environmentally compatible production pro• Conduct a more far-reaching assessment using defined cesses and innovative products. We use micro-organisms for criteria for all products containing >0.1% hazardous biocatalysis processes and fermentative production processes. chemicals of high concern (hChC), for example, CMR 2 Biotechnology is used to produce essential amino acids, pro1A/1B chemicals and PBT 3 chemicals (CMSPLUS). biotics, nutritional supplements and pharmaceutical and cosmetic ingredients that are difficult or impossible to access 1 ECETOC = European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals. 2 CMR = carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic for reproduction. 3 PBT = persistent, bioaccumulative, toxic. 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES SOCIETY Social commitment has a firm place in Evonik’s corporate culture and our understanding of values. Essentially, we make a distinction between donations and sponsorship activities. An important element in this is donating funding to the Evonik Foundation, which enables it to realize or support not-for-profit projects. Established in 2009 as the successor to the former Degussa Foundation, its roots lie in providing support for the development of young scientists. Since 2015, the Evonik Foundation has supported charitable and church-related undertakings as well as not-for-profit activities. DONATIONS AND SPONSORSHIP of public projects in 2016 In 2016 the Evonik Group provided a total of € 10.3 million for donations and sponsorship projects. The Evonik Group and the Evonik Foundation used this budget principally to fund education & science, social projects, the arts, sport, and other projects and activities. ASSISTANCE FOR REFUGEES since 2015 Other 4 % a The Evonik Foundation Sport 15 % b The arts 38 % sets a clear ­example for the integration of ­refugees. It has so far been ­involved in over 90 projects that have provided Social support for more than projects 15 % 13,000 refugees. Most of the funding is for language tuition, training and employment initiatives. Education & science 28 % For more information C28 please visit: www.evonik-stiftung.de/en a Includes donations of € 220,000 to political parties in Germany: € 90,000 to the CDU/CSU, € 90,000 to the SPD, € 20,000 to Bündnis 90/Die Grünen, and € 20,000 to the FDP (total amounts in each case). b Excludes sponsorship of the Borussia Dortmund soccer club. Page Topic | GRI indicators 78 Donations and sponsorship | G4-EC7, G4-SO6 79 The Evonik Group 80 Evonik Foundation HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 79 Society Social commitment has a firm place in Evonik’s corporate cul• Social projects ture and our understanding of values. We regard it as our  Intact communities and solidarity make societies viable and contribution to the sustainable development of society. worth living in. One special goal is therefore supporting Essentially, we make a distinction between donations and people in difficult circumstances. We therefore provide sponsorship activities.1 Our active responsibility and the perfunding for the Evonik Foundation, for example, to enable it sonal commitment of our employees around the world provide to initiate and support projects and initiatives for refugees. important social impetus in and around our sites. In addition, the Evonik Group provides humanitarian assistance in the wake of natural catastrophes. • The arts How we live our social commitment Our commitment to culture and the arts has grown out of our core competency “creativity”. We are convinced that Our sponsorship is aligned to Evonik’s four core competenencounters with culture and the arts contribute to the cies—creativity, specialization, self-renewal, and reliability. ongoing development of society, and foster diversity and We normally only sponsor projects and initiatives that fit our an open and tolerant co-existence—values that we live core brand. Moreover, our aim is to foster the positive develdaily in our company. opment of society through our sites around the world. Within • Sport binding strategic guidelines, our operating units therefore Sport creates bonds that transcend cultural, social and support projects tailored to the regions and sites where they ­language barriers. It fosters tolerance and respect and operate. therefore makes a contribution to peaceful coexistence. The work of the Evonik Foundation is an important eleEvonik therefore supports both popular sports activities, ment in how we put our social responsibility into practice. In and elite sports. keeping with its mission, this company-related foundation focuses its activities on four principal themes: young people, science, Germany, and integration. The Evonik Foundation The Evonik Group only provides scholarships and donations for projects and organizations based in Germany. In addition to this, it impleOur social commitment creates social values. In the long ments its own projects. term, we expect this to be beneficial for our company. Overall, Evonik concentrates its social commitment on the following areas: Education & science • Education & science Our goal is to interest young people, in particular, in science.  Education and science are prerequisites for the progress That is why we set up the Young Spirit program: Evonik and prosperity of society as a whole. Evonik and the Evonik employees visit preschools and elementary schools to interest Foundation therefore support education at all levels—from children in scientific phenomena through hands-on experipreschool, elementary and secondary schools to university ments. More than 200 employees take part in this initiative. degrees (including doctoral degrees), as well as vocational In view of its success in Germany, we have now extended the and specialist training. For many years, we have also been Young Spirit program to many other regions. involved in programs that give young people opportunities to prepare for work. 1 Further information on our policy on donations and sponsorship can be found in the “Governance and compliance” section of this report. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Another high-profile educational project is the Evonik Cyber The arts Classroom. Our partner schools around the world use this Evonik fosters diversity in society through a wide range of virtual classroom to make scientific relationships clearer with cultural projects. In 2016, we agreed a five-year partnership the aid of 3D technology. In 2016, we upgraded and improved with the conductor Thomas Hengelbrock and the Balthasar-­ the technical basis for internet access to the content, which is Neumann choir and ensemble. Moreover, we donated a available in ten languages. In addition, Evonik presented the statue of the composer Ludwig van Beethoven by the sculptor Cyber Classroom at Nauka 0 +, the Russian science festival Markus Lüpertz to Singapore. We also continued our tradifor children and young people in Moscow, which attracted tional partnerships, for example with the Ruhr Festival in around 800,000 visitors. In 2017, the Cyber Classroom will Recklinghausen, the Küppersmühle museum in Duisburg, and be introduced at various partner schools in China. the intonations chamber music festival in Berlin. In addition, In the USA, Evonik supported the You Be The Chemist we supported the film of Ralf Rothmann’s novel “Young program run by the Chemical Educational Foundation (CEF), Light”. which is also aimed at school kids. In Belgium, we supported the Brainshake 2016 knowledge quiz organized by Antwerp Sport universities and colleges. In the spirit of good neighborly relations, Evonik promotes sport at many of its sites around the world. One example is Social projects the Evonik Sportpark in Marl (Germany), which was opened Evonik’s social commitment has two main focuses. On the in 2016. This modern sports complex is used by local clubs as one hand, we want to be a reliable partner and good neighwell as by company employees who take advantage of our bor for the communities around our sites. We therefore get sports and health promotion programs. involved with schools and local welfare projects. In the state of As a sponsor of the German professional soccer club Louisiana (USA), where Evonik has two production facilities, Borussia Dortmund, we are particularly interested in projects we supported the victims of a catastrophic flood that left that combine sports and culture. In the light of this, we supmany people homeless in 2016. Alongside all of this, Evonik ported the production of the cinema documentary “You’ll has set up a large number of projects around the world to never walk alone”, which looks at the Jewish cultural history improve environmental quality around our sites. For example, behind this well-known soccer anthem. employees at our Map Ta Phut site in Thailand regularly help clean local beaches. Our activities also include projects with broad social releEvonik Foundation vance. Since 2016 Evonik has provided support for the extension and conversion of the Jewish Museum in Frankfurt The Evonik Foundation is based in Essen (Germany). Estab(­Germany). In parallel with this, collaboration with the Jewish lished in 2009 as the successor to the former Degussa museums in Berlin and Frankfurt was stepped up. That ­Foundation, its roots lie in providing support for the developincluded presenting a book about Jewish soccer clubs in the ment of young scientists. The Evonik Foundation’s statutes Nazi era, and readings by actors Johanna Wokalek and Joachim were extended in September 2015 and it can now support Król from the “Ma’asse” book. We also agreed free tours of charitable and church-related undertakings as well as not-forboth museums for fans of the Borussia Dortmund soccer profit activities. team. In this way, we support our sponsorship partner’s work One focus of the Evonik Foundation is granting scholarto counter right-wing radicalism. ships for scientific research, especially doctoral degrees. Its scholarships have an excellent reputation—especially because they foster a close link between scientific theory and practice. Elements include regular meetings for scholarship students, scientific colloquia, and a mentoring program. In 2016, the Evonik Foundation supported 18 particularly gifted and committed science students at 16 universities in Germany and in collaboration with foreign universities. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 81 Society Another key project is the Germany Scholarship program. award. The variety of the projects for refugees shows what The Evonik Foundation finances 200 scholarships, making it successful integration in schools, universities, companies, and one of the biggest sponsors of this program, which was initithe local community can look like.1 ated by the German Ministry of Education and Research. Enthusiasm and enjoyment of science can be awakened in Scholarships are awarded to support students who demonchildren at elementary school. Some years ago, the Evonik strate strong social commitment as well as a good academic Foundation therefore launched Professor Proto’s Fantastic record. Institute in collaboration with scholarship students. This webIn addition, the Evonik Foundation awards scholarships based learning platform has been developed constantly since specifically to refugees in cooperation with the Ruhr University then. Professor Proto provides insights into the fascinating in Bochum (RUB). This program targets young men and world of chemistry through exciting experiments and videos. women who wish to embark on a degree course in engineering, Since 2016, the Evonik Foundation also provided support science or business studies at RUB, or to continue a course for KEMIE, a project organized by RUB where parents and they had started in their home country. They receive monthly children experience chemistry together. The aim is to give financial support to enable them to obtain a bachelor's or children in the third to sixth grades an early introduction to master’s degree. The Evonik Foundation also pays their social science. The children visit RUB once a month with one of their security contributions and the cost of educational materials. parents and perform experiments under the professional This is the first project of its kind in Germany. guidance of educational specialists. The Evonik Foundation is also involved in a wide range of In collaboration with Utho Ngathi Südliches Afrika e. V., a other integration projects for refugees. With the support of not-for-profit organization based in Siegen (Germany) and Evonik’s sites, the Evonik Foundation has so far reached out Johannesburg (South Africa), the Evonik Foundation encourto more than 13,000 refugees through some 90 projects. ages the integration of young people with disabilities in Examples include funding to upgrade the outdoor area at southern Africa. Utho Ngathi works with the young people, a housing facility for asylum seekers in Haltern am See their families and village communities to improve their quality (­Germany). Thanks to the project, the area has been turned of life. The focus is on economic self-help projects. One of into a versatile space that fosters communication and encounUtho Ngathi’s key projects is building and operating an inclusive ters between residents and the local community. In Hanau chicken farm in Macubeni (South Africa). (Germany), the Evonik Foundation supports the OASE café, which was opened at the end of 2015 as a meeting point for refugees and local inhabitants. In December 2016 the project was presented with the Hanau municipality’s integration 1 Further information on the work of the Evonik Foundation can be found on the foundation’s website at www.evonik-stiftung.de/en. 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES ANNEX Overview of targets for 2017 and beyond 83 About this report 84 Major sites 86 Awards and accolades 2016 87 G4 content index of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) including the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) 88 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 100 Glossary102 List of tables and charts 104 Credits106 Key figures for the Evonik Group 107 HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 83 T34 Overview of targets for 2017 and beyond Our sustainability strategy is geared to integrating sustainability even more firmly into our operating units and establishing it in our regions. The following targets are intended to play a central part in this. Planned deadline Strategy and growth Ongoing development of methods and indicators for sustainable portfolio management 2017 Analysis of sustainability requirements in individual markets and regions 2017 Harmonization of internal sustainability reporting processes and monitoring systems 2017 Governance and compliance Female Executive Board members: ≥ 20 % or 25 % a 2017 ff. Supervisory Board: ≥ 30 % female and ≥ 30 % male members 2017 ff. Women at the first and second management levels below the Executive Board: 20 % at each level b Year-end 2019 Antitrust law: draw up a risk roadmap for all business lines and define measures 2017 Code of Conduct: introduce an externally managed whistleblower system 2017 Employees Establish a learning strategy for the ongoing development of various employee groups 2017 Roll out our updated employer branding campaign 2017 Conduct an annual pulse check of the employee survey 2017 Value chain and products Structured presentation of the sustainability performance of the business lines in the chemical segments 2017 Extend life cycle assessments to approx. 80 % of the external sales of our chemical segments 2017 Conduct at least 20 supplier sustainability audits under the shared audit principle of the Together for Sustainability initiative 2017 ff. Continue the analysis of suppliers of critical raw materials through TfS self-assessments. Evaluate the sustainability performance of 90 % of suppliers of critical raw materials by 2020 (status at year-end 2016: 74 %) 2020 In collaboration with our customers and suppliers, we aim to further extend our portfolio of RSPO certified palm oil derivatives 2017 We aim to generate over € 1 billion additional sales in the six R&D growth fields we have identified 2025 c Increase sales of products and applications developed in the past five years The environment Reduce specific greenhouse gas emissions by 12 % (reference base: 2012) 2013 – 2020 Reduce specific water intake by 10 % (reference base: 2012) 2013 – 2020 Further reduction in production waste, including hazardous production waste 2013 – 2020 Safety Accident frequency rate ≤ 1.3 2017 Incident frequency rate ≤ 48 (reference base 2008 = 100) 2017 Revise the management development concept on safety 2017 Occupational Health Performance Index ≥ 5 2017 ff. Include further sites in the calculation of the Occupational Health Performance Index (15 in three years) 2017 – 2019 Identify critical products and drive forward transportation safety standards 2017 Draft a training concept to implement the CTU Code d 2017 Check products for potential classification as polymerizable substances 2017 Establish a risk estimate for > 99 % of substances placed on the market in quantities of > 1 metric ton p. a. By 2020 Make GPS Safety Summaries available via the Evonik website and the ICCA’s GPS portal By 2020 Conduct a more far-reaching assessment of all products containing > 0.1 % hazardous chemicals of high concern (hChC) By 2020 a 20% up to June 30, 2017; 25% from July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2022. b So far 8% at the first management level below the Executive Board and 18.8% at the second management level. c From 10 % in 2016 to 16 % in the mid term. d CTU Code = Code of Practice for Packing of Cargo Transport Units. 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES About this report Evonik’s Sustainability Report 2016 six areas of action are summarized in a new overview (“SusThis is the ninth full Sustainability Report published by tainability indicators for the Evonik Group”), supplemented Evonik. The report covers the 2016 fiscal year (January 1 to by tables showing the attainment of our objectives in 2016 and December 31, 2016), except where otherwise indicated, and our targets for the future (see inside front cover and page 83). is based on Evonik’s organizational structure in 2016. The aim In addition, this report contains more tables and charts than is to give our customers, employees, owners and the general the previous edition in order to enhance the information conpublic an insight into how we run our business and live our tent and the transparency of our sustainability activities. values. The Sustainability Report supplements the ecological This Sustainability Report is also Evonik’s progress report and societal aspects included in the Annual Report 2016. The for the UN Global Compact. next Sustainability Report will be published in 2018. Scope of reporting, limits and data capture Method Our data cover the relevant companies worldwide that were G4-22 G4-23 In this report on 2016, we have once again applied the GRI included in the scope of consolidation for the consolidated G4-23 G4 Guidelines in accordance with the “core” option. Further, financial statements of Evonik Industries AG for the period this report takes account of the ten principles of the UN from January 1 through December 31, 2016. The consolidated Global Compact. financial statements are prepared in accordance with the We validated our materiality analysis in 2016 and conInternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Alongfirmed its relevance. The scope and depth of this Sustainability side Evonik Industries AG, they include all material German G4-22 Report are aligned even more systematically to materiality and foreign subsidiaries directly or indirectly controlled by than in the past. The reporting structure is therefore consistently Evonik Industries AG. Joint operations are included on a pro rata based on the six sustainability areas of action derived from basis. Material associates and joint ventures are recognized at our materiality analysis, which form the basis of our sustainequity if we are able to exert a significant influence. Initial ability activities: “strategy and growth”, “governance and consolidation or deconsolidation takes place as of the date on compliance”, “employees”, “value chain and products”, “the which the company gains or loses its controlling influence. environment”, and “safety”. In view of the increasing signifiIn fiscal 2016 the Evonik Group comprised 45 German and G4-22 cance of governance and compliance, the associated content 110 foreign companies. Reporting focuses on the continuing G4-18 has been combined in a separate chapter, supplemented operations. Relevant data on personnel and social indicators G4-23 among other things by comments on sustainability-related are based largely on the global SAP HR information system. For opportunities and risks. These comments supplement the supplementary information, we use the HR information information in the opportunity and risk report in Evonik’s ­collector application (SAP notes management). The focus of Annual Report 2016. Reporting on other, less material elements our reporting and thus limits of our report are derived princihas been streamlined. Information about our activities along pally from the sustainability topics derived from our materiality the value chain and our products, which was previously analysis and the associated six areas of action. spread throughout the report, is now bundled in a separate The ecological data for our specialty chemicals business in chapter. 2016 comprise emissions and consumption at 89 production The recommendations made in the independent practisites in 25 countries and thus cover over 95 percent of total tioner’s limited assurance report on the Sustainability Report output. Occupational safety data include other small sites 2015 have been taken up in the structure of our corporate (mainly administration), so the data here cover 134 locations responsibility steering bodies and optimization of our stakein 42 countries. The data were ­compiled using sustainability holder management. Each chapter contains a clearer outline reporting software developed specifically for this purpose of our management approach and highlights the targets we (SuRe 2.0), which was technically updated and successfully have set. The most important performance indicators for our introduced in 2016. The reporting segments reflect Group and segment interests in order to provide a detailed reflection of production activities. In some cases, data are reported at plant level to ensure this. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 85 All reporting units are clearly coded to allocate them to orgaAcquisitions, capacity expansions and new facilities are recognizational and business entities and geographical region. This nized as soon as possible. However, if the facilities are only allows consolidation at management and legal entity level as acquired at the end of a fiscal year or new plants have not yet well as a detailed regional analysis of the data. The ecological come into service or are at an early stage of start-up, inclusion data are updated annually without taking changes in the of environmental aspects in the Sustainability Report can Group into account. The prior-year figures are not adjusted for normally only start in the following year. changes in the portfolio of companies consolidated. The figures for each company are included in full, without adjustment to Updated data reflect Evonik’s stake in them. Our ESH data are constantly checked by a large number of G4-22 The key data in this report are rounded in line with staninternal and external audits. In addition, large amounts of dard commercial practice. In some cases, this may mean that data have to be reported to national authorities. In most cases, individual values do not add up exactly to the totals given and their submission and approval dates are later than the internal percentages are not an exact reflection of the values stated. deadline for Evonik’s ESH data. To enhance efficiency, we This report is published in English and German and is posted endeavor to use a single set of data for both internal and on Evonik’s website. To ensure it is up-to-date, we have external reporting. Since internal and external audit findings included all relevant data available to us as of the editorial are examined for any possible change in ESH indicators, our deadline on February 28, 2017. databases are naturally subject to dynamic change. If such adjustments reveal discrepancies of more than 3 percent Major divestments/acquisitions of relevance for compared with published data for prior periods, (principle of ESH in 2016 materiality), the data are corrected and indicated accordingly. G4-22 On March 3, 2016 Evonik acquired all shares in MedPalett AS If the English version of this report differs from the German G4-23 (MedPalett), Sandnes (Norway) from Biolink Group AS, version, the statements and phrasing of the original German Sandnes (Norway). Medpalett specializes in food ingredients shall prevail. containing anthocyanins, which are known for their natural antioxidant properties. External review On July 4, 2016 Evonik acquired the probiotics business of The chapters titled “Strategy and growth”, “Governance and G4-23 NOREL S.A. (NOREL), Madrid (Spain), one of the world’s compliance”, “Employees”, “Value chain and products”, “The leading suppliers of feed additives, through an asset deal. The environment” and “Safety” were subject to a limited assurance acquisition comprises the existing probiotics product portfolio review by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafts­ and the production site in León (Spain). This acquisition posiprüfungsgesellschaft (indicated by ). The independent practions Evonik as an innovative solution provider in the field of titioner’s limited assurance report is printed on page 100. antibiotic-free animal nutrition. Effective August 31, 2016, Evonik acquired the business of biotech company Transferra Nanosciences Inc. (Transferra), Burnaby (Canada) through an asset deal. Transferra is a contract development and manufacturing organization that uses its expertise in liposomal drug delivery systems to provide both products and services to biotech companies for the development of pharmaceuticals. This acquisition enables Evonik to extend the portfolio of its Health Care Business Line in the area of parenteral drug formulation. These acquisitions have been integrated into the Nutrition & Care segment. They also had an impact on product streams, and the emissions and consumption data. 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Major sites T35 Major sites a Employees 2014 2015 2016 Germany Marl 6,923 6,939 6,988 Hanau-Wolfgang 3,385 3,391 3,561 Essen 2,435 2,447 2,510 Darmstadt 1,691 1,736 1,712 Wesseling 1,334 1,358 1,385 Other European countries Antwerp (Belgium) 1,007 1,029 1,044 Slovenská Ľupča (Slovakia) 251 247 248 Ham (France) 209 192 196 Gramatneusiedl (Austria) 165 157 144 Kaba (Hungary) 124 124 128 North America Mobile (Alabama, USA) 731 789 830 Lafayette (Indiana, USA) 544 570 606 Parsippany (New Jersey, USA) 409 415 423 Greensboro (North Carolina, USA) 205 188 164 Birmingham (Alabama, USA) 110 114 159 Central and South America São Paulo (Brazil) 197 206 217 Castro (Brazil) 99 107 102 Americana (Brazil) 70 85 98 Mexico D.F. (Mexico) 64 76 79 San José (Costa Rica) – – 64 Asia-Pacific Shanghai (China) 1,418 1,448 1,446 Singapore (Singapore) 523 496 562 Nanping (China) 370 353 418 Nanning (China) 357 369 367 Dombivli (India) – 275 279 Middle East/Africa Midrand (South Africa) 28 44 50 Umbogintwini (South Africa) 30 32 30 Teheran (Iran) 14 17 23 Dubai (United Arab Emirates) 19 20 22 Elandsfontein (South Africa) 7 16 18 As of December 31. a The list covers about 70 percent of Evonik employees. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 87 Awards and accolades 2016 T36 Awards and accolades a Awards and accolades Products and projects Presented by Evonik Industries AG German Sustainability Germany’s Top 5 sustainable ­large Stiftung Deutscher Nachhaltigkeitspreis Award 2016 corporations Creavis b and German Sustainability Winner with the research project Stiftung Deutscher Nachhaltigkeitspreis Technology & Infrastructure Award for Research 2016 “High-performance process for ­thermoelectric generators” Creavis b IChemE Global Award Development of a new technology Institution of Chemical Engineers for the purification of palm oil (IChemE) Creavis b, Resource ­ Inclusion in the KlimaExpo.NRW Development of an innovative Regional government of North Efficiency and exhibition of climate-related ­insulating system with CALOSTAT® Rhine-Westphalia Performance ­Materials achievements and PLEXIGLAS® Evonik Corporation, Environmental Award Support for environmental Tree Lafayette Tippecanoe Laboratories ­protection  vonik Thai Aerosil Co. Ltd. E IEAT Environmental Maintaining high environmental Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand and Evonik United ­Silica (Siam) Governance (Green Star) standards (IEAT) Ltd. Award  utrition & Care, N  io-based Material of the B REWOFERM® SL 446 nova Institute for Ecology Household Care Year 2016 and Innovation Business Line  utrition & Care, N SEPAWA Innovation Award 2016 REWOFERM® SEPAWA e. V. Household Care Business Line Resource Efficiency,  eyer-Galow Prize for Chemistry M Development of DRIVON™ Gesellschaft Deutscher Chemiker e. V. Oil Additives Business Line with Business Studies 2016 ­technology  roup Works Council of G G  erman Works Council Award Project: “Group Works Council “Arbeitsrecht im Betrieb” journal in Evonik Industries AG 2016 in the category “Innovative 2020 – Innovative succession ­cooperation with the German Trade work by the Works Council” ­planning” Union Confederation (DGB), the ­Otto-Brenner Foundation, Deutsche Betriebsräte-Tag, and AXA Awards from customers N  utrition & Care, B  est Innovation Contributor  pecialty polymer for floor cleaners S Henkel AG & Co. KGaA Household Care Award Laundry & Home Care for use on damaged surfaces Business Line Resource Efficiency Sustainability Award Continuous contribution to the Henkel AG & Co. KGaA Coating & Adhesive ­sustainability of the product and Resins ­Business Line project pipeline at Henkel a Selected awards and accolades. b Evonik’s strategic innovation unit. T37 Ratings and rankings a Ratings and rankings Classification Carbon Disclosure Project •Climate Change A –, Index Leader MDAX •Water B EcoVadis Gold Standard Oekom Research Prime Standard B – Sustainalytics Top 5 in the chemical industry a Selected ratings and rankings. 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES G4 content index of the Global Reporting ­Initiative (GRI) including the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) For 2016, we applied the G4 Guidelines of the Global ReportThe Sustainability Report 2016 was submitted to the GRI ing Initiative in accordance with the “core” level. This index Materiality Disclosures Service. The GRI has verified that the also refers to the corresponding principles of the UN Global materiality disclosures in accordance with G4 (G4-17 – G4-27) Compact. are correctly located. T38 GRI Index and UN Global Compact AR = Annual report; SR = Sustainability Report UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis G4 -1 Statement from the most senior Foreword 2–3 ­decision-maker G4 -2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Strong market positions, a 17 clear culture of innovation, sustainable business activities Principles and objectives, 53 (AR) business management systems Opportunity and risk report 93 – 102 (AR) Sustainability management 25 Organizational profile G4 -3 Name of the organization Credits 106 G4 4 Primary brands, products and services Decentralized corporate structure 19 Market positions 19 G4 -5 Location of the organization’s Credits 106 headquarters G4 6 Countries where the organization About this report 84 has significant operations Global output, reporting based 52; on regions 169 – 170 (AR) G4 -7 Nature of ownership and legal form Evonik on the capital markets 47 (AR) Credits; shareholder structure 106 – 107 G4 -8 Markets served Evonik’s end-markets 48 (SR); 52 (AR) G4 -9 Scale of the organization Key figures for the Evonik Group 107 About this report 84 Balance sheet 120 – 121 (AR) Production inputs and output 51 – 52 6 G4 -10 Employees by employment contract, Diversity/retaining employees; 42 – 43; region and gender further facts and figures 45 – 46 3 G4 -11 Percentage of employees covered by Trustful collaboration 24 – 25 collective bargaining agreements Performance and remuneration 41 HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 89 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments G4 -12 Description of the supply chain Value chain and products 47 – 48 G4 -13 Significant changes during the About this report 84 ­reporting period Major events 57 (AR) Procurement in 2016 50 G4 -14 Precautionary approach or principle Voluntary commitments 35 – 36 House of Compliance 30 Safety 69 G4 -15 Externally developed economic, Voluntary commitments 35 – 36 ­environmental and social charters, Corporate Governance Code 27 – 28 ­principles, or other initiatives which the organization endorses Together for Sustainability 50 G4 -16 Memberships of associations and Voluntary commitments 35 – 36 ­advocacy organizations Product stewardship 75 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4 -17 List of consolidated entities Scope of consolidation and list 141 – 146 (AR) of shareholdings G4 -18 Process for defining the report content Materiality analysis 84 About this report 18, 20 – 21 G4 -19 All material aspects Materiality analysis 20, 21, ­ GRI Index G4 -20 Material aspects within the Value chain 48 ­organization G4 -21 Material aspects outside the Value chain 48 ­organization G4 -22 Effect of restatements of information Six areas of action for 21 and reasons for restatement ­sustainability Systematic identification of 22 stakeholder groups About this report 84, 85 G4 -23 Significant changes in the scope Six areas of action for 21 and aspect boundaries of the report sustainability About this report 84, 85 Stakeholder engagement G4 -24 Stakeholder groups engaged by Evonik’s stakeholder groups 18, 22, 24 the organization G4 -25 Identification and selection of Systematic identification of 18, 20, 22, 24 stakeholders stakeholder groups G4 -26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Intensive dialogue in 2016 24 and frequency of engagement Materiality analysis 18, 20 Employee survey 23, 39, 43, 70 Trustful collaboration 24 – 25 G4 -27 Key topics or concerns raised Materiality analysis 20, 22 – 23 by stakeholders Intensive dialogue in 2016 24 Our products and markets 54 – 55 Customer satisfaction 55 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Report profile G4 -28 Reporting period About this report 84 G4 -29 Date of most recent previous report About this report 84 G4 -30 Reporting cycle About this report 84 G4 -31 Contact point for questions Credits 106 G4 -32 “In accordance” option and GRI Index 88 GRI Content Index chosen About this report 84 G4 -33 Reference to external assurance report About this report 84 Independent Assurance Report 100 – 101 Governance G4 -34 Governance structure, including comOverview of the Executive Board 5 (AR) mittees of the highest governance body Report of the Supervisory Board 28 – 35 (AR) Organization of sustainability 25 management G4 -35 Delegation of authority for economic, Sustainability management 25 environmental and social topics at Evonik Shareholders and the 45 (AR) ­Shareholders’ Meeting Active integration of the 85 (AR) Air Products specialty additives business The environment 58 G4 -36 Executive-level responsibility Overview of the Executive Board 5 (AR) for economic, environmental Sustainability management chart 25 and social topics G4 -37 Processes for consultation Corporate governance 27 between stakeholders and the Organization of sustainability 25 highest governance body management Employee survey 43 – 44, 70 Trustful collaboration 24 – 25 G4 -38 Composition of the highest governance Supervisory Board 28 – 30 (AR), body and its committees 197 – 198 (AR) G4 -39 Independence of the Chair of the Report of the Supervisory 32; highest governance body Board; Corporate Governance 42 – 43 (AR) Report G4 40 Nomination and selection processes Corporate Governance Report; 40 – 41; for the highest governance body Supervisory Board 44 (AR) G4 41 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Report 41 – 43 (AR) G4 42 Highest governance body’s role in Report of the Supervisory Board 28 – 30 (AR) strategies and goals G4 43 Measures to develop and enhance Report of the Supervisory Board 28 – 35 (AR) the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4 44 Evaluation of the highest governance Report of the Supervisory Board 29 – 31 (AR) body’s performance with respect Remuneration report 106 (AR) to governance of economic, environmental and social topics G4 45 Highest governance body’s role Corporate Governance Report; 36 – 45 (AR) with regard to opportunities and Supervisory Board committees risks of relevance to sustainability G4 46 Highest governance body’s role in Corporate Governance Report; 36 – 45 (AR) ­reviewing the effectiveness of risk Supervisory Board committees management HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 91 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments G4 47 Frequency of the highest governance Corporate Governance Report 36 – 45 (AR) body’s review of sustainability-related risks and opportunities Opportunity and risk report 93 – 102 (AR) G4 48 Highest committee that approves the Foreword 2–3 sustainability report Organization of sustainability 25 management G4 49 Process for communicating Whistleblower system 32 critical concerns to the highest Organization of sustainability 25 ­governance body management Employee survey 43 – 44, 70 G4 -50 Critical concerns that were Whistleblower system 32 ­communicated to the highest Report of the Supervisory Board 30 – 31 (AR) ­governance body G4 -51 Remuneration policies for the Remuneration report 112 – 113 (AR) highest governance body and Performance-related 107 (AR), senior executives ­remuneration 171 – 173 (AR) G4 -52 Process for determining remuneration Remuneration report 106 – 113 (AR) Performance-related 171 – 173 (AR) ­remuneration Performance and remuneration 41 G4 -53 Stakeholders’ views regarding Corporate Governance Report 36 – 45 (AR) ­remuneration Website www.evonik. com/annual-­ shareholders-­ meeting G4 -54 Ratio of the annual total Evonik believes it is very compensation for the organization’s ­important to offer specialists highest-paid individual to the and executives market-oriented median annual total compensation and performance-related for all employees ­salaries based on uniform global evaluation criteria. Remuneration is therefore based on objective criteria such as the required knowledge and skills, and ­performance. Personal characteristics do not have any impact. We do not consider this to be a relevant indicator to assess the appropriateness of our ­remuneration systems and therefore do not report it. G4 -55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual See comment on G4-54 total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all ­employees Ethics and integrity 10 G4 -56 Values, principles, standards and Voluntary commitments 35 – 36 norms of behavior Governance and compliance 26 10 G4 -57 Mechanisms for seeking advice on Corporate governance 27 – 28 ethical and lawful behavior House of Compliance 30 10 G4 -58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns Corporate governance 27 – 28 about unethical or unlawful behavior House of Compliance 30 Whistleblower system 32 92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Specific standard disclosures Category: economic Aspect: economic performance 7 G4 -DMA Management approach A good performance in 2016 18 G4 -EC1 Economic value generated and Total value added 18 distributed 7 G4 -EC2 Risks and opportunities posed by Carbon Disclosure Project 64 ­climate change and their financial Opportunities and risks 28 – 29 ­implications Opportunity and risk report 93 – 102 (AR) Climate change and emissions 60 into the air G4 -EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations Defined benefit obligations 159 – 163 (AR) G4 -EC4 Financial assistance received Research & development; 53 Evonik is involved in some from government facts and figures 2016 research activities that receive government assistance. Aspect: market presence 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Employees; Our products and 39; 54 markets 6 G4 -EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Remuneration—Uniform global 42 This indicator is not relevant for gender compared to local minimum evaluation criteria our sector. Evonik believes it is wage at significant locations of operavery important to offer specialtion ists and executives market-­ oriented and performance-­ related salaries based on uniform global evaluation ­criteria. Remuneration is based on objective criteria such as the required knowledge and skills, and performance. Personal characteristics do not have any impact. 6 G4 -EC6 Proportion of senior management Further facts and figures 46 hired locally Aspect: indirect economic impacts G4 -DMA Management approach Strong market positions; 17; 24; 25 ­Intensive dialogue in 2016; ­Organization of sustainability management G4 -EC7 Development and impact of Total value added 18 ­infrastructure investments and Research & development; facts 53 services supported and figures 2016 Vocational training and continu40 – 41 ous professional development Society/Donations and 78 – 81 ­sponsorship G4 -EC8 Significant indirect economic Total value added 18 impacts, including extent of impacts Regional development 69 (AR) Biodiversity 68 Aspect: procurement practices G4 -DMA Management approach Procurement and sourcing 49 G4 -EC9 Proportion of spending on local Procurement in 2016 50 ­suppliers Category: environmental Aspect: materials 7, 8 G4 -DMA Management approach Value chain and products 48 7, 8 G4 -EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Production inputs and output 51 – 52 HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 93 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: energy 7, 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 58, 60 7, 8 G4 -EN3 Energy consumption within the Energy inputs 60 ­organization Aspect: water 7, 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 58, 64 – 65 7, 8 G4 -EN8 Total water withdrawals by source Water management 65 8 G4 -EN10 Water recycled and re-used Water management 64 – 65 Aspect: biodiversity 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 58, 68 8 G4 -EN11 Operational sites owned/leased in Biodiversity 68 or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity outside ­protected areas Aspect: emissions G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 58; 60 – 61 7, 8 G4 -EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Climate change and emissions 60 into the air 7, 8 G4 -EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions Climate change and emissions 60 – 61 (Scope 2) into the air 7, 8 G4 -EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions Climate change and emissions 63 (Scope 3) into the air Evonik Carbon Footprint 62 8 G4 -EN18 GHG emissions intensity Climate change and emissions 60 into the air 8, 9 G4 -EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate change and emissions 62 into the air 7, 8 G4 -EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting Other emissions into the air 64 substances 7, 8 G4 -EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air Other emissions into the air 64 emissions Aspect: effluents and waste 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 58, 64 – 65; 66 – 67 8 G4 -EN22 Total water discharge by quality Water management 64 – 66 and destination 8 G4 -EN23 Total weight of waste by type Waste management 66 – 68 and disposal method Aspect: products and services 7, 8, 9 G4 -DMA Management approach Value chain and products; safety 48, 54 – 55; 75 – 77 7, 8, 9 G4 -EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of Product stewardship; Evonik’s 75 – 77; 55 – 56 ­environmental impacts of products resource-efficient products and services Aspect: compliance 8 G4 -DMA Management approach Compliance 30 8 G4 -EN29 Sanctions for non-compliance with 100, 164; Risks relating to legal disputes ­environmental laws and regulations 187 (AR) and legal proceedings are ­disclosed in the annual report. Aspect: transport 8 G4 -DMA Management approach Safety 74 8 G4 -EN30 Significant environmental impacts Sustainability in transportation 75 of transporting products and logistics 94 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: overall 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 57 8 G4 -EN31 Total environmental protection Environmental protection 59 ­expenditures and investments by type ­investment and operating costs Aspect: supplier environmental assessment 8 G4 -DMA Management approach Upstream: supply chain and 48; 49 products; Procurement and sourcing 8 G4 -EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Validation of suppliers 49 screened using environmental criteria Aspect: environmental grievance mechanisms 8 G4 -DMA Management approach Compliance; The environment 30; 58 8 G4 -EN34 Formal grievance mechanisms for House of Compliance; 30; 32 We report on how we manage ­environmental impacts ­Whistleblower system this issue as part of our compliance and ESHQ management system, but do not explicitly ­detail the number of grievances about ecological impacts. Category: social Sub-category: labor practices and decent work Aspect: employment 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Employees 39 6 G4 -LA1 New hires and employee turnover Attracting employees 40, 46 Employee satisfaction 43 G4 -LA2 Benefits provided to full-time Performance and remuneration 41 – 42 ­employees that are not provided to Employee satisfaction 43 temporary or part-time employees 6 G4 -LA3 Return to work after parental leave Employee satisfaction 44 Aspect: labor/management relations 3 G4 -DMA Management approach Employees 39 3 G4 -LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Trustful collaboration 24 ­operational changes Aspect: occupational health and safety 1, 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Safety 70 G4 -LA5 Percentage of total workforce repreTrustful collaboration 24 sented in formal joint managementHealth protection 72 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4 -LA6 Injury, occupational diseases, days lost Occupational and plant safety 70 – 72 Reporting injuries by gender is and fatalities not material to us and is not permitted in some regions. Our focus is on general prevention, analyzing incidents and the ­lessons that can be learned. Health protection 72 HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 95 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments G4 -LA7 Workers with high incidence or Workplace-related preventive 73 high risk of diseases healthcare Product stewardship 75 – 77 G4 -LA8 Health and safety topics covered in Safety 70; 72 – 73 ­formal agreements with trade unions Aspect: training and education 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Employees 39 6 G4 -LA9 Average hours of training Vocational training and 40 – 41 Our data on advanced training ­continuing professional currently cover around 94 per­development cent of our employees. Drawing a distinction by gender or ­employee category is not significant for us. The hours reported do not include vocational ­training of our approximately 1,700 apprentices. G4 -LA10 Programs to support the continued Vocational training and 40 – 41 ­employability of employees ­continuing professional ­development 6 G4 -LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regLeadership 45 The systematic performance ular performance and career developand development reviews ment reviews ­introduced by Evonik are not restricted by gender or ­employee category. Aspect: diversity and equal opportunity G4 -DMA Management approach Retaining employees/diversity 42 6 G4 -LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Corporate Governance; 27 – 28 (SR); Differentiation by minority breakdown of employees by indicators ­Corporate governance report 40, 44 (AR) groups is not relevant for our of diversity management practices. Aspect: equal remuneration for women and men 6 G4 -LA13 Ratio of basic salary and Performance and remuneration 41 – 42 Evonik believes it is very imremuneration of women to men portant to offer specialists and executives market-oriented and performance-related salaries based on uniform global evaluation criteria. Remuneration is based on objective criteria such as the required knowledge and skills, and performance. ­Personal characteristics do not have any impact. Aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices G4 -DMA Management approach Upstream: supply chain and 48 – 49 products G4 -LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Procurement and sourcing; 49 screened using labor practices criteria ­Validation of suppliers; Together for Sustainability G4 -LA15 Significant negative impacts for Procurement and sourcing; 49 We do not report in detail on labor practices in the supply chain ­Validation of suppliers; negative impacts on labor and actions taken Together for Sustainability ­practices identified in the ­assessment of our suppliers. We report on the findings as part of the evaluation process. 96 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: labor practices grievance mechanisms G4 -DMA Management approach Compliance; Employees 30; 35 G4 -LA16 Formal grievances relating to labor House of Compliance; 30; 32 practices ­Whistleblower system Human rights 37 Sub-category: human rights Aspect: non-discrimination 6 G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance; 30; 35 ­Employees 6 G4 -HR3 Total cases of discrimination and Internal investigations; ­31 – 32; 37 ­measures taken Human rights Aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining 2, 3 G4 -HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in Trustful collaboration 24 – 25 In the reporting period, we did which the right to exercise freedom of not become aware of any association and collective bargaining ­restrictions in freedom of assomay be violated or at significant risk ciation or collective bargaining. and measures taken House of Compliance; 30; 35 ­Employees Human rights 37 Procurement and sourcing; 49 ­Validation of suppliers Aspect: child labor 2, 5 G4 -HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as House of Compliance; 30; 35 having significant risk for incidents of ­Employees child labor and measures taken Human rights 37 Procurement and sourcing; 49 ­Validation of suppliers Aspect: forced or compulsory labor 2, 4 G4 -HR6 Operations and suppliers identified Human rights 37 as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and ­measures taken Procurement and sourcing; 49 ­Validation of suppliers Aspect: security practices 1 G4 -HR7 Percentage of security personnel House of Compliance; 30; 35 We do not report on the pertrained in human rights policies or Corporate security centage of security personnel ­procedures that were specifically screened using ­human rights criteria. We report on the screening process. House of Compliance; 30; 35 ­Employees Human rights 37 Aspect: supplier human rights assessment 2 G4 -DMA Management approach Human rights 37 2 G4 -HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Procurement and sourcing; 49 We do not report on the perscreened using human rights criteria ­Validation of suppliers centage of suppliers that were specifically screened using h­ uman rights criteria. We report on the screening procedure. 2 G4 -HR11 Significant negative human rights Procurement and sourcing; 49 We do not report in detail on ­impacts in the supply chain and actions ­Validation of suppliers negative impacts on any violataken tion of human rights criteria identified in the assessment of our suppliers. We report on the findings as part of the evaluation process. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 97 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: human rights grievance mechanisms 1 G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance; 37; 30 Whistleblower system 1 G4 -HR12 Formal grievance on human rights Human rights; Employees 30; 35 We do not report on the number violations of complaints on human rights violations received through ­formal grievance mechanisms. We take up the reason for the grievance in internal procedures and take appropriate action in line with our corporate policies. Sub-category: society Aspect: local communities 1 G4 -SO1 Percentage of operations with Systematic identification of 22 Data are not compiled on the ­implemented local community stakeholder groups percentage of operations as this ­engagement, impact assessments is not relevant for management and development programs purposes. Stakeholder engagement 2016 23 Biodiversity 68 1 G4 -SO2 Operations with possible negative Occupational and plant safety 70 ­impacts on local communities Sustainability in transportation 75 and logistics Climate change and emissions 60 into the air Emissions into water 66 Biodiversity 68 Aspect: anti-corruption 10 G4 -DMA Management approach Compliance 30 10 G4 -SO3 Number and percentage of operations House of Compliance; 30; 31 assessed for risks related to corruption Risk assessment and the risks identified 10 G4 -SO4 Communication and training on House of Compliance; Code of 30 – 31; 33 ­anti-corruption policies and Conduct and fighting corruption procedures Opportunities and risks; 28 – 29 Code of Conduct and fighting corruption 10 G4 -SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption Internal investigations 31 – 32 and actions taken Aspect: public policy 10 G4 -SO6 Total value of political contributions by Donations and sponsorship 37 country and recipient/beneficiary Aspect: anti-competitive behavior G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance 30 G4 -SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive Opportunities and risks 100, 164, Risks relating to legal disputes behavior, anti-trust and monopoly “legal/compliance” 187 (AR) and legal proceedings are practices ­disclosed in the annual report. 98 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: compliance G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance 30 G4 -SO8 Fines and sanctions for Internal investigations; 32 (SR); No significant fines exceeding non-compliance with laws ­Opportunities and risks 100, 164, € 100,000, and no non-­ and regulations “legal/compliance” 187 (AR) monetary penalties were ­imposed on Evonik in 2016 for failure to comply with laws or regulations. Aspect: supplier assessment for impacts on society G4 -DMA Management approach Upstream: supply chain and 48 – 49 products G4 -SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that Procurement and sourcing; 49 We do not report on the were screened using criteria for Validation of suppliers ­percentage of suppliers that impacts on society were specifically screened for impacts on society. We report on the screening procedure. Aspect: grievance mechanisms for impacts on society 2, 3 G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance; 30; 32 ­Whistleblower system 2, 3 G4 -SO11 Grievances on social impacts received House of Compliance; 30; 32 We do not report on the number through formal mechanisms ­Whistleblower system of complaints on impacts on ­society received through formal grievance mechanisms. We take up the reason for the grievance in internal procedures and take appropriate action in line with our corporate policies. Sub-category: product responsibility Aspect: customer health and safety G4 -DMA Management approach Occupational and plant safety; 70; 75 Product stewardship G4 -PR1 Percentage of significant products Product stewardship 75 – 77 Our assessments focus on and services for which health and ­products not services. ­safety impacts are assessed G4 -PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with Annual report 100 – 102 (AR) We do not report on the number ­regulations and voluntary codes of incidents of non-compliance ­concerning the health and safety with regulations and voluntary ­impacts of products codes of conduct relating to the health and safety impact of products and services. Any ­incidents and proceedings are reported in the section on legal risks in the annual report. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 99 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: product and service labeling 7 G4 -DMA Management approach Product stewardship 75 7 G4 -PR3 Type of product and service informaProduct stewardship 76 tion required by the organization’s ­procedures for product and service ­information and labeling, and ­percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4 -PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and Annual report 100 – 102 (AR) Risks relating to legal disputes voluntary codes concerning product and legal proceedings are and service information and labeling ­disclosed in the annual report. Aspect: compliance G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance; Product 30, 34; 75 stewardship G4 -PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance Product stewardship 75 – 76 Risks relating to legal disputes with laws and regulations concerning and legal proceedings are the provision and use of products and ­disclosed in the annual report. services 100 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 1 To Evonik Industries AG, Essen eines IdW Qualitätssicherungsstandards 1 „Anforderungen We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis” engagement on the sections marked with in the Sustain(IdW EQS 1)”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive ability Report of Evonik Industries AG, Essen (hereafter the system of quality control including documented policies and “Company”) for the period from 1 January to 31 December procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 2016 (hereafter the “Sustainability Report”).2 professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Management’s Responsibility Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation Practitioner’s Responsibility and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sections with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting marked with in the Sustainability Report based on our Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter work performed. the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform be assessed. an audit on external sources of information or expert opinions, This responsibility includes the selection and application referred to in the Sustainability Report. of appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainability Report We conducted our work in accordance with the Internaas well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circum(Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or stances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, which is free assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether of material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional any matters have come to our attention that cause us to errors. believe that the sections marked with in the Sustainability Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control accordance with the GRI-Criteria. We have complied with the German professional provisions In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is professional standards – in particular the Professional Code obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte BuchThis includes the assessment of the risks of material misstateprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Institut der Wirtschaftsments of the information marked with in the Sustainability prüfer (“Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW”): Report with regard to the GRI-Criteria. Requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Entwurf 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Sustainability Report. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German―the German text is authoritative. 2 Our engagement refers to the German version of the Sustainability Report. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 101 Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations the following procedures: Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the • Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustain­following recommendations for the further development of ability organization and of the stakeholder engagement; the Company’s sustainability management and sustainability • Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the reporting: Report regarding the preparation process, the underlying • Further development of management approach and internal control system and the Sustainability Report secreporting for the material sustainability issues, e. g. by tions marked with ; consistently connecting those KPIs with (ideally quantified) • Analytical procedures on selected information of the targets as well as with measures for achieving the targets; ­Sustainability Report; • Further standardization and formalization of the reporting • Comparison of selected sustainability information with process and the underlying internal control system for corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements sustainability information. and in the group management report; • Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability Restriction on Use and Distribution information in the Report regarding the sustainability perWe issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed formance; with Evonik Industries AG. The review has been performed • Performance of site visits or web conferences as part of for purposes of the Company and is solely intended to inform the inspection of processes for collecting, analyzing and the Company about the results of the review. The report is not aggregating selected data at the corporate headquarters in intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision Essen, as well as at selected sites or group companies in thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third Darmstadt (Germany), Marl (Germany), Singapore, parties. Bekasi (Indonesia) and Gibbons (Canada); • Gaining further evidence for selected data of the SustainMunich, April 20, 2017 ability Report due to inspection of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports from external service PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH ­providers. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Conclusion Hendrik Fink ppa. Dr. Patrick Albrecht Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has Wirtschaftsprüfer come to our attention that causes us to believe that the (German Public Auditor) ­sustainability information marked with in the Sustainability Report of the Company for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. 102 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Glossary Audit Corporate governance An audit is an investigation used to check that specific products, Corporate governance comprises all principles on the management sites and/or processes meet certain specified criteria. Audits may and supervision of a company. As an expression of good and be performed by internal specialists or external auditors, esperesponsible management, it is therefore a central element in a cially if validation in compliance with official standards is required. company’s management philosophy. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Diversity The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a not-for-profit organiEvonik defines diversity as a balanced employee structure, not zation and is currently the world’s largest and most important just in terms of gender, but also in relation to specialist areas, ­initiative by the financial sector on climate change. It is currently experience of different organizational units and functional areas, supported by more than 800 institutional investors with total a broad age range and various nationalities, in other words, assets under management of over US$ 100 trillion. Companies diversity across the board. report data and information on CO2 emissions, climate risks and reduction targets and strategies to the CDP on a voluntary basis Dodd-Frank Act, Section 1502 once a year. Investors use the data to derive a climate risk profile The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection for companies, which they then use in their investment decisions. Act (known as the Dodd-Frank Act for short) was adopted in 2010. Its prime aim is regulation of the US financial market. Chemie³ ­Section 1502 contains disclosure and reporting requirements for This is a joint initiative of the German Chemical Industry Associlisted US companies on the use of certain minerals originating ation (VCI), the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial from the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring states. Union (IG BCE), and the German Chemical Industry Employers’ Federation (BAVC) to drive forward sustainable development. econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of ­German Business CO2 equivalents (CO2eq) econsense is an association of leading German companies and Parameter used to compare the global warming potential of varorganizations that operate in the global arena. It promotes ious different greenhouse gases. The reference basis is carbon ­sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. dioxide and the abbreviation is CO2eq. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Code of Responsible Conduct for Business The GRI is a global, network-based not-for-profit organization The six principles of the Code of Responsible Conduct for based in Amsterdam. It publishes the world’s most commonly ­Business initiated by the Wittenberg Center for Global Ethics used guidelines on sustainability reporting. The aim is to ensure obligate companies to generate profits without corruption, the comparability of the economic, ecological, social and societal exploitation and environmental damage. performance and impacts of reporting companies. This sustainability report has been prepared on the basis of the specifications Compliance of the GRI G4 Guidelines in accordance with the “core” level. Compliance refers to all activities to ensure that the conduct of a company, members of its governance bodies and its employees Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) respect all applicable mandatory standards such as legal proviThe Greenhouse Gas Protocol is regarded as the most widesions, statutory requirements and prohibitions, in-house policies spread voluntary international standard for calculating and and voluntary undertakings. ­compiling data on greenhouse gas emissions from industry. It was developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Conflict minerals Development and the World Resources Institute. The Dodd-Frank Act defines coltan, cassiterite, wolframite and their derivatives (tantalum, tin, tungsten), and gold as conflict International Labor Standards minerals if they are used to finance armed conflict in the DemoThe International Labour Organization (ILO) and its actions are cratic Republic of Congo and neighboring territories. defined by four basic principles: freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced labor, the abandonment of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. These basic principles are set out in eight conventions with the ILO. These are known as the international labour standards. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 103 Life cycle assessment Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions A life cycle assessment comprises compiling and assessing the To harmonize international reporting of greenhouse gas inputs and outputs and potential environmental impact of a ­emissions in the corporate sector, emissions are allocated to product system during its life cycle, based on a standardized three categories (scopes): direct emissions from a company’s international method (DIN EN ISO 14040/44). Alongside life own plants (Scope 1), indirect emissions from the purchase of cycle assessments, Evonik performs life cycle-based analyses ­secondary energy such as electricity and steam (Scope 2), and with reduced scope to obtain information on specific environemissions from upstream or downstream processes within the mental impacts (e. g., carbon footprints). supply chain (Scope 3). Low Carbon Technology Partnerships Initiative (LCTPi) Stakeholders The LCTPi was set up by the World Business Council for Stakeholders are individuals or groups that have a legitimate ­Sustainable Development to accelerate the development of interest in the activities and decisions of a company or organilow carbon technology solutions. It comprises more than zation. They may be, for example, the company’s employees, 150 companies with 70 partners who are responding collabo­customers, suppliers, people who live close to its production ratively to the c­ hallenges of climate change. facilities, non-governmental organizations, associations and the media. Materiality The GRI G4 Guidelines center on the principle of materiality. Sustainable Development Goals Companies should pay more attention to presenting the material In fall 2015 the United Nations published 17 global sustainable impacts of their business activities. To do this, they need to development goals, to be achieved by 2030. They replace the identify their central areas of action using a systematic materiality eight Millennium Development Goals, which expired in 2015. analysis. The goal is to evaluate the relevance of these topics from the viewpoint of stakeholders and the company. A materiTogether for Sustainability (TfS) ality matrix is derived from the expectations of both groups. TfS is an initiative established in 2011 by chemical companies to drive forward transparency and sustainability in the supply Megatrends chain. Evonik was a founding member. Megatrends are long-term, global societal developments which companies can help to solve through their business activities. UN Global Compact They are far-reaching trends of strategic significance. The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic initiative for companies that undertake to align their business operations and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises strategies with ten universally recognized principles relating The guidelines issued by the Organisation for Economic to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and ­Cooperation and Development (OECD) are government fighting corruption. Companies that join the Global Compact give ­recommendations to multinational enterprises operating an undertaking that they will report annually on their progress. in or from member states. They comprise principles and ­benchmarks for responsible corporate action, but are not Vision 2050 legally binding. The Vision 2050 of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development describes the pathway to achieving a sustainable Responsible Care® world with around 9 billion people living well within the limits Responsible Care® is the global initiative of the chemical industry of the planet by 2050. Companies play a key role in this. to bring about a continuous improvement in environmental protection, health and safety. As well as complying with legislation World Business Council for Sustainable Development and other regulations, the industry cooperates with government The World Business Council for Sustainable Development agencies and other stakeholders in various voluntary initiatives. (WBCSD) is a CEO-led organization that aims to drive forward sustainable development worldwide. More than 200 international Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) enterprises now belong to the WBCSD. The RSPO was established in 2004 at the initiative of the WWF. Its aim is to encourage sustainable production of palm oil and limit environmental damage. Members include non-­ governmental organizations, companies—such as Evonik—and institutions. 104 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES List of tables and charts Tables Charts No. Title Page No. Title Page T01 Our sustainability targets 2016 U3 C01 Corporate structure 17 T02 Sustainability indicators for the Evonik Group U4 C02 Evonik’s resources and value contributed in 2016 19 T03 Breakdown of value added 18 C03 Materiality analysis 2015/2016 20 T04 Training in antitrust law 32 C04 19 identified sustainability topics T05 Training in fighting corruption and are bundled in six areas of action 21 the Code of Conduct 33 C05 Evonik’s stakeholder groups 22 T06 Training in the Code of Conduct 34 C06 Stakeholder engagement 2016 23 T07 Personnel expense 42 C07 Sustainability management at Evonik 25 T08 Percentage of women in management 42 C08 Structure of risk management 28 T09 Employees by contractual status 43 C09 House of Compliance  30 T10 Employee turnover and length of service 43 C10 Compliance Management System (CMS)  31 T11 Measures initiated following the employee survey 44 C11 Voluntary commitments 36 T12 Percentage of part-time employees C12 HR strategy 39 by gender and region 45 C13 Structure of Human Resources steering bodies 40 T13 Extended periods of leave 45 C14 Age structure 42 T14 Employee fluctuation 2016 46 C15 Status of follow-up measures 44 T15 Recruitment of employees from C16 Employees by region 46 the labor market in 2016 46 C17 Employees by gender 46 T16 Production inputs and output 51 C18 Value chain 48 T17 Innovative capability and patent protection at Evonik 53 C19 Our claim: First-class in innovation 52 T18 Status of our environmental targets 59 C20 R&D expenses 53 T19 Environmental protection investment C21 Breakdown of R&D expenses 54 and operating costs 59 C22 Sales of our chemicals segments T20 Energy inputs 60 covered by life cycle analyses 56 T21 Greenhouse gas emissions 61 C23 Structure of the ESHQ steering bodies 59 T22 Change in greenhouse gas emissions along C24 Framework of the safety culture 70 Evonik’s value chain 62 C25 Accident frequency indicator 71 T23 Greenhouse gas emissions along C26 Accident frequency indicator, contractors’ employees71 Evonik’s value chain 63 C27 Incident frequency indicator 72 T24 Greenhouse gas avoidance during the C28 Donations and sponsorship 78 application life cycle 63 C29 Shareholder structure U5 T25 Other emissions into the air 64 T26 Water intake by source 65 T27 Water discharge 65 T28 Wastewater loads 66 T29 Waste 67 T30 Waste management 67 T31 Evonik sites adjacent to conservation areas 68 T32 Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods 74 T33 Outgoing shipments of other goods 74 T34 Overview of targets for 2017 and beyond 83 T35 Major sites 86 T36 Awards and accolades 87 T37 Ratings and rankings 87 T38 GRI Index and UN Global Compact 88 T39 Key figures U5 HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX 105 This report contains forward-looking statements based on the present expectations, assumptions and forecasts made by the Executive Board and the information available to it. These forward-looking statements do not constitute a guarantee of future developments and earnings expectations. Future performance and developments depend on a wide variety of factors which contain a number of risks and unforeseeable factors and are based on assumptions that may prove incorrect. 106 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EVONIK INDUSTRIES Credits PUBLISHER PICTURE CREDITS Evonik Industries AG Page 1: shutterstock Rellinghauser Straße 1–11 Page 2: Werner Bartsch/Evonik 45128 Essen Page 4 – 5: Dieter Debo (2)/Evonik Germany Page 6 – 7: Karsten Bootmann/Evonik www.evonik.com Page 8 – 9: Stefan Wildhirt (2)/Evonik Page 10 – 11: Karsten Bootmann/Evonik CONTACT Page 12 – 13: Evonik Communications Page 24: Lina Nikelowski/Evonik Silke Linneweber Page 57: Dieter Debo/Evonik Phone +49 201 177-3389 Fax +49 201 177-3053 silke.linneweber@evonik.com Corporate Responsibility Stefan Haver Phone +49 201 177-3388 Fax +49 201 177-3181 stefan.haver@evonik.com CONCEPT, DESIGN, AND REALIZATION BISSINGER[+] GmbH PRINTING Griebsch & Rochol Druck GmbH Editorial deadline: February 28, 2017 PRODUCTION OF EVONIK’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 This report is printed on environment-friendly FSC paper. The Forest Stewardship Council seal is an assurance that the timber used to produce the paper comes from sustainable forestry. The printing company used by us has its own environmental ­management system and uses state-of-the-art technology. Printing inks containing heavy metals are not used. To minimize emissions resulting from distribution of this report, we utilize efficient transportation logistics. If you no longer need this report, please pass it on to someone else or dispose of it in a paper recycling facility. HOW WE IMPLEMENT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 ANNEX Key figures for the Evonik Group T39 Key figures in € million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sales 13,365 12,708 12,917 13,507 12,732 Adjusted EBITDA a 2,467 1,995 1,882 2,465 2,165 Adjusted EBITDA margin in % 18.5 15.7 14.6 18.2 17.0 b Adjusted EBIT 1,887 1,404 1,256 1,752 1,448 ROCE c in % 20.4 15.1 12.5 16.6 14.0 Net income 1,165 2,054 568 991 844 Adjusted net income 1,076 806 782 1,128 930 Earnings per share in € 2.50 4.41 1.22 2.13 1.81 Adjusted earnings per share in € 2.31 1.73 1.68 2.42 1.99 Total assets as of December 31 17,166 15,883 15,685 17,005 19,645 Equity ratio as of December 31 in % 31.9 43.0 41.6 44.6 39.5 Cash flow from operating activities 1,420 1,055 1,066 1,971 1,758 Free cash flow d 490 – 49 – 60 1,052 810 e Capital expenditures 960 1,140 1,123 877 960 Depreciation and amortization e 580 585 606 700 707 Net financial debt/assets as of December 31 – 1,163 571 400 1,098 1,111 No. of employees as of December 31 33,298 33,650 33,412 33,576 34,351 Figures for 2012 and 2013 contain the former Real Estate segment as a discontinued operation. a Earnings before financial result, taxes, depreciation and amortization, after adjustments. b Earnings before financial result and taxes, after adjustments. c Return on capital employed. d Cash flow from operating activities, continuing operations, less cash outflows for capital expenditures on intangable assets, property, plant and equipment. e Intangible assets, property, plant, equipment and investment property. Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. C29 Shareholder structure Evonik is one of the world's leading specialty chemicals companies. The central elements of our Free float 32 % strategy for sustained value creation are profitable growth, efficiency and values. Our strengths include the balanced spectrum of our business activities, end-markets and regions, and working closely with customers. Around 80 percent of RAG-Stiftung 68 % sales come from market-leading positions, which we are systematically expanding. EVONIK INDUSTRIES AG Rellinghauser Straße 1–11 45128 Essen, Germany www.evonik.com
