Sustainability 2017 Sustainability 2017 Table of Contents Year in Review 3 Our Place: Carbon 41 Our Economy: Trade and Enterprise 72 Letter from Sustainability Advisory Panel Chair 4 Why This Matters 42 Why This Matters 72 Letter from CEO 5 Aviation Carbon Reduction 44 Sustainable Sourcing 73 Company Profile 7 Low Carbon Stationary Energy 48 Global Air Connectivity 76 Sustainability Advisory Panel 8 Low Carbon Ground Transport 50 Cargo Services 77 Sustainability Framework 16 Waste Management 52 Economic Contribution 78 Property & Infrastructure 48 Our People: Air New Zealanders 19 Sustainability Performance Data 79 Why This Matters 20 Our Place: Nature and Science 54 Performance Dashboards 80 Advance Ma-ori 21 Why This Matters 55 Supplementary Data 86 People Safety 22 Department of Conservation Partnership 56 Gender Pay Report 87 Employee Engagement 24 Antarctica New Zealand Partnership 59 Diversity & Inclusion 26 Environmental Compliance 62 About This Report 88 Talent Incubator 29 Employee Participation in Sustainability 30 Reporting Approach 89 Our Economy: Tourism 64 Stakeholders and Materiality 90 Why This Matters 65 Sustainable Development Goals 94 Our People: Communities 31 Sustainable Tourism 67 United Nations Global Compact 95 Why This Matters 32 World Class Events 69 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 100 Supercharge the Regions 34 Destination Promotion 70 Charitable Programmes 35 AirpointsTM for Schools 37 National Air Connectivity 38 Aircraft Noise 39 Disaster Relief 35 The Year in Review INVESTED MORE THAN $10M TO MARKET NEW ZEALAND COLLABORATION WITH SUPREME AWARD WINNER ACROSS BOTH INTERNATIONAL ACTIVATE TAIRAWHITI AND AT M ORI LANGUAGE ANTARCTICA THREE LIGHT VEHICLE FLEET AND DOMESTIC MARKETS WITH NGATI POROU ON EAST AWARDS 2016 FOR YEAR CLIMATE SCIENCE TRANSITIONED TO TOURISM NEW ZEALAND AND COAST REGIONAL EFFORTS TO INCREASE PROJECT COMMENCED OTHER INDUSTRY PARTNERS, ELECTRIC OPTIONS DEVELOPMENT USAGE OF TE REO WITH A FOCUS ON REGIONAL OPPORTUNITIES AND SEASONAL DISPERSAL A 2017 TOP 3 CORPORATE 40,000 CUSTOMER CARBON OFFSETTING AND CHAMPIONED POLICY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY NORTHLAND SAFETY VIDEO JOURNEYS VOLUNTARILY REDUCTION SCHEME FOR LEADING TO NEW $102M ORGANISATION IN NEW VIEWED 7.4 MILLION OFFSET, SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL AVIATION TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE ZEALAND FOR EMBEDDING ONLINE AND 6.1 MILLION PERMANENT NATIVE AGREED BY GLOBAL FUND IN 2017 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ONBOARD VIEWS FORESTRY IN REGULATORS AND INDUSTRY GOVERNMENT BUDGET CAPABILITIES NEW ZEALAND 39% FEMALE ON SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM AND SUPREME AWARD WINNER INCLUDED IN FTSE4GOOD SUPPLIERS REPRESENTING DIVERSITY AWARDS NEW BIODIVERSITY SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS GLOBAL INDEX FOR 89% OF SPEND HAVE NEW ZEALAND 2017 PROJECTS LAUNCHED NETWORK’S NZI GREATEST ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL PROVIDED POSITIVE EMPOWERMENT AWARD WITH DEPARTMENT OF CONTRIBUTION TO A AND GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE OF SUPPLIER WINNER FOR INNOVATIVE CONSERVATION AND IWI SUSTAINABLE NEW PERFORMANCE AND CODE OF CONDUCT RESPONSES TO ON THREE GREAT WALKS ZEALAND AWARD DISCLOSURE EMPOWERING WOMEN IN THE WORKPLACE AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 3 From the Sustainability Advisory Panel Chair Kia ora, Air New Zealand is setting out to do something rather somewhat unworldly idealist’s position), or fly as little the work that’s being done, demonstrating how those And so they should. However, there’s one big different from most airlines. First, to take stock of all the and as discriminatingly and responsibly as possible multiple sustainability challenges are now being met. challenge (alongside the carbon challenge) that still many sustainability challenges that face us, both locally (the often uncomfortable pragmatist’s position). needs a lot more thought and engagement on the and globally, objectively assessing the existing data on Just one example here. A couple of years ago, the part of Air New Zealand. And that’s tourism itself. a wide range of environmental, social and economic By definition, all of us on Air New Zealand’s Panel was given its first presentation on Air New issues. Nothing new there. But Air New Zealand is then Advisory Panel are in that pragmatist’s camp, and Zealand’s approach to Māori culture (internally The Panel is now pushing much harder on this, as the intent on working out an appropriate course of action have to be prepared to justify that to those critics and externally) as Aotearoa’s national airline. I’m negative impacts of ever-larger numbers of visitors for addressing each and every one of those challenges, who see such ‘pragmatism’ as a rather shabby sure our Air New Zealand colleagues will not mind to New Zealand become more visible and more however inconvenient a process that might be. euphemism for hypocrisy and double standards. me saying that we were somewhat luke-warm in controversial. This is of course a global issue, but New our response – it all seemed a bit formulaic and Zealand faces unique challenges in coping with ‘honeypot And it’s doing all this with a degree of transparency (and It’s right and proper that we should have to account ‘follower-driven’ rather than ‘leader-driven’. overkill’ and in managing growth far more effectively. openness to external scrutiny) that for most airlines for ourselves as Advisors to one of the world’s In some instances, it may need to start thinking, even would induce a chronic attack of the heebie-jeebies. most influential airlines, punching, as it does, Check out that section here, and although it’s clear that now, not just of managing but of limiting growth. Airlines tend to ‘share’ both performance data and their way above its weight in terms of relative size. We this is a company that still finds itself on a challenging particular problems on a strictly ‘need to know’ basis. have to be our own ‘critical friends’ before we can journey, you simply have to be impressed (delighted It’s a fair bet that this will be very high on the act as critical friends to Air New Zealand. even) at the profound changes that have been put in Panel’s agenda for the coming year! There is a lot to commend Air New Zealand’s strategy. place since that time. This is now a real leadership For those who argue that aviation represents a uniquely In that role, our job is to make sure that Air New story, at every level, across the entire company. unacceptable part of our carbon-intensive lifestyles, Air Zealand is being ‘the best it can be’, not just on Ngamihi, New Zealand’s success (more flights, more passengers, managing its total carbon footprint (by far and away And the same kind of picture emerges regarding Air more freight) will be seen as very problematic. its most significant impact, and where good progress New Zealand’s work on its biodiversity commitments continues to be made on efficiency improvements, in (where it is now a key player, alongside the Department And the truth of it is that we shouldn’t turn away from the air and on the ground), but in terms of its wider of Conservation, in pursuing New Zealand’s wonderfully that uncompromising analysis: the hard-edged physical role as a critical player in New Zealand’s economy ambitious ‘predator-free’ strategy), its increasingly reality of accelerating climate change tells us that there’s and in so many of its cities, towns and rural areas. important interventions in the economy of some of New absolutely no way emissions from aviation can keep on If you have a chance to dig down into the wealth of Zealand’s less prosperous regions and communities, Sir Jonathon Porritt growing indefinitely into the future, especially when information presented here in this digital report, or as well as its support for more and more New Zealand Chair, Air New Zealand the carbon footprint of every other aspect of our lives even just to dip into some of those aspects you’re most businesses through strategic partnerships and Sustainability Advisory Panel is simultaneously being driven down and down. And interested in, you’ll begin to see why we cherish our proactive procurement. Not surprisingly, Air New that’s the dilemma for anyone who cares passionately role as external advisors to this particular airline. The Zealanders have responded enthusiastically to this about addressing the multiple threats of climate overarching sustainability framework (first adopted growing record of achievement, and feel real pride change: either stop flying altogether (the logical but three years ago) lays out very clearly the full extent of in what their company is now setting out to do. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 4 Welcome from the Chief Executive Officer Kia ora, This year an increasing number of our customers, far, the most material challenge is carbon emissions. vital to ensure that social and environmental challenges I’m immensely proud of what we’ve achieved this employees, prospective employees, and investors, In the past year, the International Civil Aviation are properly balanced alongside economic drivers. year but mindful that we must continue to work with have raised questions about our sustainability Organization negotiations led to agreement on a future partners, government, customers and our people to performance and intentions. We welcome more global market based measure for international aviation Following industry collaboration in the past year, raise our level of collective sustainability ambition to critique and know that transparency of performance carbon emissions, to meet the industry goal of carbon it was promising to see $102m pledged as part of a solve for the big issues. is necessary if we’re to grow trust and create the neutral growth from 2020. Tourism Infrastructure Fund in the 2017 Government Budget, so that some of New Zealand’s most iconic kind of future that we can feel proud about. I know that Kiwis don’t want a society driven by short-term We supported New Zealand’s inclusion, as the success regional sites receive necessary funding and Ngamihi, gains – we’ve seen the OECD comment that we’ve hit of the agreement relies on broad participation from support to sustain them for Kiwis and visitors alike. our environmental limits, and statistics on regional all players. We also acknowledge that in order to meet We also know there is much work to be done to inequality and housing supply are not ones to be the Paris Climate Agreement goals and the aviation encourage all industry players to put sustainability proud of – so we must find a better way forward. industry’s long term target of halving 2005 emissions at the heart of what they are about. New Zealand’s by 2050, we must find low-carbon alternative fuels ‘100% Pure’ promise needs to be our reality, and Our sustainability agenda aligns with our companysoon, and make significant technology advancements. it won’t be without greater and concerted effort. Christopher Luxon, wide purpose to supercharge New Zealand’s success Closer to home, we are committed to pursuing carbon Chief Executive Officer, – socially, environmentally and economically and offsetting options that can slow the flows of carbon My thanks to the Air New Zealand Board, as well as Sir Jonathon Porritt and our Sustainability Air New Zealand looking back over the past year, one of things I’m emissions to the atmosphere and also generate comost proud of is the way that Air New Zealanders at benefits for New Zealand. In this vein, we supported Advisory Panel for their expertise, guidance and all levels of our organisation continue to embrace research aimed at encouraging native afforestation provocation as we have continued to develop and our agenda. From our cabin crew and airports teams and have worked with a range of forestry, NGO and prioritise initiatives within our sustainability championing better waste management practices, government representatives to drive this agenda. strategy. The Panel last year challenged us to through to strategy and corporate finance assisting us consider further key performance indicators, and to build stronger business cases for New Zealand-based Separately, it’s encouraging to see so many more we’ve worked with them, Forum for the Future, and aviation biofuel. Enabling our people to get behind customers in the past year opt to use new functionality stakeholders company-wide to better articulate and be part of our sustainability agenda is critical. in our online booking system to voluntarily offset the the targets and indicators that we will deliver to in carbon emissions associated with their flights. Tourism coming years. We are committed to fulfilling our There’s no doubt that the aviation industry faces its continues to be the biggest export earner for New responsibility as a signatory of the United Nations share of sustainability challenges – and many players Zealand, contributing over $12.9 billion to New Zealand’s Global Compact, and our 2017 communication are not embracing sustainability to the extent we do. By total GDP. Sustainable development of the industry is on progress can be found in this report. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 Welcome from the Chief Executive Officer Highlights from the past year Better embracing Maori cultural fluency within our uniquely New Zealand company. Reaching 39 percent women on our Senior Leadership Team, matching the proportion of our total workforce, up from 13 percent in January 2013, and continuing to roll out a range of initiatives to encourage a more diverse and inclusive workforce. Completing our transition to a corporate electric vehicle fleet, and encouraging other New Zealand corporates to do the same. Continuing to support the Department of Conservation and iwi partners to both promote visitation on, and bring back native birdlife to, New Zealand’s signature Great Walks. This has included three new biodiversity projects being launched in 2017. Creating the first regional Safety Video in Northland, to showcasing its phenomenal cultural and environmental value, and continuing to support off-peak season tourism opportunities throughout regional New Zealand in collaboration with industry partners. Integrating our sustainability team within our strategy division at Air New Zealand, in recognition of the part we see sustainability playing in our future success and direction as a company. Being recognised as the supreme winner in the Sustainable Business Network’s 2016 Awards as the ‘NZI Greatest Contribution to a Sustainable New Zealand’ award recipient. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 6 Company Profile Air New Zealand provides air passenger and cargo transport services within New Zealand, as well as to and from Australia, the Pacific Islands, Asia, North and South America and the United Kingdom. Air New Zealand encompasses business units providing engineering and ground handling services. Subsidiaries include two regional airlines and extend to booking systems, travel wholesaling and retailing services. Air New Zealand is a publicly listed company on the New Zealand and Australian stock exchanges, with the New Zealand government being the majority shareholder (holding 52 percent of shares). OVER 11,800 AIR NEW ZEALAND EMPLOYEES DOMESTIC FLIGHTS $ 5.1b IN OPERATING REVENUE 6.3 CAPACITY GROWTH ACROSS OUR % BASED GLOBALLY EACH WEEK FOR FY17 NETWORK IN FY17 $ 122m DIVIDEND DECLARED TO THE NEW ZEALAND $ 145m INCOME TAX IN NEW ZEALAND AND $ 527m EARNINGS BEFORE TAXATION GOVERNMENT IN FY17 OFFSHORE JURISDICTIONS IN FY17 42,000 TONNES OF GOODS EXPORTED 21 DOMESTIC 30 INTERNATIONAL $ 1.2b SPEND WITH NEW FROM NEW ZEALAND DESTINATIONS DESTINATIONS ZEALAND SUPPLIERS* *This includes local suppliers and fuel. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 Our Sustainability Advisory Panel The Sustainability Advisory Panel has seven external members, selected from a range of expertise areas to shape and inform our pioneering sustainability agenda. This year we farewelled entrepreneur Derek Handley and international biofuels expert Suzanne Hunt who have served on the panel since its inception. We are delighted to welcome Dr Suzi Kerr and Professor Tim Jackson. Sir Rob Fenwick Brian Pearce Sir Jonathon Porritt Dame Anne Salmond New Zealand International Air Chair, Air New Zealand DNZMNew Zealand entrepreneur, director, Transport Association Sustainability Advisory Panel anthropologist and writer conservationist (IATA) Chief Economist MORE INFO MORE INFO MORE INFO MORE INFO Dr Susanne Becken Dr Suzi Kerr Tim Jackson Economist and senior Professor of Sustainable Director of Griffith Institute Development, University of Surrey; Director for Tourism, Professor of Sustainable fellow at Motu, adjunct of the Centre for the Understanding of professor Victoria University Tourism, Griffith University, Australia Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP) MORE INFO MORE INFO MORE INFO AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 8 Our Sustainability Advisory Panel Sir Jonathon Porritt (United Kingdom) Founder Director of Forum for the Future; Chair, Air New Zealand Sustainability Advisory Panel and thought leader Sir Jonathon Porritt, co-founder of Forum for the Future is an eminent writer, broadcaster and commentator on sustainable development. Established in 1996, Forum for the Future is the UK’s leading sustainable development not-for-profit, with a growing presence in the United States, India, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia. He is the former director of Friends of the Earth and co-chair of the Green Party. As chairman of the UK Sustainable Development Commission until 2009, he spent nine years providing high level advice to government ministers. Jonathon was installed as Chancellor of Keele University in 2012, and is also visiting professor at Loughborough University and UCL. Recent books are Capitalism as if the World Matters (2007) and The World we Made (2013). Jonathon received a CBE in 2000 for services to environmental protection. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 Our Sustainability Advisory Panel Dame Anne Salmond (New Zealand) New Zealand anthropologist and writer Dame Anne Salmond is a New Zealand anthropologist and historian best known for her writings on New Zealand history, her study of M ori culture, and her efforts to improve intercultural understanding. In 2013, Dame Anne was named the Kiwibank New Zealander of the Year and also won the Royal Society of New Zealand Rutherford Medal. Dame Anne has served as Chairwoman of the New Zealand Historic Places Trust Board. She is the only New Zealander to have been elected to both the British Academy and the National Academy of Sciences in the United States. Her latest book, Tears for Rangi: Experiments across Worlds (2017), as been described by reviewers as ‘a landmark work’ and ‘a masterpiece’. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 10 Our Sustainability Advisory Panel Sir Rob Fenwick (New Zealand) KNZH, KstJ (New Zealand), entrepreneur, director, conservationist Sir Rob Fenwick is the first New Zealander knighted for services to both business and conservation. He founded the country’s first commercial composting business, Living Earth. He co-founded the New Zealand Business Council for Sustainable Development, as well as Predator Free New Zealand and The Kiwi Trust. Sir Rob also chairs the New Zealand Antarctic Research Institute and Sustainable Seas, a national science challenge. The Fenwick Ice Piedmont in Antarctica is named for him. He is a founding member of the Air New Zealand Environment Trust, and director of Ng ti Wh tua Orakei’s commercial holdings. Sir Rob has an honorary doctorate in natural resources from Lincoln University, was the 2015 Sir Peter Blake medallist and was inducted to the New Zealand Business Hall of Fame in 2016. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 Our Sustainability Advisory Panel Brian Pearce (Switzerland) Chief Economist, IATA Brian Pearce is IATA’s Chief Economist. The role of his team is to analyse the economic and policy landscape facing the airline industry, to provide credible economic analysis to guide and support IATA’s advocacy work. An economist with over 35 years of international experience in several industries, he is also a Visiting Professor at Cranfield University’s Department of Air Transport and a member of IATA’s senior leadership team. He has been on panels of expert advisers for the UK Airports Commission, the UK Department for Transport and ICAO. He was formerly director of the Centre for Sustainable Investment at the think-tank Forum for the Future, head of global economic research at the investment bank SBC Warburg in Tokyo and then London, and was Chief Economist at Ernst & Young’s economic forecasting consultancy. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 12 Our Sustainability Advisory Panel Dr Susanne Becken (Australia) Director of Griffith Institute for Tourism and Professor of Sustainable Tourism, Griffith University, Australia Susanne is a globally recognised expert in the field of sustainable tourism, in particular climate change, resource management, resilience, and environmental behaviour. Her published research is widely cited by academics around the world and has also influenced government policy and industry practice. Susanne acted as a contributing author to the Fourth and Fifth Assessment Reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, represented Asia-Pacific on the World Meteorological Organisation’s Expert Team on Climate and Tourism, and was part of the Queensland Great Barrier Reef Water Sciences Ministerial Taskforce. She is now contributing to the Sustainability and Social Responsibility committee at the Pacific Asia Travel Association. Susanne has undertaken consultancy work for a range of Government organisations, the United Nations and industry and contributes to linking academic theory with sustainable business and tourism management. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 13 Our Sustainability Advisory Panel Dr Suzi Kerr (New Zealand) Economist and senior fellow at Motu, adjunct Professor Victoria University Suzi Kerr is a Senior Fellow at Motu Economic and Public Policy Research Trust and an adjunct professor at Victoria University. Her current research on domestic and international climate change policy focuses on emissions pricing and land use. She also leads work on climate change impacts and adaptation in New Zealand. She has previously worked on economic instruments for managing water quality, fisheries and air quality and run policy dialogue processes in the lead up to the establishment of New Zealand’s emissions trading system, agricultural greenhouse gas emissions and New Zealand’s Low Emissions Future. She currently leads the Deep South National Science Challenge Impacts and Implications programme. She holds a PhD in economics from Harvard University and won the NZIER Economics Award in 2010. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 14 Our Sustainability Advisory Panel Professor Tim Jackson (United Kingdom) Professor of Sustainable Development, University of Surrey; Director of the Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP) funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Tim Jackson is Director of the Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP) and Professor of Sustainable Development at the University of Surrey in the UK. CUSP builds on Tim’s vision over three decades to explore the moral, social, political and economic dimensions of prosperity on a finite planet. He’s advised numerous governments and UN agencies on sustainability. Between 2004 and 2011, Tim was Economics Commissioner on the UK Sustainable Development Commission, where his work culminated in the publication of his controversial book Prosperity without Growth (Routledge 2017). In 2016, he was awarded the Hillary Laureate for exceptional international leadership. In addition to his academic work, Tim is an award-winning dramatist with numerous radio-writing credits for the BBC. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 Sustainability Framework SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY LEAD FRAMEWORK TARGETS & ACTIVITIES AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 16 Sustainability Our Company Purpose Framework Supercharging New Zealand’s success socially, environmentally and economically. Challenges Aspirations 2030 Goals UNSDG’s New Zealand workplaces are not as reflective of the diversity of Air New Zealand is a global benchmark organisation for its New Zealand society as they should be, particularly at the most Air New Zealand is a global employer of choice and an inclusive employee engagement, grounded in its distinct employee Air New Zealanders senior levels, and as a result miss opportunities to strengthen and equitable place to work, helping ‘raise the bar’ experience that ensures safety and fosters high performance, Our People company culture and achievements. New Zealand’s health and for progressive workplace practices across New Zealand. innovation, community involvement, diversity and inclusion. safety record is very poor, compared to other OECD countries. New Zealand communities are thriving economically, culturally, Air New Zealand is recognised as the most influential exponent New Zealand communities are developing at increasingly uneven rates, Communities with some struggling to maintain cohesion, resilience, and prosperity. socially and environmentally, with New Zealand businesses helping to address current disparities in per capita income and opportunity. of strategic community investment in New Zealand, helping build cohesive, resilient and sustainable communities across the country. The world must hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels by peaking global New Zealand transitions to an ultra-low carbon Air New Zealand has stabilised emissions through carbon Carbon greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible, or face a potentially irreversible threat to human societies and the planet. Global economy, on a pathway consistent with the world achieving net zero emissions by 2050. neutral growth post 2020, in a way that simultaneously drives significant environmental, social and economic benefits. Our Place aviation contributes at least 2% of global emissions, and rising. Rates of resource use and ecosystem degradation in New Air New Zealand has enabled world-leading conservation and New Zealand’s ecosystems and biodiversity are Nature & Science Zealand are increasing, and negatively impacting New Zealand’s ability to sustain its economic and societal wellbeing. restored and protected for future generations. climate science, engaging in long term strategic partnerships to help protect New Zealand’s precious natural capital. New Zealand is at risk of losing value from a growing tourism Sustainability is at the heart of New Zealand’s Air New Zealand has played a pivotal role in theNew Zealand market, due to infrastructure underinvestment, degrading natural tourism value proposition, ensuring that tourism sector delivering economic prosperity while enhancing Tourism Our Economy environments, and workforce limitations, which in some cases is New Zealand’s 100% Pure brand position is fully natural and culturalre sources, and providing outstanding leading to negative community sentiment towards tourism. aligned with national sustainability performance. experiences for visitors and New Zealanders alike. New Zealand businesses are cost-effectively Air New Zealand has enabled the distribution and promotion A geographically isolated economy, New Zealand must transition connected to global markets, with a reputation of sustainable products and services around the globe, Trade & Enterprise from commodity-led exports to a more diverse economy via high value and service-oriented products. worldwide for premium environmental, social and has developed a world-class supply chain to support and health and safety standards. sustainable New Zealand businesses of all sizes. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 17 Lead Targets and Activities Our Purpose Supercharging New Zealands success socially, environmentally and economically. 2030 Goals Lead Targets Activities (what we’re doing) Increase proportion of M ori in leadership positions throughout our organisation Air New Zealand is a global benchmark organisation for its employee engagement, grounded in Reported rate of injuries reducing by 15% year on year resulting in a rate of less than 10 by FY20 (against FY17)1 Advance M ori throughout our organisation* its distinct employee experience that ensures 90% execution of Critical Risk Management Plans with controls tested by end FY20 People Safety (Health, Safety & Wellbeing) safety and fosters high performance, innovation, Air New community involvement, diversity and inclusion. 72% employee engagement by end FY18 (75% by end FY20) Employee Engagement Zealanders 40% Senior Leadership Team female by end FY20 Diversity and Inclusion Our People Talent Incubator 70% of our Senior Leadership Team alumni attain Executive level or Non-Executive Director or SLT roles in organisations Employee participation in sustainability with New Zealand interests Increase proportion of employees participating in community programmes Impactful projects implemented in Northland and East Coast to drive social and economic benefit by end FY18 Supercharge the regions* Air New Zealand is recognised as the most influential exponent of strategic community investment in Charitable Programmes and Community New Zealand, helping build cohesive, resilient and Community activities implemented in every New Zealand region Air New Zealand flies to Investment Communities sustainable communities across the country. Full compliance with ICAO noise standards for aircraft fleet Airpoints™ for Schools National air connectivity Aircraft Noise Red Cross supported to respond to all disasters in New Zealand and the South Pacific Disaster Relief Contribute to development of carbon offsetting projects with sustainability co-benefits to New Zealand by end FY19 Air New Zealand has stabilised emissions through carbon neutral growth post 2020, in 1.5% average annual improvement in aviation fuel efficiency (2009-2020) Aviation carbon reduction* a way that simultaneously drives significant 100% electric light vehicle ground fleet (where feasible) by end FY17 Low Carbon Stationary Energy environmental, social and economic benefits. Carbon 55% electric Ground Service Equipment (where feasible) by end FY18 (100% by end FY20) Low Carbon Ground Transport Our Place 85% diversion from landfill at Auckland ground sites by end 2018 (zero waste by end FY20) Waste management 75% diversion from landfill at non-Auckland ground sites by end FY18 Property and infrastructure Sustainable Building Guidelines applied to Property and Infrastructure initiatives by end FY18 Support six biodiversity projects with DOC and iwi partners on NZ Great Walks to end FY20 Air New Zealand has enabled world-leading DOC partnership* Nature & conservation and climate science, engaging in Antarctic Ecosystems Project delivered by December 2018 Antarctica New Zealand partnership Science long term strategic partnerships to help protect New Zealand’s precious natural capital. Maintain zero environmental non-compliances Environmental compliance IEnvA stage 2 certification completed via IATA (Core activities Flight Operations & Corporate) by end FY18 Air New Zealand has played a pivotal role in the Increase proportion of international visitors on Air New Zealand travelling during shoulder season relative to peak2 New Zealand tourism sector delivering economic Sustainable Tourism* Tourism Our Economy prosperity while enhancing natural and cultural Destination promotion resources, and providing outstanding experiences World class events for visitors and New Zealanders alike. Support partnerships with Tourism NZ to promote destination NZ, with a focus on regional and seasonal dispersal Air New Zealand has enabled the distribution and 100% positive assurance of Supplier Code of Conduct from all suppliers by end FY20 Sustainable Sourcing* Trade & promotion of sustainable products and services around the globe, and has developed a world-class Global air connectivity Enterprise supply chain to support sustainable New Zealand Increase annual volume of New Zealand exports on Air New Zealand network Cargo Services Economic contribution businesses of all sizes. * Key projects. 1 In FY17 we refreshed our People Safety strategy and revised our target and baseline to a 15% year on year reduction resulting in a rate of less than 10 by end FY20 (against FY17) 2 Defined as April to November for international visitors inbound to New Zealand. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 Our People MANAAKITANGA Air New Zealanders HEALTH, SAFETY & EMPLOYEE WHY THIS MATTERS ADVANCE M ORI WELLBEING ENGAGEMENT DIVERSITY & PARTICIPATION IN TALENT INCUBATOR INCLUSION SUSTAINABILITY AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 19 Why This Matters Our goal is to be a global benchmark organisation for our employee engagement. Grounded in our distinct employee experience that ensures safety and fosters high performance, innovation, community involvement, diversity and inclusion. Air New Zealand measures its at the annual New Zealand Randstad With the nature of New Zealand society corporate performance against three Awards. But we know there is more that and work changing more rapidly, the interdependent metrics: commercial we can do. As a nation, New Zealand changing face of customers and a younger performance, customer satisfaction, workplaces generally are not as reflective workforce, all businesses need to respond. and employee engagement. of the diversity of New Zealand society We have already set targets for the With close to 11,800 employees in New as they should be, particularly at the proportion of women on our senior Zealand and Australia, the Pacific, Asia, most senior levels. This is not just a leadership team, employee engagement the Americas and the United Kingdom matter of gender or ethnic diversity – levels, and reported rate of injuries. we know an engaged internal culture is generational dynamics are changing For 2018, we are introducing a fuller critical to achieving superior commercial too, with Air New Zealand’s workforce set of targets and metrics to help us outcomes and outstanding customer predicted to be made up of 50 percent proactively predict safety performance. satisfaction. It also makes Air New Zealand millennials (Generation Y) by 2020. We have also committed to establish the kind of place people want to work. A further challenge is that New Zealand’s metrics for ethnic diversity, talent This year, Air New Zealand again won health and safety record is also very poor, development, and employee participation the award for Most Attractive Employer compared to other OECD countries. in our sustainability agenda. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 20 Advance M ori In 2017 we increased our focus on making M ori culture and practices a core part of our organisation’s identity, reflecting our role as the national airline of Aotearoa New Zealand. We acknowledge we have not always embraced this as Zealanders interfacing with our customers now wear the fully as we could, and we have been active this year in pin, with a further 11 ready to be assessed. We have promoting greater cultural understanding. This strategy extended the provenance of Tohu Reo to become a national is overseen by representatives from our People, Strategy, symbol for te reo speakers, and already ASB, Auckland Sustainability and Government and Industry Affairs teams. Council, the Department of Conservation, Te Puia, and We continue to provide executive coaching to members Vodafone have identified speakers to wear the pin. of the Senior Leadership Team to develop greater Maori cultural fluency and incorporate this in meeting practice. Our ongoing work to promote and enable te reo Some leaders will also become teachers for Maori was recognised at the Maori Language Awards in Language Week. We have also advanced the use of November 2016 when we won the supreme award. te reo and tikanga on formal occasions. We built on the Maori content featured in our inflight To further embed Maori culture and practices, we entertainment and this year introduced bilingual answers worked with prominent Maori scholar Chellie Spiller to to our in-flight quiz on domestic routes. We are now integrate concepts of traditional wayfinding leadership exploring bilingual signage opportunities on aircraft into our middle management training, Mahi Rangatira. and in airports. At Auckland, we revised the Air New Zealand haka used to welcome VIPs and have been Read more in the Diversity and Inclusion section encouraging haka participation by more employees. about how we are strengthening our approach to attracting and developing Maori at Air New Zealand. In August 2017 we signed a letter of intent with Ngati Porou, agreeing to support projects In 2016 we launched the Air New Zealand Tohu Reo pin, on biodiversity, knowledge sharing, tourism which recognises fluent Maori speakers. Seven Air New development and procurement options. Our strategic approach to cultural development in 2017 Create an Develop our Develop deeper Build an internal environment where customer experience relationships with culture of inclusivity Maori culture and values to showcase New external partners for all Air New are embraced, so that Zealand’s unique to grow value for Zealanders and Air New Zealand is cultural heritage. us both. use this diversity. considered an employer of choice by Maori. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 21 Health, Safety & Wellbeing Our People Safety Framework was strengthened this year with a charter for safety, health and engagement between Air New Zealand and our unionised workforce, which covers 66 percent of our employees. A cornerstone of the charter is a commitment observations. These data will establish a baseline to High Performance Engagement (HPE) – a for 2018 targets. Air New Zealand was nominated process which involves those closest to the risks as a finalist in the 2017 SafeGuard New Zealand addressing them. This is a significant boost to our Workplace Health and Safety Awards. We are now efforts to shift employee mindset around safety – benchmarking our systems and processes against from a company-only, to a shared responsibility. the award winner, the Department of Corrections. The People Safety team play the role of enablers, coaches and facilitators of safety, supporting This year we also launched our approach to leaders and employees to improve safety. employee wellbeing, supported by a dedicated wellbeing team of seven people. The Me, We, The people safety metrics now focus on indicators Us strategy for individual employees, managers, that help us to predict safety performance. and organisation-wide enablers encompasses We achieved our lag target of reducing Total both physical health as well as a range of Recordable Rate (TRR) Events by 15 percent in other stressors such as financial wellbeing. 2017 compared to 2016, and also monitor our critical risks, safety leadership, and engagement Our new online Wellbeing Hub, providing and management of corrective actions. free wellbeing assessment and resources for Replacing a top-down system with a horizontal employees, has been accessed by nearly 2,500 view across the business means for example, Air New Zealanders since its launch in October Air New Zealanders based at different airport 2016. We worked with the New Zealand Airline sites engage with each other on site safety. Pilots Association to establish a Peer Assistance Employees are observing near misses, learning Network of pilots who confidentially assist from those and mitigating to prevent recurrence. colleagues when they need support. Workshops Our people are using two new mobile apps have also helped managers understand how they to record more than 6000 behavioural safety can influence the wellbeing of their people. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 22 Sustainability Framework Target Reported rate of injuries* reducing by 15% year on year resulting in a rate of less than 10 by end FY20 against FY17 Baseline year 2016 2017 Reported rate of injuries Reported rate of injuries of 17.94 Reported rate of injuries of of 15.22 (FY17)** (18% increase from FY15) 15.22 and 288 employee injuries (15% decrease from FY16) Status Achieved *Based on TRFIR rate: Injuries (medical treatment and lost time incidents) x 1,000,000 / actual hours worked. **In FY17 we refreshed our People Safety strategy and revised our target and baseline to a 15% year on year reduction and a rate of less than 10 by end FY20 against FY17 baseline. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 23 Employee ” We continue to invest in our strategic partnership Engagement with unions to foster a high participation, collaborative culture. ” Employee engagement is one of the three key metrics used by the company to measure performance. In May 2017, Air New Zealand won the Randstad Award for most attractive employer in New Zealand and we continue to seek new ways to be a better employer. Our target is that 75 percent of employees We continue to invest in our strategic report being engaged with Air New Zealand partnership with unions representing Air New by 2020. This year, we applied aspects Zealand members, using High Performance of our successful customer experience Engagement to foster a high participation, model to our employee experience. Our collaborative culture. This formal agreement aim is to make life at Air New Zealand more includes governance processes, interestpersonal, collaborative and meaningful, to based problem solving and collaborative “surprise and delight” our people in the decision making. Employees’ engagement in same way we do for our customers. interest-based problem solving is followed To drive this fresh approach to employee up with meaningful changes to terms experience, senior leaders from across and conditions and arrangements for our the organisation formed an Employee employees. Examples include the ratification Experience Coalition, which meets monthly. of the Airports Remuneration and Reward The Coalition rolled out our new HR collective employment agreement with information system, Workday, in July 2017. our airport employees and E t and AMEA Other projects include embedding more unions, and the formation of the Safety flexible work practices, refreshing staff travel and Health Engagement and Participation privileges and a strategy to create more Steering Committee to drive employee effective collaborative work environments. participation in health, safety and wellbeing. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 24 Sustainability Framework Target 75% employee engagement by end FY20 Baseline year 2016 2017 67% (FY14) 69% 69% (FY16)* Status In Progress *Your Voice employee engagement survey conducted on bi-annual basis AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 25 Diversity & Inclusion We have made significant gains in 2017 in gender diversity across all our business units. Since 2013 when targets were first set, female representation has increased year on year across many levels. We have a target of 40 percent women on the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) by 2020, Since the establishment of the Women’s Network We reached 30 percent (of 81 people) by in 2015, more than 1300 Air New Zealand 2016, which matches the proportion of women women have attended network events. in our company and 39 percent (of 87 people) Currently seven percent of our pilots are women, in 2017. This year, we are publishing our first and an internal working group, which includes Gender Pay Report. several female pilots, has been established to look at how to attract, support and empower more We are fully committed to the advancement of our female pilots to Air New Zealand.Aspiring young female workforce, and have a number of initiatives in female pilots are mentored through a programme place. This includes our Women in Leadership (WIL) in partnership with Walsh Flying School. programme (launched in 2015) and other talent and development programmes. We also sponsor external support partners such as Global Women and Professionelle to ensure The WIL development programme builds a strong a diverse range of best practice development pipeline of female talent ready to move into senior opportunities, and work with AMP’s Women in leadership roles. Since July 2016, ten women have Leadership Pathway programme. We share our been promoted into SLT roles, and a further five have annual data on ethnicity and gender with Global moved into more senior roles within the SLT. Women’s Champions for Change workstream, a first for New Zealand organisations. This will We sponsored places for 35 delegates at the give us valuable insight into how we compare to World Women Conference in March 2017 and the other 43 partner organisations, and provide since 2014 have sponsored two high potential significant benchmarks to inform our future strategy. senior women leaders per year to attend the prestigious International Women’s Forum In 2017, we focused on making inclusivity and cultural Fellows programme, delivered in partnership fluency a key part of all our leadership touchpoints. with Harvard Business School and INSEAD. This included our new middle manager development programme, Mahi Rangaitira, which includes a Our employee Women’s Network has also been Maori/Pasifika leadership philosophy as the base highly active since its launch in 2014 with for the programme, with a module focused on workshops, speaker meetings and conferences. inclusive leadership and coaching diverse teams. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 26 Sustainability Framework Target 40% Senior Leadership Team female by end FY20 Baseline year 2016 2017 16% (Jan 2013) 30% 39% Status Significant progress AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 27 ” Diversity is being invited to the party, and inclusion is being asked to dance. ” Diversity & Inclusion continued Given our international reach and our cultural diversity at more senior leadership levels. New Zealand. For 2018, we intend to triple Pride (LGBTQI). The Asian employee network position as the national carrier of New To achieve this, we need to have a well-developed the number of TupuToa interns we welcome will launch in 2018. Employee network activity in Zealand, cultural fluency is a core capability diverse pipeline of talent from which to draw. into Air New Zealand. We are committed to the past year included celebrating Diwali, we aspire to for all Air New Zealanders. increasing the proportion of Maori in leadership Chinese New Year, the Pasifika festival, Auckland We now include cultural experiences and We are a principal sponsor of Global positions within our organisation. To achieve Pride Parade, International Women’s Day, information during induction processes. Women/Champions for Change’s TupuToa this, we seek to further develop our mid-level Matariki and Maori Language week as well as – Maori and Pasifika Corporate Pathways Maori talent, using a similar approach to the sending delegates to the One Young World Cultural fluency in Maori protocols is a Programme. TupuToa is an internship Women in Leadership programme. This starts summit and providing a mentor matching core requirement for our senior leaders. programme to promote and encourage young with identifying Maori through our annual We provide personalised coaching on te service for young females. Maori and Pasifika into corporate careers. talent cycle as having the potential to be reo and cultural protocols for our Executive promoted into senior roles. The programme will Our previous Human Resource information Team and piloted a residential Maori fluency In the 2016 launch year we welcomed three incorporate Maori leadership values to grow a systems have made it challenging to record wananga for key leaders in partnership with interns and have since extended their employment collaborative culture across our organisation. with us for the remainder of their tertiary studies. diversity metrics. In 2018, a new HR information the Department of Conservation. We are Our four employee networks also play a role system will be in place, which provides better committed to widening the delivery of these wananga across the SLT in the coming year. Two of the interns were selected to join the in supporting gender, ethnic and generational baseline data. Capturing this information will Ministry of Business Innovation and Employment diversity in our workforce, promoting community enable diversity to be front of mind when making In 2018, we will expand our internal talent Procurement Graduate programme, the most and increasing visibility: Women’s Network, Young key employee decisions, and allow us to track identification targets, from gender, to include well respected programme of its nature in Professionals, Manu (Maori and Pasifika) and the impact of initiatives and clarify our focus. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 28 Talent Incubator Our main focus this year has been developing M hi Rangatira, a leadership development programme for middle managers. The programme focuses on in-role development We updated our leadership app with tools and is facilitated by the Senior Leadership such as how to have a difficult conversation, Team. Leaders are brought together in and giving feedback and coaching. In cross-functional groups to tackle everyday 2018, we plan to provide more ways of leadership challenges. In 2017, 54 of 490 delivering digital learning to all employees. leaders will have commenced the programme. In early 2017 we also refreshed our frontline For cabin crew we hosted two Leadership leadership programme Leadership EveryDay. and Customer Connection programmes. Our crew are the employees our customers most In November 2016, we again delivered our connect with every day, so this programme intensive three-day Accelerated Development emphasises the important role crew play Centre to those in our talent pool. A ‘lite’ and shares best practice service stories. version for emerging leaders was also piloted This programme will be rolled out to our but has since been discontinued to focus other customer-facing employees in 2018. resources on the comprehensive version. We use a variety of measurement tools to To support the ongoing learning and check the effectiveness of our programmes development of all our staff, we introduced and to measure leadership capability uplift. S4K (Search 4 Knowledge) an online library Our leadership programmes use a tailored which provides employees with monthly and 360 review, to help us assess programme weekly emails containing the latest global effectiveness. We also use online surveys and thinking in leadership and business, including insights from our engagement survey, manager free MOOCs (Massive Online Open Courses). effectiveness reports and performance ratings. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 29 Participation in Sustainability We are aware that the support and participation of Air New Zealanders is the key to successfully embedding a sustainability agenda. We are looking at how we raise participation both on and off the job. From this year sustainability training is included in induction material for all new employees. Increasingly, our commitment to sustainability is seen by prospective Air New Zealanders, particularly those of the millennial generation (currently 33 percent of our workforce) as an attractive part of working with us. The past year has seen a push from cabin crew for greater participation in sustainability. As a result a Crew Sustainability Council is being established in 2018. Its role is yet to be fully determined but will likely be focused on achieving both operational sustainability outcomes and community-focused impacts. “ The past year has seen a For many years, we have enabled a company-wide Greenteam. The current push from cabin crew for focus for the Greenteam is supporting the Nature and Science part of our greater participation in sustainability framework, by providing muscle on the ground for conservation activities with partners like the Department of Conservation for activities sustainability. As a result such as native bird relocations, or at Mangarara Station in Hawkes Bay a Crew Sustainability where the team has a grove of native bush which it tends regularly. Council is being We launched a Sydney-based Greenteam this year, and one is still planned established in 2018.” for Los Angeles. In 2017, more than 200 employees and about 100 family members participated in 18 Greenteam events across the country. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 30 Our People MANAAKITANGA Communities CHARITABLE SUPERCHARGE AIRPOINTSTM WHY THIS MATTERS PROGRAMMES & THE REGIONS FOR SCHOOLS COMMUNITY INVESTMENT NATIONAL AIR AIRCRAFT NOISE DISASTER RELIEF CONNECTIVITY AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 31 Why This Matters Our goal is that Air New Zealand is recognised as the most influential exponent of strategic community investment in New Zealand, helping build cohesive, resilient and sustainable communities across the country. As an airline providing services to 21 are developing at increasingly uneven including destination brand development domestic destinations across New rates, with some struggling to maintain and trade familiarisations, conservation Zealand, connecting people is at the heart cohesion, resilience and prosperity. volunteering, Airpoints™ for Schools, of what we do. This phenomenon is not unique to New and disaster relief when required. We recognise that in our geographically long Zealand, but as New Zealand’s national This year, we have introduced a new focus and relatively lightly populated country, air carrier, we feel we – alongside other area for our Sustainability programme transport connectivity is critical to helping New Zealand businesses – have a role ‘Supercharge the Regions’ to increase communities thrive, and we continue to to play in addressing current disparities the positive impact we can create by target capacity increases on both national in per capita income and opportunity. directing our efforts toward a particular and regional routes. However, we also We already undertake a significant region. We are committed to measuring know that New Zealand communities programme of activity in the regions, and reporting this impact in 2018. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 32 Opinion: How do we tackle regional inequality? New Zealand Economist Shamubeel Eaqub asks if smaller towns can survive in the face of trends that favour the big centres. What is regional inequality and what drives it? will also see the kinds of social division that we may be looking at the wrong things. We has led to so much political instability in the have to be more holistic in our approach. Regional inequality arises because economies are moving in different directions and the kinds US and UK recently. That kind of instability makes it difficult to pursue considered policies What is the role of business in addressing Shamubeel Eaqub of industries and skills that are in demand are that can work over a long period of time. regional inequality? better suited to urban centres, not the provinces. Previously the principal economist at the New Older industries, like manufacturing are in decline. Are any regions globally doing a good job There’s a big role for business to play, they Zealand Institute of Economic Research. Transport is better, so businesses are coalescing at addressing regional inequality? see a perspective that others don’t, they need into single locations. The main reason for inequality their customers and staff to be successful Shamubeel is an experienced economist, financial is technology, plus a little bit of globalisation. Everyone is trying but no one is perfect. In too, because without them they’re nothing. analyst and author. He has worked in various banks places like Germany, they have significant and consultancies in New Zealand and Australia. Why is regional prosperity important regional transfers along with local autonomy, For a long time, business has taken the attitude that for New Zealand’s success? to make local choices of development. Some “we’re in the business of doing our own business He currently balances a portfolio of activities: pursue growth, others quality of life. Others and everything else will be taken care of by the consulting through Sense Partners, a boutique Because a lot of our physical capital and have special economic zones to bolster trade markets or government”. It’s probably quite alien economic consultancy; various governance and opportunities are in the provinces – particularly and activity in particular industries or sectors. to what we would have seen in the past when advisory roles for charities, SMEs and CCOs; exporting primary products and tourism. business leaders were integral to social cohesion. columnist for Fairfax and the Sunday Star Times. We want New Zealand to be successful. Not all approaches work. Regional development That means using the resources we have is a complex and difficult area. It requires How much can regional tourism do to help He holds a BCOM(Hons) in Economics from responsibly to make our country better off. experimentation and learning from past advance regional economies? Lincoln University and is also a Chartered Financial experience and experience of others. Analyst. He has authored several books – the most But the growth of our economy is not Tourism is not a panacea, there are no panaceas in recent are Generation Rent and Growing Apart. necessarily spilling over to job opportunities What is happening in New Zealand to tackle regional development. But one of the nice things everywhere. In many of our provinces job this challenge? about tourism is that it accesses what’s already Shamubeel lives in Auckland with wife, Selena, prospects are limited and incomes low, even there labour, the natural capital, attractions – and and son, Haydn. if parts of the economy are doing well. Regional development was pretty sexy in the starts to create job opportunities. As long as we 1960s and 70s but increasingly has not been that use that catalyst from tourism to invest in people We want to make sure our economic success popular. We’re not doing a great deal, there’s a and give them access to education and training leads to shared opportunities for Kiwis living bit around transport and some big investments and help local businesses to keep growing, it everywhere, not just the cities. Otherwise, we in things like irrigation. My impression is that is relatively easy to move the needle a little. Supercharge the Regions Air New Zealand recognises as a connector of communities and a major contributor to the tourism industry, we are in a unique position to help our regions achieve greater economic and social prosperity. While New Zealand’s economy is in good and promote local tourism attractions, events, other local stakeholders to develop a unique travel features in Kia Ora magazine and supported health overall, growth is uneven across the business development and investment. For destination proposition for the Tairawhiti Gisborne a Tourism New Zealand marketing campaign regions, with escalating social consequences example, as a major transporter of fresh high region. Every action has measurable outcomes promoting Northland to visitors from Melbourne. for some communities. value New Zealand produce, we can link such as visitor growth, increased bed nights, Early figures indicate an increase in visits and fledgling producers to domestic and international average spend per visitor and the number of new visitor spend in the region. In the past year, we have advanced a number markets. Local partnerships underpin our work employment opportunities created. of opportunities based on initiatives generated to develop new regional events and initiatives, We have also partnered with the Department of from regional stakeholders and complementary and to align stakeholders on projects with the In Northland we worked closely with local Conservation and worked with local stakeholders to central government’s Regional Growth most potential to deliver tangible results for tourism operators, council and stakeholders to to help unlock the tourism potential of the Studies and corresponding Economic Action their region. In Gisborne, we have signed a create our Summer of Safety inflight safety video, Whanganui river on a biodiversity project centered Plans. Air New Zealand contributes by sharing Memorandum of Understanding with economic filmed in 10 locations across the Bay of Islands around predator eradication. our tourism and marketing expertise to support development agency Activate Tairawhiti, and and the Far North. We complemented this with AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 34 Charitable Programmes Disaster & Community Investment Relief When the Kaikoura earthquake Our main community charity partners remain Koru Care, devastated the region and closed Starship Foundation, the Attitude Awards and Kiwis roads in November 2016, we provided for kiwi, all long-standing relationships with a strong cargo handling services, flying in focus on youth, disability and the environment. everything from emergency packs to pet supplies for those in need. These supplies were flown to Christchurch TARGETS and then transported via road. We also supported a fundraising concert in Kaikoura and donated flights to support the rebuild of the Waiau school and community pool. After Edgecumbe’s April flood, we provided air tickets as prizes for a local development board Including our work with our longelsewhere in this report, we have improved fundraising event. Post-flood, road access to standing partners, in 2017 we provided our internal promotion of charity and Edgecumbe was restored faster than anticipated, local community support in excess community events that employees can which obviated the need for more extensive relief. of $400,000 across more than 75 participate in, with a focus on regional In the South Pacific region we were not called charities and organisations.This includes charitable activities to engage remote upon by the Red Cross anywhere near the extent an ongoing partnership with the Blind employees. While social enterprise Eat we have been in recent times. We routinely Foundation Guide Dogs to provide free My Lunch is not an official charity partner, contribute excess baggage waivers for educational transport for dogs to their new homes. Eat My Lunch is a preferred catering and medical supplies to Fiji and other Pacific supplier for corporate lunches, and in As well as assisting those in need, our Islands to support communities and services there. 2017 this resulted in close to 13,000 charitable programmes are an important lunches being donated to children Air New Zealand’s Special Assistance Team, way to drive workplace engagement who would otherwise go without. is trained to provide humanitarian response to and connect our employees with their emergency events with immediate and practical sustainability commitments, and the This was complemented by nearly 200 support. We trained more than 300 employees in communities in which we operate. employees in Auckland and Wellington WebEOC, our internal emergency management volunteering at early morning shifts system, and collaborated with the Westpac This year in addition to our formal to help prepare lunches for children Helicopter Trust and Auckland Council to share Greenteam programme detailed who go to school without one. our approach. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 35 Sustainability Framework Target Community programmes implemented Baseline year 2016 2017 n/a AirpointsTM for Schools and Inspiring Voices Continued Airpoints for Schools, Inspiring Voices implemented discontinued in 2017 Status Significant progress AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 36 Airpoints TM for Schools In its second year, the AirpointsTM for Schools programme built on its successful launch. More schools applied, and more AirpointsTM members donated more Airpoints DollarsTM to schools. Awareness of the programme among AirpointsTM members reached 40 percent, which translated into increased member donations, with $80,000 Airpoints DollarsTM raised in record time. An estimated 1,000 Air New Zealand employees also supported the fundraising initiatives. Ten schools from the Far North, Auckland, Tauranga, Te Puke, Paeroa, Gisborne, the West Coast, North Otago and Invercargill will embark on their journeys in the coming months. Trips include Te Kura Kaupa Maori a Rohe o Mangere from Auckland flying to Gisborne to compete in the National Primary Schools Kapa Haka competition, and Otamarakau School in Bay of Plenty travelling to Queenstown for a tourism and careers leadership camp. This year we will create a post-flight survey for schools, to assess the impact on students, gather insights, and learn how this programme can be improved in coming years. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 37 National Air “ This year we opened larger lounges in Hamilton, Queenstown and Palmerston North, and one in Connectivity Wellington for regional travellers. ” A new domestic schedule this year has improved connectivity between the regions and the main centres, growing regional capacity by more than 250,000 seats, or 5.1 percent compared to 2016. As the only carrier operating 50-seat enable growth across our network. In aircraft to Kerikeri/Bay of Islands, August 2016 we retired the last of our Whangarei, Hamilton, Tauranga, Taupo, 19-seat Beech 1900D aircraft fleet and now Rotorua, Gisborne, Paraparaumu/ operate 50-seat Q300 aircraft between Kapiti Coast, Blenheim, Timaru, regional centres. The roll out of larger Hokitika and Invercargill we are a vital aircraft on regional routes has increased connector of regional communities. capacity on the same frequency of flights. Demand for domestic routes grew overall In October 2016, we streamlined in 2017, more than 25 percent on the our regional schedules to offer more Auckland-Queenstown and Aucklandconsistent departure times across Dunedin routes. In the past year, an the week. These changes have led adjustment to the Auckland-Whangarei to better on-time performance and schedule proved unsuccessful. Stakeholders improved customer convenience. have let us know their needs and flight schedule adjustments are being made. We have invested in 15 new 68-seat ATR 72-600 turbo-prop aircraft, with a This year we opened larger lounges further 14 on order, to bring our total in Hamilton, Queenstown and turbo-prop fleet to 52 by 2020. Some of Palmerston North, and one in Wellington these aircraft will replace our older fleet for regional travellers, increasing of ATR 72-500 aircraft, while others will customer satisfaction scores. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 38 Aircraft Noise We seek to reduce noise impact on the communities that we fly in and out of, through investment in new aircraft certified to the latest noise standards, efficient flight operations, informed community consultation and engagement with airports and industry bodies. Management of community noise is a balance between shortened arrival and departure tracks and procedures that add distance but may reduce local noise impacts. Aircraft noise is a significant matter for track over less densely populated areas, our business and the wider aviation as opposed to central city suburbs. industry. We have achieved full compliance with International Civil Aviation Air New Zealand’s flights into and out Organization noise standards and continue of Auckland scheduled from late evening to to drive improvements. This year we early morning will now fly tracks that avoid completed fitting noise-reducing vortex residential areas to reduce community generators to all our A320s. noise impact, at a cost of more distance and extra fuel. Christchurch Airport will A focus this year has been working with also be trialling more efficient approaches the Auckland Noise Community which are projected to leave the overall Consultative Group on long haul flights community better off. departing in the evening. Changing the altitude at which aircraft thrust is cut back These efficient approaches use satellite from take-off to climb power was reviewed, technology to fly with a highly accurate but there was only minimal noise reduction. track, allowing engines to operate at their quietest. Air New Zealand has We have since worked with Airways New received no notifications of noise Zealands to improve departure routes. level breaches for global operations More North American departures now during the past three years. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 39 Sustainability Framework Target Zero noise breaches Baseline year 2016 2017 n/a No notified noise No notified noise breaches in FY16 breaches in FY17 Status Achieved AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 40 Our Place KAITIAKITANGA Carbon AVIATION CARBON LOW CARBON WHY THIS MATTERS REDUCTION STATIONARY ENERGY LOW CARBON WASTE PROPERTY AND GROUND TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 41 Why This Matters Our goal is that Air New Zealand stabilise emissions through carbon neutral growth post 2020, in a way that simultaneously drives significant environmental, social and economic benefits. Air transport is essential to New Zealand’s that the world must hold the increase in the carbon neutral growth from 2020, and Air trade, exports, investment and tourism global average temperature to well below New Zealand supported its adoption. industries and plays a critical role connecting 2°C above pre-industrial levels by peaking Embedding our Carbon Reduction Programme our people to the world, and the world to us. global greenhouse gas emissions as soon and our continuing work to secure high These social and economic benefits are, as possible, or face a potentially irreversible quality carbon offsets and sustainable aviation however, counterweighed by the aviation threat to human societies and the planet. biofuels form key parts of this response. industry’s significant climate change impact, Two degrees may not sound significant, We are committed to demonstrating carbon with the global sector contributing at least but it translates into extreme impacts leadership in aviation but also for New 2 percent of global emissions, and rising. at the local and regional level. Zealand. Our aspiration is that New Zealand Air New Zealand’s own growth trajectory A 50 degree June heatwave in Arizona, transitions to an ultra-low carbon economy, reflects this tension: we emit more than USA saw some airlines ground planes as on a pathway consistent with the world three million tonnes of carbon dioxide into temperatures breached jet operating limits. achieving net zero emissions by 2050. the atmosphere every year and this year our network capacity growth of 6.3 percent Recognising that the industry significantly Our support for industry initiatives to has been accompanied by a growth in total impacts, and will be impacted by promote the adoption of electric vehicles, carbon emissions of 5.1 percent, despite climate change, in October 2016 the the rollout of our Sustainable Building fuel efficiency continuing to improve. Air International Civil Aviation Organization Guidelines, and the introduction of New Zealand acknowledges the stark (ICAO) reached a historic agreement on wider-reaching operational electricity and conclusion from the 2015 Paris Agreement, a global scheme designed to achieve waste targets all contribute to this agenda. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 42 Opinion: How can we tackle climate change? Sustainability Advisory Panel member Dr Suzi Kerr says that ending carbon emissions is the only way to mitigate climate change. What challenges does climate change present to the world? politics shifting, but there’s still a big gap. The technologies we do have are probably You need to focus your smart people on those problems to really make progress. Dr Suzi Kerr not the full set that we’re going to use Until the emissions stop, the climate will keep to achieve the full mitigation. The danger How effective are carbon Economist and senior fellow at Motu, on changing. That’s a particular challenge for is that people will say ‘let’s just wait’ but offset programmes? adjunct professor Victoria University. airlines because currently there is no technical we must keep accelerating solutions. solution: either we completely offset in the People use offsets to pay people to Suzi Kerr is a Senior Fellow at Motu Economic What can an airline do? grow forests. If you get enough people and Public Policy Research Trust and an long term, but that’s not easy, or we find a planting forests you can be confident adjunct professor at Victoria University. solution and can fly without emissions. Or They can improve the efficiency with you’re getting more forests than you would we stop flying. That’s a special challenge Her current research on domestic and which they fly. They can encourage otherwise [but] at some point we will have for New Zealand when we are so far away international climate change policy focuses policies to get emission reductions more planted on all the land we can, and run from the rest of the world, and dependent on emissions pricing and land use. She generally and contribute to a broader out. So it’s not a permanent solution. on tourism. Also, more than a quarter of us also leads work on climate change impacts were born somewhere else so our families are reduction effort which doesn’t have to If the message is so clear, why is it so and adaptation in New Zealand. somewhere else. It’s a very personal problem. necessarily be through their jet fuel. hard to get any action happening? She has previously worked on economic What about the argument that in New An airline can also provide leadership publicly. It’s the “free rider” problem – if I instruments for managing water quality, Zealand the amount of our carbon We need a culture shift to get people thinking reduce emissions then you benefit fisheries and air quality and run policy emissions is so small it doesn’t matter? about all the hundreds of small changes in and so does everyone else, so we all dialogue processes in the lead up to the behaviour and technology rather than thinking have a tendency to do too little. establishment of New Zealand’s emissions It’s not about percentages. Everybody of silver bullets. Embedding it in how we think. trading system, agricultural greenhouse needs everybody to act – that’s us as Also, climate change is really existentially gas emissions and New Zealand’s Low well. Because everybody is a tiny fraction What sort of opportunities to scary. It’s scary to imagine what kind of Emissions Future. She is currently leads the of global emissions, nobody has an mitigate aren’t being taken? world my children are going to be living in. Deep South National Science Challenge incentive to do anything on their own! Impacts and Implications programme. Globally, it’s around efficiency. There’s a In a way, we need to allow people to not Are there solutions in sight? huge range of variations in how efficient think about climate change but to think She holds a PhD in economics from planes are, and how efficiently schedules about moving towards a different way of Harvard University and won the NZIER We’re making progress. Relevant technologies are organised and how efficiently planes are living, changing the economic environment, Economics Award in 2010. have been coming through in the past five handled on the ground. In every business, so that when they make decisions that to ten years, so it’s beginning to seem the really good ones are super-efficient, more are favourable to reducing emissions possible with the combination of that and profitable and tend to have low emissions. there are no economic barriers. Aviation Carbon Reduction In 2017, our carbon footprint (greenhouse gas emissions) increased by 5.1 percent, due primarily to Air New Zealand’s capacity growth, which increased by 6.3 percent. We support the aviation industry’s mid and longer term goals of carbon neutral growth from 2020, and halving 2005 emissions levels by 2050. We continue to aim for an average annual fuel efficiency improvement of 1.5 percent – approximately 49,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide per annum at current levels. A Modern Fleet One of the most significant ways to reduce emissions is by operating a modern and efficient fleet. We were the first airline to take delivery of the revolutionary 787-9 Dreamliner in 2014 and we retired our last Boeing 767 aircraft from our fleet in March this year. As at 30 June 2017, our 103 aircraft have an average seat-weighted age of seven years, and we are targeting a slight reduction to 6.9 years by 2020. In the past year three new 787-9 Dreamliner aircraft have entered our fleet and a further four will arrive in the next 18 months. Over the next four years we plan to invest approximately $1.5 billion in new and more efficient aircraft. OUR AVERAGE AIRCRAFT FLEET AGE (SEAT WEIGHTED IN YEARS)1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 9.1 7.8 7.5 7.0 6.9 (projected) 1 Average seat-weighted aircraft age is calculated as: The sum of each aircraft seat multiplied by the age of that seat, divided by total number of seats. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 44 Sustainability Framework Target 1.5%* average annual improvement in aviation fuel efficiency (2009 2020) Baseline year 2016 2017 0.93 tCO2-e per revenue tonne 2.9% improvement 0.3% improvement kilometre (FY09) compared to FY15 compared to FY16 20% improvement 20% improvement compared to FY09 compared to FY09 (2.5% average annual improvement) Status Achieved *IATA industry target AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 45 Aviation Carbon Reduction continued Operational Fuel Efficiency Improvements Domestic Carbon Emissions Policy Our annual fuel efficiency improvement rate in 2017 was Air New Zealand continues to participate in the New lower than previous years, at 0.3 percent, compared Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme (NZETS). Our to 2.9 percent in 2016. One reason for the lower rate submission on the NZETS Review in 2016 encouraged a was that fewer new and more fuel efficient aircraft move to full obligations being placed on emitting entities. entered the fleet in the past year compared to the previous three. Other factors included a slightly lower Despite being currently reliant on fossil fuels to operate, load factor, which impacted overall efficiency, measured we consider every part of the economy should be willing as emissions per kilometre of weight transported. to put a price on carbon emissions, which will ultimately drive efficiency and incentivise new technologies. Following IATA Fuel Efficiency Audit recommendations in 2016, the highest priority initiative for 2018 will be to In the past year, the transitional NZETS obligations reduce use of Auxiliary Power Units (APUs) that power were lifted by the New Zealand Government from 50 air conditioning, lighting and some maintenance when percent to 67 percent of our domestic emissions. the aircraft is not flying. By maximising ground power These NZETS obligations will be met through the use (where the aircraft attaches to the airbridge/gate surrender of emissions units (this will equate to obligations to access electricity), carbon emissions from aircraft of approximately 402,000 emissions units in calendar fuel consumption can be reduced. Integration of this year 2017). We also remain focused on how domestic new approach will require continued collaboration carbon reductions can be encouraged and commissioned with airports, to ensure airport infrastructure enables research to explore the barriers to native forestry-deriving power and pre-conditioned air at all gates. carbon benefits1. To put this in context, since 2006, no Following trials at Christchurch International Airport, this will native forestry has entered the ETS2. In line with our be standard operating procedure at our three dedicated NZETS submission, we want to see more widespread A320 aircraft gates. Combined with APU initiatives at afforestation being encouraged that can also achieve broader Auckland International Airport, we estimate reducing more biodiversity, soil, waterway and community co-benefits. than 2,000 tonnes of carbon emissions in the coming year. In 2017, we reduced residual weight on some of our aircraft 1. Kerr, S & Carver T, Facilitating Carbon Offsets from Native Forests, Motu Economic and Public Policy Research, 2017. by introducing lighter-weight baggage containers on our 2. OIA16-0176: Forestry ETS Data,” Response to an Official Information Act Boeing 787 and Boeing 777 aircraft, resulting in an annual request made by Motu Economic and Public Policy Research. Wellington: saving of 3,553 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. In the Ministry for Primary Industries. http://motu.nz/our-work/environmentand-resources/emission-mitigation/emissions-trading/emissionscoming year we will continue to collaborate with Airways trading-scheme-forecasting-data. New Zealand for new air traffic control to minimise fuel use. We are currently evaluating other initiatives to reduce fuel use and carbon emissions including: Single engine Reduced Reduced flap Idle reverse Control check on taxiing (to save fuel acceleration altitude landing (allowing thrust (enabling taxiing (allowing by using only one (enabling aircraft lower power lower reverse aircraft to taxi to the engine when taxiing to accelerate to settings on thrust settings runway sooner to the gate versus optimum climb approach due to on landing, when after engine start) both engines) speed earlier less drag) conditions allow) after take-off) AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 46 Aviation Carbon Reduction continued Greenhouse Gas Inventory Customer Voluntary Carbon Offsetting Opportunities Total GHG emissions Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes In the past year we have worked to make it easier in the New Zealand Emissions Unit Register. Operational sources CO2-e CO2-e CO2-e for customers to understand and voluntarily offset Emissions Scope FY15 FY16 FY17 the emissions associated with their air travel. By While this is a marked increase on previous offsetting their personal carbon impact they can uptake rates, we’re striving to enhance this Scope 1: Direct Aviation Fuel, LPG, 3,073,455 3,308,947 3,477,944 drive deeper reductions in carbon emissions further in the coming year by improving GHG emissions Natural Gas, Ground awareness of the native forestry projects than what is currently mandated by regulation. from sources owned Diesel, Ground Bio supported through voluntary offsets. or controlled by Air Diesel, Ground We have introduced a new voluntary carbon New Zealand Petrol All voluntary contributions currently support offsetting function to our New Zealand online Scope 2 Electricity 5,543 3,701 2,624 permanent forestry sink initiative projects with booking engine, so customers can identify the New Zealand Native Forest Restoration Totals 3,078,998 3,312,648 3,480,567 the emissions associated with their travel and Trust. The non-profit trust has purchased over Biomass* (Wood Pellets) 880 1,235 998 then purchase certified carbon emissions 7,000 hectares of land throughout New Zealand units equating to their flight’s emissions. to restore with native trees, and covenants the For more detail on our greenhouse gas emissions, see our 2017 Air New Zealand Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report and a copy of the Customers have opted to offset close to land in perpetuity via Queen Elizabeth II Trust. assurance statement from Deloitte here. Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from sources owned or controlled by Air New Zealand. 40,000 journeys since the online function Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported electricity. went live in October 2016, purchasing around The trust also encourages community activities *Air New Zealand uses a wood pellet boiler for space heating and engineering processes at its Christchurch site. The GHG Protocol requires organisations to report direct CO2-e emissions from biologically sequestered carbon (e.g. CO2-e from burning biomass) separately 10,000 tonnes of carbon emissions units. such as planting and weeding across New from Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions. Zealand, and in the coming year we will enable Air New Zealand takes no commission from this Air New Zealand Greenteam planting days with offering, and all emissions units are cancelled this partner. International Aviation Carbon Sustainable Aviation Biofuel Emissions Policy We have been active in our search to replace Fuel efficiency: CO2-e per Revenue Tonne Kilometre (RTK)* In October 2016, the International Civil Aviation traditional fossil fuel with sustainable biofuels. Organization (ICAO) reached a historic With Virgin Australia in 2016, we sought supply agreement on a global scheme designed to of up to 20 million litres of biofuel in Australia kg CO2-e/RTK 0.93 help address the industry’s target of carbon and New Zealand from 2020, and undertook 0.88 neutral growth from 2020, known as the further due diligence on potential suppliers in 0.85 0.81 0.79 0.78 Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme New Zealand. 0.76 0.74 0.73 for International Aviation (CORSIA). We have learned large scale and practicable FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Air New Zealand was consulted by the New volumes of biofuel remain some way from Zealand Government (who is the state party becoming a commercial reality, particularly *Revenue Tonne Kilometre (RTK) is a measure of the weight that has been paid for on the aircraft (freight and passengers) multiplied by the at ICAO), and supported New Zealand’s early with the current price of oil globally, and in number of kilometres transported. Freight values are from Air New Zealand records, and passenger weights are estimated at 100kg per engagement in the CORSIA. CORSIA will the absence of clear policy incentives to passenger (including checked and carry-on baggage) as recommended by IATA for generating a fuel efficiency target. CO2-e emissions are from Air New Zealand’s use of aviation fuel over the same time periods. require airlines (including Air New Zealand), to encourage production in Australasia. offset growth in emissions above a 2020 baseline. For more detail on our greenhouse gas emissions, see our 2017 Air New Zealand Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report and a copy of the assurance statement from Deloitte here. Key terms regarding the integrity of carbon We are however continuing to explore offset types is a continuing discussion topic options for New Zealand manufacture, within ICAO working groups and is something working with potential technology and we consider must be robust, for the CORSIA fuel supply chain partners. to achieve enhanced environmental outcomes. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 47 Low Carbon Property & Stationary Energy Infrastructure We have been actively reducing our electricity use at our Air New Zealand’s property portfolio includes 250 New Zealand sites through a dedicated energy efficiency buildings, two thirds of which are in New Zealand programme. Our targets for reduced consumption of and more than 50 at Auckland Airport alone. electricity have been exceeded with an 8.8 percent reduction in 2017. Over the past two years Air New solution creation, and we consult with Zealand has invested heavily in employees and all contractors involved customer-facing areas at airports and in a project from the beginning. We have in lounges. Alongside this we are set up test labs for agile workspaces and TARGETS increasing our focus on employee paperless offices, where very few people workspaces and the role these have on have their own desk but there are spaces for our employees’ experiences every day. individuals and teams to create, collaborate, contemplate or concentrate.We believe this In 2018, we will apply Sustainable Building approach will enable stronger customer We recognise that focusing on a simple Some of the ways in which we Guidelines, developed in 2016, across a and employee experience and engagement. reduction target is not necessarily the have achieved our annual target for diverse range of projects and new builds. Although it is currently challenging to best measure of performance. 2017 include: A strategic objective is to consolidate into measure a return on investment with this campus-style environments with expected approach, one case-study team reported In the coming year we will investigate • Advancing monitoring and profiling benefits including greater collaboration, and a positive impact on the way members options to incorporate more photovoltaic of buildings and typical energy loads. a reduction in overall building footprints. worked together, by reducing hierarchy (solar power) solutions at our large Separate metering double checks and encouraging productive collaboration operational sites. LED has the advantage consumption data and identifies real Our sustainable building guidelines in a team of mostly new employees. of a shorter payback time, but solar energy time energy saving opportunities. include Greenstar ratings and seismic combined with battery storage has the standards. The New Zealand Building We are also looking at what we call ‘hero advantage of enabling us to match load • Converting to LED lighting as Code requires a seismic rating of 34 per elements’, such as designing staircases consumption, storing energy during the technology became available for cent New Build Standard for existing that will provide health benefits of people day to use at night when we undertake LED aircraft hangar lighting. buildings (100 percent for new). We to use the stairs rather than take the lift. most of our aircraft maintenance, have set a higher target of 67 per cent We are also using the circular economy particularly at our Nelson and Christchurch concept in our planning. For example, for Air New Zealand buildings by 2020. engineering and maintenance sites. in a recent project on our engineering We have commenced using an integrated base, 67 percent of the material used design process that involves users in the in construction was recycled. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 48 Sustainability Framework Target 5% annual reduction in electricity use against 2011 baseline Baseline year 2016 2017 56,210,433 kWh 15% reduction compared to FY15 8.8% reduction compared to FY16 (FY11) 40% reduction 43% reduction compared to FY11 compared to FY11 Status Achieved AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 49 Light vehicles This year we achieved our 2015 commitment to Low Carbon transition all 76 cars in our light vehicle fleet to electric models (comprising BMW i3, Renault Kangoo and Mitsubishi Outlander PHEV). When we commenced our electric vehicle Ground project, there was no electric alternative for our large vans, but we expect two models on the New Zealand market next year. We are also investigating whether it is operationally feasible Transport to transition these vans to electric options. As an early adopter for a comprehensive EV fleet we had challenges in the variety of vehicles available, and consequently we acquired a mixed fleet with differing charging specifications. We are retrofitting vehicles to New Zealand Transport Ground vehicle use represents a very Agency Standard chargers. Currently we provide over 45 chargers around New Zealand, including small proportion of our overall carbon four for Koru club members at Auckland airport and footprint, but is an example of the further chargers at our freight and cargo sites. leadership role we can play in advancing a In 2016, Air New Zealand and Mercury, with low carbon transition for New Zealand. support from Westpac, led a corporate EV pledge to encourage uptake of EVs by major New Zealand companies. More than 30 organisations have pledged to transition at least 30 percent of their fleets to electric options by 2019, a commitment of over 1350 EV’s on New Zealand roads. Ground Service Equipment In addition to our light vehicle fleet, we have committed to electrify our fleet of ground support equipment (GSE) such as loaders and pushback tugs in airport operational areas. This year we have not markedly increased our level of electric GSEs beyond 50 per cent because of long lead times and delays in acquiring charging infrastructure in collaboration with the airport companies. Our strategy is to transition to 55 percent electric in the coming year. For both our light vehicle and GSE vehicle fleets new GPS systems will also allow data to be collected so we can ensure optimal fleet efficiency. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 50 Sustainability Framework Targets 100% electric vehicles in light 55% electric Ground Service ground fleet (where feasible*) Equipment (where feasible*) by by end FY17 end FY18 (100% by end FY20) Baseline year 2016 2017 Baseline year 2016 2017 0% (FY15) 13% 100% (76) 32% (FY15) 50%** 50.7% light vehicles transitioned to electric Status Status Achieved Some progress *Where feasible refers to availability of electric models *Where feasible refers to availability of electric models for operational requirements for operational requirements. **Re-stated from 45% to 50% to reflect the inclusion of leased GSEs AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 51 Waste With our large operational sites and diverse waste streams, Air New Zealand Management has struggled to keep up with sustainably managing waste. While good progress has been made on ground waste reductions in past years, the average rate of reduction of landfill diversion rate has slowed and is sitting at 71 percent. This year we introduced an showed we can double the current Recycling of non-biosecurity risk organic waste collection at our inflight recycling rate and remove packaging is also occurring. In the Auckland head office, which helped cups out of the landfill waste stream. coming year, we will be measuring improved landfill diversion rates We estimate rolling this out across volumes of landfill diversion achieved by 9 percent at this site (some our domestic fleet will allow us to by this collaborative project. We 13 tonne of organic waste being recycle 6.5 tonnes of café cups, have also continued recycling diverted). Following this result, we plastic glasses and water bottles per uniforms and furniture that is no will be implementing organic waste year, and we will make this standard longer right for our purposes but collections at other major employee operating procedure next year. can be most useful to non-profit sites in the coming year. We will groups. Approximately five tonnes of also be establishing new waste One of the biggest obstacles to uniforms avoided disposal in landfill targets for all sites, investigating inflight waste implementation is in the past year, and we estimate new technology opportunities, that many of the places we fly to that over 500 pieces of furniture and focusing on improved internal around New Zealand have different were distributed to not for profit communications to enable waste regimes, which require crew groups across Auckland and to Fiji. information sharing so that employees to work in different ways depending can play their part in driving a on their final port. Standardising We are also repurposing office culture of waste minimisation. reporting, systems and processes materials as part of some international for working with regional ports will fit-outs – a Melbourne airport office Inflight waste continues to present the be a focus in the coming year. refurbishment this year resulted biggest challenge, and is top of mind in reuse of existing good quality for both crew and customers, who For international waste arriving kitchen and office components, and are often used to more sustainable at Auckland, 49 percent of dry donation of desks and screens to waste practices in their own homes (cabin) waste is now recycled rather community groups. This has benefits than they see on our flights. New than going to landfill. Following to Air New Zealand in that landfill waste management infrastructure collaboration with our major caterer fees can be avoided. The property is now enabling our wax coated LSG Skychefs and the Ministry and infrastructure team has now inflight coffee cups to be recycled in for Primary Industries, some 40 created a more streamlined process certain parts of New Zealand and in untouched and unopened inflight for recording volumes of available response we have tested coffee cup products that were previously sent and donated furniture items so recycling on our domestic services. to landfill, are now being retrieved that we can more accurately track A trial on our services to Dunedin and put back into circulation. and report on results next year. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 52 Sustainability Framework Target 85% diversion from landfill at Auckland ground sites by end FY18 (zero waste by end FY20) Baseline year 2016 2017 65% (FY15) 74% 76.8% Status In progress AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 53 NAV 1 AREA Our Place KAITIAKITANGA Nature & Science DEPARTMENT OF ANTARCTICA ENVIRONMENTAL WHY THIS MATTERS CONSERVATION NEW ZEALAND COMPLIANCE PARTNERSHIP PARTNERSHIP AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 54 Why This Matters Our goal is to enable world-leading conservation and climate science, engaging in long term strategic partnerships to help protect New Zealand’s precious natural capital. The natural environment underpins New use and ecosystem degradation in New As the national carrier, committed to Zealand’s success, in obvious as well as Zealand are increasing, and negatively supercharging New Zealand’s success, more subtle ways. As a primary producing impacting New Zealand’s ability to sustain we want to help ensure New Zealand’s nation, our reputation for quality produce its economic and societal wellbeing. ecosystems and biodiversity are restored is linked to the perceived quality of our and protected for future generations. natural environment. New Zealand’s stunning The OECD has suggested New Zealand’s landscapes and natural scenery are also the growth model may be reaching its We also believe there is a critical need to number one reason international visitors travel environmental limits, while the outgoing advance climate science. We do this through here. And despite being one of the most Parliamentary Commissioner for the our ongoing partnerships with the Department highly urbanised nations on earth, New Environment Dr Jan Wright has described the of Conservation, Antarctica New Zealand Zealanders regularly rate the environment state of native bird species as a desperate and the New Zealand Antarctic Research as one of the most important characteristics situation, with 80 percent threatened or at Institute. We also recognise that one to one defining New Zealand. risk of extinction. partnerships will not be enough, and that However, as a number of reports in the past Compounding these challenges are the collaboration between business, government, year alone make clear, our natural environment shifts in temperature and weather patterns iwi and communities is critical to tackling is under intense pressure. Rates of resource brought about by climate change. these challenges. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 55 HIGHLIGHTS Department of Conservation Set the first rat, stoat Established predator Activated a new and possum traps on the control in Gouland biodiversity project Totaranui headland in the Downs on the Heaphy monitoring kiwi and partnership northern part of the Abel Track, to enable the first undertaking weed and Tasman National Park. recovery site for takahe goat control, along the translocations in the Whanganui Journey. coming year. The two prime components of our world-renowned national parks. partnership with the Department of Our partnership also assists Conservation (DOC) are our New Zealand threatened species support for the Great Walks and relocations. This year we enabled marine science research projects. the translocation of close to 300 Given the diverse locations of the creatures, including two mass kiwi Great Walks and marine reserve sites, translocations from Kapiti Island near our support for DOC also aligns Wellington, to Auckland’s Hauraki Gulf with our commitment to spread in collaboration with iwi, local councils growth in visitor numbers to New and other corporate partners. Since Zealand’s regions. our partnership commenced in 2012, more than 2,400 endangered animals Our partnership extends beyond have been translocated, including promoting just the Heaphy, Milford, many bird species, turtles and tuatara. Lake Waikaremoana or other Great Walks, where our funding is directed We support marine science initiatives towards support for biodiversity such as surveys of marine litter, and projects. Through the Air New the design of data management Zealand partnership with DOC and systems. We have at times struggled iwi partners, we have invested in pest to find ways to emphasise the control, funding the trapping of stoats, importance of the marine environment possums, rats and mice. Our shared as it is often out of sight. As vision is that New Zealand’s native we extend our marine science biodiversity thrives and that New partnership, communicating the Zealanders and international visitors full story on the relevancy of have an incredible experience in biodiversity from the mountains to nature when they get to these sea will be important. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 56 Sustainability Framework Target Support six biodiversity projects with DOC and iwi partners on NZ Great Walks to end 2020 Baseline year 2016 2017 Projects active on three Projects active on three Projects active on five Great Walks: Great Walks (Lake Great Walks (Lake Whanganui River Journey, Abel Waikaremoana on hold), Waikaremoana on hold), Tasman Coastal Track, Heaphy species transfer species transfer Track, Routeburn Track, Milford programme fully programme fully Track (Lake Waikaremoana in supported (FY16) supported development), specifies transfer programme fully supported Status Significant progress AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 57 Department of Conservation Partnership continued Part of our role in New Zealand is to continue to convey how urgent protecting these endangered species projects are, and the importance of reversing the decline in biodiversity. A challenge is how we as a company (and New Zealand as a nation), can work to overcome any residual sense that conservation is a niche area, and instead encourage collective action to make positive change. We intend to continue to use our channels of communication to enhance this message. Looking ahead, we have developed new products under the Great Walks banner with DOC and Tourism New Zealand: a series of Short Walks of 30 minutes to three hours’ duration, and Day Walks of four to eight hours. There will be up to 20 walks, which will also feature biodiversity enhancement projects in the regions. These walks have been developed partly in recognition that many of the Great Walks are now fully subscribed: Great Walks bookings were up 13 percent between 2016 and 2015, but they could increase only an incremental 1.5 percent between 2017 and 2016. Bookings are now up 50 percent since the start of our partnership in 2012. We will extend our partnership support for DOC’s Threatened Species Ambassador and marine science reporting and monitoring programmes through to the end of 2020. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 58 Antarctica New Zealand Partnership Our relationship with Antarctica New Zealand and its partner, the New Zealand Antarctic Research Institute (NZARI), recognises that while it’s clear we all must take action to reduce climate change impacts, there is a critical need for more supporting science. We need to better understand, for example, natural system thresholds (such as ice sheet melt) that might be breached and how that might accelerate the impacts of climate change beyond a level that human civilisation can adapt to. As well as our own efforts to reduce carbon emissions, Air New Zealand’s involvement with Antarctica extends for Air New Zealand to play a leadership role around the beyond supporting science there. Each year we send response to climate change, it is important to support two staff members to Antarctica, a volunteer opportunity science that has the ultimate goal of encouraging further that is always oversubscribed. Most recently two of action. our people were lucky enough to celebrate the 60th In 2015, we extended our partnership with Antarctica New anniversary of Scott Base while there. They launched Zealand and NZARI to enable a new three year Antarctic a Carbon Countdown challenge to colleagues to take Ecosystems project. Last October the first group of action to reduce their personal carbon footprints, scientists deployed to Scott Base to investigate a range and on their return they have shared the relevance of ecosystems in the Ross Sea region. The goal is to of our Antarctic partnership and the challenge that build an ecosystem-based, ocean and climate monitoring climate change poses with hundreds of colleagues. network to create a fuller picture of global climate changes. Through our partnership we invited social media The project recognises that measuring influencer Jamie Curry, who was on the ice for Antarctica temperature in one place or another is insufficient and New Zealand’s programme, to produce a piece for Air that looking at wider ecosystem responses is necessary New Zealand’s digital channels about why she was to understand changes. It will help us determine the there. This met another of the challenges of dealing resilience of coastal and mainland ecosystems in the Ross Sea region, and potentially how rapidly the impacts with climate change, which is finding accessible of environmental change may play out. This is worldways to communicate what scientists are doing on first science involving more than 25 New Zealand and the ice, Antarctica’s significance to New Zealand international scientists, examining the critical relationship and the world, and the importance of individual between the terrestrial and marine ecosystems. and collective action to tackle climate change. Under Sea Ice, Peter Marriott, NIWA AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 59 Sustainability Framework Target Antarctic Ecosystems Project delivered by December 2018 Baseline year 2016 2017 n/a Antarctic Ecosystems project commencing October 2016 First year of Antarctic Ecosystems project completed in FY17 by NZARI scientists Status In progress AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 60 Environmental Compliance We have deployed 29 environmental-focused ISO 14001 standard for environmental people as ambassadors across the business. management systems and captures Armed with site-specific environmental flight operations and our corporate sites’ stewardship manuals, these champions activities, including issues such as aviation undertake monthly or quarterly environmental fuel efficiency, electricity consumption and inspections (dependent on the site risk profile), waste generation, among other measures. addressing and resolving environmental issues IEnvA certification represents global best In an industry full of potential environmental they encounter. practice for environmental management, pitfalls, Air New Zealand is proud of its record Along with internal environmental inspections, which is what Air New Zealand aspires to with zero environmental non-compliances every year we complete independent achieve. Last year we met stage one of the environmental audits and HSNO (hazardous IEnvA programme following a successful recorded as at 30 June 2017. external audit. Next year we are set to achieve substances) recertification inspections at stage two certification under further external sites deemed significant. This involves site independent verification.We also have inspections to ensure environmental legislation hazardous waste that needs to be managed. is met and to identify best practice opportunities Due to biosecurity risks and the hazardous that reduce environmental impact and improve nature of this matter, there are few options efficiencies. The International Air Transport available for recycling these waste streams. Association (IATA) has developed an aviationspecific environmental management system From 2018, environmental stewardship and called IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA). compliance will be reported to the Group The IEnvA standard has compatibility with Safety Review Board (GSRB), as part of the International Standards Organization’s the group’s wider operational risk profile. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 62 Sustainability Framework Target Maintain zero environmental non-compliances Baseline year 2016 2017 Zero environmental Zero environmental Zero environmental non-compliances as at non-compliances as at non-compliances as at end FY15 end FY16* end FY17** Status Achieved *We had five minor environmental non compliances in FY16, these were all resolved and did not result in any sanctions or fines for non compliance from the relevant councils. ** We had seven minor environmental non compliances in FY17, these were all resolved and did not result in any sanctions or fines for non compliance from the relevant councils. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 63 NAV 1 AREA Our Economy OHANGA ORA Tourism SUSTAINABLE WORLD CLASS DESTINATION WHY THIS MATTERS TOURISM EVENTS PROMOTION Lake Wanaka Tourism, Gizelle Regan, Media PR and Social Media AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 64 Why This Matters Our goal is to play a pivotal role in enabling the New Zealand tourism sector to deliver economic prosperity while enhancing natural and cultural resources, and providing outstanding experiences for visitors and New Zealanders alike. Tourism is crucial to New Zealand’s economy and a vital source of employment for New Zealanders. In our first Sustainability Report in 2015, our emphasis was largely on a shared industry commitment to grow the value of tourism for New Zealand. We also recognise that New Zealand is at risk of losing value from a growing tourism market, due to infrastructure investment, degrading natural environments, and workforce limitations, which can lead to negative community sentiment towards tourism. To tackle this, our Sustainability Framework now has a sharper focus on sustainable tourism – the impact and quality of the tourism growth that our airline enables. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 65 Opinion: What is Sustainable Tourism? Sustainability Advisory Panel member Dr Susanne Becken shares her research and thoughts on Sustainable Tourism. What qualifies an activity as capacity of the country to deal with them. There are different ways of dealing with that. How important is sustainable Dr Susanne Becken sustainable tourism? tourism to the future? We can decide as a country that the numbers Director of Griffith Institute for Tourism Some people say it’s an oxymoron, that no are too high. Bhutan has done this and limited It must be a key message. The travel boom and Professor of Sustainable Tourism, tourism can be fully sustainable, but if it’s arrivals. Or we invest in infrastructure to make globally is just starting – only six per cent of Griffith University, Australia done well tourism offers much potential for sure we can serve that big volume in a way that people in China have a passport. If we don’t sustainability. It has environmental impact but actively manage tourism, we will be overrun. Susanne is a globally recognised expert in the doesn’t burden communities or local councils. it’s also making sure the benefits are harnessed To cope we must make sure businesses field of sustainable tourism, in particular climate and negative impacts are minimised. That If we want more, we have to think more operate cleanly and are energy efficient, change, resource management, resilience, sounds simple but it’s not. In New Zealand strategically: where should they go and that we have better transport, and that and environmental behaviour. Her published we used to do it well, but not any more. what should they do? We already suffer we really protect the natural environment. research is widely cited by academics around from a lack of planning and infrastructure Sustainability is a business imperative. the world and has also influenced government Where are we failing? investment. For instance, there is only policy and industry practice. one Queenstown, so everyone ends up There is an anti-tourism wave in Europe. In resource efficiency, in water efficiency, That should serve as a clear warning Susanne acted as a contributing author to there. But in Austria, for example, there in our efforts to minimise carbon and to us. We don’t want that here. the Fourth and Fifth Assessment Reports are many places like Queenstown. in social areas, such as pressures on of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate communities. Regional development is Yet visitors express a high level of Where do you see examples Change, represented Asia-Pacific on the also important to spread the benefit. satisfaction with our natural environment. of tourism done well? World Meteorological Organisation’s Expert Team on Climate and Tourism, and was part On the other hand, there are new Yes, but that’s a false security. It’s all relative Investment in the cycle paths and network. of the Queensland Great Barrier Reef Water opportunities for iwi and young entrepreneurs to people’s home countries and New Zealand Sure, there’s carbon involved getting there, but Sciences Ministerial Taskforce. She is now which are happening in many places. is a gem compared to so many places. The then for two or three days it’s a zero-carbon contributing to the Sustainability and Social Tourism’s Achille’s heel remains carbon. people who came here 20 years ago and activity, it stimulates regions, it’s healthy for Responsibility committee at the Pacific Asia appreciated the pristine, empty country are individuals. There are many good examples Travel Association. What are the risks and opportunities of business sustainability in New Zealand, now going to Myanmar or Patagonia. of significant growth in tourism? involving large and small companies. The key Susanne has undertaken consultancy work is to learn from these leaders and make sure for a range of Government organisations, the There is an obvious problem where the this best practice becomes mainstream. United Nations and industry and contributes numbers coming in may have exceeded the to linking academic theory with sustainable business and tourism management. Sustainable Tourism Percentage of international visitors travelling Tourism is currently New Zealand’s biggest industry. Generating $34.7 billion in shoulder season relative to peak the year ended March 20161 – up more than 12 percent on the previous year – it is a vital employer, driver of economic activity and earner of foreign exchange. 2016 This growth has brought with it both increased pressure on resources and an unprecedented opportunity to shape tourism for the long-term. 45% 2017 Alongside major industry partners, we commissioned a report by consultants McKinsey and Company which identified opportunities for further expansion as well as the visitors to come here in our shoulder seasons. To better track our efforts spreading travel across the year, we will target an increase in international visitors carried 47% infrastructure investment required to enable this growth. on our services in the shoulder season relative to the The report identified a great opportunity: if the productivity peak, instead of simply reporting on increasing available of our tourism industry was able to match productivity seats. This year the Department of Conservation’s role levels of the top 20 countries globally, it would generate as a tourism industry leader was also acknowledged. an additional $9 billion in GDP contribution. However, it We helped DOC advocate to Government ministers, also highlighted the inability of our current infrastructure to resulting in an additional $76 million to the department keep pace with anticipated visitor growth. In response the to support tourism. New Zealand Government’s 2017 Budget established a Tourism Infrastructure Fund, which allocates $102 Air New Zealand also supports the industry to educate million to new projects over four years. This could fund, for visiting drivers, including information in our onboard example, restrooms and carparks at locations like Hahei magazine KiaOra and inflight entertainment system. Beach in Coromandel (close to the popular Cathedral Cove) or the Church of the Good Shepherd in Tekapo, This year we added an educational video featuring both of which draw thousands of visitors annually. Chinese celebrity Shawn Dou, produced by Tourism New Zealand (TNZ). We also supported responsible freedom Enabling more people to visit these destinations also camping by screening content produced by Campermate. contributes to our strategy of supercharging regional development. Already, estimated annual spend by Air New Zealand supports sustainable tourism through international visitors to secondary regions increased 15.5 participation in Qualmark. In September 2017, we percent in year ended June 2017 versus a six percent achieved a Qualmark Gold Sustainable Tourism Business increase in international tourism spend in the larger Award, after being assessed under TNZ’s refreshed tourism regions2. We also have a goal of encouraging Sustainable Tourism Business criteria. 1 Statistics New Zealand Tourism Satellite Account 2016 2 MBIE Regional Tourism Estimates, June 2017 Lake Wanaka Tourism, Gizelle Regan, Media PR and Social Media AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 67 Sustainability Framework Targets Increase available seats into, out Grow NZ tourism revenue of and around NZ by 21% by 2020 to $41bn by 2025* against 2015 baseline Baseline year 2016 2017 Baseline year 2016 2017 17,240 available 7% 12.7% (FY17 vs $29.9 billion $34.7 billion Tourism seats (FY15) FY15 baseline) (March 2015) (March 2016) expenditure reached $34.7 billion** in year ended March 2016, up 12.2% on the previous year Status Status In progress In progress *Tourism Industry Aotearoa: Tourism 2025 industry target. Revenue data from Statistics New Zealand Satellite Accounts ** Tourism revenue as at March 2017 not available until October 2017 AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 68 World Class Events World-class events are a way to broaden New Zealand’s visitor appeal and smart scheduling of these can help attract visitors to regions outside the peak season. Air New Zealand is the naming rights sponsor of two successful events, the Hawke’s Bay International and the Queenstown International Marathons, in partnership with Ironman Oceania. Around three quarters of participants in both events travel from outside the region to take part and we encourage visitors to build a weekend getaway around their run. We have extended our support of both marathons for a further two years, and are talking with potential partners to host activity in other regions. We also support smaller regional events such as the Bluff Oyster Festival in May. This year we replaced our usual scheduled turbo prop aircraft from Wellington to Invercargill with three A320 jets, and added two nonstop A320s from Auckland to Invercargill to transport more than 500 customers to the event and drive additional revenue into the region. To improve the sustainability of events we are establishing sustainable event guidelines, which consider issues such as waste management. We make our expectation clear that when we partner with likeminded premium brands in long-term agreements we “ We have extended our support of both are jointly committed to raising the sustainability bar. marathons for a further two years, and are talking with potential partners to host activity in other regions.” AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 69 Destination Promotion Tourism New Zealand (TNZ) and Air New Zealand continued to invest in a cooperative marketing partnership to promote New Zealand in key offshore markets of Australia, China, North and South America, Japan, Singapore, the United Kingdom and Europe. In 2017 we continued our joint campaigns with TNZ promoting With Tourism New Zealand we are managing shoulder season travel with add-on offers to encourage regional tourism growth by spreading arrivals through dispersal. During shoulder season we co-hosted familiarisation tours in several regions for travel agents and tour wholesalers, the year and through the country. and supported TNZ’s international media programme to bring film crews, bloggers, print journalists, television shows and other media influencers here. This resulted in 900 stories on New Zealand and media coverage valued at more than $69 million. To help our Regional Tourism Organisations (RTO) to better communicate their local tourism proposition and attract more visitors, we developed a regional brand toolkit, identifying the best imagery and approach to bring each region’s unique offering to life. This was complemented by new destination content to our inflight entertainment, and by our See More of New Zealand domestic marketing campaign to encourage more New Zealanders to explore their own backyard. We are also increasing destination content on our international booking websites. A recent example is an itinerary that brings the destinations featured in our latest safety video Fantastical Journey to life, to encourage visitors to visit the regions featured in the video. We were again the premier sponsor of TRENZ, the largest New Zealand international tourism trade fair, and Meetings, New Zealand’s premium international business tourism event. These events enable tourism businesses from all over New Zealand to meet with international buyers and showcase their product. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 70 NAV 1 AREA Our Economy OHANGA ORA Trade & Enterprise SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL AIR WHY THIS MATTERS SOURCING CONNECTIVITY ECONOMIC CARGO SERVICES CONTRIBUTION AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 71 Why This Matters Our goal is that Air New Zealand has enabled the distribution and promotion of sustainable products and services around the globe, and has developed a world-class supply chain to support sustainable New Zealand businesses of all sizes. All around the world, in the light of political goods, but also the people, capital and ideas that upheaval, slowing growth, the changing nature of can accelerate this transition. work, and constrained environmental resources, Our aspiration is that New Zealand businesses are nations are questioning what their future economic cost-effectively connected to global markets and our development will look like. network can enable this. A geographically isolated economy, New Zealand Through our substantial contribution to the New must transition from commodity-led exports to a Zealand economy via dividends, tax, wages and the more diverse economy via high-value and application of a sustainable sourcing approach to service-oriented products. Air New Zealand our spend, we also directly and indirectly drive can play a role by facilitating the flow of not only demand for New Zealand businesses. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 72 Sustainable Our Supplier Code of Conduct, based social and ethical criteria into our on the United Nations Global Compact product and service specifications. principles, sets out our minimum expectations of suppliers for labour, The single most significant category Sourcing human rights, the environment and we identified is food and beverage, ethical business. We have now achieved which contains thousands of product positive assurance from suppliers for 88.7 lines. Customers are increasingly percent of our spend, that they meet this seeking transparency and commitment code. Our aim is 100 percent positive to sustainable practices in this area, assurance by 2020, and we are currently particularly around high risk commodities. tracking to reach this ahead of that date. The procurement team is To develop our approach to serving sustainable food and beverages inflight responsible for an annual spend of Supplier Code of Conduct assurance is the and in our lounges we have analysed start of the conversation not the end, and about $1.2 billion* across a global we recognise that we need to take a more the sustainability risk associated with a range of food and beverage supply chain. Our focus in not just on proactive approach with certain suppliers, products, and have asked customers particularly those in higher risk categories. the products but also on outcomes We have maintained focus on our thirdwhat they feel is most important. that mutually benefit us, our suppliers party audit programme for direct suppliers As a major buyer of wine, serving almost of goods out of Asia, evaluating overseas and our customers. factory conditions, and conducting site eight million glasses of exclusively New Zealand wine in 2017, our commitment visits to verify practices in accordance with to source only sustainably certified our code and internationally recognised New Zealand wine is enshrined in our ethical standards. Where our audits contracting processes, and we are now TARGETS raise issues that require action, these are looking at where we can strengthen managed through a corrective action plan. expectations in other areas. This year, to further determine where we Palm oil is one such commodity that we needed to direct our focus, the Air New addressed in 2017, following our risk Zealand procurement and sustainability assessment and customer and crew teams collaborated with Forum for the feedback over a snack served inflight Future to develop a tool that assessed containing palm oil. While the amount of the sustainability risk in our supply chain. palm oil used in our products is relatively This included consideration of labour small, we published a palm oil position practices and country of origin. Hundreds statement recognising the social and of product and service categories were environmental issues, setting out why assessed through this model to develop we support sustainable palm oil. It also a heat map that prioritises high risk and articulated how we will engage our suppliers high opportunity supply chain categories. to map the palm oil in our supply chain and transition to certified sustainable palm oil. This has supported sustainable design The structure of this position statement choices and created a starting point from will now be rolled out to other priority which we are integrating environmental, products and materials in our supply chain. *This excludes fuel and labour spend, but includes contract labour. *This excludes fuel and labour spend, but includes contract labour. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 73 Sustainability Framework Target 100% positive assurance from suppliers* of Supplier Code of Conduct by end FY20 Baseline year 2016 2017 n/a Suppliers representing Suppliers representing 80% of our spend provided 88.7% of our spend provided positive assurance positive assurance Status Significant progress *This excludes procurement of fuel and labour. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 74 Sustainable Sourcing continued We are investigating ways to increase supplier diversity, including establishing new diversity indicators such as ethnic ownership that reflects New Zealand’s diversity. We have also engaged with the Tuku Maori Wine Coalition and will be showcasing several of their wines on board in Business Premier cabins in the year to come. We recognise the importance of partnering with the right suppliers to achieve many of our sustainability goals. In 2017, we launched a new Go Beyond Together supplier relationship management programme, to drive consistency, and find ways to innovate and optimise value with our suppliers, sharing our approach to sustainable sourcing. We are a member of the Sustainable Business Network’s Smart Procurement Leaders Group, promoting sustainable procurement with peers across industry, local government, and tertiary education. Last year that organisation awarded Air New Zealand their Renewable Impact Award for our electric vehicle fleet transition. The relationship between sustainability and commercial factors is complex. For example, our electric vehicles have high implementation costs offset against the benefit of being more sustainable environmentally, and have lower operating and maintenance costs. Across our business we are continuing to build business cases that can address these interplays between short term cost and longer term value generation. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 75 Global Air Connectivity At present, Air New Zealand flies to 30 international destinations and our global capacity has grown this year by 6.3 percent. An estimated 43 percent of international travelers into New Zealand travel on Air New Zealand or our alliance partners. A highlight in 2017 was the launch of services to Osaka and the announcement of thrice-weekly services to Haneda in Tokyo. We also increased capacity on two destinations we introduced successfully in 2016, Buenos Aries and Houston, and on our Shanghai route. We also entered an alliance with United Airlines, to give us increased point of sale presence and greater access to US consumers and connectivity to destinations within the US. Other new partnerships included an agreement with the government of Niue to increase our flights to twice a week, year-round. Niue is the only country where we are the sole provider of airline services. In 2016, we suspended our direct Norfolk Island service from Auckland because of low demand. We are still flying to Norfolk from Sydney and Brisbane, on behalf of the Australian government, and have increased capacity due to strong demand on these routes. We increased capacity on Rarotonga-Sydney and Rarotonga Los Angeles routes operated as part of an agreement with “ Other new partnerships included the Cook Island’s Government and replaced our Boeing an agreement with the government 767s with Boeing 787-9 Dreamliners. This is a significant capacity increase anticipated to drive tourism demand of Niue to increase our flights to the Cook Islands from Australia and the USA. to twice a week, year-round. ” AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 76 Cargo Services In 2017 we carried cargo to 120 destinations globally via our direct and our partner network. We work with 51 air and ground-based partners to move an average of 3,566 cargo flights per week, representing 42,000 tonnes of goods exported from New Zealand, an increase of 3.4 percent on the global volume shipped in 2016. Within New Zealand, new aircraft and orders with their customers. on regional routes have provided Viavio has now won national cheese increased capacity for products as awards and a regular contract with a well as people. In the first full year prestige food retailer. This fits our goal of the new regime the cargo sales of supercharging the regions in more team worked to grow business on areas than just tourism. these routes. An extra 423 tonnes of At our ground sites we often deal cargo was flown to or from regional with extensive packaging of goods destinations on our network, an that then have to be repackaged. We increase of 13 percent on last year. have put more effort this year into Air freight provides speedy and not just recycling but also breaking secure delivery for producers. We down and even repurposing many of work hard with companies where their these materials ourselves (for example reusing the plastic wrap that comes in business might currently be too small, on our pallets). helping to grow it, until it has the necessary volume. For example, in the In the coming year Air New Zealand past year Viavio cheese company, was is committed to implementing the a small scale operator, challenged Buckingham Palace Declaration in securing appropriate logistics for against illegal wildlife trade. While we their product. We advised them on currently meet all legal requirements, cool chain management, introduced joining this international declaration is them to other transport providers, a signal of our commitment to work and helped fill the volume gap until across the industry to further combat they could build regular shipments this threat to wildlife worldwide. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 77 Economic Air New Zealand delivered a financial performance for 2017 that ranked as the second highest in the as well as the launching of a new seasonal service to Osaka. Underpinning the economics of the international Contribution airline’s history, despite an unprecedented level of strategy is a fleet simplification programme that is new competition entering the New Zealand market. nearing completion, and centres around modern and fuel Earnings before taxation continued to be strong at efficient aircraft such as the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner. $527 million, which compared to $663 million in the During the year, the airline received delivery of three prior year. Increased industry capacity resulted in a additional Boeing 787-9 Dreamliners, bringing that challenging competitive environment in the year, driving fleet to nine in total, with four additional units expected the decline in earnings. The airline’s continuous focus over the next 18 months. That fleet replaced the Air New Zealand prides itself on financial on costs and driving efficiencies across the operations legacy Boeing 767-300 aircraft, which was farewelled helped to partially offset some of the competitive in 2017 along with the 19-seater Beech 1900D. transparency above and beyond the industry headwinds. As a result, the airline generated a strong Because of those fleet retirements, the airline has a standard. As well as semi-annual financial pre-tax return on invested capital of 15.3 percent. streamlined fleet that is young (average age of seven years) and generates strong operational efficiencies. reports and the annual Sustainability Report, The airline continues to execute a strategy that is the airline discloses traffic statistics monthly, focused on profitably expanding its Pacific Rim In addition to leveraging efficiencies and economies network. Compared to five years ago, the network is of scale from a simplified and modern fleet, a culture which includes key unit revenue performance 30 percent larger, with more scale and geographical of strong cost control is pervasive throughout the metrics. Additionally, the airline is unique in its diversification than any time in the airline’s history. organisation. As a result, our per unit operating costs improved 2.3 percent (excluding the impact quarterly disclosure of fuel hedging positions. The domestic network is a resilient and core part of of foreign exchange). the airline’s growth strategy and successful financial Key financial-related events are web-casted performance. Air New Zealand has focused on In recognition of the airline’s performance the Board of stimulating profitable demand by growing the domestic Directors awarded a Company Performance Bonus of and made available for playback on the airline’s routes with the help of larger and more cost-effective up to $1,700 to all Air New Zealand employees who do Investor Centre website, which is accessible to aircraft. Tourism has been a significant driver of the not participate in an incentive programme. 2017 marked domestic growth, as well as the continued strength the public. In 2017, such events included the of the New Zealand economy. The airline’s domestic the third year that the airline has paid out a Company Performance Bonus. Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and Investor network grew 8.8 percent in the year, with a significant portion of that growth coming from increased services The airline’s shareholders benefited during the year, Day presentation. The website also provides to Queenstown, a popular tourism destination for with an annual total shareholder return (TSR) of 88.6 a significant level of current and historical international and domestic travellers alike. Stimulating percent generated in 2017, which resulted from both regional growth continues to be a core focus, and strong share price appreciation and the benefit of a financial information for anyone who wishes the airline works with local stakeholders to help special dividend. to access that information. promote their regions effectively and get visitors travelling there on Air New Zealand through marketing For the 2017 financial year, the Board declared fully spend and regionally-focused safety videos. imputed ordinary dividends of 21.0 cents per share, an increase of five percent from the prior year’s ordinary Revenue-sharing alliance partnership underpins a dividend. This marks the twelfth consecutive year that the significant portion of the international network, in airline has paid dividends to its shareholders. addition to a focus on strong market development. In 2017, Air New Zealand’s international long-haul The New Zealand Government, who owns 51.9% of network grew 6.1 percent, driven by the annualisation Air New Zealand shares, received approximately $122 of new routes such as Houston and Buenos Aires, million in dividends. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 78 Sustainability Performance Data SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENTARY GENDER DASHBOARDS DATA PAY REPORT AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 79 Sustainability Dashboard Air New Zealanders FY18 Target Baseline Year FY16 Data Result FY17 Data Result Status Increase proportion of M ori in leadership positions throughout our organisation Establishing baseline for FY17 – New in FY18 – Reported rate of injuries of 15.22 and Reported rate of injuries reducing by 15% year on year resulting in a rate of less than 10 end FY20 1 Reported rate of injuries of 17.94 Reported rate of injuries of 15.22 (FY17)2 288 employee injuries (15% decrease (against FY17) (18% increase from FY15) from FY16) 25% of CRM Plans in place with 90% execution of Critical Risk Management Plans with controls tested by end FY20 controls tested (based on Critical Risks – New in FY18 – Gap Analysis) (FY17) Achieve an average wellbeing Flourishing Scale score of 45 or better by end FY20 against FY173 Establishing baseline for FY17 – New in FY18 – 72% employee engagement by end FY18 (75% by end FY20) 67% (FY14) 69% (FY16) 4 69% (FY16) 4 40% Senior Leadership Team female by end FY20 16% (Jan 2013) 30% 39% 70% of our Senior Leadership Team alumni attain Executive or Non Executive Director and SLT roles in organisations with New Zealand interests Establishing baseline for FY17 – New in FY18 – Increase proportion of employees who participate in community programmes Establishing baseline for FY17 – New in FY18 – 1 Based on TRFIR rate: Injuries (medical treatment and lost time incidents) x 1,000,000 / actual hours worked. 2 In FY17 we refreshed our People Safety strategy and revised our target and baseline to a 15% year on year reduction and a rate of less than 10 by end FY20 against an FY17 baseline. 3 The Flourishing Scale is designed to assess an individual’s psychological resources and strengths and their ability to live life with purpose and happiness. 4 Your Voice employee engagement survey conducted on bi-annual basis. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 80 Sustainability Dashboard Communities FY18 Target Baseline Year FY16 Data Result FY17 Data Result Status Northland (Te Tai Tokerau) and East Coast Impactful projects implemented in Northland and East Coast to drive social and economic benefit New in FY18 (Tair whiti) identified as target regions – by end FY18 Initial activities underway (FY17) Continued Airpoints for Schools with Airpoints for Schools and Inspiring Voices Community activities implemented in every New Zealand region Air New Zealand flies to – 10 schools selected in FY17 implemented Inspiring Voices discontinued in 2017 No notified noise breaches in FY17 Zero noise breaches – No notified noise breaches in FY16 Achieved full compliance with ICAO FY18 target: Full compliance with ICAO noise standards for aircraft fleet noise standards Air New Zealand not called upon for Red Cross supported to respond to all disasters in NZ and the South Pacific – – response in FY17 – AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 81 Sustainability Dashboard Carbon FY18 Target Baseline Year FY16 Data Result FY17 Data Result Status New in FY18 Contribute to development of carbon offsetting projects with sustainability co-benefits – – Research commissioned to understand barriers to native to New Zealand forest carbon offsetting in NZ in FY17 All online sales channels provide voluntary offsetting opportunities in booking flow for New in FY18 – – customers by end FY18 NZ online storefront incorporated functionality 0.3% improvement compared to FY16 0.93 tCO2-e per revenue tonne 2.9% improvement compared to FY15 1.5% average annual improvement in aviation fuel efficiency (2009 2020)1 20% improvement compared to FY09 kilometre (FY09) 20% improvement compared to FY09 (2.5% average annual improvement) Lightweight LD3 Unit Load Devices saved 1,128,014kgs of fuel or 3,553 tonnes CO2 Carbon Reduction Programme implemented in line with IATA audit recommendations – – New ground power procedures confirmed at Auckland and Christchurch 15% reduction compared to FY15 8.8% reduction compared to FY16 5% annual reduction in electricity use against 2011 baseline 56,210,433kWh (FY11) 40% reduction compared to FY11 43% reduction compared to FY11 100% electric vehicles in light ground fleet (where feasible) by end FY172 0% (FY15) 13% 100% (76) light vehicles transitioned to electric 55% electric Ground Service Equipment (where feasible) by end FY18 (100% by end FY20)2 32% (FY15) 50%3 50.70% Sustainable Building Guidelines implemented across Property and Infrastructure portfolio by end FY18 with 20% of new lease agreements qualifying as green leases by end FY18 – – New in FY18 – 85% diversion from landfill at Auckland ground sites by end FY18 (zero waste by end FY20) 65% (FY15) 74% 76.8% New in FY18 75% diversion from landfill at non-Auckland ground sites by end FY18 71.8% (FY17) – 71.8% New in FY18 (target to be 50% international inflight dry waste diverted from landfill at Auckland by end FY18 49.6% (FY17) – 49.6% refreshed in FY18) New in FY18 50% of domestic jet inflight waste diverted from landfill by end FY18 28.8% (FY17) – 28.8% 1 IATA industry target 2 Where feasible refers to availability of electric models for operational requirements 3 FY16 value re-stated from 45% to 50% to reflect the inclusion of leased GSEs AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 82 Sustainability Dashboard Nature & Science FY18 Target Baseline Year FY16 Data Result FY17 Data Result Status Projects active on five Great Walks: Projects active on three Great Walks (Lake Projects active on three Great Walks (Lake WaikareWhanganui River Journey, Abel Tasman Coastal Support six biodiversity projects with DOC and iwi partners on NZ Great Walks to end 2020 Waikaremoana on hold), species transfer moana on hold), species transfer programme fully Track, Heaphy Track, Routeburn Track, Milford Track programme fully supported (FY16) supported (FY16) (Lake Waikaremoana in development, specifies transfer programme fully supported) First year of Antarctic Ecosystems project Antarctic Ecosystems Project delivered by December 2018 – – completed in FY17 by NZARI scientists Maintain zero environmental non-compliances Zero environmental non-compliances as at Zero environmental non-compliances as at end FY172 FY18 target: IEnvA stage 2 certification completed via IATA (Core activities Flight Operations & Corporate) Zero environmental non-compliances as at end FY161 end FY15 Maintained stage 1 IEnvA certification in FY17 by end FY18 1 We had five minor environmental non-compliances in FY16, these were all quickly resolved, and did not result in any sanctions or fines for non-compliance from the relevant councils. 2 We had seven minor environmental non-compliances in FY17, these were all quickly resolved, and did not result in any sanctions or fines for non-compliance from the relevant councils. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 83 Sustainability Dashboard Tourism FY18 Target Baseline Year FY16 Data Result FY17 Data Result Status Increase available seats into, out of and around NZ by 21% by 2020 against 2015 17,240 available seats (FY17) 7% 12.7% (FY17 vs FY15 baseline) baseline(discontinued in FY18) Grow NZ tourism revenue to $41bn by 2025m 1 Tourism expenditure reached $34.7 billion in year ended $29.9 billion (March 2015) $34.7 billion (March 2016) (discontinued in FY18) March 2016, up 12.2% on the previous year2 Promote Tourism New Zealand’s Qualmark certification and certified organisations – – New in FY18 – Increase proportion of international visitors on Air New Zealand travelling during shoulder New in FY18 – 45% season relative to peak3 47% FY17 compared to 45% FY163 1 Tourism Industry Aotearoa: Tourism 2025 industry target. Revenue data from Statistics New Zealand Satellite Accounts. 2 Tourism revenue as at March 2017 not available until October 2017. 3 Inbound shoulder season (April to November) arrivals on Air New Zealand. Source: Statistics New Zealand, International Visitor Arrivals. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 84 Sustainability Dashboard Trade & Enterprise FY18 Target Baseline Year FY16 Data Result FY17 Data Result Status Emerging business support programme implemented No dedicated programme for emerging business launched. – – (discontinued in FY18) See Community section for discussion. 0% (FY15) Suppliers representing 80% of our Suppliers representing 88.7% of our spend1 provided 100% positive assurance from all suppliers of Supplier Code of Conduct by end FY20 New Code of Conduct launched spend1 provided positive assurance positive assurance New in FY18 Total chargeable weight of New Zealand exports on Air New Increase annual volume of New Zealand exports on Air New Zealand 42,000 tonnes (FY17) – Zealand networks increased 3.4% since FY16 (total weight 42,000 tonnes) 1 This excludes fuel and labour spend. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 85 Supplementary Indicator FY17 Data result Air New Zealanders Data Senior Leadership Team engaged in Noho 15 Marae experience Tohu Reo wearers (fluent Te Reo speakers) 7 at Air New Zealand Age Group (Air NZ Total) Generation (Air NZ Total) 15-24 1,008 9% Gen Z 252 2% 25-34 2,680 23% Millennials (Gen Y) 3,856 33% 35-44 2,807 24% Gen X 4,565 39% Employee/worker % by age group1 45-54 2,841 24% Baby Boomers 2,938 25% 54-65 1,892 16% Silent Generation 56 0% 65+ 439 4% % Millennials 33% Average Age – 42.3 Location % of Location (City) % of # # (Country) Air NZ NZ Only Air NZ Argentina 15 2.2% Auckland 7,623 68.7% Australia 101 14.7% Blenheim 25 0.2% Canada 5 0.7% Christchurch 1,879 16.9% China 113 16.5% Dunedin 38 0.3% Cook Islands 57 8.3% Gisborne 16 0.1% Fiji 20 2.9% Hamilton 49 0.4% France 1 0.1% Hokitika 5 0.0% Great Britain 181 26.4% Invercargill 32 0.3% Indicator FY17 Data result Hong Kong 19 2.8% Kerikeri 14 0.1% Employee/worker % by region Japan 35 5.1% Napier 48 0.4% Our Communities (within NZ and offshore) French Polynesia 11 1.6% Nelson 376 3.4% Value of local community support (largely in-kind) provided to Singapore 9 1.3% New Plymouth 49 0.4% More than $400,000 provided across more than 75 charities and Tonga 1 0.1% Palmerston North 32 0.3% charities, not for profits and partner organisations, and number of organisations, largely through flights and excess baggage requests United States of America 110 16.1% Queenstown 124 1.1% beneficiary organisations Samoa 7 1.0% Rotorua 19 0.2% New Zealand 11,089 94.2% Taupo 6 0.1% 21 New Zealand ports and only carrier providing 50-seater services % International Regions 5.8% Tauranga 51 0.5% Number of national and regional ports Air NZ flies to (and number / % to Kerikeri / Bay of Islands, Whangarei, Hamilton, Tauranga, Taupo, Timaru 5 0.0% only serviced by Air NZ) Rotorua, Gisborne, Paraparaumu / Kapiti Coast, Blenheim, Timaru, Hokitika and Invercargill Wellington 688 6.2% Whakatane 2 0.0% Whangarei 8 0.1% Carbon Percentage of emissions covered by regulation and voluntary contri67% of domestic emissions covered by NZ ETS regulation in calenGender (Air NZ Total) butions by end FY18 dar year 2017, equating to ~402,000 tCO2 -e Employee/worker % by gender (M/F) Female 4,911 42% Male 6,863 58% Volume of emissions covered by voluntary contributions 9,499 tCO2 -e Gender pay gap See Gender Pay Report [provide hyperlink/reference to the report] 7 years [As at 30 June 2017, our 103 aircraft had an average Average aircraft fleet age (seat weighted) seat-weighted age of seven years, and we are targeting to hold at a % of total employees who are union members 66% slight reduction to 6.9 years by 2020.] % of total employees/workers covered by 80% Trade & Enterprise collective bargaining agreements Number of international ports Air NZ flies to (and number only Air NZ flies to 30 international ports, and is the only serviced by Air NZ, if any) airline that flies to Niue 1 Employee/worker % by age group excludes 107 employees for which we do not have date of birth information. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 86 Gender Pay Air New Zealand Number of Number of Average Report Career Level Females Males Pay Gap Executives, General Managers and Head of function (where both genders are present in a grade) Designs and drives business 27 46 -0.33% strategy for a major business division or Group-wide function Please Note Air New Zealand operates in a diverse Gender pay gaps are environment, both in New Zealand and calculated on averaged, internationally. We strive to celebrate diversity Senior Managers annualised, full-time equivalent Develops and implements the strategy 83 133 0.99% salaries. This means that all in our workforce to create an inclusive and business plan for a division employees – part-time and workplace culture which leverages our full-time – are included in the calculation and the salaries peoples’ unique backgrounds, qualities and Operational Managers of those who are not full-time contributions to deliver value to our wide range Inputs into the functional 187 276 0.87% employees are converted strategic plan, but focus is on to a full-time equivalent. of stakeholders, including our customers. operational management Gender pay gaps are expressed as a percentage As an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) employer, the Specialist of men’s earnings. A negative Air New Zealand Group is committed to promoting equal Formally leads a team or an value means that women’s opportunities for its employees. This commitment is upheld established specialist in a technical 643 577 0.58% earnings are higher than men’s. through our employment, performance management, or professional discipline recruitment and remuneration policies and practices. The table shows the gender composition and the associated Technical Collective Covered pay gap as at 1 July 2017 for all New Zealand and international Focus is on delivering outcomes Employees employees covered by Individual Employment Agreements. with short cycle times, generally 224 74 0.39% The analysis is broken down by Air New Zealand career level, to in a customer interfacing Pay rates within provide insight into our population, and highlight opportunities to or business support role Air New Zealand collective improve our position. Overall this analysis shows that males are agreements are skills, paid 0.44% more than females, and we are confident that this competency or service based, difference primarily represents differences in tenure, experience Support/Administration ensuring all employees with and performance. Work is routine, in nature, 39 37 -5.25% the same levels of service or with set patterns skill in the same role, will be As well as monitoring pay outcomes, Air New Zealand are also paid the same. These focused on ensuring equitable representation in work levels and employees are not performance outcomes, as well as critically examining policies and TOTAL 1,203 1,143 0.44% included in the scope of programmes to ensure they promote equitable outcomes. the Gender Pay Report. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 87 About this Report & Global Standards OUR REPORTING OUR STAKEHOLDERS SUSTAINABLE APPROACH & MATERIALITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL REPORTING GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEX AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 88 Our Reporting Approach ABOUT OUR REPORTING EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Data and commentary in Air New Zealand’s 2017 Sustainability Report We engaged independent assurance provider Deloitte to provide is for the year ended 30 June 2017 unless otherwise stated. reasonable assurance over our 2017 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory Report in accordance with International Standard on Air New Zealand’s organisational boundary for sustainability reporting Assurance Engagements (New Zealand) 3410 (Revised): Assurance encompasses the companies listed on page 2 of Air New Zealand’s Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (‘ISAE (NZ) 3410’). 2017 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory Report. Results of the assurance can be found in the Assurance Statement In developing content for this report, we have considered the Global provided by Deloitte. Reporting Initiative (GRI) Principles for Defining Report Content of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and Completeness. Refer to the GRI Content Index for the specific Disclosures referenced in this material. To help improve our reporting we engaged a third-party provider to agree a sample of reported non-financial information in our report to supporting documentation and provide observations and recommendations. We welcome your feedback and comments – please contact us at sustainability@airnz.co.nz AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 89 Our Stakeholders & Materiality Our purpose – to supercharge New Zealand’s success socially, environmentally and economically – can be achieved only in collaboration with others. We are part of a wide network of stakeholders including investors, customers, suppliers, central and local government, the communities in which we live and work, NGOs, our employees, and other businesses. Ongoing engagement with our stakeholders helps us identify issues that are important to them, and prioritise our efforts on material initiatives and activities that matter to our stakeholders and help us deliver on our purpose. We engage with stakeholders on specific initiatives as well as on an ongoing basis, and this helps guide our approach. Our stakeholder engagement is complemented by regular engagement with our Sustainability Advisory Panel. Our Panellists are subject matter experts in a wide range of topics material to our sustainability strategy, including sustainable development, Maori culture and intercultural understanding, conservation, sustainable tourism, climate policy, aviation industry economics, sustainable consumption and societal wellbeing. The CEO, Chief Strategy, Networks and Alliances Officer, Sustainability team and other company representatives meet with the Panel twice yearly. The Board meets with the panel annually and we consult the Panel on emergent sustainability issues in the interim. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 90 Our Stakeholders & Materiality continued Ongoing engagement with key stakeholder groups Proactive engagement with stakeholders helps us identify the issues that are important to them and we dedicate significant resource to building strong, mutually beneficial relationships. Key stakeholder group How we engage What is important to them • Mutually beneficial relationships Communities • Regular and transparent communication (including City and Regional • Input and advice into plans • Formal meetings and forums Councils and Tourism Offices; • Support of local projects, events, activities, conferences • Joint participation in working groups Chambers of Commerce; Iwi; • Infrastructure issues negatively impacting regional growth Sponsorship partners; Tourism • Schedule timings and price of fares industry; Airports, NGOs) • Transparency of data relating to the performance of air services • Interaction with frontline staff • Quality product and service delivery that meets or exceeds their needs and expectations • Electronic and mail communication including social media • Communications tailored to customers’ individual needs Customers • Advertising • Responsive engagement when required • Surveys and research • A company that contributes to the success of New Zealand • Employee Engagement and Manager Effectiveness surveys as well as dedicated surveys e.g. • A sense of purpose, belonging and contribution Community employee engagement survey • Having a voice in the organisation through open, honest and clear two-way communication Employees • High Performance Engagement (HPE) processes to involve employees in business issue resolution • Development, growth and advancement opportunities • Regular formal and informal coaching, performance and development discussions • Opportunity for collaboration and community engagement • Networking groups (e.g. Young Professionals and Women’s Networks) • Working relationships with government where we communicate about issues such as tourism and infrastructure • Open and honest communication Government & Regulators • Communicate with sectors of government with respect to off-shore concerns, as reflects our global business • An understanding of the many facets of Air New Zealand’s business • Respond to requests for assistance from Government as may arise at times of national crisis • An active partnership, with a shared goal of economic success for New Zealand • Management perspectives on risks and opportunities facing the business and how we are addressing these • Structured, two-way engagement, which includes regular communications, an Investor website, Investor Day Investors • A transparent, holistic view of our performance and strategic priorities, including financial, business portfolio briefings, webcasting of interim and annual results, and conferences and roadshows and sustainability / ESG objectives • Alignment of strategies and respective business plans for the benefit of both parties • Regular formal meetings and working groups with strategic and critical suppliers Suppliers • Working collaboratively to address continuous improvement areas and opportunities • Annual surveys • Transparent communication • Cooperative marketing activity • Collaboration to maximise current and future opportunities to increase the value of tourism and to address Tourism Industry • Sponsorship of tourism trade events challenges facing the industry • Regular meetings and participation on working groups • A shared commitment to the success of Air New Zealand, its employees and its unions • Monthly working group and quarterly leadership group meetings with all unions Unions • Transparent communication • Joint project teams working together to solve specific issues • Participation in business transformation initiatives that affect employees AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 91 Our Stakeholders & Materiality continued Engagement on key sustainability projects We also draw on stakeholder engagement to inform the development of key sustainability projects. Key Sustainability Project Stakeholders Value from Engagement • Help in defining Air New Zealand’s role in supporting Maori business, culture and communities Advance Maori throughout Iwi; Educators & Academics; Trade organisations; Tourism bodies, Central and local government • Feedback on our Maori strategy our organisation entities and Maori businesses • Collaboration on specific initiatives, providing advice, expertise Maori perspectives • Advice on climate policy changes Government entities; Iwi; Biofuel producers; Technology owners; Aviation and biofuel industry groups; Aviation Carbon Reduction • Facilitate understanding of offsetting opportunities Carbon offsetting organisations and brokers; Corporates • Partnership and collaboration to encourage supply of aviation biofuel • Insight to conservation issues facing New Zealand and actions to address Department of Conservation Department of Conservation; Iwi • Collaboration to enable alignment of messaging and development of marketing opportunities (DOC) partnership • Advice on areas of cultural importance Local and Regional Councils and Tourism Offices; Iwi; Chambers of Commerce; Business leaders; • Collaboration on specific initiatives, providing a regional development needs perspective Supercharge the Regions Tourism operators; Subject matter experts • Expert guidance on impact assessment approaches • Development and continuous improvement of the Supplier Code of Conduct Suppliers; Corporate and procurement leaders; Human Rights Commission; Sustainable Business Network; Sustainable Sourcing • Consultation and advice on Air New Zealand’s sourcing framework and the resulting sustainable Forum for the Future sourcing strategies to address risk and opportunities in extended supply chain • Identification of issues and opportunities to inform our approach to sustainable tourism Central Government; Local and Regional Tourism Offices and Councils; Sponsorship partners; Sustainable Tourism • Co-funding of McKinsey and Company tourism infrastructure funding report (with Auckland Airport, Tourism industry; Airports Christchurch Airport, Tourism Holdings) AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 92 Our Stakeholders & Materiality continued Industry and sustainability bodies Our role and engagement with key industry and sustainability bodies enables us to identify, actively monitor and shape risks and opportunities, regulatory change and leading practice. It also helps guide the integration of sustainability risk into key business practices. Organisation Function Our Role A4ANZ exists to advocate and pursue reform on key issues that impact the aviation sector and broader economy in our region. A4ANZ has a Airlines for Australia and New Zealand (A4ANZ) • Member particular focus on policy issues such as airport operations and efficient access to infrastructure. • Member BARNZ is an incorporated member society with 28 member airlines, of which Air New Zealand is one. BARNZ represents its members to Board of Airline Representatives (BARNZ) • Air New Zealand’s Roger Gray, Group General Manager of Airports, is airports, government agencies and affected communities on matters of airport pricing, airport capex plans, and noise concerns. current president of BARNZ The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is the trade association for the world’s airlines, representing some IATA • Member 275 airlines or 83% of total air traffic A Global Network Partner of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the SBC provides a platform for • Member New Zealand Sustainable Business Council (SBC) collaboration to enable members to be leaders in sustainability • Member of Auckland Airport Precinct Working Group Membership-based sustainability organisation that aims to help business succeed through sustainability. • Member New Zealand Sustainable Business Network (SBN) SBN’s Vision is focused on four areas: Renewables; • Member of Smart Procurement Leaders Group Community; Resource Efficiency and Restorative (natural capital) SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuels User Group) Association committed to accelerating development and commercialisation of sustainability aviation fuels • Member Star Alliance One of the world’s largest global airline alliances dedicated to innovation and excellent customer service • Member Independent association that represents all sectors of New Zealand’s tourism industry. Advocates to ensure tourism gets • Member Tourism Industry Aotearoa (TIA) recognised as a vital contributor to New Zealand’s economic and social wellbeing • Air New Zealand sits on the Board of TIA • Signatory United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments to implement universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption • 2017 UNGC Communication on Progress included in this Sustainability Report AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 93 Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development UN Sustainable Development Goal Air NZ contribution through programmes and activities Goals (SDGs), spearheaded by the United Nations, provide SDG 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote wellAir New Zealanders: People Safety (Health, Safety & Wellbeing) a framework for business and being for all at all ages Communities: Aircraft Noise government to work collaboratively SDG 5 Achieve gender equality and to solve global economic, social empower all women and girls Air New Zealanders: Diversity & Inclusion and environmental challenges. SDG 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Carbon: Aviation Carbon Reduction (pursue opportunities for aviation biofuel solution) sustainable and modern energy for all Carbon: Low Carbon Ground Transport (electric vehicle transition) At Air New Zealand our Sustainability Framework is informed by our business priorities, and we Air New Zealanders: Advance M ori Tourism: World Class Events use the SDGs to understand what issues we Air New Zealanders: Employee Engagement SDG 8 Promote inclusive and sustainable Tourism: Destination Promotion Air New Zealanders: Talent Incubator have the greatest ability to positively impact economic growth, employment and decent Communities: Airpoints for Schools Trade and Enterprise: Economic Contribution work for all Trade and Enterprise: Global Air Connectivity through our programmes and activities. We Communities: Charitable Programmes & Community Investment Trade and Enterprise: Cargo Services support the SDGs and are committed to working Communities: National Air Connectivity collaboratively with business, government and other stakeholders to deliver large scale change. SDG 10 Reduce inequality within Communities: Supercharge the Regions and among countries While the 17 SDGs need to work in unison, Carbon: Low Carbon Stationary Energy in the short to medium term we are focused Carbon: Low Carbon Ground Transport on nine goals that most closely align to our SDG 12 Ensure sustainable Carbon: Waste Management production and consumption patterns Carbon: Property and Infrastructure strategy and key strengths. More about Tourism: Sustainable Tourism our progress, success and challenges Trade and Enterprise: Sustainable Sourcing can be found throughout this report. Communities: Disaster Relief SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat Carbon: Aviation Carbon Reduction climate change and its impacts Nature and Science: Antarctica New Zealand Partnership Nature and Science: DOC Partnership (marine reserves) SDG 14 Conserve and sustainably use the Nature and Science: Antarctica New Zealand Partnership oceans, seas and marine resources Nature and Science: Environmental Compliance SDG 15 Sustainably manage forests, Air New Zealanders: Employee participation in Sustainability combat desertification, halt and reverse land Nature and Science: DOC Partnership degradation, halt biodiversity loss Nature and Science: Environmental Compliance AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 94 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress This Sustainability Report 2017 serves as our communication on progress regarding Air New Zealand’s implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which we joined in 2015. The information provided in this specific section supplements that found elsewhere in the Sustainability Report, and signposts to relevant policies, procedures and practices. Our commitment to the UNGC ten principles is demonstrated in the following key policies, procedures and practices at Air New Zealand: • Air New Zealand’s Code of Conduct sets out our • In 2015, we refreshed our Supplier Code of Conduct, harassment. An independent, free ‘Speak Up’ service (phone commitment to the principles enshrined in the United which sets out our support of the UNGC principles and and online) is provided for situations where raising concerns Nations Global Compact, and the behaviour we minimum expectations of our suppliers, particularly around via the individual’s manager or human resources business expect from our employees. The Air New Zealand sustainability and transparency. At least 88.7 percent of our partner is not appropriate. Our Just Culture and Reporting Business principles detailed in each section below are suppliers by spend (excluding fuel and labour) have now policy and procedures support a fair and confidential process. derived from our overarching Code of Conduct. provided positive assurance of our Supplier Code of Conduct • Our Group Compliance Policy sets out our commitment and we are working to achieve positive assurance from all • Agreement to abide by our Code of Conduct is included to conducting our business activities in a manner that in our current individual employment agreement templates, suppliers (excluding fuel and labour) by 2020. In 2017 the will best ensure compliance with the requirements and some collective employment agreements. Supplier Code of Conduct has been updated to highlight of all relevant laws, regulations, codes of practice, Air New Zealand’s ongoing commitment to observe, as a contractual agreements company policies, and relevant • All employees (under all contract forms) are required to minimum, the same conduct, standards and behaviours that third-party obligations that regulate its operations. abide by our Code of Conduct, which is communicated as it expects of its Suppliers when conducting business. part of training modules before employment commences • Air New Zealand’s first Slavery and Human Trafficking and refreshed on an annual basis. Code of Conduct training • We encourage all employees to raise concerns about Statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015, completion is reported to the Air New Zealand Policy potentially unethical or illegal conduct, while assuring further embeds and elaborates on Air New Zealand’s Management Committee and the Audit Committee. confidentiality and protection against retaliation or any form of commitment to the UNGC ten principles. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 95 United Nations Global Compact continued Human Rights Global Compact Principles Air New Zealand Business Principles • We will treat people fairly, with dignity and will pursue equality of opportunity and inclusion • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally for all employees through our employment policies and practices. We value diversity of proclaimed human rights people and thought. • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • We will recruit, select and develop our people on merit – irrespective of age, race, colour, origin, gender, religious beliefs, disability, family or marital status, sexual orientation or other prohibited grounds. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct positions on Human Rights are supported • We take legal advice in the local jurisdictions we operate in about human rights compliance by our Sustainability Framework, and the following Air New Zealand Group policies (publicly and require managers across the organisation to comply with all company policies. Employment available policies are linked): contracts are reviewed for compliance in each local jurisdiction and we seek compliance with policy and contract through governance and management structures. • Disciplinary Policy • Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy • See Air New Zealanders for discussion of our goals, implementation and outcomes relating to advancing M ori, people safety (health, safety and wellbeing), employee engagement, diversity and • Procurement Policy inclusion, talent development and employee participation in sustainability. • Just Culture and Reporting Policy, this policy has been refreshed in the last 12 months • Bullying and Harassment awareness training will be rolled out in late 2017 and will require certain manager-level employees to undergo mandatory training. General awareness training will • Workplace Bullying and Harassment Policy and the Workplace Bullying and Harassment be available to all employees and an awareness campaign will be rolled out. HR systems and Group Guidelines processes have also been subject to review and update to refine the process where a bullying or • At the date of this COP, approximately 11,000 of Air New Zealand’s employees are based in New harassment claim is lodged. Zealand, with close to 700 further employees based in Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, Cook Islands, Fiji, French Polynesia, France, Great Britain, Hong Kong, Japan, Samoa, Singapore, Tonga, • See Sustainable Sourcing for discussion of our goals, implementation and outcomes relating to and United States of America. sustainable sourcing. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 96 United Nations Global Compact continued Labour Global Compact Principles Air New Zealand Business Principles • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the • We will work in good faith, within the appropriate legal framework, with trade unions and other effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining bodies that our people collectively choose to represent them. • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • We will not tolerate child labour and are committed to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour • We will not accept any form of discrimination, harassment or bullying. • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code • Managing Poor Performance Policy • See Air New Zealanders for discussion • For our airline Cabin Crew, in addition to of Conduct positions on Human Rights are of our goals, implementation and outcomes Code of Conduct training, during initial and supported by our Sustainability Framework, • People Health, Safety and Wellbeing relating to advancing M ori, people safety recurrent training we focus on management Policy, this policy has been (health, safety and wellbeing), employee of customers with disabilities and nonand the following Air New Zealand Group engagement, diversity and inclusion, discrimination in this area. The guiding policies (publicly available policies are linked): refreshed in the last 12 months talent development and employee document in this regard is the ‘We Care participation in sustainability. Disability Guide’. We have also introduced • Airline Fatigue Risk Management Policy • Workplace Bullying and Harassment • See Sustainable Sourcing for discussion training modules focused on the wellbeing Policy and the Workplace Bullying • Airline Safety Policy of our goals, implementation and outcomes and mental health of our Cabin Crew. and Harassment Group Guidelines relating to sustainable sourcing. • Disciplinary Policy • Air New Zealand’s first annual Slavery and • Procurement Policy Human Trafficking Statement under the • Air New Zealand respects and supports • Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy • Palm Oil Position Statement the role of unions in the workplace. Modern Slavery Act 2015, further embeds Close to 70% of our employees are and elaborates on Air New Zealand’s • Just Culture Reporting and Policy • Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement covered by 32 collective agreements. commitment to the UNGC ten principles. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 97 United Nations Global Compact continued Environment Global Compact Principles Air New Zealand Business Principles • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • We will protect the health, wellbeing, safety and security of our customers, employees and the communities in which we operate. • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • We will operate our business with discipline and excellence to ensure sustainability, • Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies resilience and effectiveness. • We will protect and safeguard the natural environment, minimising our use of finite resources and the release of harmful emissions to the environment. • We will invest in society and communities ensuring effective use of our resources and in line with our mission. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of • See Nature and Science for discussion of Conduct positions on the Environment are our goals, implementation and outcomes supported by our Sustainability Framework, relating to environmental compliance and our and the following Air New Zealand Group partnerships with the New Zealand Department policies (publicly available policies are linked): of Conservation, Antarctica New Zealand, and New Zealand Antarctic Research Institute, • Energy policy including support for biodiversity projects, marine reserves, and climate science. • Environment policy • See Air New Zealanders section for • Procurement policy discussion of our employee Greenteam. • See Carbon for discussion of our goals, • See Sustainable Sourcing for discussion implementation and outcomes relating to of our goals, implementation and outcomes our aviation carbon reduction approach, relating to sustainable sourcing. low carbon stationary energy, low carbon ground transport, waste management, and property and infrastructure. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 98 United Nations Global Compact continued Anti-Corruption Global Compact Principle Air New Zealand Business Principles • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion • We will comply with all applicable domestic and international laws and regulations, appropriate and bribery standards and principles, including all competition, anti-trust and anti-money laundering laws. • We will not tolerate any form of bribery, including improper offers of payments or gifts to or from employees. • We will avoid any activity or contracts that may lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest between personal activities and Air New Zealand. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier • Gifts and Entertainment Policy, this policy • We review corruption risk as part of our Code of Conduct positions on has been updated in the last 12 months due diligence on new flight routes. Anti-Corruption are supported by the • Procurement Policy • We provide training on competition law for following Air New Zealand Group policies employees and specific groups, who we (publicly available policies are linked): • Securities Trading Policy, this policy has consider will benefit from targeted engagement been updated in the last 12 months • Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy due to their roles within the company. • See Sustainable Sourcing and Cargo • In June 2017 Air New Zealand was found by • Audit Independence Policy Services in Trade and Enterprise for the Australian High Court to have contravened • Competition Law Policy discussion of our goals, implementation and the Australian Trade Practices Act in outcomes relating to sustainable sourcing, relation to certain cargo insurance and fuel • Continuous Disclosure Policy and the Buckingham Palace Declaration surcharges. The allegations relate to conduct • Conflicts of Interest Policy against illegal wildlife trade, respectively. that occurred in the period 2002 to 2006. AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 99 GRI Content Index In developing content for this report, we have considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Principles for Defining Report Content of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and Completeness. This report references Disclosures from the following GRI Standards: GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016; GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016; GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016; GRI 404: Training and Education 2016; GRI 103: Management Approach 2016; GRI 302: Energy 2016; GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016; GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016; GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016; GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016; GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016; GRI 413: Local Communities 2016; GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016; GRI 305: Emissions 2016; GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety 2016; GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016. GRI Standard Disclosure URL General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization Company Profile Disclosure 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company Profile Disclosure 102-3 Location of headquarters Annual Financial Results 2017, Shareholder Directory p. 72 Disclosure 102-4 Location of operations Annual Financial Results 2017, Shareholder Directory p. 72 Disclosure 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company Profile Disclosure 102-6 Markets served Company Profile Disclosure 102-7 Scale of the organization Company Profile Disclosure 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Air New Zealanders Supplementary Data Disclosure 102-9 Supply chain Company Profile Trade & Enterprise: Sustainable Sourcing Disclosure 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Trade & Enterprise: Sustainable Sourcing Disclosure 102-12 External initiatives About this Report & Global Standards: Our Stakeholders & Materiality Disclosure 102-13 Membership of associations About this Report & Global Standards: Our Stakeholders & Materiality AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 100 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure URL General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosure 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Welcome from the Chief Executive Officer Disclosure 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Vision and Guiding Principles Code of Conduct About this Report & Global Standards: United Nations Global Compact Supplier Code of Conduct Disclosure 102-18 Governance structure Governance for our Sustainability Framework: Our Board has overarching responsibility for sustainability, and sustainability is an item on the Board agenda at least twice per year. The Board also meets with our external Sustainability Advisory Panel on an annual basis. The Board People Remuneration & Diversity Committee, and Health, Safety & Security Committee, provide governance and oversight of activities that fall within the scope of our Sustainability Framework. Our Chief Strategy, Networks & Alliances Officer and Head of Sustainability provide bi-monthly updates to our CEO on key sustainability activities and partnerships. Our external Sustainability Advisory Panel are subject matter experts in a range of topics material to our sustainability strategy, and provide advice and challenge on our approach. The CEO, Chief Strategy, Networks and Alliances Officer, Sustainability team and other company representatives meet with the Panel twice yearly. In addition, we consult the Panel on emergent sustainability issues in the interim. Disclosure 102-40 List of stakeholder groups About this Report & Global Standards: Our Stakeholders & Materiality Disclosure 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements About this Report & Global Standards: United Nations Global Compact Supplementary Data Disclosure 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders About this Report & Global Standards: Our Stakeholders & Materiality Disclosure 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About this Report & Global Standards: Our Stakeholders & Materiality Disclosure 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About this Report & Global Standards: Our Stakeholders & Materiality AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 101 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure URL Disclosure 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About this Report & Global Standards: Our Reporting Approach Disclosure 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About this Report & Global Standards: Our Reporting Approach Disclosure 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability Framework & Performance Disclosure 102-48 Restatements of information Identified throughout Disclosure 102-49 Changes in reporting None reported Disclosure 102-50 Reporting period About this Report & Global Standards: Our Reporting Approach Disclosure 102-51 Date of most recent report 2016 Sustainability Report Disclosure 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report & Global Standards: Our Reporting Approach Disclosure 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this Report & Global Standards: Our Reporting Approach Disclosure 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this Report & Global Standards: Our Reporting Approach Disclosure 102-55 GRI content index About this Report & Global Standards: GRI Content Index Disclosure 102-56 External assurance About this Report & Global Standards: Our Reporting Approach Material Topics Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach Tourism: Why This Matters Trade & Enterprise: Why This Matters GRI 201: Economic Performance Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Carbon: Why This Matters opportunities due to climate change Disclosure 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Annual Financial Results 2017, Note 17 to the Financial Statements p.22 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Tourism: Sustainable Tourism Trade & Enterprise: Global Air Connectivity AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure URL Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management Approach Trade & Enterprise: Sustainable Sourcing GRI 204: Procurement Practices Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers We are investigating ways to increase supplier diversity, including establishing new diversity indicators such as ethnic ownership that reflects New Zealand’s diversity. Air NZ website Supplier Code of Conduct Palm Oil Position Statement Energy GRI 103: Management Approach Carbon: Why This Matters GRI 302: Energy Disclosure 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2017 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory Report Disclosure 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 2017 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory Report Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity Supplementary Data Disclosure 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainability Dashboard: Carbon Biodiversity GRI 103: Management Approach Nature & Science: Why This Matters GRI 304: Biodiversity Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Nature and Science: Department of Conservation partnership Nature and Science: Antarctica Partnership Sustainability Dashboard: Nature & Science Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach Carbon: Why This Matters GRI 305: Emissions Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2017 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory Report Carbon: Aviation Carbon Reduction Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2017 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory Report Carbon: Aviation Carbon Reduction Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Carbon: Aviation Carbon Reduction Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainability Dashboard: Carbon AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure URL Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management Approach Carbon: Waste Management GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability Dashboard: Carbon Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach Nature & Science: Environmental Compliance GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Disclosure 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Nature & Science: Environmental Compliance Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach Trade & Enterprise: Sustainable Sourcing GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Disclosure 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Trade & Enterprise: Sustainable Sourcing Assessment Sustainability Dashboard: Trade & Enterprise Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach Air New Zealanders: Health, Safety & Wellbeing GRI 403: Occupational Health and Disclosure 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Sustainability Dashboard: Air New Zealanders Safety lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach Air New Zealanders: Talent Incubator Air New Zealanders: Participation in Sustainability GRI 404: Training and Education Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Training and Development assistance programs Supplementary Data Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach Air New Zealanders: Talent Incubator Air New Zealanders: Advance Maori GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Governance bodies: Annual Financial Results 2017, Corporate Governance Statement, Workforce Gender Representation p.51 Supplementary Data Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Gender Pay Report AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 104 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure URL Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach Communities: Why This Matters Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach Trade & Enterprise: Sustainable Sourcing Trade & Enterprise: Sustainable Sourcing GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Sustainability Dashboard: Trade & Enterprise AIR NEW ZEALAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 105
