Sustainability Update 2016 Securing our future: Our sustainability journey Sustainability Update 2016 | 1 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency AstraZeneca Sustainability Update 2016 At AstraZeneca, we want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of great medicines over the long term. Our sustainability commitments are driven by our Purpose and Values and underpin our business model to support the delivery of our business strategy. Contents Inside In this update, we provide an overview of our new sustainability strategy for 2017–2025 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Environmental protection and the progress we are making to embed sustainability more deeply into the DNA of About us  2 Our approach  2 our organisation. Our sustainability strategy  3 Minimising our impacts  6 About this update Our global contribution  5 Protecting natural resources  10 To drive continuous improvement across our Goals for securing our future  8 Environmental compliance  23 business, we set targets that are designed to stretch what we achieve. This 2016 update Benchmarking and recognition  12 Pharmaceuticals in the environment  24 describes our progress against these targets Materiality  13 About our reporting 26 for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. All our business activities worldwide are Stakeholder engagement  15 in scope regardless of their function, unless Accountable and inclusive governance  19 Ethics and transparency stated otherwise. Sustainability foundations  21 Our approach  2 Go online for more information on our policies and approach. Compliance  3 www.astrazeneca.com/sustainability Access to healthcare Supply chain management  7 Read our 2016 Annual Report to find out Our approach  2 Patient safety and product security  11 more about our governance and risk Sustainable access  4 Bioethics  14 management approach. Healthy Heart Africa  6 Antimicrobial resistance  22 Health systems development  8 Intellectual property  10 Sustainability Update 2016 | 2 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Welcome For AstraZeneca, sustainability means operating in a way that Index, moving from 15th place in 2014 to 7th in 2016. We received particular recognition for “2017 is set to be a pivotal year as we bring new medicines to patients across the globe. It is an exciting time as we approach a critical our efforts to improve access to our innovative recognises the interconnection medicines and to healthcare more generally, inflection point: a return to between business growth, with multiple best practices and innovations long-term growth built on the needs of society and the highlighted in the report. the firm foundations of a importance of protecting our planet for the generations Priority programmes science-led strategy and with to come. For us, increasing access to healthcare spans the spectrum of activity from the disease sustainability being embedded prevention activities of our Young Health into the DNA of our company.” A new roadmap for sustainability Programme to Healthy Heart Africa, which 2016 was a crucial year in the second stage enables greater access to hypertension Making great progress, together of our strategic journey as we manage a medication. A highlight in 2016 was our Embedding sustainability requires each transitional phase of patent expiries, drive our partnership with the US President’s Emergency and every one of us at AstraZeneca to play Growth Platforms and bring our new medicines Plan for AIDS Relief to expand access to their part. It is why I am very grateful to our to patients. Our Annual Report and Form HIV/AIDS and hypertension services even employees for everything they have done, 20-F Information give the full story behind the further, beginning in Kenya. Our access work particularly given the challenges faced in this emergence of the new AstraZeneca. also includes our new pricing strategy and stage of our strategic journey. affordability programmes in countries such This year, we also took important steps to I am also grateful to all those stakeholders as China and Brazil. further embed sustainability into our DNA. At who contributed to the development of our the centre of our focus is our new sustainability Our environmental efforts focus on decreasing new sustainability strategy, particularly the strategy, ‘Securing our future’, which was our impact on the environment across all our members of our Sustainability Advisory Board agreed by the Senior Executive Team in activities, with particular emphasis on carbon for their insight and challenge over the past November. Our sustainability strategy drives emissions, waste and water use. We are year. As we have worked to develop our our enhanced efforts, sets a clear path for making good progress across our targets, but strategy, they have influenced, guided and the years ahead and identifies the ambitious decoupling waste generation from business endorsed our approach. commitments and targets we have set and employment growth remains a challenge. ourselves. As we look ahead to pursuing our It is an area that will require both innovation A turning point in our journey science-led strategy in the years up to 2025, and investment to achieve our targets. 2017 is set to be a pivotal year as we bring we want to ensure that we broaden access We also continue to apply high standards of new medicines to patients across the globe. to healthcare, minimise our environmental bioethics to our research activity, whether It is an exciting time as we approach a critical footprint, and ensure ethics and transparency conducted by us or by third parties on our inflection point: a return to long-term growth underpin everything we do. behalf. In 2016, we implemented new global built on the firm foundations of a scienceIn this update we provide an overview of standards which give patients and researchers led strategy and with sustainability being our sustainability strategy and how we are more information about our research, part of embedded into the DNA of our company. embedding sustainability into the organisation our commitment to improving the transparency Pascal Soriot, Executive Director in line with our Purpose and Values. of our clinical research. and CEO, AstraZeneca Recognition of our progress A broader commitment As we begin to implement our new The focus on our priority areas does not sustainability strategy, it is particularly diminish our commitment to other important encouraging to have received external areas of sustainability. These include further recognition in 2016 for the progress we have aligning our efforts with the UN Sustainable already made. For example, we were Development Goals and working to integrate named a sustainability leader within the our targets into day-to-day business activities. Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology and We are also committed to the United Nations Life Sciences industry of the Dow Jones Global Compact and its ten principles. In Sustainability Index (DJSI). Our score of 86% 2016, we conducted our third global Human was an improvement of two points over 2015 Rights Labour Review, which which focuses and positions us just three percentage points on the International Labour Organization’s behind the industry leader. We were also core themes, including freedom of association awarded an A List ranking for climate change, and collective bargaining, child labour, water stewardship and supplier climate discrimination, working hours and wages. change by the non-profit global disclosure The results were encouraging and we are now organisation, CDP. Finally, we were named the taking action to address areas where we have biggest riser in the biennial Access to Medicine room to improve. Sustainability Update 2016 | 3 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Sustainability As a global biopharmaceutical business, we want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of great medicines over the long term. We are at AstraZeneca committed to operating in a way that recognises the interconnection between business growth, the needs of society and the limitations of our planet. Our sustainability commitments, which are driven by our Purpose and Values, underpin our business model and support the delivery of our business strategy. Access to Environmental Ethics and healthcare protection transparency We aim to improve access to healthcare As we push the boundaries of science We want to be valued for the medicines around the world by tailoring our and develop new medicines, we know we provide and trusted for the way we programmes to the communities they will how important it is to follow the science work. That means demonstrating ethical serve. In some cases this means looking and conserve natural resources to business practices and a high level of at pricing, in others it involves overcoming protect the planet. integrity in everything we do. other barriers to healthcare. 2.7 million 5% 8,977 patients screened for cut in emissions down to supplier assessments hypertension in Kenya as 1,657 ktCO2e since 2015, carried out in 2016 part of our Healthy Heart exceeding our 2016 target Africa programme +1.6 million A List 100% young people engaged through ranking for climate change of active employees trained our Young Health Programme and water stewardship on the Code of Conduct since 2010 by CDP Highest climber 100% Signed from 15th in 2014 to 7th in 2016 of AstraZeneca supply sites the Davos Declaration on in the Access to Medicine demonstrated safe active Combating Antimicrobial Foundation global index pharmaceutical ingredient Resistance with over 100 (API) discharges other companies Sustainability Update 2016 | 1 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations About us 14.5% 34.5% 24% We are a global biopharmaceutical business delivering 27% medicines to patients through innovative science and excellence in development and commercialisation. Global commercial presence with strength in Emerging Markets Product Sales: Our Purpose $23 billion Established Rest Of World1 $3,096m Europe $5,064m We push the boundaries of science to Total Revenue Emerging Markets $5,794m deliver life-changing medicines in 2016 US $7,365m Our people R&D Manufacturing 59,700 Around 8,400 Approx. employees globally employees co-locating around three strategic R&D centres: Cambridge, UK; Gaithersburg, US and Gothenburg, Sweden 12,200 92% of employees feel able $5,890 million people employed at 31 Operations sites in 18 countries to bring our Values to life in their daily work invested in our R&D organisation in 2016 132 projects in our pipeline, of which 120 are in the clinical phase of development Gothenburg, Sweden Cambridge, California, US UK (HQ) Boston, MA, US Osaka, Gaithersburg, MD, US Japan Shanghai, China Research centres Established Rest Of World comprises Japan, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. 1 Sustainability Update 2016 | 2 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Our sustainability strategy To achieve long-term success, Securing our future priorities for 2017–2025 we aim to deliver our business strategy in a way that delivers wider value to society and the planet. To do this, we focus on maintaining ethics and transparency in everything we do, increasing access to healthcare for more people Access to Environmental Ethics and and minimising the healthcare protection transparency environmental impact of our products and processes. In 2016, we embarked on a robust process Given their alignment with our business >E nsuring diversity, in its broadest to re-focus our sustainability programme strategy, we have identified these three sense, is reflected in our leadership and embed it deeper into our core business. priorities as the areas that will allow us to and people strategies We worked with an independent think-tank have the most impact in creating value >C ontinuing to develop and embed to complete a sustainability materiality for our patients, our company, broader a consistent approach to human rights assessment to shape our priorities. It identified society and the planet. across our worldwide activities 27 sustainability issues that are most relevant Our focus on these areas does not >P  romoting the safety, health and to AstraZeneca. These became the basis diminish our commitment to other areas wellbeing of all our people worldwide. for benchmarking analysis, engagement of our sustainability agenda, which we with external and internal stakeholders and See the full picture of our strategy and priorities > refer to as our Sustainability foundations an internal review that examined our areas and which include: of strength, weakness and opportunity. We undertook a process to begin aligning our new priorities and commitments with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Our new strategy has been shaped through broad engagement with stakeholders and sustainability experts including socially responsible investors, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), trade organisations and others. What science can do At AstraZeneca, we believe that science should be the driver for everything we do and the design and delivery of our sustainability strategy is no exception. Science can change the way we see the world, help us understand our challenges and unlock our opportunities. It ensures we monitor and manage our social, economic and environmental impacts. Sustainability Update 2016 | 3 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Securing our future 2017–2025 Our strategic business priorities Achieve Our Purpose Return to Be a great We push the boundaries of scientific growth place to work science to deliver life-changing leadership medicines. Our Values We follow We put We play We do the We are the science patients first to win right thing entrepreneurial Our sustainability priorities Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Through collaboration and We follow the science to protect We will maintain integrity innovation we strive to address the planet by: in everything we do by: global health issues by: > Managing our impact on the environment, >W orking to consistent global standards > Exploring innovative ways of increasing across all our activities, with a particular of ethical sales and marketing practices access to healthcare for more people, focus on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, in all our markets tailored to meet differing patient needs waste and water use >W orking only with suppliers who have and circumstances > Minimising the environmental impact standards consistent with our own > Making a positive contribution to our of our products. >W orking on continued transparency local communities around the world, with our data in clinical trials through community support programmes >E nhancing the understanding of how our consistent with improving health and medicines work and benefit patients promoting science. >A pplying sound bioethics to all our work >M aintaining a strong focus on patient safety. Sustainability foundations Beyond our three priorities, we will continue to ensure strong performance in core areas such as: diversity; human rights; workplace health and safety; product quality and security; and public policy and advocacy. Sustainability Update 2016 | 4 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Our global contribution Launched in September 2015, the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is a global action plan for people, planet and prosperity. As a healthcare company, we have an important role in contributing to the delivery of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Below and throughout the report we highlight some of the ways we are currently contributing to delivering the SDGs. As we move forward with our strategy we will look to deepen our alignment and commitment to the SDGs. Ensure healthy lives and a wide range of partners to strengthen expanded into Kenya and launched promote well-being for all healthcare capabilities, particularly in Phase III of the programme in India at all ages developing economies. with commitments to 2020. To improve access to our medicines, we have Our contribution: Our three main Target 3.4: By 2030, reduce by been exploring how we can use therapy areas focus on: eliminating one third premature mortality economic data to link an individual’s cancer as a cause of death through from non-communicable diseases ability to pay with the price of our scientific discovery and collaborations; through prevention and treatment medicines, supporting our work with addressing multiple risk factors to and promote mental health and lifestyle and disease awareness advice. reduce cardiovascular morbidity, well-being. This latest approach builds on our mortality and organ damage; and A key target of this SDG is to reduce Faz Bem programme, which has transforming the treatment of premature mortality from nonhelped some 2.5 million patients since respiratory disease. communicable diseases (NCDs) it was launched in 2008. We have also Increasing access to healthcare for through prevention and treatment by reached more than 1.6 million people more people is one of our strategic one third by 2030. Launched in and worked with over 30 expert priorities and a key focus of our October 2014, Healthy Heart Africa is organisations through our Young sustainability strategy. We tailor our our flagship programme which aims to Health Programme (YHP), which activity according to local issues, help combat NCDs. It has already targets the four most prevalent risk making it easier for people to afford delivered over 2 million hypertension factors for NCDs: tobacco use, harmful our medicines. We also focus on screenings in the community and local use of alcohol, lack of exercise and developing strong collaborations with healthcare facilities. In 2016, we unhealthy eating. Ensure inclusive and (STEM) education since 2014 through for women in STEM. In 2016, she equitable quality education our partnership with Career Ready in gave a speech at the second annual and promote lifelong learning the UK and we aim to inspire more International Day of Women and Girls in opportunities for all young people around the world to Science conference in New York (also take up STEM education and careers. relates to SDG 5 Gender Equality). Our contribution: As a company Bahija Jallal, Executive Vice-President, built on science and the skills of our MedImmune, is president of the scientists, we’ve supported science, Association for Women in Science, the technology, engineering and maths largest multi-disciplinary organisation Achieve gender equality and three women on our Board (30%). Executive Team (SET) had a country empower all women and girls Representation of women in senior of origin that is an Emerging Market or roles increased to 43.2% in 2016. To Japan (up from 5% in 2012). In Europe, Our contribution: We continue to ensure our senior leadership reflects we have piloted a European Women focus on diversity and inclusion with our diverse geographic footprint, we as Leaders programme to support the a goal to increase the presence of track the country of origin of senior accelerated development of highwomen on our leadership teams. leaders and reflect this in our diversity potential women in AstraZeneca. Women comprise 49.9% of our global targets. In 2016, 14.5% of leadership workforce and, in 2016, there were roles that reported to our Senior Sustainability Update 2016 | 5 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Ensure availability and for discharges of APIs and leading responsibly and equitably, as a shared sustainable management industry understanding of the impacts public resource. Managing our impact of water and sanitation of pharmaceuticals on the aquatic on water resources in one of the key environment. We completed aspects of our environmental strategy. Our contribution: We are committed 81 supplier assessments to ensure safe This year, we were included on CDP’s to achieving scientific leadership to discharges of APIs across our global Water A List, placing us among the help our industry and the scientific supply chain in 2016 and 100% of leading 25 companies in the world for community understand the risks of AstraZeneca supply sites demonstrated water stewardship. pharmaceuticals in the environment. safe API discharges. We recognise the This includes setting safe thresholds need to ensure water sources are used Ensure access to affordable, to RE100. Compared with 2015, our with on-site renewables, such as at reliable, sustainable and sourcing of certified zero carbon Macclesfield in the UK and at modern energy for all power from renewable sources Frederick in the US. Further on-site quadrupled in 2016 and accounted projects are planned in the US and Our contribution: Our commitment for 58% of our global imported power. Australia in 2017. is to source 100% renewable power Our commitment is also inspiring our globally by 2025. We are committed sites to substitute imported energy Promote sustained, inclusive 59,700 people globally and we are with all national and international and sustainable economic dedicated to building an inclusive, laws, regulations and codes for growth, full and productive open and trusting organisation that preventing trafficking and slavery. employment and decent work embraces the skills, knowledge and We are an accredited Living Wage for all unique abilities of our employees. Employer in the UK and we partner Ensuring there is no modern slavery with others to address manufacturing Our contribution: Being a great place or human trafficking in any part of skills gaps at the industry level, for to work is one of our three strategic our business or supply chain is a key example our partnership with Tianjin priorities. We directly employ around commitment and our standards comply University in China. Build resilient infrastructure, Our contribution: Our sciencethis by accelerating our $5.9 billion promote inclusive and led innovation strategy aims to investment in key R&D programmes. sustainable industrialization push the boundaries of science to We are focused on delivering innovative and foster innovation create life-changing medicines. In medicines by investing in Emerging 2016, $154 billion was invested in Market capabilities, such as China and pharmaceutical R&D worldwide and other leading markets. we made a significant contribution to Ensure sustainable all those involved throughout the to accelerate our resource efficiency consumption and lifespan of a product – from discovery performance. We plan to invest another production patterns and development through to patient $22 million in resource efficiency in use and end-of-life disposal. In 2016, 2017 and will ensure all sites have Our contribution: We are committed we committed around $25 million to natural resource plans that align with to effective environmental management natural resource efficiency projects to our environmental targets. across the product life cycle. We take reduce environmental impacts at our a whole life-cycle view and work with sites. These projects are expected Sustainability Update 2016 | 6 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Take urgent action to combat our approach. We are making good The extra energy in the climate system climate change and its impacts progress: in 2016, we were listed on is likely to increase the incidence and the Climate A List by CDP, placing us severity of some extreme weather Our contribution: Climate change among the top 9% of corporations events. As well as managing our has many negative health impacts participating in CDP’s climate change impacts, we partner with others such for society. We make it a priority programme. Our efforts to measure and as the British Red Cross to respond to to contribute towards the united manage our supply chain footprint also natural catastrophes when and where global effort that involves business, led to our inclusion in CDP’s Supply emergency medical need is greatest. governments, NGOs and communities Chain Climate A List and, as of October In 2016, we donated $200,000 to the working together. Measuring and 2016, AstraZeneca was one of only four Kuala Lumpur Emergency Response reporting emissions, and setting FTSE 350 companies to have had its Unit and $25,000 towards hygiene kits and achieving science-based climate change targets approved by the following Hurricane Matthew. targets to manage our direct and Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative. indirect contribution, are central to Protect, restore and promote Convention on Biological Diversity and Wales at the Cambridge Institute for sustainable use of terrestrial we continue to apply best practice, Sustainability Leadership’s (CISL’s) ecosystems and halt actively managing biodiversity on our Natural Capital Leaders Platform. We biodiversity loss sites through local biodiversity action are exploring the value that Natural plans. We sometimes use genetic Capital Assessments might bring to our Our contribution: Although our resources that occur naturally on the business decisions by integrating the land holdings are relatively small, planet to help deliver life-changing financial impacts of our investments we manage our sites to support medicines. We acknowledge our that are associated with natural capital sustainable ecosystems for the benefit responsibilities under the Nagoya into our financial analysis. We will of our employees, the communities Protocol to access and use this report on the outcomes of our trial that surround them and wildlife. We material in a transparent and fair in 2017. actively support the principles of the way. In 2016, we joined the Prince of Promote peaceful and inclusive approach to sustainability. We are embrace the same high standards of societies and build effective, committed to the United Nations ethical behaviour as our own. We do accountable and inclusive Global Compact and its ten principles. not tolerate any form of bribery and institutions at all levels In 2016, we conducted our third global corruption, either among our own Human Rights labour review, which employees or the third parties we Our contribution: We aim to lead focuses on the International Labour work with. our industry in demonstrating ethical Organization’s (ILO’s) core themes. business practices and integrity in We also strive to deliver consistently everything we do. It is why human high standards of sales and marketing rights, safety and health, and business practices worldwide and we only ethics are core to AstraZeneca’s work with those third parties who Partnership for the goals >H  ealthy Heart Africa partnerships > Industry bodies such as the including with the Federal Ministry Coalition for Sustainable Our contribution: We cannot solve of Health in Ethiopia and the US Pharmaceuticals and Medical these challenges alone, so we strive President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Devices and the Pharmaceutical to develop long-term, collaborative Relief (PEPFAR) Supply Chain Initiative partnerships that support our own sustainability commitments and help > YHP and other coordinating groups >U  N Global Compact. to deliver the SDGs. that promote adolescent health within the broader NCD agenda Examples of the global partnerships >P  artnerships for climate change, and initiatives we are involved including the SBT initiative and in include: RE100 Sustainability Update 2016 | 7 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Goals for securing our future Key As we embark on our new strategy, our sustainability targets aim Target exceeded to drive continuous improvement and stretch what we achieve Full target achieved across our business. This year, we made good progress in a Ongoing progress number of areas. In others, we faced challenges and we continue to look for ways to expand our positive impact. Target not achieved, some progress Here, we provide an overview of our approach and the progress we have made against our commitments in 2016. Access to healthcare Goals Target Progress highlights progress Expand sustainable patient 4.49 million patients in Emerging Our access to healthcare strategy aims to access to our medicines to reach Markets served by patient increase access to healthcare for under-served 3 million patients by 2016 access programmes patient populations and comprises three elements: providing high-quality, effective and Young Health Programme Renewed in Canada, Germany, appropriate medicines to those who need After exceeding initial goal to reach China and India and expanded them; improving affordability, particularly 1 million people through the Young Health into Kenya among the growing middle class in Emerging Programme by 2015, aim to renew in Markets; bringing down healthcare barriers, Total reach in 2016 of 166,000 five markets and expand into three markets particularly in developing countries. and 1.6 million youth since 2010 by 2018 Our strategy helps us to address affordability Proposals for expansion are and other healthcare barriers, while ensuring in development for Brazil and we continue to provide high-quality medicines Australia and for renewal in to those who need them. We are reviewing our Portugal goals in the light of the Access to Medicine Index Report and our new strategy. Healthy Heart Africa Since 2014, we have conducted Reach 10 million hypertensive patients over 2.7 million screenings and across Sub-Saharan Africa by 2025 started treatment for over 100,000 hypertensive patients Healthy Heart Africa Screen over 1.4 million people for hypertension by end of 2016 For more information please see Access to healthcare Sustainability Update 2016 | 8 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Environmental protection Goals Target Progress highlights progress Reduce operational GHG footprint2 by Our operational GHG footprint We follow the science to protect the planet. 2% (against a 2015 baseline) to 1,708,335 totalled 1,656,917 metric tonnes We are committed to operating in a way that tonnes CO2e by 2016 in 2016, a 5% reduction from our respects and protects our climate and natural 2015 baseline resources through a science-based approach that drives continuous improvement across Have our climate change targets We attained verification that our value chain. In 2016, we embarked on a approved by the SBT initiative by 2016 our climate change targets are new strategy that set ambitious commitments science based up until 2025: Set out a target for 100% renewable power We launched our commitment Protecting natural resources by improving the by 2016 to 100% renewable power environmental performance of our operations consumption globally by 2025 and supply chain, including reducing our and in the US and Europe by 2020 GHG footprint. This includes limiting our 2025 through the RE100 initiative extended operational GHG footprint to 2015 levels. Publicly disclose information associated We increased the scope of our with our climate change performance operational carbon footprint Ensuring the environmental safety of our by 2016 reporting in 2016 products by reducing environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle of our Reduce waste generation by 2% (against a In 2016, our total waste was medicines, including understanding and 2015 baseline) to 36,760 tonnes by 2016 37,923 metric tonnes, a 1% minimising the long-term effects of PIE. increase on 2015 Reduce water use by 2% to 4.13 million m3 In 2016, our water footprint was Key (against a 2015 baseline) by 2016 3.99 million m3, a 5% reduction Target exceeded compared with 2015 Full target achieved 90% of API syntheses meet resource 100% of API syntheses Ongoing progress efficiency targets at launch by 2016 (avibactam) met launch target in 2016. In addition we achieved Target not achieved, 9% reduction in our resource some progress efficiency metric, process mass intensity (PMI), across the portfolio Ensure effective environmental Safe API discharges were management of our products from confirmed for 100% of our own pre-launch through to product end-of-life and >90% globally managed by 2016 supplier sites in 2016 We completed a comprehensive review for our EcoPharmacoVigilance programme For more information please see Environmental protection 2 Extended operational footprint includes: Scope 1, Scope 2 and some Scope 3 emissions. It covers energy use, road fleet, process emissions, waste incineration, business air travel, primary distribution (freight and logistics), first tier outsourced supply of API and Formulation & Packing (90% of spend, energy only) and patient use of pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs), measured in tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e). Sustainability Update 2016 | 9 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Ethics and transparency Goals Target Progress highlights progress All active employees to be trained 100% of active employees trained As a global, science-led biopharmaceutical on our Code of Conduct by 2016 on the Code of Conduct in 2016 business, we have a responsibility to hold Achieved a 100% score for Code ourselves to high ethical standards. We strive of Conduct from the Dow Jones for high levels of integrity in everything we Sustainability Index do, whether it’s our approach to bioethics, including patient safety, the way we treat the participants in our clinical trials and the use of Communicate clear policies Updated our annual Code of animals in science, or our approach to human to employees by 2016 Conduct training to provide rights, or the scrutiny of our supply chain to greater clarity and simplicity for ensure our suppliers meet our high standards. the business as well as improved accessibility via mobile devices Our performance in 2016 against the goals we since 2016 set ourselves is described opposite. We are also reviewing our commitments and goals Ensure employees can raise concerns and 320 reports of alleged compliance and strengthening our strategy in key areas that they are properly addressed by 2016 breaches or other ethical such as our supply chain. concerns made through the AZethics Helpline in 2016 Key Meet high ethical standards across all Conducted 66 high-risk supplier Target exceeded our procurement activities and decisions audits in 2016 worldwide by 2016 Full target achieved Collate a suite of ‘Culture of Care’ pledges Two winners of a newly Ongoing progress from all of our R&D sites, demonstrating introduced ‘Culture of Care’ Target not achieved, our daily commitment to high standards of award recognising the day-tosome progress animal welfare by 2016 day commitment to excellence in animal care and welfare, including Continue to promote scientific excellence in one attracting the attention animal care and use through a programme of the National Centre for the of global roundtable workshops by 2016 Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs) for further development as a project initiative In 2016, we prepared to meet the Redacted Clinical Report Package of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) Publication of Clinical Data Policy. The policy is designed to further improve transparency and access to research information For more information please see Ethics and transparency Sustainability Update 2016 | 10 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Sustainability foundations Goals Target Progress highlights progress Increase female representation We exceeded this target, reaching at Global Career Level F and above from 43.2% We are dedicated to creating an inclusive, 42% (2015) to 42.5% by 2016 Our target for women in senior open and trusting organisation that embraces the skills, knowledge and unique abilities of roles by end of 2017 is 43.5% our employees who interact with thousands of Increase representation of employees from Representation was 14.5% suppliers and partners all over the world. Emerging Markets and Japan in roles that at the end of 2016 Our Sustainability foundations reflect our report to our SET to at least 16% by 2016 abiding commitment to people: our staff, patients, suppliers and wider stakeholders. 75% reduction in total injury rate by 2025 Total injury rate of 1.45 in Our targets reflect our commitment to from 2015 baseline 2016, exceeding our annual workplace diversity and inclusion, health target of 1.64 and safety and employee engagement. Reduce injury rate to 1.64 in 2016, against the 2015 baseline of 1.73 (reportable injuries per million hours worked) Key Target exceeded 55% reduction in collisions per million 3.62 collisions per million kilometres driven by 2025 kilometres driven in 2016, Full target achieved exceeding our annual target Ongoing progress Reduce the collision rate to 4.00 in 2016, of 4.00 against the baseline of 4.13 in 2015 Target not achieved, (collisions per million kilometres driven) some progress Develop a health and wellbeing framework Framework development for launch in 2017 on track for 2017 launch 80% of sites/marketing companies have all four Essential Health Activities3 by 2025 Achieve target (83%) employee survey The outcome of our December score in 2016 for AstraZeneca as a great 2016 Pulse survey was 74%4 place to work Improve employee perception of the The outcome of our December opportunities for personal development and 2016 Pulse survey was 73%4 growth in AstraZeneca to 77% in 2016 Deliver further organisational simplification The outcome of our December (target, relevant Pulse survey score to be 2016 Pulse survey was 59%4 over 62%) by 2016 All employees have a development plan in The outcome in December 2016 place by end Q3 (target 95%) by 2016 was that 93% of employees had a development plan in place All employees to have had at least one The outcome of our December quality development discussion with their 2016 Pulse survey was 82% line manager by the end of Q3 (the target was over 85%) by 2016 For more information please see Sustainability foundations 3 Healthy eating and drinking, tobacco cessation, physical fitness, workplace pressure management. 4 The decline in scores in our most recent employee survey reflects the impact of reshaping the business. We are focused on improving performance in those areas identified as important drivers of employee engagement, such as people development and line manager communication. Sustainability Update 2016 | 11 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Benchmarking and recognition We are proud of the external recognition we received for our work in 2016. The feedback we receive helps us identify gaps and continually strengthen our strategy and performance. CDP DJSI Access to RobecoSAM Prime Climate A List: In the top Second in Medicine Index Silver Class distinction AstraZeneca is rated 9% of corporations Pharmaceuticals, Biggest riser, moving to rating in the RobecoSAM ‘Prime’ by oekom participating in CDP’s climate Biotechnology and Life 7th place in 2016 from index, the global research. Prime change programme in Sciences industry group 15th in 2014. sustainability investment status is awarded to recognition of our actions to rating which identifies companies that meet Score of 86%, up two Industry best practice reduce emissions and mitigate companies that are the sustainability points from 2015 recognition for our climate change. strongly positioned management transparent approach Significant to create long-term requirements of As of October 2016, one of to intellectual property improvement in the shareholder value. 100 social and only four FTSE 350 companies in relation to Index environmental dimension environmental criteria. to have received approval of Countries: disclosing of the index, gaining Companies are also our science-based targets to where we will not enforce 18 percentage points. screened against several reduce carbon footprint. patents, where we would controversial business Sector best scores for: consider granting a Water A List: Among the fields and practices. Occupational Health licence, and disclosing leading 25 companies for our There are currently and Safety (86%), Code the status of our patents commitment to transparency around 550 companies of Conduct (100%), for products used to treat around environmental risks holding oekom Marketing Practices Index Diseases. and for pursuing best practice. research’s prime status. (93%), Climate Strategy Supplier Climate A List: (100%) and Health Among the 3% of companies Outcomes Contribution awarded an A Grade for (100%). our efforts and actions to combat climate change by implementing programmes to reduce emissions in both direct operations and our “ supply chain. I’m proud that AstraZeneca has received significant external recognition for our environmental leadership by adopting a science-based climate target. Setting science-based targets is the right thing to do and perfectly aligned with our commitment to follow the science.” Katarina Ageborg, Chief Compliance Officer, AstraZeneca Sustainability Update 2016 | 12 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Materiality Global trends and the pace of change affecting society mean Materiality assessment process it is vital we stay on top of emerging risks and respond quickly. The following six steps provide an overview Our goal is to embed sustainability in our business strategy and of the process we undertook to identify our material issues. all areas of our operations. To do that, we need to understand the most important issues for our business and our stakeholders and ensure our strategy is designed in such a way as to drive our effective response. In 2016, we worked with an independent think-tank to complete a new sustainability materiality assessment to help identify the priorities that would shape our new Business landscape assessment sustainability strategy. Materiality is the A key sustainability risk and opportunity assessment was carried out through our principle of defining the social, environmental risk management framework across the whole business landscape and external and governance issues that matter most to context to identify emerging sustainability issues. our business and our stakeholders. The assessment process identified 27 Identify and categorise key issues sustainability issues relevant to AstraZeneca. 27 issues were identified and grouped using a wide variety of sources, including: These became the basis for benchmarking sustainability performance rankings; peer materiality assessment benchmarking; analysis, engagement with external and trend analysis; and global frameworks such as the UN SDGs. internal stakeholders and an internal review that examined our areas of strength, weakness and opportunity and our alignment with Assess issues and prioritise the UN SDGs. Each issue was assessed across the following dimensions: business impact; stakeholder concern; level of opportunity; and degree of influence. Issues were then mapped onto a materiality matrix (see page 14). Internal/External engagement We used input from our internal and external stakeholders to help shape the outcome of our materiality assessment and resulting strategy. Key inputs to the materiality process included: > In-depth interviews with key external stakeholders including socially responsible investors and corporate sustainability specialists to better understand priorities and stakeholder expectations > Engagement with Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) members to validate and prioritise material issues > A survey was sent to over 100 internal executives from key functions to better understand material and priority issues > Alignment with the UN SDGs, working with an external third party for preliminary mapping of current activities and examining future ambitions to contribute to SDGs. Strategy development Using the materiality assessment, we re-focused our priorities and re-shaped our sustainability strategy. Monitor and report We used sound science to monitor our impacts and progress towards our commitment and re-shaped our reporting to reflect our material issues and strategy. The outcome of our materiality assessment was validated by the members of our SAB. Sustainability Update 2016 | 13 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Our sustainability material issues 1 Ethical sales and marketing 15 Fair taxation The 27 sustainability issues identified have 2 Health outcome contribution 16 Employee retention been mapped on a materiality matrix to show 3 Bribery and corruption 17 Bioethics their relative level of stakeholder interest and 4 Product safety and quality 18 Patient interaction potential business impact. 5 Product affordability 19 Resource efficiency 6 Clinical trials 20 Climate change 7 Supply chain management 21 Disease prevention 8 Healthcare reform 22 Human rights Key 9 Pharmaceuticals in the environment 23 Workplace health and safety 10 Public policy and advocacy 24 Diversity and inclusion Access to healthcare 11 Intellectual property 25 Biodiversity Environmental protection 12 Health systems development 26 Research with animals Ethics and transparency 13 Compensation 27 Community investment Sustainability foundations 14 Product counterfeiting 4 3 2 1 6 5 High 11 10 9 8 7 15 13 12 Medium 22 21 20 19 18 17 14 26 25 23 16 27 24 Stakeholder interest Low Low Medium High Business impact Sustainability Update 2016 | 14 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Stakeholder engagement We believe our long-term success lies in strengthening our Our Global Policy on Ethical Interactions and Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Policy connections with stakeholders, understanding their worlds guide our approach to stakeholder and combining forces to achieve common goals. The feedback engagement. You can read more about we receive from stakeholders, through both the materiality how we enable stakeholders to raise assessment process and ongoing stakeholder dialogue, informs concerns with us in our 2016 Ethics and Transparency update. our sustainability approach, commitments and actions. We define a stakeholder as any individual or How we engage with stakeholders group who can affect, or is affected by, our The insight and challenge we gain from our business. The benefits of dialogue with our stakeholders play an important part in shaping stakeholders include: our business strategy and sustainability commitments. We value their feedback and >B etter healthcare solutions – we aim to develop open and trusting deeper stakeholder relationships will relationships with our stakeholder groups. help us come up with creative ways to tackle healthcare challenges We use a wide range of channels to carry out >B etter decision-making – listening to regular formal and informal engagement – from stakeholders will improve our knowledge of digital to face-to-face dialogue. Through a multipresent and future risks and opportunities, stakeholder engagement approach, we identify helping us to make good business decisions systematic activities to create opportunities for interaction with groups of our stakeholders. We >B etter reputation – responding continue to use feedback from our stakeholder appropriately to the changing expectations dialogues as an input into our strategy and concerns of our stakeholders will development and risk management planning. strengthen our reputation >B etter informed stakeholders – information All our relationships and engagement, presented as part of a dialogue is more including with patient groups and other easily digested and understood, helping healthcare organisations, are based on stakeholders to understand our business. transparent and shared objectives to improve the lives of patients and in compliance with local laws and regulations. Here, we summarise our key stakeholder groups and outcomes of our engagement in 2016. Stakeholder group How we engage with them Key outcomes in 2016 We are dedicated to creating an inclusive, open In December 2016, we completed a Pulse survey and trusting organisation that embraces the skills, which showed 80% employee belief in our knowledge and unique abilities of our employees. strategy (2015: 89%, 2014: 86%). This is a key To foster innovation and achieve our strategic indicator of employee engagement. Employees priority of being a great place to work, we seek 74% of employees also said they would to harness the different perspectives, talents recommend AstraZeneca as a great place and ideas of our employees and ensure they feel to work (2015: 83%, 2014: 82%). valued for their contribution. Employee opinion surveys help us measure employee satisfaction and engagement and how we are doing in our aim of being a great place to work. Sustainability Update 2016 | 15 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Stakeholder group How we engage with them Key outcomes in 2016 Our future success depends on developing In 2016, we focused on increasing our coverage strong relationships with suppliers and third of third-party activities, providing greater senior parties that uphold our high ethical standards. leader insight and ensuring quality and depth of compliance assessments. Our commitment to ethics and transparency Suppliers and requires us to set clear standards for those At the end of 2016, 20,613 suppliers had third parties suppliers and to have strong processes in place completed compliance assessments, a to ensure suppliers are meeting those standards. 96% completion rate. As a result, we identified 40 suppliers who did not meet our standards. We develop and implement ongoing supplier engagement programmes that reflect areas We implemented 1,101 action plans to help third of specific geographical and/or supply sector parties drive improvements in their business. risk, with a focus on and key gaps in third-party We also conducted 66 audits on high-risk understanding. suppliers, seeking to ensure that they employ We provide incentives for suppliers through a appropriate practices and controls. number of means from specialist training to profitsharing of any costs saved/revenue generated through our improvement initiatives. Our engagement with patient groups and Over 70,000 patients have been connected community engagement supports us to improve to AstraZeneca research and development health and quality of life, and demonstrates the through our five-year collaboration with the value of science to patients and society. PatientsLikeMe online research community. Patient groups5 and Our relationships with patient groups comply with Our Patient Partnership Program (PPP) is a new patient communities6 relevant legal and regulatory requirements in each initiative which aims to infuse the patient voice country, as well as applicable codes and our own throughout our drug discovery, development and supporting policies. patient support activities. To demonstrate this, we publish our patient In 2016, we established the first two PPP patient group relationships on country-level websites, expert groups in ovarian cancer and asthma. including but not limited to our R&D centres of excellence in Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. Wherever we work in the world, we aim to make In 2016, we spent over $500 million on a positive impact on our local communities. community investment sponsorships, We maintain open dialogue with our local partnerships and charitable donations communities, keeping them informed of our worldwide, including our product donation Local communities business activities and plans, and giving them and patient assistance programmes which make the opportunity to raise any concerns. our medicines available free of charge or at reduced prices. We target our global community investment towards promoting healthcare in the community We extended our YHP into Kenya. We have and supporting science-based education now reached over 1.6 million young people and careers. in 21 countries with health information for the prevention of NCDs, engaged over 40,000 young people to share health information with their peers and the community, and trained more than 12,600 frontline health providers. 5 Patient groups are independent organisations that provide advice and support to patients and their families and other caregivers. 6 Patient communities are communities of interest online for people with specific diseases and conditions. Sustainability Update 2016 | 16 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Stakeholder group How we engage with them Key outcomes in 2016 We are committed to fulfilling our requirements as Four quarterly results announcements/ a publicly listed company and to further engaging presentations. with the financial community to communicate An unprecedented number of meetings during strategy, performance and other relevant metrics investor roadshows and conferences at more to assess the investment proposition. We also Shareholders/investors than 25 global investment centres. listen to our shareholders and external experts and analysts to help shape our future business. A number of educational and pipeline-focused investor science events, typically related to new We make information available to the financial data presented at key medical meetings. community through a range of media, including: Bus tour visits to main offices and facilities. > Year-to-date and quarterly results announcements and presentations Other investor outreach activities, including to > Corporate website and other electronic media fixed-income investors, socially responsible investors and Chartered Financial Analyst > Roadshows, investor conferences, and topical societies in the US. and educational investor science webcasts and events > Incoming telephone and email enquiries. We, along with other pharmaceutical Key areas of engagement with governments companies, continue to work openly and and regulators in 2016 include: transparently with policymakers and regulators >P  artnering directly with governments to to increase access, improve outcomes and to improve healthcare infrastructure and access Government bodies support an environment that fosters medical and to medical treatment and regulators scientific innovation and value. >F  lagship programmes to promote access to healthcare where it is needed most, such as through our new collaboration with PEPFAR >E  ngagement with governments and other bodies to uphold our responsibilities under the Nagoya Protocol. Neither AstraZeneca nor its subsidiaries made any EU political donations or incurred any EU political expenditure in 2016. In 2016, the Group’s US legal entities made contributions amounting in aggregate to $1,568,250 (2015: $1,224,550) to national political organisations, state-level political party committees and to campaign committees of various state candidates. Our SAB comprises five world-class thought In 2016, the SAB provided feedback on our leaders in their fields who provide the priorities and approach that was integral to the expertise, challenge and insight we need to shaping of our new sustainability strategy. deliver our sustainability strategy and respond As part of our materiality assessment, to changing developments. NGOs and we also engaged with a number of NGOs, sustainability experts socially responsible investors and multilateral institutions to share insights on key trends, risks and opportunities to shape our new sustainability strategy. Sustainability Update 2016 | 17 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Our work with patient groups Patient communities Responsible partnering Patient groups are independent organisations Through our five-year collaboration with the Partnering is an important element of that provide resources and support to patients, PatientsLikeMe online research community, our business model. It supplements and families and caregivers and work to advocate over 70,000 patients have been connected strengthens our pipeline and our efforts to on behalf of patients in the healthcare to AstraZeneca’s research and development. achieve scientific leadership. We partner with environment. As a company committed to The data patients share improves our others around the world including academia, improving health and quality of life, we support understanding of the symptoms and outcomes governments, industry, scientific organisations patient groups in their mission to bring the that matter most, ensuring we deliver and patient groups. These partnerships enable value of science to patients and society alike. medicines that patients value. Patients have us to access the best science, stimulate We value sustainable engagement with our also told us how to improve studies in our key innovation and accelerate the delivery of new patient group partners and are committed to therapy areas. As a result, we acted to simplify medicines to target unmet medical need. We initiatives that elevate the patient voice and studies, removing barriers to participation currently have more than 600 collaborations aim to improve patient outcomes. and making it easier for patients to complete around the world. on studies. AstraZeneca and PatientsLikeMe Our support may include financial shared the results of their research and actions To advance our strategy, in April 2016, contributions and in-kind donations that seek taken with participants, showing that the we announced plans to increase partnering to enhance patient welfare. Our relationships contribution of patients is valued and has in relation to projects in our inflammation, with patient groups must always comply with an impact. infection and neuroscience disease areas relevant legal and regulatory requirements and to products in markets where there is in each country, as well as applicable codes Delivering patient-centred medicines a clear rationale. and our own supporting policies. We publish through the Patient Partnership Programme The Patient Partnership Programme (PPP) is Ensuring these partnerships are transparent our relationships with patient groups on a new initiative that aims to infuse the patient and uphold our high ethical standards is vital to AstraZeneca’s country-level websites in our voice throughout all our company’s drug our reputation. When making new acquisitions R&D centres of excellence in Sweden, the discovery, development and patient support and developing partnership opportunities, United Kingdom and the United States. activities. The PPP provides an open line of our ethical standards are integral to our due Phase III clinical trials communication between AstraZeneca and diligence and partnering activities. We assess We are committed to developing more patientgroups of patients with functional expertise in all projects against our 5Rs evaluation criteria: friendly trials by integrating patient insights a given disease area to learn from each other Right Target, Right Tissue or Exposure, Right early on in protocol design planning. Our and co-create patient-centric products and Safety, Right Patients and Right Commercial. ambition is for AstraZeneca trials to be simpler services in a fast and efficient manner. We also consider ethical conduct in sales and for our patients and for faster delivery of data marketing, safety, environmental management to answer scientific questions in protocols. In 2016, we established the first two PPP and other sustainability issues – including the patient expert groups in ovarian cancer and historical liabilities of potential partners and the Clinical teams are supported to connect asthma. Together with global cross-functional practices they currently have in place – and with various external patient organisations to teams working in severe asthma and ovarian we work only with those whose standards of collect insight directly from patients. Teams cancer, our Patient Centricity team ran very ethical behaviour are consistent with our own. have access to a range of patient insight tools successful global PPP Summits for each including: patient preference surveys; protocol disease area to kick off the programmes. As simulations; patient advisory boards; clinical a result, disease teams across a variety of site; and patient focus groups. Once patient functions are now engaging with key patient insights are reviewed by teams, we identify experts for the development of our medicines and implement agreed actions to optimise our and disease management tools in severe protocols and then measure the impact of asthma and ovarian cancer. To find out our actions. more about this programme, please refer to www.azpatientpartners.com We are currently implementing a consistent patient-centred approach across targeted trials to encourage and implement positive change through patient engagement. Sustainability Update 2016 | 18 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Accountable and inclusive governance Our commitment to growing our business in a sustainable way How we govern sustainability also helps us protect our licence to operate, attract and retain Our well-established robust governance model talent, manage risk and, most importantly, deliver life-changing helps us deliver, monitor and report progress on the framework across the business. In medicines to patients. The Senior Executive Team (SET) and Board early 2016, we recruited a new Sustainability regularly review our sustainability work as part of their business Director to lead the transformation of our review activities. sustainability approach across the company. We have also repositioned the sustainability function within Global Compliance. Sustainability framework A sustainability framework is embedded in the way we operate: Board Non-Executive Director, Geneviève Berger, oversees implementation of the sustainability framework and reporting to the Board. New Board appointments are recommended by a Nomination and Governance Committee. The membership of the Board at Sustainability Stakeholders 31 December 2016 and information on individual Directors is contained Advisory Board Regular engagement with in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report (page 86). Established in 2015 and external stakeholders, which meets twice annually to takes place with a range of provide external insight, SET socially responsible investors feedback and advice to help SET is responsible for the framework. and other interest groups, sharpen our understanding of, provides the opportunity for > Senior managers throughout the Group are accountable for and responses to, established sustainable issues or concerns operating in line with the sustainability commitments within their and emerging sustainability to be raised and discussed. areas, taking into account national, functional, and site issues issues. The Advisory Board and priorities. also helps identify opportunities for further > Line managers are accountable for ensuring that their teams innovation and collaboration. understand the requirements and improvement targets, and that people are clear about what is expected of them as they work to achieve our business goals. Sustainability Council The Council is chaired by a SET member, currently Katarina Ageborg, Chief Compliance Officer. Members comprise senior leaders from each relevant SET function. Its agenda focuses on driving long-term value creation by, among other things: > Agreeing sustainability priorities for the Group in line with strategic business objectives > Managing and monitoring the annual process of setting sustainability objectives and targets, and reviewing performance against key performance indicators (KPIs) > Agreeing appropriate policy positions to support our objectives and reputation management. Sustainability Network A network of SET function representatives and subject matter experts supports the Council. The network reviews issues with the potential to impact AstraZeneca’s sustainability agenda and helps deliver the substantive elements of our programme. Sustainability Update 2016 | 19 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Managing risk Incorporating external The Board met twice in 2016 to help inform We strive to embed sound risk management perspectives the development of our new sustainability in our strategy, planning, budgeting and strategy and endorse our approach, priorities Our SAB provides the expertise, challenge performance management processes. and overall framework. At the first meeting, and insight we need to deliver our We have an established risk management in January 2016, members helped to sustainability strategy and respond to framework which sets out roles, responsibilities challenge and validate the first phase of our changing developments. and methodology for managing risk across all materiality assessment, shaping the resulting The purpose of the SAB is to: priority focus areas of our strategy and areas of our business. discussing implementation. > Provide feedback, constructive Members of the Board are experienced senior challenges and advice on the full range At the second meeting, in September 2016, leaders who are adept at risk management of issues relevant to AstraZeneca’s members reviewed the completion of the for their specific functional areas. The Board sustainability agenda materiality assessment. They also reviewed the defines the Group’s risk appetite using three key dimensions: earnings and cash flow; return > Provide an external perspective on our draft strategy to inform its development. on investment; and ethics and reputation. Our sustainability plans and targets, helping The main focus of the SAB in 2017 will risk management approach feeds into our to improve and evolve our long-term be on helping to drive delivery of our new strategy and business planning processes. sustainability strategy strategy, especially by contributing guidance > Forecast trends, emerging issues, challenges on integration into functional business plans Line managers are accountable for and opportunities in national and global and activities, incorporation into leadership identifying and managing risks and for contexts, and provide guidance on how to development and how to further productively delivering business objectives in accordance respond to them engage stakeholders. with the Group’s risk appetite. The SET is required by the Board to oversee and > Help AstraZeneca to develop and maintain monitor the effectiveness of our risk links with external industry experts. management processes. The SAB includes five world-class thought Within each SET function, leadership teams leaders in their fields, including several who discuss the risks their business faces. have been instrumental in integrating positive Annually, we map these risks to AstraZeneca’s sustainability practices in large organisations. risk taxonomy. This provides a Group-wide assessment for Board, Audit Committee Current external members are: and SET. Changes to these risks, new and > Pankaj Bhatia: Deputy Director, emerging risks and mitigation plans are World Resources Institute assessed quarterly within each SET function > Polly Courtice: Director of the and presented to Board, Audit Committee University of Cambridge Institute for and SET in a Group Risk Report. A GroupSustainability Leadership wide risk network includes representatives from every material part of the business to aid > José Lopez: Former Executive Vice President communication and collation of this information. of Operations, Nestlé SA > Mary-Jane Morifi: Global Capital For full details of the risks and uncertainties Campaign Lead, Nelson Mandela Children’s that we consider material to our business in Hospital Trust that they may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations > Jorgen Randers: Professor Emeritus, and/or reputation, please see page 20 and BI Norwegian Business School. page 214 of our 2016 Annual Report. Sustainability Update 2016 | 20 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Sustainability foundations We are dedicated to creating an inclusive, open We use these interactions as an opportunity to influence, learn from others and share our policies – ensuring the organisations we and trusting organisation that embraces the work with share our Values. Our Sustainability foundations reflect skills, knowledge and unique abilities of our our abiding commitment to people: our staff, patients, suppliers employees. Our global workforce includes and wider stakeholders. 59,700 employees in over 100 countries who interact with thousands of suppliers and partners all over the world. $ Great place Workplace health Community to work and safety investment To stay at the cutting edge of We aim to have a safe and healthy work Wherever we work in the world, scientific innovation, we seek to harness environment for our employees and we we aim to make a positive impact on the diverse perspectives, talents and have set ambitious targets for 2016 to our local communities. ideas of our employees. 2025 to drive continuous improvement. 43.2% 1.45 +1.6 million of employees at Career Level F injuries per million hours young people reached through (our six highest bands) or above worked, down from 1.73 the Young Health Programme are women in 2015 3.62 $501 million collisions per million community investment to kilometres driven, down support healthcare and from 4.13 in 2015 further science education and skills development Sustainability update Update 2016 2016 || 21 21 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Human and employee rights Living Wage Our recent global labour rights survey found: Human rights is a central foundation of the We have assessed Living Wage progress, both >1 00% positive response to the question way we work. It is an area in which we can internally and globally, and we are satisfied ‘Does the company respect the right of its use our relationships to positively influence that we meet or beat any government or workers to join and form trade unions and to our suppliers and partners so that they locally recognised bodies’ definition of a bargain collectively?’ reflect and help us deliver our human Living Wage. In the survey mentioned above, 84% of countries stated that there is a locally >5 8% of countries have a relationship rights commitments. recognised definition of a ‘Living Wage’ and, with trade unions and 98% of these have We are committed to respecting and promoting in all instances, they had adopted or bettered collective bargaining arrangements international human rights – not only in our the stated rate. This rate is also paid to >W here trade unions do not have own operations but across our wider spheres third-party providers. We carried out our own a presence, 99% of countries have of influence, including our supply chain. To that independent external review in 2016 to assess established arrangements to inform, end, we integrate human rights considerations developments in this area to inform our global communicate and consult employees on into our policies, processes and practices. We approach. In 2016, we achieved Living Wage a wide range of business matters that may are committed to ensuring there is no modern Foundation accreditation in the UK. Since have an impact on employment. slavery or human trafficking in our supply then, we have been monitoring the impact on chains or any part of our business. We will our cost base and will use our evaluation to Modern slavery publish our full statement under Section 54 develop our global position. The Modern Slavery Act came into force of the UK Modern Slavery Act on our in the UK in April 2016 and supports those website in 2017. Promoting the rights of employees subjected to human trafficking and slavery. We seek to follow a global approach We are committed to ensuring that we identify AstraZeneca supports the principles set out in to employee relations guided by global and eliminate to the fullest extent practicable the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights employment principles and standards, local modern slavery or human trafficking risks and our policies detail our high standards laws and good practice. We work to develop in our supply chains and in any part of our of employment practice. These include and maintain good relations with local business. Our standards comply with all respecting diversity and, as a minimum, workforces and work closely with recognised national and international laws, regulations and complying with national legal requirements national trade unions. We also regularly consult codes for preventing trafficking and slavery regarding wages and working hours. We also with employee representatives or, where in our own business operations. Furthermore, support the ILO standards on child labour and applicable, trade unions, who share our aim of we require our contracting partners and those minimum age, and we are members of the retaining key skills and mitigating job losses. companies within our supply chain to do United Nations Global Compact. the same, as set out in our Global Standard Labour rights assessments are an integral In 2016, we began conducting our third Expectations of Third Parties. In 2017, we part of our Third Party Risk Management (bi-annual) human rights labour review in intend to release a public statement covering approach. We use both external intelligence, all countries where we have an employee the 2016 financial year which outlines our relating to geography-related labour rights presence. The survey was conducted across approach to preventing modern slavery from risks and our own knowledge to ensure we 106 countries and included five sections with occurring within our business and our focus on those areas of our supply chain 34 related questions. The review focused supply chains. facing the greatest risk. on ILO core themes including: freedom of association and collective bargaining; child labour; discrimination; working hours and wages (including questions on the Living Wage). The overall results of the survey show 100% legal compliance on employmentrelated matters and only two areas where a gap in meeting ILO minimum standards was identified. We are developing plans to address these gaps, which require four countries to introduce a formal grievance procedure and seven countries to increase maternity leave to the minimum 14 week ILO standard. Sustainability Update 2016 | 22 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Diversity and inclusion Gender diversity at AstraZeneca % of women To stay at the cutting edge of scientific innovation, we seek to harness diverse Board of Directors of the company perspectives, talents and ideas and ensure 2015 33% our employees reflect the diversity of the 2016 30% communities in which we operate. We are committed to promoting and maintaining SET a culture of respect and equal opportunity. 2015 31% In 2016, we implemented a new talent management and succession planning 2016 33% process. It focuses on identifying, sourcing and accelerating the development of our Directors of the company’s subsidiaries highest potential talent to ensure we have 2015 27.9% credible successors to drive our future 2016 27.9% business growth. AstraZeneca employees Our policies and procedures are designed to help protect against discrimination on any 2015 49.8% grounds, including disability. These cover 2016 49.9% recruitment and selection, performance management, career development and promotion, transfer, training, retraining Geographical diversity (including retraining, if needed, for people To ensure our senior leadership reflects our who have become disabled) and reward. diverse geographic footprint, we track the country of origin of senior leaders and reflect Gender diversity this in our diversity targets. In 2016, 14.5% of We continue to focus on diversity and inclusion leadership roles that report to the SET have a with a goal to increase the presence of women country of origin that is an Emerging Market or on our leadership teams. In 2016, we piloted Japan (an increase from 5% in 2012). a European Women as Leaders programme to support the accelerated development of high-potential women in AstraZeneca. We will roll out this programme globally in 2017. At the end of 2016, women made up 49.9% of our global workforce. There were three women on our Board (30%). Below Board level, the representation of women in senior roles (roles at Career Level F or above, which constitute the six highest bands of our employee population) increased to 43.2% in 2016, exceeding our target of 42.5%. Sustainability Update 2016 | 23 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Workplace health and safety We have worked hard to create a culture of We made good progress against our new We believe that a safe and healthy safety, health and wellbeing in our sites all over strategic targets in 2016, achieving a 16% work environment is a fundamental right the world and have achieved considerable reduction in the reportable injury rate and a of our employees and suppliers. We have success. In 2016, we were recognised in 12% reduction in the vehicle collision rate from set ambitious targets around workplace the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) the 2015 baseline. injuries, driver safety and promoting good when we achieved the Pharmaceuticals, Building on our previous success in health within our workplaces. Biotechnology & Life Sciences sector best establishing a culture of health and wellbeing, score for occupational health and safety. we are developing a health and wellbeing framework that is based on the World Health What we achieved Organization’s Healthy Workplace Model. It will give sites and AstraZeneca marketing companies a blueprint for continuous 2025 commitment 2015 baseline 2016 target 2016 actual improvement in health promotion. The 75% reduction in total injury rate by 2025 from 1.73 1.64 1.45 framework will allow all sites and AstraZeneca 2015 baseline (Reportable injuries per million marketing companies the flexibility to develop hours worked) towards our 2025 goal through three levels of maturity. In 2017, we will conduct a global 55% reduction in collisions per million kilometres 4.13 4.00 3.62 assessment of health and wellbeing maturity driven by 2025 against the framework. Reportable injuries 80% of sites/marketing companies actively 63% Develop a Framework In 2016, a total of 177 reportable injuries promote all four Essential Health Activities7 health and development occurred including 127 lost time injuries. by 2025 wellbeing on track for Vehicle accidents and ‘slips and falls’ were framework for 2017 launch launch in 2017 the two main accident categories, together accounting for 65% of all reportable injuries. In addition, 28 occupational illnesses were reported, including 21 lost time cases. Musculoskeletal disorders and work-related stress were the two main categories of Promoting healthy lifestyles through the occupational illness. Approximately Global Corporate Challenge™ 3,381 working days were lost due to workIn 2016, AstraZeneca participated in the Global Corporate Challenge™ for the ninth related injuries and illnesses in 2016, down successive year. In addition to a pedometer challenge, the programme included nutrition 27% on the previous year. and weight loss advice and a tracker, heart health assessment, a sleep health module and a mental wellbeing module. 2,429 AstraZeneca employees in 347 teams took part Year Reportable injury rate per Target from 28 countries and achieved a daily average of 13,204 steps. Together they clocked up million hours worked 1,110,154 miles, equivalent to walking 44.85 times round the world. In the process, they burnt off the equivalent of 448,792 slices of cake! Teams from Kazakhstan swept the board 2016 1.45 1.64 taking the top three places. 2015 1.73 2014 1.93 Note: This is a new injury metric for our 2016–2025 strategy. There is no target set for 2014–2015 as these years focused on lost time injury/illness rate only. Healthy eating and drinking, tobacco cessation, physical fitness, 7 workplace pressure management. Sustainability Update 2016 | 24 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Accident categories in 2016 In 2016, we carried out a number of Driver safety Reportable injuries by category activities and initiatives focused on delivery Driving is our highest risk area for serious of improvements in key areas of concern, injury and fatality. This is why improving including driver safety, fall prevention, driver safety is our highest priority, behavioural Safety, Health and Environment particularly among our sales force, which is (SHE), risk management, industrial hygiene the largest group of employees that drives and stress management. We also continued on AstraZeneca business. to focus on learning from incidents, using a Our focus is on promoting driver safety dedicated website to communicate relevant through awareness and training programmes learning from workplace incidents and how among our sales force. This includes all they can be prevented in the future. This employees in the sales force who drive on Accidents website is available to all staff to help improve AstraZeneca business including contractors their safety knowledge. on temporary contracts who drive our vehicles, but it does not cover third-party suppliers. We monitor performance centrally to assess progress and identify areas for attention. In 2016, we set ourselves new targets for Vehicle 67 Fall from height 9 reducing collisions per million kilometres driven. Slips, trips and falls 47 Cut 6 Having reduced collisions by 55% over the Injured while handling, lifting or carrying 20 Hit something fixed or stationary 6 previous seven years, our new target is for a Hit by moving, flying or falling object 9 Other 13 55% reduction from the 2015 baseline by 2025. We surpassed our 2016 annual target achieving a 12% reduction in collision rate against baseline, with all regions showing improvement. Improving the safety of female The reduction in collisions was also reflected employees in India in the rate of vehicle accidents with reportable injury per million business kilometres driven, Our SHE and administration team in India was awarded an AstraZeneca SHE Excellence which improved by 25% in 2016. Award in 2016 for the delivery of a campaign to improve the safety of women in the field sales workforce. As well as being the right thing to do, ensuring a safe work environment Following the death of an employee for women was seen as important for the recruitment and retention of female employees. while driving in 2015 and the subsequent Projects over the year included personal safety basics with guidance on travel, hotel investigation, we held training workshops stays, parking and safe walking, all aimed at raising the level of safety consciousness in in early 2016 for all employees who drive female employees. Special arrangements were made for late working, transport provision for work in the International sales region. and vehicle breakdown, and a list of recommended hotels based on safety criteria was The campaign was championed by senior established. In addition, a committee was set up to provide female employees with a forum commercial leadership and focused on time to resolve issues of sexual harassment headed by an independent advocate. pressure, distracted driving and fatigue. We also reviewed our global procedure on the use of electronic devices while driving and rolled out a campaign to ensure all employees are aware of our policy and the reasons behind it. Over the last four years there have been two Awarding-winning campaigns driving fatalities, one in 2014 and one in 2015. and employee engagement There were no driving fatalities in 2016. Our global and regional driver safety leads were awarded an AstraZeneca SHE Excellence Award in 2016 for their outstanding driver safety campaigns. The ‘Spotlight on Safety’ Collisions per million km campaign was focused on the International sales area, covering more than 15,000 Year Target Actual employees, and launched with senior commercial leadership championing the campaign. (not to exceed) The Executive Vice-President for the area took part in one of the workshops in Singapore. AstraZeneca internal engagement was high throughout the #SpotlightonSafety campaign. 2016 4.00 3.62 The ‘Distracted Driving’ campaign was focused on all commercial markets and included 2015 5.60 4.13 a pledge not to use a mobile phone while driving. Both campaigns within the sales force had a measured impact on the driving safety of employees, with a 12% reduction in the 2014 6.10 4.66 collision rate and a 22% reduction in the vehicle injury rate compared to the previous year. Feedback from employees was very positive. “This workshop made me think about my attitude while driving and how important it is to be careful, it’s for my family.” (Philippines) “At the end of the session, so many positive responses from people participating and how this session will help to remind them to stay safe on the road.” (Indonesia) Sustainability Update 2016 | 25 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Talent management Developing talent Employee engagement To underpin our sustainable business Good leadership is critical for achieving high Employee opinion surveys help us measure growth, we need to attract the best levels of performance and engagement. We employee satisfaction and engagement people in our industry. We aim to identify strive to attract talent by offering rewarding and how we are doing in our aim of being a individuals with the required capabilities careers that connect the potential of our great place to work. Our most recent survey, to achieve our priorities and we work people with the capabilities required by carried out in December 2016, showed a collectively to purposely accelerate our business. We are focusing on ensuring decline compared to the survey at the start their development. development opportunities are available to all of the year in scores for all 10 items common employees, alongside our investment in our to both surveys. Although this might not be At AstraZeneca, we strive to create and highest potential talent. unexpected given the action we are taking to maintain a culture of excellence and ambition. In 2016, we launched our new Hi-Potential re-shape our business to improve long-term Our people are committed to developing Strategy. It recognises the unique contributions competitiveness, we are continuing to focus products that will improve the lives of patients of individuals with particular skills and on improving areas identified in our surveys all over the world. We communicate our capabilities against newly defined businessas being important drivers of employee strategies widely to ensure all staff understand critical roles to help us achieve both our short engagement. For example, we are driving our shared goals and help us work towards and our long-term aims. The new programme our agenda around people development, achieving them. puts the primary emphasis on identifying encouraging improved dialogue between Our ambition is to create a culture of high credible successors and looks at those who colleagues and their line managers on performance, from our leaders and scientists are ‘Ready Now’. This means identifying development. We have also continued our to facilities staff and our sales force. Once an employees who demonstrate great potential efforts to simplify the work environment for employee arrives at AstraZeneca, we invest in and who, with the right support, training and colleagues, whether this be through simplifying their ongoing professional development and development, will be ready to take on one of business processes or improving the IT tools training to ensure they have a clear career path those critical roles in anything up to five years. we use in the workplace. that inspires them to work towards their own We encourage employees to take ownership of Managing change and our shared goals. Within this, we also work their own development and encourage leaders In 2013, we announced plans to invest in to identify those individuals with the potential to spend time supporting their employees’ three strategic R&D centres. This affected to one day lead AstraZeneca. development. To support this, in 2016 we employees in the US and the UK. We implemented a global platform to increase the encouraged and supported employees to visibility and accessibility of job opportunities. relocate and have made good progress. We are continuing to develop high-quality One of the programmes that is key to leaders. In 2016, 15% of the approximately reinventing our company is our new R&D 130 people in leadership roles that report centre in Cambridge. As of 31 December to our SET were either promoted into the 2016, 2,000 employees were working in leadership population or moved roles within Cambridge and, of these, 500 had relocated the leadership population. from other sites in the UK. In addition to the 750 employees hired in 2015 and 2016, we In 2016, we also piloted a new best-practice expect to hire a further approximately 350 technology-enabled leadership experience, employees in Cambridge in 2017. We have rooted in social learning, with 180 supply and created a Cambridge Campus of eight interim manufacturing leaders based in West Chester sites in and around Cambridge where staff will and Mount Vernon in the US and Vorsino in be located until we are ready to move to the Russia. As a result of the success of these final site. pilots, over 700 senior leaders across the organisation had enrolled on the programme With our new facility taking shape, we begin by the end of the year. This experience can the staged occupation of our new state-of-thebe accessed on any device at any time, with art building in 2018. For employees who do the goal of implementing global technologynot accept offers to relocate to Cambridge, we enabled development programmes in 2017. provide career support, outplacement support and competitive severance packages. Sustainability Update 2016 | 26 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Community investment Benefits of our community investment We have reached 1.6 million young people Wherever we work in the world, we aim activities include: with important information about healthy to make a positive impact on our local lifestyles through the YHP since it launched > Disease prevention programming communities. Our global workforce has in 2010. We work with over 30 partner > Access to affordable medicines organisations across five continents, the potential to be a force for good and we support our employees to take up > Education and empowerment to combining on-the-ground programmes with volunteering opportunities that benefit local, improve health research and advocacy to target the four national and global projects. We also focus > Investment in future scientists most prevalent risk factors for NCDs: tobacco on leveraging our contribution in areas use, alcohol abuse, lack of exercise and > Improved understanding of risk factors unhealthy diet. In Kenya and India, we also affected by disasters through the provision in adolescents from research of medical products and other support. look at sexual and reproductive health as an > Engagement of local communities additional risk factor based on a recognition We target our global community investment > Emergency relief though drug and that these behaviours are inextricably towards promoting healthcare in the medical assistance. connected to the others and greatly influence community and supporting science-based health choices that are made and the ability education and careers. The main focus of our Young Health Programme for youth to participate in positive health community investment strategy is our YHP, The Young Health Programme (YHP) is an creating behaviours. “ which addresses NCD prevention. We also NCD prevention programme developed in coordinate patient assistance programmes and partnership with Johns Hopkins Bloomberg support for global disaster relief. School of Public Health and Plan International. It aims to reduce the uptake of unhealthy Currently, our global approach to community behaviours in young people. investment is outlined in and governed by our Today, more people die or become ill from Community Investment Contributions Standard which allows our country operations to develop NCDs than from communicable diseases. We are proud co-founders of local strategies and tailor activities based on Conditions like hypertension, diabetes, the Young Health Programme lung cancer and chronic respiratory disease local need. The Standard provides guidance for devastate lives, place a significant burden with AstraZeneca. Disease community investment and helps us to ensure a consistent, transparent and ethical approach on global health systems and threaten the prevention programmes around the world. It also provides guidance productivity of nations. that are focused on youth on how to define which contributions may be classified as community investment. NCDs are often causally linked to risk contribute to addressing a behaviours such as tobacco use, physical In 2016, we spent a total of approximately inactivity, unhealthy diet and the harmful use of serious global health issue. $501 million (2015: approximately $680 million) alcohol. These are behaviours we learn, often They help empower youth in adolescence. They are heavily influenced on community investment, sponsorships, partnerships and charitable donations by our culture, our geography and our sociowith the knowledge and the worldwide, including our product donation and economic conditions. Once they are learned, confidence to make informed patient assistance programmes, which make they become difficult habits to break. choices about their health, our medicines available free of charge or at reduced prices. We aim to improve health outcomes for young leading to healthier societies people and reduce the burden of NCDs on AstraZeneca provided more than $466 million healthcare systems by investing in disease and stronger nations in in savings to almost 200,000 patients in the prevention, specifically on addressing the the future.” United States and Puerto Rico through our risk factors that are precursors to the most common NCDs with a unique focus on Tanya Barron, OBE, CEO, AZ&Me Prescription Savings Program in 2016. adolescents aged 10 to 19. We deliver this Plan International UK Additionally, we donated over $20 million in products across multiple therapeutic areas to programme through a three-pillared approach: our NGO partners Americares and Direct Relief > On-the-ground programming International in support of public health needs and disaster relief. > Investment in research and evidence generation to address gaps in knowledge > Investment and active engagement in advocacy for the inclusion of adolescents in the global and local dialogue on NCD prevention. Sustainability Update 2016 | 27 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations YHP on the ground With our partners, we have reached over 40,000 young people to share health Young Health Programme Kenya information with their peers and the community, and trained more than In 2016, we launched YHP in Nairobi, Kenya where there is a 27% prevalence of 12,600 frontline health providers since 2010. NCD-caused deaths. Using the experience gained from India and Brazil, Kenya is implementing programme strategies that include youth empowerment through peer In 2016, we introduced the programme to education, community mobilisation, health service strengthening and local advocacy. Kenya, renewed the programme in Canada, Germany and China and extended the India Kenya is also adapting its own brand of support for young people, which includes programme to 2020. creating a supportive environment for young people within the targeted communities. This environment allows young people to take action on their new behaviours through YHP research and evidence generation reducing social stigma and empowering youth. Through YHP, we fund research and evidence The overall objective of the programme is to contribute to improved health and gender needed to prioritise policies and services equality of girls and boys between 10 and 24 years of age; specifically, by ensuring that for adolescent health and NCD prevention. adolescent girls and boys are practising fewer risk behaviours due to an increased capacity Targeted activities connected with this pillar of to make informed choices and to protect their health, now and in the future. the programme include: During this first year, the YHP team laid the foundations for success through engagement > A global study on the Well-being of with community leaders, school teachers and administrators, religious leaders, young Adolescents in Vulnerable Environments people, sub-county administrators, gate-keepers, caregivers, local Community Based (WAVE), undertaken by Johns Hopkins Organisations, local NGOs and health services providers. They conducted a baseline study Bloomberg School of Public Health, which to identify the prevalence of risk behaviours that will inform their work moving forward. enables better understanding of the impact of both the physical and social environment Elsewhere in year one, the YHP Kenya team selected eight villages in Kibera to work in and on adolescent health (2014) selected and trained 40 Peer Educators to conduct outreach in their local communities. > Two in-depth reviews of the prevalence of They also conducted training for health centre workers, engaged teachers in the YHP NCD risk behaviours among adolescents mandate and held meetings with government representatives. Additionally, 14 schools have across Africa and Asia, published by the launched health clubs through which programming will be provided. Population Reference Bureau in April 2015 and March 2016 respectively. The research is accompanied by detailed data sheets and policy briefs outlining the potential implications for each continent and Young Health Programme China: recommended policy and programmatic Volunteerism at work interventions to address these trends > Support for an Adolescent Risk Factor AstraZeneca employee volunteers are at the heart of the YHP in China. The programme Surveillance study in eight African countries aims to educate children in vulnerable communities about air pollution, water pollution and where up-to-date data on adolescent safety. It is delivered through a curriculum that has been developed in partnership with health behaviours and protective factors is NGO partner Horizon Corporate Volunteer Consultancy. not available In 2016, 309 employees spent almost 1,000 hours at schools, sharing the curriculum and > A modelling analysis of risk factors among providing training and support services. Since its launch in 2013, nearly 6,000 children in adolescents and potential impact on future 25 cities have received curriculum training from over 1,200 Chinese employees. Feedback NCD development and mortality undertaken from school surveys shows that 90% of participants have increased knowledge on health by Imperial College London and due for issues related to pollution. publication in late 2017. This success has resulted in an expansion of scope for YHP China. In 2016, YHP China entered into a collaboration with NGO partner the Chinese People’s Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries to provide essential training for school doctors in rural areas to support children’s physical and mental health development. In 2016, AstraZeneca China received the silver award in the Third Chinese Youth Volunteer Service Project Competition, which is one of the most authoritative volunteer awards in China. Sustainability Update 2016 | 28 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations YHP advocacy YHP will continue to provide core funding The success of the AstraZeneca relationship The YHP funds and champions global for NCD Child, through their secretariat the and growth in STEM activities has enabled and local advocacy to put the prevention American Academy of Pediatrics, to deliver Career Ready to engage more effectively of adolescent NCD-related risk behaviours their agenda to advocate for NCD prevention with other STEM employers to secure on the global and local policy agenda. and to raise the profile and voice of youth in additional funding for programming, Funding provided through YHP facilitated global discussions. internships and bursaries. Included is the the following activities: development of the Think Build project to Imperial College London will complete attract engineers with more than £100,000 > The delivery of four advocacy workshops by its young health research in 2017 with in funding secured, and new schools and NCD Child in Peru, India, Kenya and Canada publication due in early 2018. We will also colleges engaged in multiple cities across the to engage and teach clinicians, community fund research into risk factors in the Middle UK. Additionally, the Health Education England service organisations and academics about East and Africa through the Population project delivered over 70 paid internships in youth advocacy Reference Bureau and work with the summer 2016 in Yorkshire, Humberside, the > The delivery of advocacy workshops by the International School Health Network to deliver North West and Kent, Surrey and Sussex. Public Health Institute’s Rise Up Initiative that a report on the use of schools as a conduit led to the development of the Coalition of for delivering health promotion and disease By supporting STEM education, we are Youth Advocates (COYA) in Kenya, a network prevention programming. investing in a healthy pipeline of future talent of organisations calling for new solutions and and helping to ensure the ongoing success In 2017, we will conduct an evaluation of financial support to raise the need for NCD of research at AstraZeneca. YHP to better understand the impact of our prevention programmes focused on youth programmes at the local and global level and Disaster relief > Ongoing collaboration with NCD Child to to better understand the value created for The British Red Cross is our global disaster ensure NCDs and adolescents are included communities and governments. relief partner and it is through this partnership in post-2015 health, development and NCD that we channel the bulk of our disaster relief Working with our NGO partners, we will plans, including side meetings to World donations. The disaster relief strand of our continue to advocate for the inclusion of Health Assembly Geneva 2016 and UN community investment work enables us to adolescents in the global dialogue on NCDs, General Assembly New York 2016 respond when and where emergency medical which includes YHP’s continued presence > Represented by the YHP Advocacy as a member of the Global Coordinating need is greatest. manager from Plan International, YHP was Mechanism on NCDs. In July 2016, we donated $200,000 via a participant in the Global Co-ordination You can find stories of the young the British Red Cross to the Kuala Lumpur Mechanism on NCDs in New York people helped by the programme at Emergency Response Unit, bringing our total > Collaboration with UNICEF throughout donation to this Unit to $400,000 over two www.yhpvoices.com and further information 2016, to progress the new NCD-focused years. In October 2016, we provided a further at www.younghealthprogrammeyhp.com. chapter in the UN ‘Facts for Life’ publication, $25,000 to replenish stocks of hygiene kits which is awaiting UN agency approvals. at the British Red Cross/Crescent Panama Investing in the next generation of scientists YHP representatives participated in Warehouse following Hurricane Matthew. Our company is built on the scientific talent UNICEF technical review meetings, and and expertise of its people and we depend young people and NGO staff from YHP on a strong talent pipeline to meet our future programmes in Brazil, India, Portugal and needs. For this reason, we support STEM Romania participated in the UNICEF youth education. In 2014, we signed a three-year consultation on the chapter content. agreement with Career Ready, a UK youth Looking ahead to 2017 employment charity, to encourage more Over the coming year, we will extend YHP by young people in the UK to study STEM re-launching the programme in Brazil subjects and to pursue STEM-related careers. and developing programme proposals for We extended this partnership to 2017 and Australia, Serbia, the US and Portugal. expanded into Scotland in 2016 with the As with other local programmes, these will addition of 21 schools and reaching an focus on NCD prevention priorities that are additional 120 students. relevant to each local market and will be In 2016, we: delivered in partnership with local NGOs. > Provided STEM career academies to In 2017, we will continue to fund Rise Up, 885 students, 43% of whom are female which will in turn support COYA and the projects their coalition members are delivering. > Offered nine internships at sites in Through this advocacy effort, YHP funding Alderley Park and Macclesfield lasting four facilitates the delivery of workshops, advisory to six weeks services and a conference that focuses on > Awarded the AstraZeneca STEM Student NCD prevention. of the Year awards to eight students, five of whom were girls > Supported 14 STEM students on internships in small to medium sized enterprises. Sustainability Update 2016 | 29 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Product donations In 2016, our work with the Americares US In addition to our donations in response to As part of our commitment to healthcare and Medical Assistance Program allowed for disasters and public health needs, we also our desire to be a responsible business, we AstraZeneca products to be distributed to entered our 9th year in our partnership with support product donations for humanitarian or 212 clinics in 42 states. Through HPIC, we Americares on a target initiative in Cambodia public health needs. The framework for making provided additional medicines to replenish at the Sihanouk Hospital Center of HOPE. product donations is outlined in our Global stock following Hurricane Matthew and to The initiative focuses on early detection of Guidance on Product Donations which in turn support ongoing relief efforts in Haiti. breast cancer through patient, provider and is supported by our Community Investment Through HPIC, we also responded to requests peer education as well as treatment and Contributions Standard. from physicians who volunteered their time to management of disease post diagnosis. deliver healthcare services and provide In the main, product donations are made for In 2017, we will conduct a review of our training for local healthcare providers in use within the country making the donation. product donation programme with an aim to countries around the world. Examples of As a result, the governance and accountability identify a new structured programme that we this work include: for such schemes sits within the country of can support through a combination of financial donation and usually is given in the case of a > A donation of meropenem (Merrem®) for a and product donations. national emergency, international disaster relief paediatrician working with Angkor Hospital or other genuine public health need. In some for Children in Siem Reap, Cambodia for use circumstances, we may make other donations in a Sepsis Program for children arriving in across country borders, which would be medical distress classified as an international product > A donation of ropivacaine (Naropin®), donation programme. lidocaine (Xylocaine®), bupivacaine Product donations for humanitarian or disaster (Sensorcaine®) and propofol (Diprivan®) relief purposes can only be made through to support a team of orthopaedic surgeons, established product donation partners. For anaesthesiologists, nurses and support international product donations, our processes staff travelling on a medical mission to are aligned with the World Health Organization Cuenca, Ecuador to provide free total hip Guideline for Medicine Donations with replacements for patients unable to afford regard to the selection, quality assurance, surgery who are unable to work or care for presentation, packing and labelling, and the their families due to their condition management of appropriate distribution of > A donation of propofol (Diprivan®) and donated medicines. lidocaine (Xylocaine®) to support a All product donations must be recorded into team of plastic surgeons, anaesthetists the Global Community Investment Database. and nurses from the Canada Ukraine Foundation working at the Kiev Central In 2016, we donated medicines worth Hospital to conduct reconstructive surgeries $20 million (US Wholesale Acquisition (maxillofacial, hand, skin grafting, nerve Cost Value) in response to disasters and repair), promote education, and share humanitarian needs all over the world and strategies and expertise. across all AstraZeneca therapy areas: cardiovascular disease and diabetes, oncology, infection, respiratory and inflammation, neuroscience and gastrointestinal medicines. These donations are in addition to the $466 million worth of products we release at discounted prices through our affordability programme, AZ&Me. The majority of donations we made were in response to local relief or appeals from our US-based partners, Americares and Direct Relief International. To a lesser extent, we worked with Health Partners International of Canada (HPIC) to provide medicines for their Humanitarian Mission Packs and to respond to special requests connected to humanitarian mission work. We also worked with agencies in China and The Philippines to respond to natural disasters in those regions. Sustainability Update 2016 | 30 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Sustainability at AstraZeneca About us Our sustainability strategy Our global contribution Goals for securing our future Benchmarking and recognition Materiality Stakeholder engagement Accountable and inclusive governance Sustainability foundations Employee giving and volunteering Over the past 3 years, the Asia Area has In Turkey, AstraZeneca’s volunteer AstraZeneca recognises the giving and organized a series of Community Days that team describes itself as “volunteers volunteer efforts of its employees and provides Mentoring provide employees towith the opportunity to for a better life!” Launched in April support for these activities in alignment makeinatheir volunteer difference local communities in line with 2016, the team is involved with a with our Global Procedure and Guidance on World Diabetes Day. In 2016, the theme was number of different projects including the Hope Community Investment. Local programmes AstraZeneca “Early Detection,supports Early Action” activitiesin its work andSweden Mentor use mentoring fortoChildren to give with Cancer young people Foundation (KAÇUV)’s vary from market to market to reflect local wereself-esteem designed to and thus help make positive increase awarenessdecisions. This is achieved “Games Will Helpthrough Me Heal”individual mentor campaign, needs and resourcing. Volunteering time andprogrammes, short-term provide education throughprogrammes partnerships and inspirational in groupsdelivering activities. educational AstraZeneca programmes through allowances vary and can range from between withemployees can and local charities NGOs. IninTaiwan, get involved different ways. Turkey Educational Volunteers Foundation, one to five days annually per employee for 86% of employees Cecilia wereengineer is a process engagedatinAstraZeneca events donating who winter was paired withclothing and school namedsupplies a teenager Evin. volunteer work done during work hours. Some with the Taiwanese Association of Diabetes to children and planting 10,000 trees in local markets have programmes to recognise Evin says: Educators. “Cecilia has In Vietnam, 90% helped me to find my way. of employees Not only Istanbul when Riva. comes Theitteam also which high to actively promotes and reward volunteer work that occurs outside school programmes I should choose helped to deliver Diabetes Screening Camps or what summer jobs I should apply for, social responsibility activities on butSharing she has of work time. Here are a few of the different also encouraged in partnership me local with their new things.” to tryhospitals. In Thursdays each week. ways employees around the world get involved Thailand, 360 participants “Walked to Stop Despite the gap in age and experience, the pair have discovered that they are often thinking in their communities. Diabetes.” about theAZsame things employees Philippines reached but from slightly different perspectives. Cecilia says: “As I’ve spent patients 500time with with she Blue Evin,their Basket campaign; has become more courageous, both in terms of things she gets involved In April 2016, AstraZeneca US launched and and andinIndia Indonesia the things she both dareshosted to discuss and tell me. Now she can travel in the subway and the Power of Us, a brand-new employee community she saysawareness campaigns what she thinks to share and wants.” giving programme that enables all US-based messaging on the importance of early action. employees to give back through time, talent Even though the official year is over, Cecilia and Evin are still in touch. Evin adds: “Cecilia and/or financial resources. AstraZeneca US is an adult that I can talk to and ask questions. I have been able to do things that I haven’t will match 100% of employee donations to done before and see things I haven’t seen before.” eligible charities up to $2,500 per year, capped at $1 million for the US operating company each year. So far, AstraZeneca’s US employees have contributed 20,000 hours of volunteer service and donated more than $1.8 million to non-profit organisations across the country through the Power of Us. In AstraZeneca UK’s North West Region, employees have revitalised their volunteering with iVolunteer, a platform that makes it easy for employees to find opportunities that are right for them. There are many different opportunities for both teams and individuals to get involved with in their local community. In 2016, employees spent more than 1,000 days volunteering. This platform has been so successful there are plans for its expansion into Cambridge, AstraZeneca’s new head office community, in 2017. Sustainability Update 2016 | 31 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Access Providing access to healthcare for all those who need it is a significant and complex global challenge. to healthcare We are making it easier for people to afford our medicines, especially in Emerging Markets. We also focus on developing strong collaborations with a wide range of partners to strengthen healthcare capabilities, particularly in developing economies. Sustainable Health systems Intellectual access development property We aim to improve access to healthcare Providing medicines is beneficial, but Our intellectual property is the result of around the world by tailoring our setting up long-term health systems research and we actively protect our programmes to the communities they that will have a lasting impact on the inventions. Our intellectual property will serve in a way that is commercially communities they serve brings benefits strategy includes a commitment not to file sustainable and with an aim of providing for generations. Through our initiatives for patents in a range of least developed lasting health benefits. As access to such as Healthy Heart Africa and working and lowest income countries. healthcare can also vary within a country, with partners on the ground, we are able our activity is tailored locally to meet the to improve screening, diagnosis and needs of different patient populations. treatment for health conditions. Highest climber 2.7 million ‘Best practice’ from 15th in 2014 to 7th in patients screened for hypertension identified in the Access to 2016 in the Access to Medicine in Kenya as part of our Healthy Medicine Index for our intellectual Foundation global index Heart Africa programme property strategy $10 million five-year global public–private partnership with the US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) Sustainability Update 2016 | 1 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Our approach At AstraZeneca, we research, create, manufacture and market Our access to healthcare strategy is made up of three elements: medicines and treatments for the whole world. We believe everyone should have access to these medicines, regardless of where they live or income. We work hard to improve access to Provide high-quality, effective and appropriate medicines to medicines for all, particularly those who have traditionally been those who need them. underserved by the industry. Access to healthcare is one of our Our efforts to improve affordability are Improve affordability, particularly sustainability priorities and a fundamental particularly focused on patient ability to pay among the growing middle class element of our corporate strategy. We made based on disposable household income and in Emerging Markets. significant progress in broadening the access healthcare budgets in a particular country. to our products by making medicines more We continue to grow our capabilities and build Bring down healthcare affordable. We are working towards greatly on the experience of wellbeing initiatives and barriers, particularly in increasing access, particularly in lowpatient access programmes, which provide developing countries. income countries, through our patient discounts on our medicines and other access programmes. patient services. Our strategy helps us to address affordability and other healthcare barriers, while ensuring we continue to provide high-quality medicines to those who need them. Access to healthcare Goals Target Progress highlights progress Expand sustainable patient 4.49 million patients in Emerging Key access to our medicines to reach Markets served by patient 3 million patients by 2016 access programmes Target exceeded Full target achieved Young Health Programme Renewed in Canada, Germany, After exceeding initial goal to reach China and India and expanded Ongoing progress 1 million people through the Young Health into Kenya Programme by 2015, aim to renew in Target not achieved, Total reach in 2016 of 166,000 five markets and expand into three markets some progress and 1.6 million youth since 2010 by 2018 Proposals for expansion are in development for Brazil and Australia and for renewal in Portugal Healthy Heart Africa Since 2014, we have conducted Reach 10 million hypertensive patients over 2.7 million screenings and across Sub-Saharan Africa by 2025 started treatment for over 100,000 hypertensive patients Healthy Heart Africa “ Screen over 1.4 million people for hypertension by end of 2016 AstraZeneca has extensively expanded and updated their access strategy identifying those areas where they are best placed to provide support and are now well positioned for future progress.” Access to Medicine Index Sustainability Update 2016 | 2 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property In F cus: How is AstraZeneca broadening access to healthcare? The barriers to improving access to healthcare are complex As a global company, we are ideally placed to take the necessary and varied and require long-term, comprehensive solutions. steps to address some of these issues through our innovative Such challenges require a joined-up suite of global solutions. and collaborative strategy. We have made significant changes One company working alone can’t address access to healthcare to product pricing and intellectual property. We have developed alone. Instead we are working with local and international an affordability-based pricing strategy for self-pay patients, partners to improve understanding, education and availability which bases our retail prices on a percentage of the average of products and services. disposable income in the country in which we are working. We also committed to not filing for patents in a range of low-income, In developing countries, many people live in rural areas with lower-middle-income and upper-middle-income countries. inadequate infrastructure and little access to transport. A lack of health education means there can be a poor understanding Beyond the walls of our offices and research facilities, we are of prevention, symptoms, self-care and appropriate medical care working on the ground with a wide range of local and global for various conditions. Affordability remains a significant issue, partners, including governments, NGOs, charities, community with many patients having to self-fund healthcare from their groups and schools to break down barriers to healthcare through limited incomes. education, community schemes and infrastructure projects. The biggest of these schemes is our Healthy Heart Africa programme, through which we are tackling hypertension in Kenya and Ethiopia and providing affordable AstraZeneca hypertension medicines to those prescribed them. Access to Medicine Index 2016 The Access to Medicine Index independently > General Access to Medicine Management analyses and ranks the top 20 research-based > Market Influence Compliance pharmaceutical companies on how they > Research and Development make medicines, vaccines and diagnostics more accessible in low and middle-income > Pricing, Manufacturing and Distribution countries. It is funded by the Bill & Melinda > Patents and Licensing Gates Foundation and the UK and Dutch > Capacity Building governments and has been published every two years since 2008. > Product Donations. Our performance on improving access to Of these, AstraZeneca became the biggest healthcare is assessed by the Access to riser in Access to Medicine Management, Medicine Foundation in its bi-annual Index. Pricing, and Patents and Licensing and also In the latest Index report, AstraZeneca moved improved in Capacity Building. In Research up from 15th to 7th. and Development we are aware that we need to consider sustainable access earlier in our The Index is broken down into seven research programmes. We did not score higher technical areas: on Product Donations, as we do not have a publicly stated global donation strategy, preferring to make donations on an ad hoc basis to best meet patient need. Sustainability Update 2016 | 3 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Sustainable access “ We aim to meet patient needs across the world, ranging from those for whom healthcare is readily available and who can afford our medicines, to those in Emerging Markets who may need help to access our medicines and those in developing economies where AstraZeneca rose eight barriers to healthcare are not always price related. spots from being 15th in Product affordability We developed an ability to pay evaluation 2014 and 7th this year, framework to identify affordable price points We rely on sales of medicines in our for those who pay for their own healthcare making AstraZeneca the established markets to help us generate the revenue we need to provide our shareholders by assessing household budgets and the highest climber in the with a return, to invest in continued innovation economic impact of medicines on a country-by-country basis, using World 2016 Index. Compared to and to expand the availability and affordability of our medicines. Health Organization and other economic 2014, AstraZeneca has We are working to make our medicines data sources. significantly increased the affordable to more people on a commercially We recently analysed our biggest-selling number of products with brands in emerging countries and the and socially sustainable basis. Our strategy 13 biggest out of our pocket markets in our equitable pricing strategies. is based on an in-depth understanding of the economic conditions of the populations International Region (Russia, China, Australia, It has conducted an in-depth in emerging countries and an aim to reduce Africa and South America). As a result, we calculated that by pricing our medicines at analysis of the abilities of the economic burden of health on those who have limited incomes. We do this through no more than 5% of national disposable different population segments our mainstream operations, but also via household income we can make our current in a subset of countries to pay respiratory and cardiovascular portfolio patient programmes and a targeted pricing strategy that takes into account ability to affordable for around 70% of the population. for its products. The results pay, particularly in Emerging and Developing This includes the median income groups for have been used to shape its which this represents increased access to Markets, where up to 45% of funding for medicines, plus those already in a position new pricing policy, and will healthcare is paid by patients out of their own pocket. to pay full price. We expect to expand this continue to inform pricing Currently our strategy focuses on chronic methodology significantly. adjustments. The policy has conditions, such as respiratory and already been implemented for cardiovascular disease. It is aimed at markets where there is significant unmet patient need certain products and countries and reflects two of our core therapy areas. in scope. AstraZeneca has also created an Affordability Centre of Excellence to train staff on this new policy.” Access to Medicine Index – Pricing, Manufacturing and Distribution Sustainability Update 2016 | 4 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Sustainable benefits Wherever possible, we integrate a wide range of localised support services for Brazilian Mosaic makes patients, ranging from disease education, medicines affordable health awareness and preventive measures, Brazil is one of the many countries in which we operate where there are huge socioto discounted or free healthcare services, economic disparities within the population and, despite the universal healthcare system, dietary advice and nurse counselling. We also the private sector remains the main source of funding for medicines. The relative investment partner directly with NGOs and governments in medicines is also lower than in comparable countries and the percentage of private to improve the underlying healthcare expenditure is on a par with economies without universal healthcare. This has an impact on infrastructure and improve access to household disposable income and the ease of access to medicines. medical treatment. To address this disparity, AstraZeneca Brazil has tried to understand how to apply the right Our medicines play an important role in discount to the right population groups, as well as determining how to incentivise people to treating unmet medical need and, in doing continue with the treatment they need. We did so by identifying economic patient profiles so, they also bring therapeutic as well as through an innovative and customised approach called Mosaic Segmentation. economic benefits. Effective treatments can help lower healthcare costs by reducing the The starting point is to use economic data supplied by data provider Experian to compile need for more expensive care, such as hospital profiles across the population. These profiles incorporate the income segment linked stays or surgery, or through preventing patients to patients’ national ID numbers. When a patient registers on the programme they are from developing more serious or debilitating automatically assigned a discount level based on their ability to pay. This link between diseases. They also contribute to increased individual levels of affordability and access to medicines has helped more than productivity by reducing or preventing the 150,000 patients since February 2016. It is the latest development in AstraZeneca Brazil’s incidence of diseases that keep people away Faz Bem programme, which helped a total of almost 2.5 million patients since it was from work. launched in 2008. Further patient access programmes which “ provide discounts on our medicines, and other patient services include Disfruto Mi Salud in Central America and the Caribbean, AZyYo (AstraZeneca and You) in Chile and Karta Zdorovia in Russia. We have significantly expanded our initiatives across Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Asia Pacific, AstraZeneca considers five socio-economic factors when and the number of patient access programmes setting prices for a first-line heart disease medicine. in Emerging Markets has more than doubled since 2013, reaching 4.9 million patients in AstraZeneca’s intra-country equitable pricing strategy for total by the end of 2016. ticagrelor (Brilinta®): (1) disease burden, (2) the availability In Central and Eastern Europe, we offer of public financing, (3) levels of inequality, (4) supply chain Patient Access Card programmes to provide discounts on some of our key medicines, along conditions and (5) patient awareness. The strategy targets with educational materials that help people 27% of priority countries. In India, China and Brazil, it understand their disease and the importance targets multiple population segments. This strategy is of sticking to their treatment plans. For example, in Romania, a Patient Access Card is particularly important as ticagrelor is used first line in the distributed by doctors to appropriate patients prevention of atherothrombotic events. It is also on patent, to enable co-payment reductions. Typically, a separate card is required for each treatment, and AstraZeneca is the only manufacturer.” but we are simplifying the process by making Access to Medicine Index a single card apply to reductions on a range of our key products, making it easier for patients to manage and reducing the administrative burden on pharmacists. Patients in rural areas are also benefiting from a new dedicated call centre. By the end of 2016, we had reached an additional 30,000 cardiovascular patients through this single card programme and distributed over 295,000 cards. Sustainability Update 2016 | 5 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Healthy Heart Africa AstraZeneca’s Healthy Heart Africa (HHA) is an innovative programme committed to tackling hypertension and the increasing burden of cardiovascular disease across Africa. Aligned with AstraZeneca’s broader To ensure local capacity is being built HHA achievements sustainability goals, our commitment to throughout the process, we joined forces with HHA aims to reach 10 million hypertensive addressing hypertension is part of our eight local partners in Kenya at every level of patients across Africa by 2025. Since access to healthcare strategy and based care, to create a demonstration model that launching HHA in 2014, we have: on our expertise, with over a century of works for the country. These partners work >C  onducted over 2.7 million experience in treating cardiovascular across the private, public and faith-based hypertension screenings diseases, and an extensive portfolio of sectors, and include: AMREF, AMPATH, anti-hypertensive medicines. Christian Health Association of Kenya, PSI, >A  ctivated over 404 health facilities and the Kenyan Catholic Conference of >T  rained over 3,000 healthcare workers Given our product portfolio we are in a position across 31 counties in Kenya Bishops, PATH, Kenya’s Mission for Essential to make a major contribution and impact to Drugs and Supplies, to establish secure > Identified over 500,000 people with SDG 3.4.1. According to estimates from 2012, supply chains for antihypertensive medicines, elevated blood pressure over three-quarters of premature deaths were and Savannah, a Kenyan data management caused by cardiovascular disease, cancer, >D  iagnosed 100,000 patients with high company, which we have partnered with to diabetes and chronic respiratory disease. blood pressure. allow for continuous monitoring of programme HHA was established with the ambition to outputs and patient-level data capture. be a sustainable programme. We sell the HHA’s approach dedicates extensive time AstraZeneca medicines at, or close to, a and investment in monitoring, evaluation, 90% price reduction to the patients, which data management and evidence generation. is achievable with a no-profit/no-loss Learning by doing and evolving approaches business model. based on data from the field is critical to continuously improving and tailoring our Supporting local business model, as we plan for expansion healthcare systems across Africa. HHA aims to support local health systems by increasing awareness of the symptoms and risks of hypertension and by offering education, screening, reduced-cost treatment and control. In developing a programme to address hypertension in Africa, we realised Broadening access that we needed to customise our approach in Ethiopia to suit conditions on the ground, in order to In February 2016, following the successful launch of the HHA programme in Kenya, we ensure the sustainability of the programme. developed a partnership and signed a memorandum of understanding with the Federal Recognising the significant barriers to access, Ministry of Health (MOH) in Ethiopia. The agreement is to integrate HHA into the HHA’s model is based on three key pillars: Ethiopian healthcare system and facilities, with a specific focus on hypertension. This > Increasing education and awareness was done in support of the Government of Ethiopia’s National Strategic Action Plan for Non-Communicable Diseases. > Training providers and supporting the development of guidelines that are The goal for our Ethiopia HHA partnership is to decentralise and scale up high-quality appropriate for community-based hypertension care and treatment across health facilities in and around Addis Ababa, with implementation eventual expansion to 12 hospitals and 36 health centres across seven regions. > Developing a supply chain and Despite a challenging environment in Ethiopia due to a state of unrest, our dedicated HHA distribution model that ensures access team on the ground has been able to achieve some key milestones in the first year of and affordability. implementation, including: > Developing the first hypertension protocol and training materials in Ethiopia, together with the MOH and the Ethiopian Cardiology Society > Training more than 900 health workers, including clinicians, nurses and health extension workers > Fully mobilising 37 health facilities. Key data will be reported as the programme progresses. Sustainability Update 2016 | 6 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Tackling HIV/AIDS with PEPFAR In September 2016, we announced a $10 million five-year global public–private partnership with the US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) that will expand access to HIV/AIDS and hypertension services by offering them in an integrated manner at existing PEPFAR-supported HIV/AIDS sites, beginning in Kenya. Beginning with an initial one-year pilot programme in Western Kenya and working with the Kenyan Ministry of Health, the PEPFAR–HHA partnership will leverage PEPFAR’s existing HIV infrastructure in Homa Bay and Kisumu. The pilot will be implemented by PATH, a current PEPFAR partner with extensive expertise implementing both HIV and NCD programming. The partnership will work closely with the Government of Kenya, a “ key partner for both AstraZeneca and PEPFAR through existing initiatives, to contribute to both the HIV and NCD programming priorities of the country. Together, we have made remarkable progress in the global response to HIV/AIDS. Yet, we need innovative approaches to better identify and serve harder to reach populations, including men, who too often only present for care when they are very ill. Through this new partnership with AstraZeneca we will enhance our ability to deliver earlier and more effective HIV/AIDS testing and treatment for working-age men in two high-prevalence counties in Kenya.” Ambassador Deborah L. Birx, MD, US Global AIDS Coordinator and Special Representative for Global Health Diplomacy “ AstraZeneca shares PEPFAR’s vision of improving the health and lives of underserved communities in Sub-Saharan Africa. Increasing rates of hypertension and cardiovascular disease in the region threaten individuals, families and communities, and burden already-stressed health systems. We are honoured and proud to join with PEPFAR to improve access to vital testing and treatment which help stem the tide of both hypertension and HIV/AIDS.” Mark Mallon, Executive Vice President, International, member of the Senior Executive Team and HHA sponsor at AstraZeneca Sustainability Update 2016 | 7 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Health systems development Access to healthcare depends on having a functional Tackling breast cancer healthcare system and the in South Africa right allocation of resources Breast cancer is the most common cancer and greatest cause of cancer death among to make sure that medicines women in South Africa. Poor education and lack of awareness of breast health issues, are used appropriately as part cultural barriers and lack of access to healthcare facilities have hindered efforts by the of overall health management. government to combat the disease among low-income communities. Phakamisa is our breast cancer partnership programme in South Africa. Phakamisa Partnering to strengthen means ‘to uplift’ in Zulu or ‘elevate’ in Xhosa. This programme is now in its fifth year of health systems operation, bringing together different organisations to help raise breast cancer awareness, For people in communities with limited increase early diagnosis, and improve access to treatment and effective support networks. healthcare infrastructure, we partner In collaboration with South Africa’s Foundation for Professional Development, we are with others to help strengthen healthcare providing accredited courses in cancer diagnosis, treatment and care to doctors, nurses frameworks and capabilities. As well as helping and other healthcare professionals. Since the launch of Phakamisa, more than 600 to increase the extent of the work we do, it healthcare professionals have been provided with courses. AstraZeneca is also working helps us to break down barriers to healthcare, to ensure that our comprehensive range of hormonal treatments is made available to the particularly those around infrastructure and health service in a cost-effective way. religious or cultural barriers. We work with local partners to gain insight into the local In partnership with the Cancer Association of South Africa and the Breast Health community and how we can work most Foundation, we are training Phakamisa ‘Navigators’: teams of volunteers and counsellors to effectively while remaining culturally sensitive. go out into the community, raising awareness and supporting patients. Since the start of the programme 400 people have been trained as Navigators. Continued education for the Navigators has also covered socially relevant issues such as cervical cancer, HIV, gender-based violence and child abuse. As of the end of 2016, over 1.6 million women have been reached by Navigators across the country. The primary objective of these Navigators is to support patients who are diagnosed with breast cancer in the public system. Their interaction with people when raising awareness of breast health in their communities made it possible for close to 3,800 malignant lumps to be identified and referred for effective treatment, something which might not have been discovered if the services of the Phakamisa Navigators were not available. During the four years since the programme started, a monthly average of 2,501 patients have been supported by Phakamisa Navigators in the public health sector. Addressing prostate cancer Prostate cancer affects one in six men in South Africa. Although it is not as widely addressed as breast cancer, the mortality of prostate cancer is much higher than that of breast cancer. With this reality facing South African communities, Phakamisa embarked on another challenge during 2016 and started to implement the aspects of the breast cancer model so that prostate cancer patients can also be supported when diagnosed. Phakamisa Prostate is currently being rolled out in three of the country’s nine provinces, with implementation in the rest of the country planned for 2017. Phakamisa Prostate offers the same service as the breast cancer programme through the collaboration of NGOs and private entities that join Phakamisa in the worthy cause to change and impact the lives of cancer patients and their families in South Africa. Sustainability Update 2016 | 8 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Working with partners to increase capacity AstraZeneca partners with Tianjin University to address manufacturing skills gaps at the industry level in China. This is an example of best practice. AstraZeneca has a long-term partnership with Tianjin University that aims to improve manufacturing safety standards at the industry level in China. Rather than training individual manufacturers, AstraZeneca provides funding, training and other support to the university’s Process Safety Laboratory to fill local skills gaps. The company’s expertise is shared more widely via the university’s connections with manufacturers, to build industry-wide capacity. Source: Access to Medicine Index Building on success Building on the successful and ongoing Phakamisa collaboration in South Africa, in 2012 we set up a new partnership in Kenya, where breast cancer is a particular issue. During the year, we trained 150 healthcare practitioners and 60 volunteers through a series of workshops in four major Kenyan cities. The programme was successfully introduced to Ghana in 2013. Support to prostate cancer patients will also be given from 2016 in Kenya and Ghana. In 2016, AstraZeneca is extending the programme to more countries in Sub-Saharan Africa such as Nigeria, Angola and Ethiopia. Disease prevention Preventing disease is far more cost effective NCDs are those conditions often caused by lifestyle factors and have a much bigger than curing disease. By focusing on global death toll than bacterial and viral infections. prevention, we support the development of healthier communities, schools and workplaces and increase the likelihood that NCDs Lifestyle factors people will live long and productive lives. This has a positive impact on healthcare costs and on the overall health of national economies. Tobacco Heart disease One such example is AstraZeneca’s Young Health Programme. Launched in 2010, the programme has reached 1.6 million young Cancer Drugs and alcohol people and worked with over 30 expert organisations in 21 countries, combining on-the-ground programmes, research and Lack of exercise Type 2 diabetes advocacy to target the four most prevalent risk factors for NCDs: tobacco use, the harmful use of alcohol, lack of exercise and unhealthy eating. We continue to expand the Young Respiratory Unhealthy diet Health Programme to new countries and disease participate globally and locally in the effort to increase investment in NCD prevention programming for youth. Read more about the ongoing success of our Young Health Programme here and in the Community investment section of the full 2016 sustainability update. Sustainability Update 2016 | 9 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa Health systems development Intellectual property Intellectual property Intellectual property (IP) rights are the lifeblood of the AstraZeneca will license any patent rights covering medicines on the Essential Medicines biopharmaceutical industry, providing the incentives required List for supply of those Essential Medicines to conduct the research and development (R&D) that produces to LICs, LDCs and LMICs, and would also new medicines to treat patients and improve patients’ lives. consider licensing any patent rights to third AstraZeneca proactively makes patent information in the Index parties for supply of such medicines in or to Medium Human Development Disease space available on its website and is also willing to Countries (MHDCs). consider granting patent licences in certain areas. AstraZeneca supports the Bolar research It takes approximately 10 to 15 years to country to cease to be classified as an LIC exemption (or safe harbour exemption) under develop a new medicine, and for every and/or LDC. There are precedents for such which a third party may prepare for and obtain one medicine that reaches patients, there a transition as Botswana and Cape Verde regulatory approval so that a generic product are thousands of drug candidates that moved out of LDC status in 1994 and can be available on patent expiry; but this does fail. The ability to obtain patent protection 2008 respectively. not mean that the company interprets Bolar for innovations in R&D, under a robust IP as extending to commercial manufacture, We seek to improve the visibility of the protection and enforcement framework, is importation or stockpiling during the lifetime existence of our patent rights covering one of the main incentives for innovation and of a patent. products that may be used to treat Index provides a sustainable framework for the Diseases and Index Countries as each are innovative, pharmaceutical R&D that produces defined by the Access to Medicine Index life-saving medicines. (listed on page 164 and 163 respectively in Best practice: Clarity in AstraZeneca seeks to protect innovations the Access to Medicine Index – Methodology approach to IP management worldwide. We have developed an IP strategy Report 2016). It is not always straightforward that means we don’t file patent applications to access information about the expiry of AstraZeneca clearly states the in a number of low-income and developing patent rights from publicly available sources. countries where it holds patents, countries. We have prioritised the countries To help with this we include patent expiry where it will not file for patents, where we seek patent protection for our information for China, the EU, Japan and the products and accept that we cannot file patent US for key products in our Annual Report. We where it is prepared to license and applications in every country of the world. have published a table that provides details of for which products, and gives an In Sub-Saharan Africa, AstraZeneca does the patent rights we have in Index Countries indication of the term. seek patents for invention for new chemical for medicines that are used to treat Index Source: Access to Medicine Index entities in Angola, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Diseases, together with an indication of the Kenya and Nigeria. We also seek them for new expiry of those rights. chemical entities and other types of inventions We recognise the right of developing in South Africa. countries to use the flexibilities in the Unless constrained by contract, AstraZeneca World Trade Organization’s Agreement on proactively abandons all patent property that Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property does not support a product, or an actual or Rights, including the DOHA Declaration potential pipeline asset, and is therefore of (14 November 2001) in certain circumstances, no value to us. As a result, other research such as a public health emergency. This organisations can use what we have learned is enshrined in our Public Policy Issue for to seek further insights and inform their own Compulsory Licensing. work without having to secure a licence from Licensing is an important way of allowing AstraZeneca or anyone else. AstraZeneca access to patent-protected inventions. Our will license (i.e. not enforce) its patent rights Non-Exclusive Voluntary Licence (NEVL) in the neglected tropical disease space Public Policy Issue sets out the criteria under regardless of country. which we would grant such a licence. We are AstraZeneca also has a position of accepting flexible and will consider proposals concerning licence terms, i.e. not enforcing its patent the geographic scope of any NEVL. Also, property in any low-income countries (LICs) or AstraZeneca will license its patent rights least developed countries (LDCs). While we do in LICs, LDCs and lower-middle-income currently seek to patent inventions directed to countries (LMICs) for all Index Diseases (for all new chemical entities in Angola, Ethiopia and/ Index Diseases see page 22 of the Access to or Gambia (which equates to about 6% of the Medicine Index – Methodology Report 2015) total number of LICs and LDCs), we would except for communicable diseases. We reserve not consider enforcing such rights unless the the right to enforce these patents in LMICs for economy of a country improved to enable that all other uses. Sustainability Update 2016 | 10 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Environmental As we push the boundaries of science and develop new medicines, we must conserve natural resources protection and ensure our products are environmentally safe at all stages in their life cycle. We strive to manage our environmental impacts across the entire value chain from research, development and production through patient use and final disposal. Protecting Ensuring the environmental natural resources safety of our products Our business is built on cutting-edge science and we base As a minimum, we are committed to ensuring effective our environmental targets and monitoring on sound scientific environmental management of our products from pre-launch data and insight. In 2015, we set specific targets for the period through to product end-of-life. We aim to lead our industry 2016–2025 to drive our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) in understanding and mitigating the effects of pharmaceuticals emissions, water consumption and waste. We committed around in the environment (PIE). $25 million to natural resource projects to reduce our impacts across our sites in 2016. 5% 16 cut in emissions down to 1,657 ktCO2e since environmental assessments completed in 2016, 2015, exceeding our 2016 target covering hundreds of chemical transformations Quadrupled 81 our sourcing of certified zero carbon power from supplier assessments to ensure safe active renewable sources to 445,000 Megawatt hours pharmaceutical ingredient (API) discharges across since 2015 our global supply chain 5% 100% reduction in water consumption since 2015 of AstraZeneca supply sites demonstrated safe API discharges Sustainability Update 2016 | 1 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Our approach In 2016, we reaffirmed In 2016, we embarked on a new strategy that sets ambitious commitments up until 2025. environmental protection as one As we develop more innovative medicines of our three core sustainability and technologies, we constantly face new priorities. We are committed to challenges and opportunities. We take a operating in a way that respects robust, science-based approach to balancing health benefits with the need to protect the and protects our climate and environment. Ensuring all our sites comply natural resources through a with the relevant regulatory and industry science-based approach that standards is the minimum we must do to drives continuous improvement retain our licence to operate. We aim to across our value chain. go much further by leading our industry to understand its risks and to make the most of opportunities to reduce our collective impacts on the environment. Our strategy and commitments Protect natural resources Ensure the environmental Improving the environmental performance of our operations and safety of our products supply chain, including reducing our GHG footprint Reducing environmental impacts Commitments throughout the entire life cycle of our medicines, including Climate change: Other climate change targets: understanding and minimising Limit our 2025 extended operational 10% absolute reduction in energy the long-term effects of PIE GHG footprint1 to 2015 levels consumption against a 2015 baseline by 2025 Commitment Science-based target: Ensure effective environmental Reduce absolute Scope 1 emissions by 100% renewable power consumption management of our products from 20% and Scope 2 emissions by 95% globally by 2025; interim ambition of pre-launch through to product by 2025 against the 2015 baseline, and 100% in the US and Europe by 2020 end-of-life reduce all Scope 3 emissions by 25% per 70% air to sea conversion in primary million USD of sales in the same timeframe distribution by Q4 2017 Reduce GHG emissions from waste Waste: 10% absolute reduction against For scope and boundaries of our incineration, business air travel, primary a 2015 baseline by 2025 environmental reporting see page 26. distribution (freight and logistics) and first tier APIs and formulation & packaging Water: Maintain usage at 2015 levels as Extended operational footprint includes: Scope 1, Scope 2 and some 1 (F&P) suppliers (>90% of category spend, our business grows by 2025 Scope 3 GHG emissions. It covers energy use, road fleet, process emissions, waste incineration, business air travel, primary distribution energy only) by 20% by 2025 from (freight and logistics), first tier outsourced supply of API and F&P (90% 90% of API syntheses meet resource a 2015 base-year of spend, energy only), and patient use of pressurised metered dose efficiency targets at launch inhalers (pMDIs), measured in tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e). Reduce GHG emissions per device from Establish equivalent resource efficiency patient use of inhaler therapy devices targets for biologics (for example over the same time period antibodies, oligonucleotides and peptides) Improve primary data collection within Scope 3 value chain GHG accounting by 2020 Sustainability Update 2016 | 2 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting What we have achieved Our first year’s progress against our commitments for 2016–2025 is summarised in the table below: Goals Target Progress highlights progress Reduce operational GHG footprint1 by 2% Our operational GHG footprint (against a 2015 baseline) to 1,708,335 totalled 1,656,917 metric tonnes tonnes CO2e by 2016 in 2016, a 5% reduction from our 2015 baseline Key Have our climate change targets We attained verification that Target exceeded approved by the Science Based Targets our climate change targets are Full target achieved (SBT) initiative by 2016 science based Ongoing progress Set out a target for 100% renewable We launched our commitment Target not achieved, power by 2016 to 100% renewable power some progress consumption globally by 2025 and in the US and Europe by 2020 through the RE100 initiative Publicly disclose information associated We increased the scope of our with our climate change performance operational carbon footprint by 2016 reporting in 2016 Reduce waste generation by 2% (against a In 2016, our total waste was 2015 baseline) to 36,760 tonnes by 2016 37,923 metric tonnes, a 1% increase on 2015 Reduce water use by 2% to 4.13 million m3 In 2016, our water footprint was (against a 2015 baseline) by 2016 3.99 million m3, a 5% reduction compared with 2015 90% of API syntheses meet resource 100% of API syntheses efficiency targets at launch by 2016 (avibactam) met launch target in 2016. In addition we achieved 9% reduction in our resource efficiency metric, process mass intensity (PMI), across the portfolio Ensure effective environmental Safe API discharges were management of our products from confirmed for 100% of our own pre-launch through to product end-of-life and >90% globally managed by 2016 supplier sites in 2016 We completed a comprehensive review for our EcoPharmacoVigilance (EPV) programme Extended operational footprint includes: Scope 1, Scope 2 1 and some Scope 3 emissions. It covers energy use, road fleet, process emissions, waste incineration, business air travel, primary distribution (freight and logistics), first tier outsourced supply of API and F&P (90% of spend, energy only), and patient use of pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs), measured in tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e). Sustainability Update 2016 | 3 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Our environment Our Global Safety, Health and Environment Our approach to SHE management is management system (SHE) Policy is the overarching document compatible with ISO14001 and, although it is for our SHE Management System and is not a requirement, our facilities have the option At the highest level, the AstraZeneca Code applicable to all functions and locations. It of seeking this certification. Additionally, two of of Conduct sets out the ethical standards is supported by detailed global standards our largest sites have now attained ISO50001 we expect of our employees, including and procedures that establish mandatory certification – Gaithersburg in the US and carrying out business in an environmentally requirements in key risk areas. Our SHE Macclesfield in the UK. Our internal SHE responsible manner. performance is regularly monitored and auditors are trained in techniques for auditing managed through comprehensive assurance against ISO14001 and OHSAS18001. programmes that include performance reporting, internal auditing and an annual management review. In F cus: How do we use science to protect the environment? Because we believe science should be the driver for everything Using cutting-edge science to develop industry-wide knowledge we do, it goes without saying that it plays a critical role in helping and understanding of the risks of PIE, including potential issues us understand and manage our environmental impacts and that are yet to be regulated and key scientific questions that opportunities. From improving the sustainability of our medicines need to be resolved, is an area on which we are particularly to reducing our carbon footprint and developing understanding focused. In 2016, we invested around $1.1 million in research of the risks of PIE, we invest significant time, resources and specifically related to PIE, collaborating with leading universities expertise in leading on science-based environmental protection and academic scientists and helping to leverage around for our industry. $5 million per annum. Our investment includes co-funding research on regulatory protection goals for antimicrobial In October 2016, we became one of only four FTSE 350 resistance (AMR) – an area where there is still much to do but companies to have its climate change targets approved by the in which we believe following science will play a vital role in SBT initiative. SBT is a partnership between CDP, the UN Global developing science-based policy and regulation. Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute (WRI), and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). It seeks to create systematic change in how companies set targets, ensuring they contribute their fair share of the challenging emissions reduction needed to limit global temperature increase to less than 2 degrees Celsius. In this way, science-based emission-reduction targets are founded not only on the GHG reduction projects in a company’s pipeline, but also on the fair, sector-specific contribution it can make to help avoid the worst impacts of climate change. We are now working to deliver our science-based target and will develop it as we further our understanding and GHG monitoring matures. Improving the environmental performance of our product pipeline is another critical area that involves a delicate balance between meeting patient needs while reducing environmental impacts and other sustainability considerations. Pharmaceutical production is extremely complex and the needs of patients will always come first. But we are committed to the proactive development of medicines that have a lower environmental footprint and place considerable importance on integrating environmental considerations across a medicine’s entire life cycle – from research to manufacturing, commercialisation, use and disposal. We take a broad view and apply a wide range of approaches including Life Cycle Analysis (LCA), environmental risk management plans, green chemistry, packaging improvements and research. This considers the natural resources we use to manufacture our products and the safety of our pharmaceutical products in the environment. Sustainability Update 2016 | 4 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Managing the impacts of our We capture environmental performance data 45 APIs and 49 suppliers across 18 countries outsourced manufacturing for over 90% (based on spend) of our global were included in scope and we completed 81 outsourced manufacturing of APIs and F&P supplier assessments. All demonstrated safe The ethical business expectations for all suppliers across our established brands. For API discharges representing 92% compliance third parties we work with are set out in the first time, we are presenting data for first for the identified scope. This met our target our Global Standard Expectations of Third tier supplier energy carbon dioxide (CO2) of demonstrating >90% compliance, which Parties, including standards for environmental emissions, waste generation and water allows for the pace of change in our supplier protection and conservation. We outsource a consumption over a four-year period. With the base due to new product introductions and significant proportion of our manufacturing, in introduction of our new strategy, the energy business development projects. particular production of the API, to third parties used by our globally managed first tier and we make it a priority to measure and We want to promote holding third-party suppliers is also incorporated in our operational report on the environmental impacts that arise suppliers accountable for protecting the GHG footprint scope. from this outsourcing. environment across our supply chains as As part of our commitment to ensuring the active members of the Pharmaceutical Supply In 2016, we continued to focus on our globally environmental safety of our products, we have Chain Initiative where we share our experience managed first tier suppliers in the API and an industry-leading programme to ensure safe and learn from others across our industry. formulation and packing (F&P) categories, API discharges from our manufacturing sites, In June 2016, we presented our safe API as this is the group of suppliers with which including those managed by our suppliers. We discharge programme as best practice and we have a high degree of influence and work with them to help them understand the discussed the specific challenges posed by collaborative opportunity. We work closely environmental and reputational importance antibiotic-containing effluents at a European with these suppliers to set appropriate of this issue and provide annual training and Pharmaceutical Industry Trade Association environmental standards and targets and to a simple tool to facilitate assessments. We workshop hosted by Medicines for Europe. collect environmental performance data. technically review these assessments to ensure accuracy and consistency. In 2016, AstraZeneca’s globally managed suppliers in scope for environmental initiatives (environmental footprint data reporting and safe API discharges) 1 2 2 3 1 1 4 5 6 5 1 9 3 1 5 2 1 2 Number of supplier sites by country Belgium 5 Netherlands 1 Canada 2 Poland 1 Finland 1 Puerto Rico 1 France 5 South Korea 1 Germany 4 Spain 1 India 2 Sweden 2 Ireland 3 Switzerland 6 Italy 5 Turkey 2 Japan 9 USA 3 Sustainability Update 2016 | 5 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Minimising impacts across the product life cycle To minimise the environmental Understanding the impacts Driving efficiencies: process mass intensity impacts of our products, we of a medicine Post-launch improvements in material costs and quality are obvious business drivers, take a whole life-cycle view and We use LCA to understand and address the but environmental performance is also key. complexity of our individual products, their work with all those involved APIs and the wide variety of delivery systems. At AstraZeneca, we do not consider the throughout the lifespan of a In recent years, our application of LCA has environmental aspects as a special condition: they are embedded within the core deliverables product – from discovery and expanded significantly, developing our for our process development teams. We development through to patient understanding of key strategic areas such have adopted a metric called process mass as natural resources and the environmental use and end-of-life disposal. intensity (PMI) as a measure of our efficiency safety of our products, forging stronger in using materials. PMI is measured as kg of Our approach to environmental stewardship working partnerships and helping to identify raw materials used to produce 1kg of final involves a wide range of activities, including: productive improvements. API. We set a PMI target for all drug molecules > LCA of key products to understand impacts We conduct LCAs in a pragmatic manner, to achieve at launch, based on projected and opportunities applying the appropriate tools and data peak year sales. PMI has been a fundamental > Developing environmental risk management analysis to further our sustainability strategic corporate target since 2010 and has plans for all new products understanding and goals. For more been a very useful tool to show the impact comprehensive studies, we work with thirdwe can have as an organisation, to focus our > Applying green chemistry principles to our party consultants using detailed tools and approach and recognise successes in our manufacturing processes databases to develop a thorough insight of product pipeline. > Continual improvement of environmentally product impacts with attention focused on the sustainable packaging highest impact areas of the product life cycle. > Ongoing commitment to the safety of Alternatively, for fast paced, high attrition and medicines in the environment. dynamic activities such as API synthesis, we support projects with rapid, insightful reviews Once our medicines are on the market, we that can be conducted in-house. In this provide healthcare professionals with clear instance, we use (and lead in the development information on their appropriate use. We also of) the American Chemical Society Green work with authorities and industry partners Chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable to guide patients on how to safely dispose of PMI-LCA tool. unused medicines. See page 24 for how we are tackling PIE. In 2016, we conducted nine in-depth, cradle-to-grave product LCAs. In addition, we completed PMI-LCAs for 48% of the development portfolio in respect of the API synthesis. Sustainability Update 2016 | 6 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Life cycle of a medicine Life-cycle stage What the stage involves Our approach to managing the impacts API production, Extraction of resources and Green chemistry – developing effective tableting manufacturing of organic and inorganic manufacturing processes that use fewer commodity chemicals chemicals and fewer natural resources and formulation Use of excipients, additives and solvents including energy and water Energy in preparation of starting materials, Investing in the recycling and reuse intermediates and processing of solvent wastes Solvent disposal Safe API discharge programme with AstraZeneca and globally managed Potential release of API to the aquatic supplier sites environment from manufacturing Device production Use of materials for device Environmental Sustainability Assessments (where required) manufacture (e.g. glass, plastics, for the device and packaging in the metals and electrical components) development stage for the selection of the most sustainable device Packaging Use of materials, including: Developing more sustainable packaging – Primary packaging solutions that reduce resource consumption (bottle, blister packs, vials etc.) and waste, including: – Secondary packaging – Reducing packaging size and (Cartons, leaflets etc.) materials used – Tertiary packaging – Switching to materials from recycled (Shipping box, pallet and shrinking or renewable sources wrap etc.) – Using materials that can be easily recycled Distribution Transportation Pursuing more efficient and sustainable modes of transport such as switching from air to sea Patient use Use by patients of our medicines Environmental risk assessments conducted and devices as part of product approval Patient communication and education programmes to promote sustainable use of medicines EcoPharmacoVigilance programme to monitor environmental product risks globally Incineration Disposal Disposal of unused medicines Responsible waste management including Energy reclamation from waste promoting the safe disposal of medicines Sustainability Update 2016 | 7 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Life Cycle Analysis in action The Coalition for Sustainable Pharmaceuticals How do the impacts stack up? We have been exploring the use of a and Medical Devices has developed guidance We have calculated that every single connected digital device that can be coupled for assessing the environmental impacts of avoided visit to an Accident and Emergency with our Symbicort dry powder inhalers to care pathways. We have used this guidance, department balances the life-cycle impacts treat asthma and chronic obstructive coupled with LCA, to assess the impacts of of 45 Symbicort Turbu+TM or 34 pMDI+TM pulmonary disease. the device and identify the number and type of digital devices. events that would be needed to rebalance the The addition of the connected digital device environmental burden. This means that, in addition to improving component has an environmental burden patient care, the positive environmental through the plastics, battery and additional benefits through reduced hospital packaging it involves. But one of the main admissions outweigh the environmental drivers behind the use of the SmartinhalerTM costs of the device. device is that it improves patient adherence to prescribed medicine. This increased adherence is claimed by Adherium to reduce the use of rescue medication by 44%2 and to reduce the number of unplanned hospital admissions by 80%3. Comprehensive LCA of the Symbicort Turbu+TM Environmental impact 7% 9% 21% 39% 91% Climate Freshwater Ecotoxicity change use 54% 49% 30% 11% 89% 1% 66% 33% Key Life-cycle stage: Ozone Resource API and excipients depletion depletion Inhaler production Packaging, distribution and use Chan AHY, Stewart AWS, Harrison J, Camargo C, Black PN, Mitchell EA. The effect of an inhaler with ringtones on asthma control and school attendance in children. Lancet Respir Med. January 21 2015. 2 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00008-9 Morton RW, Heather E Elphick, Alan S Rigby, William J Daw, David A King, Laurie J Smith, Mark L Everard. Thorax 2016; 0:1–8. doi:10.1136/thoraxjnl-2015-208171 3 Sustainability Update 2016 | 8 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Embedding sustainability in design and manufacturing: SHE Triggers model Making history with Tagrisso™ Our SHE Triggers model ensures we consider environmental factors at the earliest possible AstraZeneca made history and fulfilled an unmet patient need with Tagrisso™ being one stage of development. It is designed to of the fastest development programmes ever – from start of clinical trials to approval and promote the sustainability of our design and launch in just over two and a half years. manufacturing processes – including APIs, In the early stages of development, osimertinib (the active component of Tagrisso™) had a products, devices and packaging. By flagging PMI of 501. This was quickly reduced to 324 in the early stages of development, surpassing potential safety, health and environmental the original PMI target of 500. However, despite the low annual peak tonnage expected for issues at an early stage in the development an oncology product, our efforts to reduce resource consumption did not end there. We process, they can be investigated and, where continued to develop our manufacturing process and further reduced the PMI by more than possible, designed out of the process. The 70% to 112. model incorporates environmental assessment tools that enable our scientists to assess This achievement represents: environmental risks and challenges in the > A GHG footprint reduction of 1,215kg CO2e/kg of osimertinib (from 1,566 products they are developing. to 351kg CO2e/kg API) In 2016, we completed 16 environmental > A hazardous waste reduction at peak year sales of 778 tonnes per annum assessments of development products. The (1,001 tonnes to 223 tonnes), just over the amount of hazardous waste produced reviews detailed hundreds of chemicals for by 4,100 EU citizens a year4. potential impact on our environment alongside legislation and green chemistry considerations. 778 tonnes reduction in hazardous waste 4 http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Waste_statistics#Hazardous_waste_generation Sustainability Update 2016 | 9 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Protecting natural resources Increasing global population and per capita consumption are Climate change poses an increasing risk for our business. Its potential impacts on expected to trigger the largest growth in resource demand human health are far reaching – from the the world has ever experienced5, with demand for natural consequences of heat waves, poor air quality resources expected to rise by more than a third by 20306. and the increasing prevalence of disease in Climate change will further increase the challenge and will flood-stricken communities, to the potential spread of vector-borne diseases and the have important consequences for the health of society and the consequences for food security. The impacts pharmaceutical industry. It is vital we use resources wisely and on water and other natural resources make minimise emissions and waste throughout the value chain. We it all the more important we use resources support development of the circular economy and are seeking wisely and make the switch to renewable opportunities to integrate circular thinking across our product energy, while reducing emissions across our operations and engaging with our supply chain design, supply chain planning and waste management. to ensure our suppliers do their fair share. In 2016, we committed around $25 million Climate change We are planning work to better understand to natural resource efficiency projects to Climate change threatens to undermine the full range of regulatory, physical and reduce environmental impacts at our sites. the last half-century’s advances in global financial risks and opportunities posed by These projects are expected to accelerate health. However, because the actions climate change across our own sites and our resource efficiency performance. They to mitigate and adapt to climate change our supply chain throughout 2017 so we can include solvent recovery to make better use have direct and indirect health benefits – begin developing an adaptation strategy. We of resources and reduce hazardous waste, a from reducing air pollution to improving estimate that the most immediate risk to our novel heat pump system to reduce reliance on diet – concerted efforts to tackle climate operations from a changing climate is the natural gas, and numerous resource efficiency change actually represent one of the availability of water. In 2016, we identified works programmes. We plan to invest another greatest opportunities to improve global our sites with the greatest exposure to water $22 million in resource efficiency in 2017 and health this century7. We make it a priority to scarcity where we will prioritise water efficiency will ensure all sites have natural resources contribute towards the united global effort projects to reduce our exposure to water risks. plans that align with our environmental targets. that involves business, governments, nonThe solutions to climate change have direct governmental organisations (NGOs) and and indirect benefits to public health. For communities working together. Measuring instance, the transition to more fuel-efficient and reporting emissions, and setting and vehicles and renewable power not only achieving science-based targets to manage reduces GHG emissions but also supports our direct and indirect contribution, are disease prevention by reducing local and central to our approach. regional air pollutants that contribute to some of AstraZeneca’s priority therapy areas – respiratory, which includes chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It is part of our social licence to operate Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2013. Towards the Circular 5 that we reduce our contribution to the Economy, volume 1. Available at: www.ellenmacarthurfoundation. org/assets/downloads/publications/Ellen-MacArthur-Foundationconditions for which we are producing Towards-the-Circular-Economy-vol.1.pdf http://www.pwc.co.uk/issues/megatrends/climate-change-and6 life-changing medicines. resource-scarcity.html#1 Lancet Report on Climate Change and Health, 2015. 7 https://climatehealthcommission.org/resources Sustainability Update 2016 | 10 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting What we set out to achieve Our approach What we achieved Our aim by 2016 was to: Move up the GHG hierarchy through Our operational GHG footprint totalled Reduce operational GHG footprint by 2% energy efficiency improvements at existing 1,656,917 metric tonnes in 2016, a reduction (against a 2015 baseline) to 1,708,335 and acquired sites of 5% against the 2015 baseline tonnes CO2e Designing efficiency into new sites Energy-related emissions were down 25% In 2017, we will continue progressing towards against the 2015 baseline (net of market Pursuing lower-carbon alternatives to our science-based targets: instruments) fossil fuels and procuring green electricity > Reduce site GHG emissions (energy, F-gas Freight transport air to sea conversion of 63%, and process emissions, waste incineration) Improving the fuel efficiency of our sales by tonne per km moved (2015: 54%) by 23% against the 2015 baseline and marketing vehicle fleet Road fleet emissions were down 6% against > Reduce energy consumption by 2% Moving our global freight transport the 2015 baseline against the 2015 baseline from air to sea > Maintain road fleet, freight transport and Business air travel emissions reduced by 14% Managing our business air travel business air travel emissions reduction against the 2015 baseline achieved in 2016 (6%, 13% and 23% of total energy consumption (58% 14% respectively) of imported electricity) was from certified > Freight transport air to sea conversion renewable sources in 2016 of 70% by Q4 CDP A List for Climate Change and Supply Chain programmes, and ‘A-’ score for our role as a supplier DJSI score of 100% for Climate Strategy Science-based targets and commitments Understanding and managing As a business built on cutting-edge science, our carbon impacts Avoid we take a scientific approach to setting our Like most businesses our main GHG through major business climate change targets and we aim to do our emissions arise from the energy we use, decisions (by designing fair share of the collective effort needed by travel and transport, process emissions at efficiency into manufacturing industry to mitigate climate change. We are our facilities and, indirectly, from the activities processes and new build making good progress: in 2016, we were listed of our suppliers. An exception to this is our projects such as our new on the Climate A List by CDP, the international pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI) Cambridge facility in the UK) not-for-profit organisation that drives therapy products which form the greatest sustainable economies and represents 827 single contribution to our GHG footprint. investors with total assets of $100 trillion. This The emissions occur during patient use of Reduce places us among the top 9% of corporations the devices, which rely on hydrofluoroalkane through efficiency participating in CDP’s climate change (HFA) propellants. and demand management programme and recognises our strategy and (by improving the fuel Our 2016–2025 strategy uses an extended actions to reduce emissions and mitigate efficiency of our road fleet operational footprint which includes all Scope climate change. Our efforts to measure and and investing in the energy 1, Scope 2 and our most material Scope 3 manage our supply chain footprint also led to efficiency of our sites) emissions sources, including emissions from our inclusion in CDP’s Supply Chain Climate patient use of inhaler therapy devices. A List, and we received further recognition for our role as a supplier with a score of A minus We use a hierarchical approach8 to prioritise Substitute in CDP’s supplier response programme. As action for reducing our GHG emissions, in zero/low carbon of October 2016, AstraZeneca was one of based upon the principle of avoiding demand energy (through our only four FTSE 350 companies to have had in the first instance then reducing it through commitment to source its climate change targets approved by the efficiency and finally substituting our energy 100% renewable power) SBT initiative. We also launched our RE100 supply with low and zero emission sources. strategy to source 100% renewable power globally by 2025. 8 Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA) GHG Hierarchy, https://www.iema.net/assets/uploads/Special%20Reports/iema20ghg20report204.10.10.pdf Sustainability Update 2016 | 11 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting To help drive business decisions and investments that avoid and reduce GHG emissions, we have committed to set an internal price on carbon. Preliminary work indicates that a value in the region of $80–$90 per tonne CO2e applied to our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions could be what is necessary to enable the achievement of our 2025 targets. Over the coming year, we will refine this value and establish how it is best utilised to influence current and/or future emissions. We will report further on this work in our 2017 update. Breakdown of our operational GHG emissions footprint by source 2016 (tonnes CO2e): 1,656,917 CO2e Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 0 0.25 m 0.5 m 0.75 m 1m 1.25 m 1.5 m 1.75 m 2m Key Direct energy (on-site production) Waste incineration Processes and engineering Business air travel Business road travel (AstraZeneca fleet) Primary distribution (goods transport) Indirect energy (off-site production) Use of inhalation medicine products (pMDIs) First tier API, F&P supplier energy (90% spend, 2015) Carbon emissions across our value chain Key Value chain emissions (2015) Operational emissions (2016) 1.66mt CO2e 7.60mt CO2e Sustainability Update 2016 | 12 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Our emissions Operational footprint GHG emissions (tonnes CO2e) Scope 1 2015 baseline 2013 318,626 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation 2014 328,722 of facilities9 2015 338,038 Scope 2 (market-based) 2016 329,140 Electricity (net of market instruments), heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use10 Scope 2 2015 baseline 2013 389,703 Scope 3 in our operational footprint 2014 346,343 Supply chain emissions including: 2015 351,471 Upstream emissions from business air travel, 219,574 primary distribution (freight and logistics), waste 2016 incineration, and first tier API and F&P suppliers (>90% of category spend, energy only, one year Scope 3 2015 baseline in arrears) 2013 914,646 Downstream emissions from HFA propellants 2014 1,056,158 released during patient use of our inhaled medicines 2015 1,053,690 2016 1,108,204 2016–2025 strategy operational footprint total 2015 baseline 2013 1,622,975 2014 1,731,223 2015 1,743,199 2016 1,656,917 We report in line with the WRI GHG Protocol and as such use dual Sources of Scope 3 emissions (tonnes CO2e)13 accounting to report our emissions from electricity, using market and location-based emission factors. Emissions in 2015 Electricity emissions dual reporting (tonnes CO2e) Purchased goods and services 5,794,302 Year Electricity (market-based11) Electricity (location-based12) Use of sold products 688,653 Downstream transportation and distribution 312,799 2016 219,574 292,363 Business travel 241,384 2015 351,471 287,903 Upstream transportation and distribution 203,684 2014 346,343 290,288 Fuel and energy related (not Scope 1 and 2) 121,435 2013 389,703 274,399 Scope 3 emissions Capital goods 93,024 In 2014, we began work to quantify the GHG emissions associated with Waste generated in operations 30,208 our entire value chain using the categories outlined in the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Guidance. Some of these sources we deem to be within our End-of-life treatment of sold products 23,507 sphere of control, such as business air travel, and we have included Employee commuting 23,337 those in our operational footprint and science-based targets to reduce absolute emissions. Our remaining Scope 3 emissions are estimated Upstream leased assets 23,242 based on a mixture of primary and secondary data sources. We report them one year in arrears and our science-based target is intensity based. Downstream leased assets 956 For our 2015 Scope 3 emissions calculations, under 10% of data is based on primary data. Our science-based target includes an ambition to increase this amount. 9 GHGs from direct fuel combustion, process and engineering emissions at our sites and from fuel use in our vehicle fleet. GHGs from imported electricity are calculated using the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (January 2015) requiring the dual reporting using two emissions factors for each site – market-based and location-based. 10  11 Market-based factors are more specific to the site and local energy market, taking account of the residual energy mix a site is sourcing power from and any certified renewable power purchased by a site. 12 Location-based factors are the grid average emissions factor for the country (or subregion in the US) that a site is in. 13 Three Scope 3 categories were reviewed and deemed not relevant to AstraZeneca: processing of sold products, franchises and investments. Sustainability Update 2016 | 13 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Reducing emissions from our road fleet We have incorporated fuel efficiency into our fleet selection process since 2010. We Towards lower-impact operate a ‘cap and reduce’ system in some markets to reduce the fleet average emissions respiratory therapies per km driven. In 2016, we delivered a further fleet efficiency improvement of 3%. Combined with a 3% reduction in km driven, this resulted in a 6% cut in GHG emissions Our pMDIs, typically used for the against the 2015 baseline. treatment of respiratory conditions such as asthma, rely on HFA Our procurement team works with commercial markets to incorporate lifetime costs into propellants. When released, these fleet selection decisions, which supports a preference for more fuel-efficient vehicles. All of gases represent 47% of our 2016 our regional markets delivered fleet efficiency improvements during 2016: 11% in Japan, operational GHG footprint. While HFAs 5% in North America, 3% in Europe and 1% in International (rest of world). have no ozone depletion potential and a third or less of the global warming We will be going further in 2017: investigating the potential for alternatively fuelled vehicles potential than the chlorofluorocarbons in our commercial road fleet, such as electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids. We also (CFCs) they replace, they are still recognise the air quality impact transportation can have, particularly in urban areas, and we potent GHGs. are working to understand our transportation impacts better. We are looking forward to the improved vehicle testing regime that will better reflect real-world driving conditions. In 2016, we included emissions from patient use of pMDI inhaler therapy products in our operational GHG footprint commitments for the first Energy CO2 emissions from We continue to work with suppliers to time. We believe we should account outsourced manufacturing encourage the setting of appropriate for these emissions and find innovative Energy CO2 emissions from outsourced environmental improvement targets, ways to minimise them. manufacturing of APIs and F&P activity particularly in the area of energy use. For amounted to around 96,000 tonnes in 2015, the first time, this source of GHG emissions We continue to explore practical down 12% from the previous year. is included within scope of our operational opportunities to reduce the climate footprint commitments for 2016–2025. impact of these devices while fulfilling patient needs, such as by substituting the propellant for an Energy CO2 emissions from outsourced manufacturing alternative with a lower climate impact. Research is ongoing to assess the CO2 from energy use (thousand metric tonnes) feasibility of technologies that could potentially lower the impact of our 2012 2013 2014 2015 inhaler technologies. AstraZeneca manufacturing sites 349 406 371 407 Our proactive approach to managing API category 67 60 33 35 the impact of our inhaler therapies puts us in a resilient position regarding F&P category 51 38 77 61 new regulatory control such as the 2016 Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, implementing a global phase-down of HFCs. Sustainability Update 2016 | 14 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Reducing our energy consumption Over our previous strategy period (2010–2015) Committed to sourcing we reduced our energy consumption by 23% 100% renewable electricity and, in 2016, we set out a target to make a further 10% reduction by 2025. In 2016, In 2016, we followed through on our 2015 commitment to set out a pathway to source our Scope 1 energy consumption reduced 100% renewable power at our sites worldwide. We publicised our commitment through by 2% and our Scope 2 imported energy the RE100 initiative, led by The Climate Group and CDP, which provides a robust quality consumption rose by 1%. This resulted in a framework within which to deliver our ambitious plans. net reduction of 4,112 MWh. Our priority is Our commitment is to source 100% renewable power globally by 2025. We have an to avoid energy demand in the first instance interim target to achieve 100% renewable power at our US and European sites by 2020. alongside looking for opportunities to reduce Compared with 2015, our sourcing of certified zero carbon power from renewable sources our energy consumption and aiming to such as wind and solar quadrupled to 445,000 MWh in 2016 due to some major users substitute 100% of electricity use with certified transitioning to 100% for the full year: Gaithersburg, Frederick and Philadelphia in the US zero carbon renewable electricity by 2025. and Gothenburg and Södertälje in Sweden. This accounted for 58% of our global imported Investments in energy efficiency in 2016 power and puts us on track to achieve both our 2020 and 2025 milestones. included: The progress we have made so far has mainly been through ‘off-site’ solutions including >A  heat pump at Gothenburg, Sweden: this green energy contracts and procuring certificates, for example Renewable Energy $3.5 million project utilises novel heat pump Certificates in the US and Guarantees of Origin in Europe. Our commitment has inspired technology which is highly efficient and some of our sites to substitute imported energy with on-site renewables such as solar electrifies some of the site’s heat demand, photovoltaics (PV) at Macclesfield in the UK (pictured below) and at Frederick in the US, potentially displacing over 60% of site which will displace almost 2,000 tonnes CO2e of Scope 2 emissions and 180 tonnes CO2e natural gas consumption. Coupled with the of energy supply chain emissions annually. Further on-site projects have been approved in site transitioning to renewable electricity in the US and Australia in 2017. 2016, the investment will save approximately 2,700 tonnes CO2e per year >L  ED lighting at Frederick, US: this $0.7 million project will replace all site lighting with highly efficient light-emitting diode (LED) lighting, reducing energy consumption by 1,050 MWh and emissions by 560 tonnes CO2e >P  urified water production at Södertälje, Sweden: this $0.4 million project replaces water purification equipment with highly efficient alternatives which, in addition to water and waste savings, reduce site energy emissions by 300 tonnes CO2e per year. The efficiency benefits of investments made during 2015 and 2016 will be fully realised during 2017. In 2017, further natural resource efficiency projects will include a combined heat and power (CHP) plant and solar PV plant at Macclesfield solar panels Gaithersburg in the US, which will improve the energy efficiency and security of this growing site while reducing costs. Combined with 100% certified renewable electricity Certified renewable electricity (MWh) Total energy use (MWh)14 imports, the site’s energy footprint will be 2013 81,700 2013 2,089,942 dramatically reduced against the 2015 101,965 2014 1,827,322 baseline. Additionally, the utilisation of 2014 site-based generation is estimated to displace 2015 104,921 2015 1,906,404 680 tonnes CO2e of energy supply chain 2016 444,497 2016 1,902,292 emissions annually. 14 One major site acquisition took place part way through 2015. Our 2015 data has been recalculated accordingly (see page 26). Sustainability Update 2016 | 15 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Responsible use of water Forty per cent of the world’s population currently lives in waterstressed river basins15 and an estimated 663 million people still lack improved drinking water sources16. We recognise the need to ensure water sources are used responsibly and equitably, as a shared public resource. We invest in technology and optimise our processes to reduce water consumption across our operations while ensuring the water we do use is treated to the highest standards before it is returned to the environment. In 2016, we made it on to the CDP’s Water A List. CDP’s water score is an indicator of a company’s commitment to transparency around its Top 25 environmental risks and a demonstration of pursuing best practice. As AstraZeneca is recognised among a member of the A List, AstraZeneca has been recognised among the the leading companies in the world for leading 25 companies in the world for water stewardship. water stewardship What we set out to achieve Our approach What we achieved Our aim by 2016 was to: Completing Water Conservation In 2016, our water footprint was 3.99 million m3, Reduce water usage by 2% against 2015 Plans at our major sites a 5% reduction compared with 2015 levels to 4.13 million m3 Conducting water audits at our sites to Audits were completed at two major sites, identify water reduction opportunities with three more planned for 2017 In 2017, we will aim to: Investing in water efficiency projects such We assessed water scarcity at our sites, Maintain a 4% reduction in water consumption as water reclamation and reuse enabling prioritisation of water efficiency against the 2015 baseline projects in areas of greatest need Understanding the risk water scarcity poses to our business 15 OECD, 2015. Principles on Water Governance. Available at: www.oecd.org/gov/regional-policy/OECD-Principles-on-Water-Governance-brochure.pdf 16 WHO/UNICEF, 2015. Progress on sanitation and drinking water, 2015 Update and MDG Assessment https://www.wssinfo.org/fileadmin/user_upload/resources/JMP-Update-report-2015_English.pdf Sustainability Update 2016 | 16 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Understanding our water-related risks We have developed a standard methodology While all our facilities use water, our sites with to assess water risk at every site. Based the largest water footprints are located in the on the WRI Aqueduct tool, it has enabled UK, Sweden and the US. Some of our sites us to broaden our understanding of our are situated in water-stressed areas, such as water-related risks and identify priorities for our Zhangjiang site in Shanghai, which has investment. During 2016, our major sites Wastewater recently implemented a project to recycle completed Water Conservation Plans and we discharge volume water via cooling towers and is developing a are developing strategies to ensure all sites in by treatment system for rainwater harvesting. water-stressed areas are taking extra steps to method at our mitigate their water risk. sites Treatment method Off-site wastewater treatment 77.6% On-site wastewater treatment 22.4% Direct to surface water 0% Latest site water stress assessment 11 1 2 22 8 28 9 23 19 16 31 29 6 4 26 5 3 17 27 14 25 7 10 12 20 30 13 15 24 21 18 Key: 1. Sweden Södertälje 9. UK Avlon 17. US Wilmington 25. US Ardea 2. UK Macclesfield 10. China Wuxi 18. Australia North Ryde 26. US Philadelphia 3. US Gaithersburg 11. Sweden Gothenburg 19. France Dunkirk 27. Japan Maihara 4. US Frederick 12. China Shanghai Zhangjiang 20. Egypt 6 October City 28. Netherlands Nijmegen 5. US Mount Vernon 13. Puerto Rico Canóvanas 21. Argentina Buenos Aires 29. US Louisville AstraZeneca water stress rating 6. US West Chester 14. US Newark 22. UK Speke 30. Mexico Lomas Verdes 7. China Taizhou 15. India Yelahanka Bangalore 23. UK Cambridge 31. US Westborough High Medium Low 8. UK Alderley Park 16. US Boston 24. Brazil Cotia – São Paulo Sustainability Update 2016 | 17 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Our water use (million m3) 2015 baseline 2013 3.7 Reducing our water footprint 2014 3.8 at Gaithersburg, US 2015 4.2 In early 2016, a new water reuse system came online at our Gaithersburg site in the US, 2016 4.0 which houses over 3,000 employees. It is the result of detailed work with consultants, URS Corporation, to identify opportunities to increase water reuse at the site. Following in-depth chemical analysis, we were able to identify three water sources previously sent to drain or sewer 2015 water use from use that were of an appropriate composition to be used as cooling tower makeup water: outsourced manufacturing > Firstly, a volume of groundwater from under the One Medimmune Way that was The water used in our outsourced API and F&P previously diverted to storm water piping is now diverted to a storage tank and pumped manufacturing is much less than that used in directly into the cooling tower return line (permitted at an average of 37m³ per day) our own activities. In 2015, our outsourced water footprint decreased 17%. > Secondly, reverse osmosis reject water that was previously discharged to the sanitary sewer is now collected in a 6m³ tank and pumped to the cooling tower return line Water use (million m3) > And finally, condensate water from the air handling units is collected in three small concrete impounds and fed into the makeup water. 2012 2013 2014 2015 The water reuse system is expected to reduce the site’s total water footprint by 6%. AstraZeneca 1.9 2.0 2.9 3.3 manufacturing sites API category 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.3 Chemical oxygen demand Both methods are designed to remove of discharged water most of the COD before the wastewater is F&P category 0.6 0.6 0.9 0.8 We track and report our total effluent emissions discharged to the environment. In 2016, COD using the standard chemical oxygen demand of the effluent leaving our sites increased by (COD) parameter. A measure based on COD 24%, largely due to higher levels of activity is more precautionary than a biochemical at biologics sites which release effluent that oxygen demand (BOD) based metric. We can be rich in bio-accessible material, which COD of effluent leaving Year our sites (tonnes) measure the COD of wastewater as it leaves increases aquatic oxygen demand. The our sites. A number of our sites have their own majority of this residual COD is removed by 2013 154 on-site wastewater treatment facilities, while offsite wastewater treatment plants. the majority work with downstream municipal 2014 196 wastewater treatment plants. 2015 210 2016 260 Sustainability Update 2016 | 18 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Responsible waste management We characterise waste as either hazardous Total waste (tonnes) Waste management is key to our (such as chemical waste) or non-hazardous 2015 baseline environmental protection strategy and waste, as defined by local legislation. The 2013 32,750 waste prevention is our primary goal. It majority of our hazardous waste consists of solvent and aqueous streams from our 2014 35,797 contributes to improving efficiency and reducing our reliance on natural resources. manufacturing activities. Non-hazardous waste 2015 37,510 As our production levels continue to grow includes general waste, such as paper and 2016 37,923 over the next 10 years, achieving our 10% plastics, from our facilities around the world. reduction target is going to be a significant What we set out to achieve challenge. Finding ways to break the In 2016, we targeted a 2% reduction in waste linkage between business growth and Non-hazardous waste sent to landfill generation against the 2015 baseline. We waste generation is a key focus area. (tonnes) failed to achieve this, generating total waste of 2015 baseline To reduce the amount of waste we produce, 37,923 metric tonnes, a 1% increase on 2015. 2013 1,800 9% of total we look for opportunities to improve Although we initiated waste-reduction projects, 2014 1,900 10% of total efficiency during our production processes, including major investment to enable solvent 2015 2,600 13% of total integrate waste-minimisation considerations reuse at our Swedish manufacturing site, 2016 1,900 9% of total into purchasing decisions, and engage our these were insufficient to offset the increase in employees to reduce waste. While waste activity across our network. prevention is our top priority, we also seek to maximise treatment by material recycling and avoiding landfill disposal when prevention is impractical. What we set out to achieve Our approach What we achieved Our aim by 2016 was to: Waste audits and employee In 2016, our total waste was 37,923 > Reduce waste generation by 2% (against engagement at sites worldwide metric tonnes, a 1% increase from 2015 a 2015 baseline) to 36,760 tonnes Investing in the recycling and reuse Our 2016 waste volumes consisted of solvent wastes of 44% hazardous waste and 56%  s similar behaviours and strategies are A Promoting responsible end-of-life non-hazardous waste needed to reduce both hazardous and nonhazardous waste generation, our waste target disposal of our medicines We achieved a 1% reduction in hazardous covers both categories waste against the 2015 baseline Non-hazardous waste increased by 3% Our aim by 2017 is to: against the 2015 baseline > Reduce waste to 4% below the 2015 baseline > Achieve a 2% increase in our recycle rate against a 2015 baseline Waste from outsourced manufacturing The waste produced from outsourced manufacturing is comparable to that produced from manufacturing activities on our own sites. In 2015, our outsourced waste footprint remained stable. Waste produced (thousand tonnes) 2012 2013 2014 2015 AstraZeneca manufacturing sites 29 19 29 32 API category 35 24 23 24 F&P category 5 4 7 7 Note: Outsourced manufacturing data is collected after the year end, so data presented here is for 2015. Sustainability Update 2016 | 19 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting In F cus: How are we supporting the circular economy? In a circular economy, open production systems in which Transition to a circular economy will require changes throughout resources are extracted, used to make products and become the value chain, from product design to new business and market waste after the product is consumed are replaced by systems models, from new ways of turning waste into a resource to new that retain resource value and conserve energy. A circular models of consumer behaviour. We see this as an opportunity economy keeps resources in use as long as possible, maximising to harness our innovation expertise, drive the efficient use of their utility and minimising waste17. materials and improve long-term business value. By engaging on this issue now, we believe our industry can help shape future In 2015, the European Commission published its action plan for policy decisions to maximise opportunities for the healthcare the circular economy which includes proposals for legislation, sector. In 2017, we will initiate a circular economy working group investment and schemes across the following areas: product and identify at least two circular economy opportunities to design; production processes; waste management; secondary explore for development. raw materials; plastics; and critical raw materials. You can find out more in the EFPIA White Paper along with Over the past year, we have taken a leading role in publishing an article by our own experts who helped to produce it. the EFPIA18 White Paper on Circular Economy which sets out an industry response to the principles underpinning the circular economy and proposals for legislation. The shift to a more circular economy could bring many health benefits. With improving human health and wellbeing the driving motivation of the pharmaceutical industry, we have an important role to play. For example, by optimising materials and processes to reduce our carbon footprint, we will help to combat climate change – described as the greatest opportunity to advance human health in the 21st century19. Sustainable packaging Our packaging materials include: primary Our global Packaging Strategy continues to Packaging plays an important role in protecting packaging – bottles, caps and blister packs; include new and improved standards. By the our products from manufacturing through secondary packaging – cartons; and tertiary end of the year, all our sites were aligned to to end-use – improving product security packaging – shipping boxes. We focus on: new global Pack Standards. We have further and avoiding unnecessary waste. We are consolidated our packaging solutions across > Reducing packaging size and materials used constantly investigating new ways to improve the business to reduce and simplify our the environmental performance of our > Switching to materials from recycled or standard packaging sizes. packaging solutions, reduce the resources they renewable sources use and minimise the waste they generate. > Using materials that can be easily recycled. Our SHE Triggers model ensures we consider environmental issues at the earliest possible stage of packaging and device development. We also continuously review our packaging requirements and identify improvements for existing products. 17 EFPIA White Paper on Circular Economy, October 2016: http://www.efpia.eu/uploads/Modules/Documents/efpia-white-paper-on-circular-economy-oct-2016_final.pdf 18 EFPIA is the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, of which AstraZeneca is an active member. 19 Watts et al, 2015. Health and climate change: policy responses to protect public health: www.thelancet.com/pdfs/journals/lancet/PIIS0140-6736(15)60854-6.pdf Sustainability Update 2016 | 20 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Responsible disposal of medicines Poorly disposed of medicines can have an impact on the environment. We work with Reducing packaging size: various other organisations – including Respule 18 pack authorities and stakeholders across the supply chain – to raise public awareness of the safe One of the best ways we can cut our resource use, waste, emissions and associated disposal of medicines; one such example is costs is by reducing the size of our packaging. In 2016, we completed a project at our the EU Medsdisposal campaign. North Ryde site in Australia to optimise carton space utilisation in our Respule 18 pack. By eliminating excess space in cartons, we were able to reduce packaging material and In 2016, we developed a PIE animation that increase the density of products packed into each pallet, also cutting freight and associated describes the routes of medicines into the emissions. Key outcomes and benefits of the project include: environment, which highlighted the problems of improper disposal. It aims to educate people > 17% increase in pallet density about the importance of completing their > 42% reduction in CO2 emissions course of medicine and returning unwanted > 23 tonnes of carton/board waste previously sent to landfill avoided medicines to a pharmacy. We contribute to > 7 pallets less packed per batch, resulting in cost savings in excess collection schemes in a number of countries of $650,000 per annum in freight alone including Canada, France, Spain and Portugal. > Reduced complexity where it doesn’t add value for the patient. We work to maximise the efficiency of our product forecasting and logistics to reduce product waste and its associated financial and environmental costs. Where product waste cannot be avoided, we render it safe through incineration. Sustainability Update 2016 | 21 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Biodiversity As well as being vital to the health of our planet, natural biological resources are a Grasslands for valuable source of medicines. AstraZeneca the Future is committed to promoting biodiversity Since pre-settlement times, native prairie ecosystems have declined by 99% in Indiana. on the land it manages by identifying, Our Mount Vernon manufacturing site in Posey County, Indiana, is a 500-acre campus implementing and reviewing appropriate located in a rural area. It is traversed by a 4.4-mile stretch of a tributary of the Ohio River. actions at a local level to reduce its impact Historically, much of the site was used for agriculture which negatively impacted on native and create sustainable ecosystems. habitats. In 2012, we decided to stop agricultural use of the land and launched Grasslands Appropriate management and sustainable for the Future, a project to restore 250 acres of native prairie grassland. We began by use of biodiversity on our sites contributes restoring a 20-acre area – removing non-native and invasive species and hydro-seeding to a great place to work and enhances with a native grasslands mix that was developed in collaboration with the Wesselman’s general wellbeing. Nature Center. The site is monitored bi-annually to ensure that the native plants are successful and to remove non-native invasive species as the need arises. We hope to Protecting biodiversity at our sites restore more of the area in the coming years. Although our land holdings are relatively small, we manage our sites to support sustainable ecosystems and encourage wildlife for the benefit of our employees and local communities. We actively support the Nagoya Protocol and use of resources To support our businesses and ensure principles of the Convention on Biological in product research compliance, we operate an effective and Diversity and we continue to apply best At AstraZeneca, we sometimes use natural simple governance structure. The Nagoya practice, actively managing biodiversity on biological resources to help deliver lifeProtocol governance team helps guide our sites through local biodiversity action changing medicines. When we do, we projects through the complexities of the plans. These plans set out locally specific recognise our responsibility to access and use international protocol and we have developed actions to conserve and enhance native this material in a transparent and fair way. processes and tools, such as the ‘Nagoya habitats, create and maintain refuges for Sourcing eTool’, to ensure our researchers The Nagoya Protocol is a binding international flora and fauna, and preserve links with the carry out due diligence before using genetic Protocol agreed in 2010 with the objective of surrounding environment via green corridors of resources. In 2016, we also developed an fairer ‘access and benefits sharing’ from the uninterrupted habitat. animation to explain the requirements of the research use of the planet’s genetic resources. Protocol to our employees. We have assessed our potential local It aims to conserve global biodiversity, biodiversity impacts at all of our major sites. foster trust and create mutual benefits and The UK Department for Business, Energy & As a result, 25 sites are implementing bespoke opportunities. Now enforced in over 90 Industrial Strategy has used our approach as biodiversity action plans, including all major countries, the Nagoya Protocol ensures an example to help other companies in our fully operating sites over five hectares. In local people benefit from the materials and industry sector develop their own processes. 2016, we joined the Wildlife Habitat Council knowledge they share. to provide independent evaluation and Valuing natural capital Where we use such genetic resources In 2016, we joined the Prince of Wales at accreditation of our site biodiversity in product R&D, we acknowledge our the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability actions plans. responsibilities under the Nagoya Protocol. Leadership’s (CISL’s) Natural Capital Leaders Our failure to meet the requirements could Platform. The Platform is a global network mean years of wasted work, as research can of companies committed to managing be stopped and, in certain countries, products’ their impacts and dependencies on natural patent rights challenged, leading to delays, resources. It aims to develop practical restrictions and reputational risks. approaches to help business understand, Where we wish to harvest a genetic resource value, measure and manage its impacts that falls within the scope of the Nagoya and opportunities related to the natural Protocol, we make sure that we have environment. We are exploring the value that established Prior Informed Consent and Natural Capital Assessments might bring Mutually Agreed Terms with the country of to our business decisions by integrating origin before we access the material. We the financial impacts of our investments record this in a due diligence process. that are associated with natural capital into our financial analysis. We will report on the outcomes of our trial in 2017. Sustainability Update 2016 | 22 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Environmental compliance Our many business operations are subject to a wide range of Reducing emissions of solvents Emissions to atmosphere of volatile laws, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. organic compounds (VOCs) result from API Failure to comply with these could adversely affect our licence manufacturing processes due to the use of to operate, damage our reputation, cause harm to people or the organic solvents, and from R&D activities. environment, and lead to fines or other penalties. It could also lead We employ a range of technologies to minimise these emissions from our operations to interruption of production that may negatively impact on patient and we can demonstrate ongoing reduction access, so ensuring we comply with the relevant regulations in recent years. wherever we operate is a top priority. Solvent (VOC) consumption and Registration, Evaluation, Balancing the risks and opportunities emissions from AstraZeneca sites Authorisation and restriction of nanotechnology Consumption (tonnes) of CHemicals (REACH) AstraZeneca takes an active interest in 2013 6,303 any new and emerging technologies that REACH is a European Union regulation may provide benefits to patients, including 2014 6,979 which aims to provide high-level protection nanotechnology. We maintain a watching 2015 7,851 to human health and the environment from brief on the impact of nanotechnology to our 2016 8,184 exposure to hazardous substances. future business strategies. We are aware of It ensures manufacturers and importers take the societal, safety, health and environmental responsibility to understand and manage Emissions (tonnes) concerns regarding the use of nanomaterials the risks associated with their use. The 2013 359 and nanotechnology systems. We continue principles and objectives of REACH are 2014 295 to monitor the scientific landscape as consistent with AstraZeneca’s core Values. 2015 258 nanomaterials are developed for emerging We ensure continuous compliance with 2016 210 data that suggests any increased hazards from REACH requirements via our robust their use. We believe that the hazard and risk governance process, including internal assessment of nano-based medicinal products auditing and supplier assessments. We request Environmental can be performed under existing regulatory our suppliers to provide information on the compliance performance policies. If additional hazards or risks are presence of substances of very high concern identified that would support new regulatory We have robust processes that are designed in packaging materials and devices. We also guidelines specific for nanomaterials, we will to avoid unplanned environmental incidents provide safety data sheets for all AstraZeneca support such measures. We are committed arising from our operations. Where such substances supplied to third parties, to to supporting the efforts of governmental incidents do occur, we thoroughly investigate ensure effective risk assessment and safe use and regulatory bodies in having an open the causes, identify actions to prevent rethroughout the supply chain. dialogue on the use and potential risks of occurrence in the future, and share the learning these materials. across our organisation. Environmental compliance summary 2013 2014 2015 2016 Prosecutions20 0 0 0 0 Enforcement actions 21 2 1 1 1 Regulatory warnings/alerts 22 6 4 6 5 Prosecution: Successful or pending legal action taken 20  in a civil or criminal court against AstraZeneca. Other environmental compliance matters23 14 7 4 9 Enforcement action: Any formal administrative or judicial 21 enforcement proceeding, notices of violation, or similar Significant environmental violations24 0 1 1 0 action by a regulator that requires the company to do, or not do, something. Financial penalties relating to above ($) 7,000 33,000 14,000 1,000 Regulatory warning/alert: Any formal written warning or 22  alert received from a regulator stating that the company is in violation of an applicable SHE requirement, which if not corrected or repeated could incur prosecution or enforcement action. Other environmental compliance matter: any less significant 23  environmental compliance matter not included above. Significant environmental violation: those that result 24  in a fine >$10,000. Sustainability Update 2016 | 23 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Pharmaceuticals in the environment Pharmaceuticals enter the environment and trace levels are measured in rivers, lakes, soils and occasionally drinking water. Societal concerns about pharmaceuticals in the environment (PIE) are likely to continue as patient access to medicines and population Safe discharges of APIs levels increase, resulting in a greater environmental burden. As a While waste from production is only a responsible innovator, we need to understand the environmental small proportion of the PIE burden, it risks of our products in order to proactively manage them and we is the part we as an industry can deal with directly, and we take responsibility are committed to providing scientific leadership on PIE. for doing so. Although there are limited Concerns over the impacts of PIE have environmental risks associated with our APIs. regulatory requirements, we set safe been recognised by the United Nations If reliable and relevant data are published that discharge concentrations called Environment Programme and the World Health demonstrate our existing environmental effects Environmental Reference Concentrations Organization within its Strategic Approach to data may not protect the environment, we (ERCs) and Maximum Tolerable International Chemicals Management, where revise our safe discharge limits accordingly. Concentrations (MTCs). The ERC and Environmentally Persistent Pharmaceutical This helps to ensure that we have up-to-date MTC approach27 is based on established Pollutants has been included as an emerging science-based targets for our PIE-based environmental quality standard policy issue. We aim to lead our industry in work around the globe. We also collate any methodology and takes into account understanding and mitigating the effects of measured environmental concentrations that indirect exposure of fish-eating mammals PIE. As a minimum, we are committed to have been published and compare these to our and humans, as well as aquatic wildlife ensuring effective environmental management safe concentrations so that we can understand (e.g. algae, invertebrates and fish). These of our products from pre-launch through to the accuracy of our regulatory ERA. values must not be exceeded in our product end-of-life. manufacturing discharges to the aquatic How do pharmaceuticals get environment and we apply them to the Assessing our impacts into the environment? waste from our own production sites and To understand the potential impacts of our The majority of pharmaceuticals get into the those of our key suppliers. medicines on the environment, we conduct environment through patient excretion and wastewater effluents, but they can also enter We established ERCs and MTC values an environmental risk assessment (ERA) prior for 49 of our APIs (2015: 45) and have a to the approval of a new medicine. We do this the system during pharmaceutical manufacture and through inappropriate disposal of rolling programme to confirm compliance. by generating environmental fate and toxicity In 2016, all our worldwide manufacturing data according to international standards. medicines by patients. In 2016, we created an animation to explain in simple terms the risks sites demonstrated compliance with our The specific studies required are defined ERC and MTC criteria for these products. in guidance established by the European associated with PIE and what we are doing to Medicines Agency (EMA) and the US Food manage them. To reduce impacts through our supply and Drug Administration (FDA). In 2016, chain, we share our ERC and MTC we submitted regulatory ERAs for all products methodology with key suppliers and that were within the scope of these EMA and require them to risk assess and manage FDA regulations. emissions associated with the APIs they manufacture or formulate on our While we have a prospective ERA at the behalf. In 2016, we completed 81 ERC 2% point of registration, there is no regulatory assessments involving 49 suppliers requirement to review the ERA or to monitor (2015: 98). We run annual training for for potential adverse effects in the environment attributed to waste suppliers to explain our approach, once a product has been launched. To ensure from production methodology and expectations. we understand the global environmental impacts of our APIs once in use we conduct EcoPharmacoVigilance25 (EPV). Our EPV process reviews emerging science and 10% literature, looking for new information that might change the way we assess the from unused medicines Pharmaceuticals that people don’t dispose in the environment of properly Holm et al (2013) Ecopharmacovigilance in Practice: in Europe26 25  Challenges and Potential Opportunities. Drug Safety Volume 36, Issue 7, pp 533–546. http://ec.europa.eu/health//sites/health/files/files/ 26  environmentstudy_environment.pdf Murray-smith et al (2012) Managing emissions of active 27  88% as a result of patient use pharmaceutical ingredients from manufacturing facilities: An environmental quality standard approach. Integrated Environmental Assessment and Management, 8: 320–330. Sustainability Update 2016 | 24 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Managing the global risks of PIE Recognising that regulatory guidance on the requirement to conduct an ERA are currently Intelligent assessment restricted to North America and Europe, we of PIE have instigated a project to understand the fate and behaviour of APIs in Emerging Markets. At the start of 2015, a €10 million research project between several pharmaceutical companies We are focused on those markets with less and the European Commission called Intelligent Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the developed wastewater treatment infrastructure Environment (iPiE) was initiated under the Innovative Medicines Initiative. The project aims to and different water use and reuse patterns. In develop screening tools for use both earlier on in drug development and for older medicines, 2016, we published a review of the relevance including animal alternatives, to identify environmental risks without the need for in-vivo testing. of existing ERA frameworks for low and middle Key deliverables from AstraZeneca in 2016 supporting our iPiE and animal welfare income countries28. This review highlighted commitments include: significantly different wastewater and water reuse patterns in many of these markets that > A fish reporter assay (animal alternative as a fish embryo) that can detect chemicals are not captured under current regulatory that bind to the oestrogen receptor element to help identify potential endocrineframeworks and the lack of terrestrial disrupting chemicals29 environmental ecotoxicology and fate data > An in vitro fish gill cell assay to identify chemicals with high rates of uptake from water for APIs used in water-stressed areas. We are into fish, as these would be at increased risk of exposure and concern. The assay can currently exploring the key outcomes also identify chemicals that are excluded from uptake and that are of low risk30 of this review in our ongoing PIE-related > Development and validation of quantitative adverse outcome pathways to help predict research work. the impact of pharmaceutical exposure on environmentally important populations where drug targets are conserved31. Leading the industry >R  educe key scientific uncertainties within our ERAs What science can do AstraZeneca chairs the ERA working group and sits on the governance team of >D  evelop tools and techniques to assess the EFPIA PIE task force. In this role, we environmental risks posed by emerging advocate the implementation of an Ecoand innovative medicines e.g. nano-based Pharmaco-Stewardship (EPS) approach to medicines and biologic-based therapies Tackling the global threat posed human medicinal products that includes the >A  ddress the global environmental risks by antimicrobial resistance development of an extended ERA model, posed by PIE, especially in Emerging responsible effluent management, and research Markets where there are different standards To tackle the environmental aspects to help identify and prioritise the environmental of water management and novel exposure of the threat posed by antimicrobial issues associated with innovative or legacy scenarios resistance (AMR), we are co-funding medicinal products. We are championing research that aims to develop and >U  nderstand the relationship between the EPS and the extended ERA model to validate new regulatory protection environmental dimension of AMR and regulatory stakeholders on behalf of the wider goals for AMR development in the resistance in the clinic. pharmaceutical industry. In 2016, we also environment. As part of our commitment coordinated the industry response to the EMA To maximise the benefits of our research, we to the Industry AMR Road map shared ERA concept paper that will form the basis for typically publish over 10 scientific manuscripts with the United Nations General the future revision of this regulatory guideline. every year. These are publicly accessible and Assembly in September 2016, we are peer reviewed before publication in scientific developing an approach to identify We invest in a proactive environmental literature. We also provide numerous external minimum selective concentrations for research programme that collaborates with scientific presentations to share our research. AMR development in the environment leading universities and academic scientists. with a focus on macrolide and betaIn 2016, we co-sponsored several research We aim to be transparent with our lactam antibiotics. These projects will projects that support around 14 PhD students environmental data, making it available to help establish safe environmental levels and four post-doctoral scientists across a wide independent scientists on our webpage. for antibiotics entering the environment range of cutting-edge projects. as a result of drug production and Together, we aim to: patient use. Initial data from these projects indicates that a holistic > Identify risks associated with the presence of approach to the environmental PIE and potential mitigation options management of antibiotics that includes > Understand whether the therapeutic targets both the human and environmental of our medicines are present in wildlife, protection goals is required. and the potential for impacts on non-target wildlife populations 28 Lees et al, 2016. Pharmaceuticals in soils of lower income countries: Physico-chemical fate and risks from wastewater irrigation. Environment International. 94: 712-723. Green et al (2016). High-Content and Semi-Automated Quantification of Responses to Estrogenic Chemicals Using a Novel Translucent Transgenic Zebrafish. Environmental Science and Technology. 29  50 (12): 6536-6545. 30 Schnell et al (2016). Procedures for the reconstruction, primary culture and experimental use of rainbow trout gill epithelia. Nature Protocols. 11: 490-498. 31 Margiotta-Casaluci et al (2016). Internal exposure dynamics drive the Adverse Outcome Pathways of synthetic glucocorticoids in fish. Nature Scientific Reports. 6:21978. Sustainability Update 2016 | 25 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting About our environmental protection reporting Scope of consolidation Changes in scope In our new strategy period, we have included Unless otherwise specified, all SHE data Changes in AstraZeneca’s business (new sites, two new sources of GHG emissions in our reported covers all AstraZeneca business site closures, transfers of activity) between ‘operational carbon footprint’ scope for the activities worldwide, regardless of their 2015 and 2016 have been analysed according first time: function (manufacturing, research and to our Global Safety, Health & Environment >T  he energy used by our globally managed development or commercial sites and Performance Data Recalculation Procedure first tier suppliers administrative headquarters) for the period to assess our business’s performance on a >E  missions from patient use of pMDI 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. scope that is comparable from one period to inhaler therapies. the next. Our SHE Strategy baseline data for Environmental data is reported for all sites with 2015 is adjusted as necessary for each SHE Reporting methods for the calculation of the following exceptions. performance metric. our operational carbon footprint are under Energy, waste and water information is not constant review to ensure they reflect the One major site acquisition took place part required from: latest GHG calculation techniques and the way through 2015. Our 2015 data has been criteria set out by the Greenhouse Gas > Sites occupying leased or rented properties recalculated accordingly as shown in the Protocol Corporate Standard. In 2016, we where these services are provided as part of table below. implemented improved reporting methods the site’s rental agreement for: electricity (at our sites and our first tier > Sites with fewer than 50 permanent staff Recalculated Actual 2015 suppliers); business air travel; and freight (AstraZeneca employees and contractors). 2015 baseline performance and logistics (see Reporting methods for Scope 1 and 2 689,509 658,749 details). These methods were retrospectively Ozone-depleting substances, F-gas and GHGs applied to the 2015 baseline data and solvent use and emission data is required from (tonnes CO2) subsequently the 2014 and 2013 data to allow all sites whenever the consumption thresholds Energy (MWh) 1,906,404 1,818,926 a four-year comparison. stated in the Ozone-depleting substances and F-gases section below are exceeded. Waste (tonnes) 35,510 34,585 In addition to reporting activities on site, our Water (m³) 4,209,867 3,989,005 reporting requirements extend to: > The safety and health impacts of activities undertaken by all AstraZeneca staff managed from the site. This includes sales representatives and any staff working from home > The SHE reporting of the impact of any ancillary facilities that are under the control of site management but not within the boundary of the main site, for example associated office accommodation or warehouse premises. Regular review of data is carried out to ensure accuracy and consistency. This has led to slight changes in the data for previous years. None of the changes are statistically significant. The data quoted in this report is generated from the revised data. Sustainability Update 2016 | 26 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting Reporting guidelines and procedures To ensure the uniformity and reliability of indicators used across our business, AstraZeneca has a mandatory Global SHE Performance Reporting Procedure as part of its overall SHE Policy documentation framework. This document specifies the standard methodologies to be used for SHE performance reporting across the business including definitions, methodological principles and calculation formulae. We standardise our SHE performance data collection from all sites with the use of the TrackWise Enterprise Quality Management software. This system has inbuilt formulae and emissions factors to ensure consistency in calculation of performance metrics. Our local SHE specialists input data from their sites into TrackWise quarterly. This process is used to Reporting methods Water gather 100% of our safety, health and siteOzone-depleting substances and F-gases Water volumes used are determined using based environmental performance data. Total consumed and emitted amounts of regular meter readings. Non-contact cooling Ozone-depleting substances and F-gases water (water used solely for cooling purposes Non-site-related environmental performance which is abstracted and returned directly to the data covering GHG emissions from product must be reported if the total consumed or emitted amount is greater than 1kg for the environment with no deterioration or changes use, business air travel, freight and logistics, in chemical properties) is excluded. One site and first tier suppliers is collected from relevant reporting quarter. utilised this type of water in 2016. Before this global business functions. All data submitted Solvents water source was used, the site completed is checked by specialists from the global Total consumed and emitted amounts of an environmental impact assessment which SHE team to ensure data quality. In addition, solvent must be reported across three solvents determined the process had negligible effect our global internal SHE audit programme categories (non-halogenated, halogenated on the thermal properties of the water body. incorporates further detailed checks on data dichloromethane and halogenated other) if The use of non-contact cooling water at this submitted and a third party provides assurance the total consumed of any one solvent type is site is controlled by environmental permit. of key performance data presented in our greater than 100kg for the reporting quarter. Annual Report. Site data can be ascertained through emission The breakdown of water use by source should monitoring or estimated on the basis of mass be treated is estimated as our sites name only balance. The classification of a solvent (or their primary water source. VOC) is based on EU regulations. We have a Global Standard governing the Waste assessment of water scarcity across our Construction waste is excluded from sites and supply chain network. This our waste data. The method of waste provides guidance for the interpretation of disposal is determined and reported by the WRI’s Aqueduct tool and the implications our waste contractors. The distinction of local factors which may mitigate the water between hazardous and non-hazardous scarcity assessment. waste is made according to local waste Energy management legislation. Site energy and fuel consumption is determined using utility bills based on site meter readings. Sites report imported, exported and generated power, including any from certified low and zero carbon sources. As part of the transition to sourcing 100% renewable power globally, an internal procurement guideline has been developed to ensure any renewable power projects and/ or certificate purchases meet certain quality criteria in line with the RE100 commitment. Sustainability Update 2016 | 27 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Environmental protection Our approach Minimising our impacts Protecting natural resources Environmental compliance Pharmaceuticals in the environment About our reporting GHG emissions and scopes Emissions Product emissions from pMDIs: Factors Scopes Conversion factors must be used to from the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National We follow the GHG Protocol Corporate calculate the GHG emissions associated with Greenhouse Gas Inventories are applied Standard definitions to assign our emissions AstraZeneca’s activities. The methodology according to production volumes of our pMDI sources into one of three scopes: applied is dictated by the activity, as follows: devices that contain HFA propellants and HFA Scope 1: GHGs from direct fuel combustion, content per device. Energy: ‘Location’ factors for electricity have process and engineering emissions at our sites been derived from the International Energy Supply chain emissions associated and from fuel use in our vehicle fleet. Agency (IEA) and USEPA eGRID (Sub-region) with our operational carbon footprint: Scope 2: GHGs from imported electricity, heat databases. ’Market’ factors for electricity have Sometimes referred to as ‘well-to-tank’ fuels, and steam. Electricity emissions are calculated been derived from the IEA, US Center for are calculated using UK Defra GHG factors using the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance Resource Solutions, EU RE-DISS II databases and are updated annually. (January 2015) ‘market-based’ factors net of and where available directly from electricity Supply chain other: The remaining market instruments. suppliers. All electricity factors are updated emissions sources not covered by the above annually. All other fuels and emission sources Scope 3: GHG Protocol Scope 3 categories: are estimated based upon procurement use factors from the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for purchased goods and services; capital spend sub-categories using a globally National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. goods; fueland energy-related activities; recognised database. This is conducted one upstream transportation and distribution; ODS, F-gas and solvents: 2006 IPCC year in arrears. waste generated in operations; business travel; Guidelines for National Greenhouse employee commuting; upstream leased Gas Inventories. assets; downstream transportation and Waste incineration: 2006 IPCC Guidelines for distribution; processing of sold products; National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. use of sold products; end-of-life treatment of sold products; downstream leased assets; Road fleet: Each market (country) discloses franchises; and investments. average CO2 per km of its fleet and distance driven quarterly. Business air travel: UK Defra GHG factors applied according to distance travelled (short/ medium/long-haul) and seat class, including radiative forcing. Factors are updated annually. Freight and logistics: UK Defra GHG factors applied according to mode (air, sea, road), distance travelled (short/medium/long-haul – air freight only), including radiative forcing (air freight only). Factors are updated annually. Sustainability Update 2016 | 28 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Ethics and We want to be valued for the medicines we provide and trusted for the way we work. That means leading transparency our industry in demonstrating ethical business practices and high levels of integrity in everything we do. It is why human rights, safety and health, environmental protection and business ethics are core to AstraZeneca’s approach to sustainability. Compliance Managing our Product security We emphasise to all our staff the importance of compliance with our supply chain The illegal trade in medicines is a public health risk and our aim is to AstraZeneca Values, Code of Conduct We extend our high ethical standards disrupt this activity by working with and supporting requirements. We to our whole supply chain and regularly partners around the globe. empower our people to ask questions check and audit that our suppliers when they are unclear or make a report reflect our Values. when they have a concern. 100% 8,977 $16.5 million of active employees trained on supplier assessments carried worth of AstraZeneca counterfeit the Code of Conduct out in 2016 and illegal medicines seized Animals Antimicrobial in science resistance We apply a single, consistent Global Although we no longer develop small Standard for animal welfare and are molecule antimicrobials in-house, we’re committed to reducing, refining and standing with our peers to tackle this replacing animals in our work. global issue. 100% Signed of staff working with animals are the Davos Declaration on appropriately trained in animal Combating Antimicrobial care, use and welfare Resistance with over 100 other companies Sustainability Update 2016 | 1 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Our approach We have worked hard to position ourselves as a global leader in the pharmaceutical industry. As a leader, we have a responsibility to hold ourselves to high ethical standards and to demonstrate ethical business practices. We strive for high levels of integrity in everything we do, whether it’s our approach to bioethics, including the use of animals in science, the way we treat the participants in our clinical trials, our approach to human rights or the scrutiny of our supply chain to ensure our suppliers meet our high standards. What we have achieved Goals Target Progress highlights progress All active employees to be trained 100% of active employees trained on our Code of Conduct by 2016 on the Code of Conduct in 2016 Key Achieved a 100% score for Code of Conduct from the Dow Jones Target exceeded Sustainability Index Full target achieved Communicate clear policies Updated our annual Code of Ongoing progress to employees by 2016 Conduct training to provide Target not achieved, greater clarity and simplicity for some progress the business as well as improved accessibility via mobile devices since 2016 Ensure employees can raise concerns and 320 reports of alleged compliance that they are properly addressed by 2016 breaches or other ethical concerns made through the AZethics Helpline in 2016 Meet high ethical standards across all Conducted 66 high-risk supplier our procurement activities and decisions audits in 2016 worldwide by 2016 Collate a suite of ‘Culture of Care’ pledges Two winners of a newly from all of our R&D sites, demonstrating introduced ‘Culture of Care’ our daily commitment to high standards of award recognising the day-toanimal welfare by 2016 day commitment to excellence in animal care and welfare, including Continue to promote scientific excellence in one attracting the attention animal care and use through a programme of the National Centre for the of global roundtable workshops by 2016 Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs) for further development as a project initiative In 2016, we prepared to meet the Redacted Clinical Report Package of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) Publication of Clinical Data Policy. The policy is designed to further improve transparency and access to research information Sustainability Update 2016 | 2 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Compliance We expect everyone at AstraZeneca to observe the highest an inquiry is made or a concern is raised, the details of the report are sent to AstraZeneca standards of integrity and honesty, and to act with care, for appropriate follow-up and resolution. diligence and fairness in all they do. We are committed to delivering consistently high standards of sales and marketing We take all alleged compliance breaches and concerns seriously, and investigate them and practices worldwide, and we work with only those third parties report the outcome of such investigations to who embrace high standards of ethical behaviour that are the Audit Committee, as appropriate. Internal consistent with our own. investigations are undertaken by staff from our Global Compliance, Human Resources and/or Building a culture of compliance course on the Code of Conduct and Legal functions, to preserve the independent Our Global Compliance function exists to ethical business practices. Our training is nature of the review. When necessary, external drive and embed a culture of ethics and designed to be straightforward, to promote advisers are engaged to conduct and/or advise integrity throughout our organisation. We employee understanding. on investigations. require all our employees to take personal We are committed to the highest standards When allegations of misconduct by employees accountability for their actions and to of ethical conduct in all of our operations, or third parties are confirmed after full demonstrate individual behaviour that is in line including transparency in how we partner investigation, business stakeholders take with our Values and principles. That means with physicians and medical institutions. In appropriate disciplinary or remediation actions, engaging them and supporting them to ensure the US, our external transparency reporting including termination of employment or they understand and follow our requirements meets the requirements of the Physician termination of a third-party engagement, and feel comfortable asking questions or Payments Sunshine Act (Open Payments), as when necessary. They also implement reporting concerns. well as relevant state transparency laws. In the necessary enhancements within the We focus our efforts on: Europe, AstraZeneca’s reporting meets the business to help prevent future misconduct, requirements of the European Federation of including retraining of relevant employees > Communicating clear policies to employees Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and strengthening of local procedures and > Improving compliance behaviours through (EFPIA) Disclosure Code, as well as applicable controls. Similarly, as part of continuing to effective advice, training and support local transparency requirements. do business with the third-party, they take > Monitoring compliance the necessary steps to help prevent future In 2016, AstraZeneca took steps to strengthen misconduct, including re-emphasising our > Ensuring employees and the public can the capabilities of our Global Compliance expectations of ethical behaviour to the third raise concerns and that they are properly function, including the development of the party’s management, providing retraining to addressed Global Compliance Academy, a social learning relevant third-party employees, and negotiating platform where our Compliance professionals > Fair and objective investigations of possible improved processes and controls within the can interact to share learnings and best policy breaches third party’s business. practices and build their skills through tailor> In close collaboration with Internal Audit made, on-demand training. In 2016, 320 reports of alleged compliance Services, providing stakeholders with breaches or other ethical concerns were effective assurance and reporting on key Reporting breaches and concerns made through the Helpline, including reports issues, including risk management relating Our Code of Conduct requires employees to made by any anonymous route that could be to third parties working on our behalf, as well report any concern they may have about a considered whistle-blowing; in 2015 there as strengthening of compliance controls to possible breach of the Code or its supporting were 326 reports. The majority of cases address identified gaps. requirements. Employees are advised to come to our attention through management Our Code of Conduct is at the core of our consult with their line manager or their Human and self-reporting, which can be seen as an compliance programme, and compliance with Resources, Legal or Compliance functions. indication that employees are comfortable in the Code is mandatory for all employees. The The Code provides additional contact raising their concerns with line managers, local Code has been translated into 40 languages channels through our Helpline, which includes Human Resources, Legal or Compliance, as and provides clear direction as to how our the AZethics telephone lines, the AZethics recommended in the Code and reinforced in commitment to honesty and integrity is to be website, and the Global Compliance email the 2016 Code training. We make it clear that realised through consistent actions across all and postal addresses. These channels are anyone who raises a possible breach in good areas of the business. also available to the general public for faith is fully supported by management and will reporting concerns. Reports can be made not be subject to retaliation. Our Global Policies, as well as local and anonymously where desired and where functional procedures, support the Code and permitted by local law. provide clear guidance in key risk areas. The AZethics website and telephone lines Every new starter receives training on the are managed and externally operated by an Code of Conduct. We then require all independent third party on AstraZeneca’s employees to complete an annual refresher behalf. The website is available in 38 languages, and the phone lines are operable in 96 countries, to facilitate reporting. When Sustainability Update 2016 | 3 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Ethical sales and marketing A network of nominated signatories review Reports of alleged compliance breaches/ Effective sales and marketing are key to the our promotional materials and activities ethical concerns via the Helpline sustainable growth of our business and to against applicable requirements. Audit 2013 149 improving access to healthcare for people professionals in Internal Audit Services also conduct compliance audits on selected 2014 247 around the world. Accessing new markets, working with healthcare professionals and marketing companies and third parties. 2015 326 2016 320 advocating for our products are all a part of We identified six confirmed breaches of that and must be done ethically. Our Global external sales and marketing codes or Policy on Ethical Interactions supports regulations in 2016 (2015: 11). Confirmed breaches of external sales and our Code of Conduct; as with the Code of marketing codes or regulations Conduct, compliance with our Global Policies There were 1,729 instances, most of them 2013 11 is mandatory for all employees. Our Global minor, of non-compliance with our Code Policy on Ethical Interactions sets out our of Conduct, Global Policies or supporting 2014 6 principles and requirements to meet our requirements in our Commercial Regions, 2015 11 commitment to operate ethically and with including instances by employees and third 2016 6 integrity – including our zero tolerance for parties (2015: 1,749). We removed a total of bribery and corruption. It includes guidance on 222 employees and third parties from their roles as a result of these breaches (a single Instances of non-compliance with Code appropriate product promotion to ensure we of Conduct, Global Policies or supporting provide healthcare professionals with evidencebreach may involve more than one person). We requirements in our Commercial Regions based, reliable information about our medicines also formally warned 429 others and provided in the best interests of patient care. further guidance or coaching on our policies to 2013 1,773 1,283 more. The most serious breaches were 2014 1,847 When we work with suppliers, distributors raised with the Audit Committee. 2015 1,749 and partners on the sales and marketing of our products, we carry out appropriate risk The US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 2016 1,729 assessments and due diligence to ensure they investigation involving AstraZeneca was are reputable. We actively engage with these resolved in 2016 following a civil settlement Corrective actions taken organisations to maintain oversight of their agreed with the Securities and Exchange in our Commercial Regions activities and make sure that they are operating Commission; the Department of Justice closed 2013 1,813 568 187 to high standards of ethical practice that are its investigation without taking action against the company. 2014 1,573 454 213 consistent with our own. 2015 1,476 490 339 We maintain a robust compliance programme 2016 1,283 429 222 with dedicated compliance personnel, who advise on and monitor adherence to our Code Guidance and coaching of Conduct and supporting requirements. Formal warning They also support our line managers locally, Removal from role seeking to ensure that their staff meet our high ethical standards. Sustainability Update 2016 | 4 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Preventing corruption tendering, sales and distribution, engaging allowed for customisation with case studies A key focus of our Global Ethical Interactions healthcare professionals and other third parties and other information specific and relevant to Policy is on anti-bribery/anti-corruption, and for services, items of value and hospitality, the particular audience, designed to make the this Policy specifically declares AstraZeneca’s and contributions. Also, as part of our training most impactful. zero tolerance for bribery or any other form of commitment to continuously improve our In addition, for all relevant third-party corruption, even if AstraZeneca loses business compliance programme, in 2016, AstraZeneca engagements, AstraZeneca provides the as a result. Our Global Ethical Interactions continued to invest in analytics techniques third party with our Expectations of Third Policy makes clear that bribery includes giving to review data to improve detection and Parties, which describe our key expectations or receiving something of value that is intended correction of potential non-compliant activities. for third parties with respect to anti-bribery/ or could be seen as improper influence, and A key area of focus for this work was around anti-corruption and other relevant risks. Our that ‘something of value’ can take many forms, anti-bribery/anti-corruption. Expectations of Third Parties explicitly prohibits such as: cash payments, discounts/rebates, AstraZeneca is also an active member of third parties from: compensation for services or reimbursement aclegal, an industry global working group of expenses; gifts, samples or other items of >D  irectly or indirectly giving, offering or addressing anti-bribery/anti-corruption and value; meals, travel/accommodation or other promising a bribe, or authorising anyone anti-money laundering compliance issues hospitality; contributions; or even providing else to do so within the life sciences sector, including regular access to resources or information. benchmarking and best-practices sharing. >D  irectly or indirectly receiving, soliciting or Through active participation in this and other agreeing to accept a bribe, or authorising In 2016, the mandatory annual training on our industry associations such as the UN Global anyone else to do so. Code of Conduct included a module dedicated to ethical business practices and featuring Compact, AstraZeneca keeps pace with and It explicitly states that AstraZeneca has zero anti-bribery/anti-corruption principles. Also in is firmly committed to taking the necessary tolerance for bribery or any other form of 2016, Global Compliance developed training internal steps to ensure alignment with current corruption and will support all refusals by third specific to anti-bribery/anti-corruption, using international codes and standards. parties to engage in bribery, even if we lose real-life scenarios to help employees put our business as a result. Third parties and corruption principles into practice in their daily work. This AstraZeneca is committed to working with training was made available to all employees to only those third parties who embrace high complement the Code of Conduct training. standards of ethical behaviour that are The Global Compliance function works consistent with our own; we carry out this with a range of specialist functions commitment by conducting appropriate risk throughout the company, including Legal and assessments and due diligence, implementing Procurement, to ensure ongoing compliance contractual obligations with our third parties with AstraZeneca’s anti-bribery/anti-corruption and maintaining oversight of third-party principles. Global Compliance also works engagements. Specifically, AstraZeneca has a closely with the Internal Audit Services robust, centralised third-party risk assessment function, and both functions separately provide and due diligence process that is undertaken quarterly reporting to the Audit Committee of prior to engaging relevant third parties for AstraZeneca’s Board of Directors, including goods or services, across local marketing assurance reporting on incidents of noncompanies and other business units. This compliance relating to anti-bribery/antiprocess covers a wide range of risks, including, corruption. The Audit Committee also annually but not limited to, bribery/corruption risk. reviews AstraZeneca’s systems and controls in To support the effectiveness of this process, place to prevent bribery and corruption. a risk-based approach to training that is Anti-bribery/anti-corruption auditing forms a consistent with the US Foreign Corrupt significant part of our global monitoring and Practices Act and UK Bribery Act guidance audit programmes of the commercial business. is taken. In this way, we focus on the higherEach year, AstraZeneca uses a mixture of risk geographies, as well as on the higherinternal and external measures, including risk third parties and activities. In 2016, we the Transparency International Corruption provided anti-bribery/anti-corruption training Perceptions Index, as well as market-specific to AstraZeneca engagement owners (who risk factors, to perform its risk assessments for are responsible for managing third-party these programmes. These programmes cover engagements) as well as to higher-risk third a range of activities associated with bribery/ parties (such as distributors), focusing our corruption risk, including, but not limited to, efforts on higher-risk geographies. This training Sustainability Update 2016 | 5 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Political donations Corporate tax The integrated nature of our worldwide Neither the company nor its subsidiaries AstraZeneca is a global, science-led operations can produce conflicting claims made any EU political donations or incurred biopharmaceutical business. We are one of from revenue authorities as to the profits to any EU political expenditure in 2016. To only a handful of companies to span the entire be taxed in individual countries. The majority enable the company and its subsidiaries to life cycle of a medicine from research and of the jurisdictions in which we operate continue to support interest groups or lobbying development to manufacturing and supply, and have double tax treaties with other foreign organisations concerned with the review of global commercialisation of primary care and jurisdictions, which provide a framework for government policy or law reform without specialty care medicines. We operate in over mitigating the incidence of double taxation inadvertently breaching the Companies Act 100 countries and our innovative medicines are on our revenues and capital gains. The 2006, we put a resolution to shareholders at used by millions of patients worldwide. company’s worldwide operations are taxed our AGM, to authorise the company and its under laws in the jurisdictions in which they Our business activities around the world incur operate. International standards governing the subsidiaries to: a substantial amount and variety of business global tax environment regularly change. The > Make donations to political parties or taxes. We pay corporate income taxes, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and independent election candidates customs duties, excise taxes, stamp duties, Development (OECD) has proposed a number > Make donations to political organisations employment and many other business taxes in of changes under the Base Erosion and Profit other than political parties all jurisdictions where applicable. In addition, Shifting Action Plans. we collect and pay employee taxes and indirect > Incur political expenditure, up to an View our tax policy here. taxes such as Value Added Tax (VAT). The aggregate limit of $250,000. taxes we pay and collect represent a significant In the US, corporate political contributions contribution to the countries and societies in are subject to both federal and state laws and which we operate. regulations. In 2016, the Group’s US legal AstraZeneca aims to comply with tax laws in entities made contributions amounting in the countries in which it does business and aggregate to $1,568,250 (2015: $1,224,550) is committed to transparent and constructive to national political organisations, state-level relationships with all relevant tax authorities. political party committees and to campaign committees of various state candidates. In December 2015, the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in the UK announced that it We did not make any corporate donations at would conduct a review of companies’ tax the federal level and all contributions were reporting to encourage more transparent made only where allowed by US federal and recording of the relationship between the state law. We publicly disclose details of our tax charges and accounting profit. The corporate US political contributions, which can FRC Corporate Reporting Review Team be found on our website. subsequently conducted a review of the tax The annual corporate contributions budget disclosures in our financial statements for is reviewed and approved by the US the year ended 31 December 2015 and in Vice-President, Corporate Affairs and the 2016 confirmed that they had no substantive President of our US business to ensure robust issues to raise. The FRC’s role is not to verify governance and oversight. US citizens or the information provided but to consider individuals holding valid green cards exercised compliance with reporting requirements. decision-making over the contributions and the The Committee took note of and was satisfied funds were not provided or reimbursed by any with relevant reports from the regulators that non-US legal entity. Such contributions exercise routine oversight over the company’s do not constitute political donations or external auditors, the FRC and the Public political expenditure for the purposes of the Company Accounting Oversight Board. Companies Act 2006 and were made without any involvement of persons or entities The Audit Committee reviewed the company’s outside the US. approach to tax including governance, risk management and compliance, tax planning, dealings with tax authorities and the level of tax risk the company is prepared to accept. The full statement, which was published in November 2016, can be found at www.astrazeneca.com. Sustainability Update 2016 | 6 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Supply chain management Our future success depends on building and maintaining a strong and sustainable supply chain that supports our research and development of new medicines and upholds our high ethical standards. Monitoring and improving performance across the 45,000 suppliers we use around the world protects our business and, more importantly, the patients who use our medicines. We are committed to meeting high ethical standards across all our procurement activities and decisions worldwide. We expect our third parties to meet these strict standards, as set out in our Global Standard Expectations of Third Parties. Our Global Standard incorporates our Code of Conduct and key international standards such as those published by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Every employee who sources goods and services on behalf of AstraZeneca is expected to follow responsible business processes, which are embedded into our procurement procedures. All our procurement professionals receive detailed training on responsible procurement. We also require our suppliers to complete “ regular supplier assessments. At the end of 2016, 20,613 suppliers had completed compliance assessments, a 96% completion rate with the remaining 4% in progress. We maintain oversight of our supply chain and where we are spending our money. At AstraZeneca, we have clear company Values to guide our behaviour and the decisions we make on a daily basis, helping to ensure that we do the right thing and act with integrity in every situation. It is critically important to us that the third parties we work with share our Values and ensure that any work on our behalf upholds our ethical standards. Only together can we maintain and enhance the trust of our customers and stakeholders and, ultimately, deliver our Purpose: to push the boundaries of science to deliver life-changing medicines.” Pascal Soriot, CEO, AstraZeneca Sustainability Update 2016 | 7 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance In F cus: How do we ensure an ethical and transparent supply chain? Global corporations have an extraordinary amount of power and influence, especially when it comes to buying in products and services. Big business has a responsibility to spend its money wisely and in a way that has benefits for the wider business community and the populations it serves. A transparent procurement system is critical to this. In order to achieve our goals, complete our research and market our products, we work with suppliers and third parties all over the world. Carefully selecting which third parties we work with on the basis of their ethical standards, and providing support and training to those who want to do better, helps us ensure an ethical pipeline. It also spreads a commitment to human rights, health and safety, environmental sustainability and diversity to a wider number of businesses and organisations. Our commitment to ethics and transparency requires us to set clear standards for those suppliers and to have strong processes in place to monitor and audit our supply chain to ensure suppliers are meeting those standards. We start by selecting the supplier we want to work with. In some instances, we are able to select from a number of companies We provide incentives for suppliers through a number of means who carry out similar work and can choose to work with the from specialist training to profit-sharing of any costs saved/ one that best demonstrates our Values. In other instances, there revenue generated through our improvement initiatives. might be only one company able to perform the tasks we need. On those occasions we take a collaborative approach and work AstraZeneca is a member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain with a supplier to bring that company’s standards up to meet Initiative. This not-for-profit organisation helps and supports our own. Sometimes a supplier has the right intent, but without suppliers to meet the expectations of the industry with regard to enough knowledge or experience to address risks and implement labour, health, safety, environment and management systems. improvements. Where possible, and when a supplier shows The group is increasingly expanding its reach to include a appropriate commitment, we support them to achieve our range of services used across the pharmaceutical industry. We high standards. have used our experience with supplier auditing to help ensure the effectiveness of the audit approach used by the industry, Our commitment to supply chain excellence goes right to the top. contributing ideas, manpower and key documentation to ensure Each member of our Senior Executive Team (SET) is accountable the success of this platform. for ensuring that procurement activity within their area is carried out in a manner consistent with our strategy and that the skills We are also members of Verisk Maplecroft, which helps and resources are in place to deliver the requirements of the organisations optimise and strengthen the risk management strategy. The Chief Procurement Officer is accountable for the processes and supply chains by providing a portfolio of global governance and assurance of the Third Party Risk Management risk analytics with world-leading analysis, real-time locational process and reports directly to a member of the SET. monitoring and innovative risk calculator technology. Sustainability Update 2016 | 8 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Our four-stage assessment process Initial filter Initial assessment of activity, geography and value to assess the overall business risk. Risk assessment If no material risks are identified, the If a potential risk is assessment defaults to our controls identified, we undertake a process, which ensures appropriate more detailed assessment conditions and due diligence steps of the activities being are implemented as part of our conducted. commercial agreements. Our procurement organisation works to assess and monitor risks within our global Due supply chain, including suppliers, downstream supply chain partners and local business diligence development partners. We apply a globally consistent approach to assessing risk, which allows us to focus our efforts on high-risk relationships and ensure Where the risk is deemed to be If questions still persist suppliers understand and are able to meet low enough to be acceptable, the after this stage, we ask our expectations. assessment defaults to our controls third parties to provide process, which ensures appropriate evidence around their conditions and due diligence policies and processes are implemented as part of our and, in some cases, to commercial agreements. take appropriate steps to mitigate the risk. Extended due diligence Where required, extended due diligence is performed, for example through a detailed audit conducted either by a specially trained AstraZeneca auditor or by a third-party auditor. Sustainability Update 2016 | 9 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Monitoring standards and compliance In 2016, we conducted 66 extended audits required standards and we discontinued the on high-risk suppliers. We found 32% of relationship (0.45% of total suppliers assessed, suppliers met our expectations, with a further in line with external benchmarks). 1,101 Quality audits 42% implementing improvement plans to assessments resulted in an action plan to help address minor instances of non-compliance. improve standards at our third parties. Year Internal quality Internal quality audits of audits of 40 potential suppliers failed to meet our AstraZeneca AstraZeneca suppliers sites Supplier assessments by region since 2014 2013 398 25 Total in 2016: 2014 395 24 8,977 2015 428 40 Total 2016 461 36 21,622 Europe 6,488 Asia Helping suppliers meet Pacific our ethical standards 6,622 Americas We develop and implement ongoing Middle East supplier engagement programmes that 5,712 and Africa reflect areas of specific geographical 2,800 an/or supply sector risk, with a focus on any key gaps in third-party understanding. In Algeria, for example, our local organisation supported a supplier who had a number of gaps against AstraZeneca expectations. We provided subject matter expertise and shared documents to help inform and educate the supplier on the level of expectation. We also provided access to specific individuals who could coach the supplier’s management team. In particular, these related to human resource management, quality systems and anti-bribery/anti-corruption. Using this support and knowledge the supplier was able to rectify the identified gaps and raise awareness within their own organisation of responsible business practices. Sustainability Update 2016 | 10 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Patient safety and product security Developing a new medicine carries inherent risk and ensuring Fighting the illegal trade in patient safety is our top priority. It is our responsibility to eliminate medicines, protecting our patients all risk where possible, and to minimise it where it is not possible Key for product security is protecting our patients from the dangers of illegally traded to eliminate it completely. (including counterfeit and stolen) medicines. Pharmacovigilance is the science and Safety information is provided from many Counterfeits, for example, can fail to provide activities relating to the detection, assessment, sources, including reports on suspected effective treatment and sometimes cause understanding and prevention of adverse adverse drug reactions from healthcare direct harm to patients. It is impossible to effects or any other drug-related problems. It is providers and patients and from review of the estimate on a global scale how common the our responsibility to our patients and we take it scientific literature. Our Global Patient Safety illegal trade in medicines is, and although it very seriously. Database is the central source of information is impossible to prevent entirely, our aim is to for patient safety across our organisation and disrupt this activity. During the development phase, we carry out for reporting to regulatory authorities. The illegal trade in medicines is a global issue extensive and rigorous preclinical and clinical testing to establish a potential new medicine’s In addition, we use tools to enable signal that requires global solutions. It is only through safety and efficacy. Once we establish detection and data compilation, and are strong partnerships and good education that an acceptable benefit and risk profile, we investing in information technology. In we can disrupt criminal activities that threaten submit comprehensive information, including compliance with regulatory requirements, all the wellbeing of patients. clinical trial data, to the regulatory authorities available safety information is continuously We require our employees to report suspicions responsible for approving medicines in each and regularly reviewed and, following stringent of possible illegal trade of medicines that country or region in which we want to launch assessment, any new safety data is provided come to their attention to our global security the product. to regulators, doctors, other healthcare function’s mailbox. In addition to our employee professionals and, where appropriate, patients, reports, patients, healthcare professionals, law We work with regulators to develop prescribing information that gives healthcare professionals We develop patient risk management plans enforcement and regulators, for example, also the information they need to promote patient for all our medicines. These help us identify, report such cases to us. safety – including indications for use, dosing further evaluate and reduce risks to patients We analyse suspicious samples which are sent recommendations, warnings and contraand, where appropriate, we provide the plans to us and have a global team who work with indications, as well as potential side effects. to the regulatory authorities. During 2016, we local colleagues to coordinate our response. Where appropriate we also make information implemented a system with reporting and For example, we may gather evidence for a available directly to patients about our dashboard functions to track the status of prosecution (according to globally acceptable medicines and how they should be taken. our activities to address important risks in an standards) for relevant local law enforcement optimised way. agencies, report appropriate cases to health While enormously helpful in defining how patients will broadly respond to a medicine, authorities and we may take in-market action Our Patient Safety Quality System covers clinical trials cannot replicate the complete alerting doctors, pharmacists or wholesalers. all products and is a part of the company’s range of patient circumstances that exist We rely on their cooperation and the local overall quality system, providing a quality among larger and more diverse patient health authority to stop such medicines from environment that meets the requirements of populations. Rare side effects can often be reaching patients. Good Pharmacovigilance Practice and Good identified only after a medicine has been Regulatory Practice. A programme is in place launched and used in far greater numbers and to monitor and evaluate the performance over longer periods of time. and compliance of the quality system For all our medicines, under development as globally against defined quality requirements. well as on the market, we have comprehensive Pharmacovigilance leadership regularly and rigorous systems in place for detecting reviews summaries of these monitoring and rapidly evaluating adverse effects, activities. The quality system is designed including mechanisms for highlighting those based on continuous improvement principles that require immediate attention. Each to proactively anticipate and avoid or minimise medicine has a dedicated safety team, the impact of potential quality issues by taking which includes a responsible global safety prompt and effective measures. physician and one or more pharmacovigilance scientists. At each affiliate, we also have at least one appropriately qualified person who is responsible for pharmacovigilance matters. Sustainability Update 2016 | 11 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Global product security strategy Security along our supply chain Driving greater protection Our Global product security strategy covers We work to improve security in our The illegal trade in medicines is hard to three areas as follows: supply chains for our investigational and measure. We do not publish performance commercialised products by collaborating with targets around our work. However, we others to share best practice for supply chain continue to make progress on all three areas Securing our products design with the aim of inhibiting the entry of of our strategy. and supply chains illegally traded medicines. As an industry, there has been a lot of This includes: progress in terms of raising awareness of the Investigating cases > Strengthening our processes for third parties dangers of counterfeit medicines, including of illegal trade and adding product security clauses in our the dangers of buying medicines online. While contracts with supply chain partners the counterfeiting of any product is illegal, we need to ensure that patients recognise the Collaborating > Training our third parties to report any potentially life-threatening risks specifically with stakeholders suspicions and to maintain secure associated with counterfeit medicines. distribution channels > Using seals on some packs to make it more Along with colleagues across the industry, difficult and expensive for counterfeiters to we are continuing our efforts to dismantle copy our packaging, and help identify packs the illegal trade in medicines and work with The illegal trade of medicines is not a problem governments to develop legislation that will AstraZeneca can tackle alone. We therefore which have been tampered with better protect patient safety and ensure that work closely with other pharmaceutical > Complying with traceability legislation the sentencing of those convicted of producing companies through industry trade associations (application of unique codes to packs) which and distributing counterfeit medicines, for including the International Federation some countries are implementing as part of example, reflects the seriousness of the crime. of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and their anti-counterfeiting strategy. Associations, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. We also work with not-for-profit organisations including the Pharmaceutical Security Institute and Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacy – Europe, to raise awareness of the threat of counterfeit medicines. What to do if you are concerned about receiving an illegally traded One such initiative to help raise awareness medicine or you have a suspicion about your medicine among patients, healthcare professionals and AstraZeneca urges patients and healthcare professionals to be alert to the possibility regulators is the ‘Fight the Fakes’ campaign. of illegally traded medicines. Anyone who is concerned that their AstraZeneca medicine We also conduct training, where appropriate, may not be genuine can contact their doctor (physician), pharmacist (or other healthcare to raise awareness of types of illegal trade for professional) or health authority. You can also contact AstraZeneca through this website our employees and third parties. or in the country where you are based. In addition, we work closely with other Patients can protect themselves from illegally traded medicines by obtaining their pharmaceutical companies through the medicines only from licensed and regulated outlets, and avoiding unregulated sources on Pharmaceutical Security Institute to identify the internet. Patients should be vigilant when examining their medicines, paying attention cases of illegal trade and coordinate to altered or unsealed packaging or changes in the product packaging. investigations. As there is no global law enforcement agency or regulator, pharmaceutical companies like AstraZeneca can often act as an interface between authorities in different countries. In 2016, Global Security investigations led to 147 raids and the seizure of counterfeit and illegal AstraZeneca products worth $16.5 million, and 59 associated arrests. Sustainability Update 2016 | 12 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Product quality and recalls For onward distribution of products to Inspections AstraZeneca operates a Pharmaceutical hospitals, pharmacies and patients, we We were inspected 33 times in 2016 by Quality System structured to meet the work with local marketing companies and 18 different Health Authorities including the requirements of the internationally adopted preferred sales partners or distributors to US FDA. pharmaceutical quality system, ICHQ10. identify batch and product location to ensure We did not receive any FDA warning letters This system applies throughout the life cycle an effective recall. We use these networks to in 2016. At the end of each inspection, the of all our products, facilitating innovation, communicate with healthcare professionals to FDA provides us with a list of ‘observations’ continual improvement and strengthening alert them to the issue and provide a contact or areas for improvement. During 2016 we links between pharmaceutical development phone number for customers to contact us for received one FDA observation (classed as a and manufacturing activities. It applies to all further information. 483), which was for a third-party site, not one investigational and commercial products, Our global procedure outlines the process and of AstraZeneca’s own sites. large and small molecules, including Medical clear actions that must be taken identifying Devices. The Pharmaceutical Quality System responsibilities for both global and local Total FDA observations (483s) is independently assessed by National individuals. The process stipulates that actions Competent Authorities located in the countries must also follow country-specific routines and 31 2013 where we manufacture or market products. legislation for all recalls, and that simulated 22 2014 We comply with international standards for trace and track recalls must be performed 16 2015 Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). We are periodically with correction of any deficiencies 1 2016 assessed by the competent authorities for the in the process. regions as well as locally. We are in the process of rolling out Total FDA inspections serialisation of products; this has already been Managing quality issues and recalls implemented in a number of countries and will 5 2013 All issues reported to AstraZeneca, which may be rolled out globally by 2020. This will further 9 2014 lead to a product recall, are managed and enhance our ability to track products within the 9 2015 supported by a central dedicated team. When supply chain, as well as assure the pedigree of 3 2016 an issue is flagged, this team convenes a the product delivered to the patient. meeting or meetings of the appropriate global and local (country or site) personnel. The During 2016, there were no quality issues that process applies to all AstraZeneca products could have led to patient impact. Consequently and all countries where AstraZeneca’s we have not had to trigger a single patientproducts are sold. level recall. We have participated in six recalls that were issued at pharmacy or distribution The global procedure commits to achieve level. Each recall triggers a deep dive root the highest possible standards around the cause investigation and preventative actions. management of product issues and recalls, and meets the criteria stipulated within the Recalls World Health Organization Guidelines. This Year Number of recalls at pharmacy global procedure also meets the product or wholesale level recall requirements of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), EU regulators and GMP. 2013 Total = 3 (All FDA Classification III)* In the first instance, the issues management 2014 Total = 6 (All FDA Classification III)* team will work to understand the scope of the issue and the product batches and countries 2015 Total = 10 (One at FDA Classification I, affected as well as the impact for patients one at FDA Classification II and eight at FDA Classification III)* and healthcare providers. It also assesses the relevant communications needed with 2016 Total = 8 (Two at FDA Classification II, regulators and customers, and establishes six at FDA Classification III)* how returned products will be monitored to ensure a recall (if necessary) is effective. *US recalls were classified by the FDA. Recalls in other territories were classified by AstraZeneca aligned to the We have Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) FDA’s guidance. systems in place to enable easy and quick identification of product batches and locations in the distribution chain in the case of a recall. These ERP systems track AstraZeneca products at batch level and readily determine supply destinations. Sustainability Update 2016 | 13 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Bioethics Bioethics are the principles, behaviours and ethical standards Stem cell research and use of human foetal tissue that govern our research and development worldwide. Our Stem cell technology may offer new Bioethics Policy covers a number of subject areas, including opportunities to develop innovative and the use of human biological samples (HBS), using animals in safer medicines and would help ensure better research, and the conduct of clinical trials. Where appropriate, treatments for patients. There are two main forms of stem cell research, human induced we use internationally approved standards to achieve high ethical pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC), which can be standards. We also constantly review our policies and procedures taken safely from adult volunteers, and human to ensure good practice and learning. embryonic stem cells (hESC). The majority of our stem cell work uses hiPSC, which is a less Our Bioethics Advisory Group (BAG) brings HBS ethically sensitive alternative to using human together subject matter experts who monitor HBS, such as solid tissue and biofluids, are embryos. We are actively evaluating and oversee our activities in critical areas vital to developing a deeper understanding both technologies. of bioethical interest. In 2016, we reviewed of human diseases, which helps us develop how BAG operates, and implemented some We use hESC when there is no alternative effective, new and personalised medicines. changes to membership, reporting and technology that would provide the scientific In carrying out this important area of research, governance to ensure it remains relevant and information required to accurately model for a we maintain policies and processes to ensure effective. We have aligned sponsorship of BAG serious human disease. We are interested in that we both comply with the law and meet with ownership of the Global Bioethics Policy, the potential of stem cells to differentiate into regulatory concerns. under the Chief Medical Officer. This ensures mature human cells allowing more accurate that BAG has visible senior sponsorship and Protecting the rights of donors prediction of drug metabolism and certain authority commensurate with its objectives and their families safety/toxicity outcomes in people. and obligations. AstraZeneca greatly appreciates the generosity Stem cells may also prove valuable for the of those donating human biological samples development of more biologically relevant in for research. We place an emphasis on the AstraZeneca is not principle of informed consent that protects the vitro models for disease modelling and drug target efficacy evaluation. This would represent involved in any research rights and expectations of donors and families a significant step forward in increasing the throughout the process of acquisition, use, on human reproductive storage and disposal of samples. Protecting human relevance of early drug development studies, and help us overcome current cloning, for which there the confidentiality of a donor’s identity is of limitations that a restricted supply of primary is a UNESCO international utmost importance and a key part of our process includes the coding of biological cells presents. There is also the potential to reduce the need for animal studies. ban and country-level samples and associated data (including In rare circumstances, AstraZeneca may legislative bans. genetic data). AstraZeneca takes rigorous use human foetal tissue (hFT) in research to measures to protect the data privacy of subjects, aiming to minimise the risk of their advance our understanding of serious medical re-identification when processing the data. disorders. In such rare cases, an internal review of the scientific validity of the research The key aspects of our policies and standards proposal will be conducted and permission extends to the approval of HBS sources to use the tissue will be granted only when and collaborations involving HBS. We use no other scientifically reasonable alternative extremely rigorous assessments and have is available. To further limit and avoid future high quality and ethical expectations of our use of human foetal tissue, we use cuttingtissue suppliers. To support compliance in edge scientific advancements and commit to sourcing HBS, AstraZeneca worked with an implementing industry best practices. external provider to implement a commercial centralised automated solution for simplified By the end of 2016, seven research proposals and compliant HBS procurement. that include use of cells derived from hFT were received for consideration, but none were progressed, either for scientific or other reasons. We continue to review our processes for the supply of human foetal tissue. Currently, four projects using three different hESC lines have been approved. Sustainability Update 2016 | 14 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance HBS governance Clinical trials Our informed consent process ensures that To monitor our use of HBS, we have created We study the effects of potential new patients participating in any and every trial the HBS governance team. This team is medicines in humans using clinical trials. understand the benefits and risks, the purpose responsible for the governance of the collection, The clinical trial phase is essential in the of the trial and how it will be conducted. We storage, use and disposal of HBS, hFT and development of new medicines. At any one explain that they could receive a comparator hESC in R&D. It is also accountable for time, AstraZeneca may have hundreds of drug or placebo and that they can pull out of approving experiments using hESC and hFT clinical trials underway in different locations the trial at any time, with or without giving as described in the HBS Standard. If there around the world. We take very seriously a reason. were to be an incident involving the use of our commitment to delivering consistently To ensure patients understand all the HBS, the governance team is accountable for high standards of ethical practice and information that is being given to them, we investigation and resolution. scientific conduct in all our trials, wherever provide it in the patients’ local language or, if The AstraZeneca Scientific Reference they take place. literacy is an issue, we provide the information Panel sits alongside the HBS governance team A potential new medicine is tested in humans verbally. We use independent witnesses to and is responsible for independent internal only after rigorous and extensive pre-clinical ensure patient safety and that the consent review of proposals for use of hESC and hFT. research has confirmed its potential efficacy process is verified. Witnesses are responsible It looks at scientific validity and ensures there and safety. Trial medicines go through three for confirming that a participant has received are no other reasonable means available to phases of testing before they are submitted and understood all the information they need conduct the research. In each case, it asks two to regulatory authorities for an approval to to be able to give their informed consent to key questions: market. All medicines have side effects that participate in any AstraZeneca Group may affect some people, so the safety of any research study. > Will the proposed study address the experimental aims? medicine needs to be assessed in terms of its All our clinical studies are designed and finally benefit and risk profile. interpreted in-house. Some are conducted > Does the proposed research require the use of hFT/hESC rather than other tissue? We can’t eliminate all the risks to clinical by contract research organisations (CROs) trial participants, but we aim to minimise on our behalf. In 2016, approximately 48% risks as much as possible. Our top priority of patients in our small molecule studies is to make sure that those taking part in and 44% of patients in our biologics studies our studies are not exposed to any were monitored by CROs. We require these unnecessary risks and that, before they give organisations to comply with our global their consent, they understand fully what standards and we conduct risk-based audits taking part in a trial means. to monitor compliance. Clinical trials around the world in 2016 US/Canada 27% 26% Western Europe 15% 23% Central/Eastern Europe 28% 24% Japan 5% 2% 11% Asia Pacific 15% 11% Middle East and Africa 1% 3% 11% Type of study conducted Small molecule studies Latin America Biological studies 10% 10% Sustainability Update 2016 | 15 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Implementing to the highest standards Clinical trial transparency To communicate better with clinical trial Our standards are global and apply to all Since 2015, our dedicated Clinical Trial patients, AstraZeneca developed a suite of AstraZeneca Group clinical trials, in all Transparency office has been working to 95 different patient engagements. For locations, whether they are being conducted ensure our compliance with clinical trial example, our lay language summaries put by us or on our behalf by external CROs. If our policies and all legal requirements. We have research findings into language that patients policies differ from local regulations, we adopt committed to allow external parties to request and the general public can understand. In whichever standard is higher. patient-level data as part of the Commitment 2017, we will launch a website for lay language to Responsible Data Sharing. Sharing more summaries which are interventional studies. Our Standard Operating Procedures and data will help the industry as a whole improve The purpose of the website is to allow greater Policies require that all staff involved in clinical existing and develop new products and access to these summaries. The website will trials and all investigators are trained in ICH treatments, and will save money by avoiding include summaries that are from 2015 (the International Council for Harmonisation of duplication of research. More information can onwards and can be accessed by visiting Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals be found on our company website located at www.TrialSummaries.com. for Human Use) guidelines and local Good www.AstraZenecaClinicalTrials.com. Clinical Practice regulations. Our standards We implemented new global standards this apply to all AstraZeneca-sponsored clinical Calls for ‘open access’ to clinical data raise year, which give patients and researchers more trials, in all locations, but the conduct of our complex practical, legal and ethical issues information about our research. Every patient trials in emerging countries is a specific around full disclosure of patient information. who participates in a study sponsored by us focus for our compliance monitoring and Decision-makers, as well as academia receives a note recognising their contribution assurance activities. and industry, have a duty to consider all as well as a copy of the study’s Trial Results the implications that could arise from such Summary. We also launched the AstraZeneca proposals. These include ensuring scientific Group Data Request Portal to allow external rigour, safeguarding patient privacy and researchers to request our clinical data and protecting innovation and medical progress. reports. We have responded to over 50 We continue to engage with regulators, requests so far. legislators, industry, medical and scientific In 2016, we prepared to meet the Redacted bodies to streamline and implement policies, Clinical Report Package of the EMA standards, processes and systems to support Publication of Clinical Data Policy. The policy responsible clinical trial data sharing that is designed to further improve transparency deliver real benefits to medical science and access to research information. We have and patients. taken significant steps to make increasing amounts of data available to those who The Commitment to request it. Our challenge is to protect patients’ personal information and company confidential Responsible Data Sharing is information, while still achieving the highest a voluntary, industry-wide levels of transparency. At the end of the year we submitted the first package to the EMA scheme designed to improve for our subsidiary group Ardea. The process transparency across the and work in this area is new to the industry pharmaceutical industry. and will quickly develop in 2017 to meet the submission requirements. Sustainability Update 2016 | 16 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Animals in science We are committed to helping the public understand our use of animals in Organ on a chip: research. This remains a challenging issue the direction of future travel for many people, but animal studies are Organ on a chip might well be the most exciting scientific advance towards eventually a critical stage in the development of new eliminating the need for the use of animals in science. So far, it is the closest we have come life-saving and life-improving medicines to replicating the biological functioning of a human organ outside the human body and and treatments. being able to use it as a test subject. This year, we continued to support the National The organ-on-chips are self-contained units, typically about the size of a memory stick, that Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and contain hollow microfluidic channels lined by human cells, which recreate the physiological Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs). functions of human organs. Our commitment to the 3Rs (Reduction, Refinement and Replacement) is reflected in Scientists are currently developing lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, blood-brain barrier and our Global Bioethics Policy. bone marrow organ-on-a-chip systems. There is also a major effort to integrate these organ chips to create a virtual ‘human-body-on-chips’. This will enable us to test new discoveries We have enhanced our approach to animal in a way that would provide us with scientifically relevant results and help us better research governance in recent years, revising understand how a medicine might ultimately impact patients. our policies and processes, and making sure our internal systems and structures reflect our responsible approach to the use of animals in science. Under the leadership of our Chief Although the Concordat is a UK initiative, we The panel elected three winners who were Veterinary Officer, our Council for Science welcome and engage in open and constructive able to demonstrate outstanding efforts and and Animal Welfare (C-SAW) now oversees dialogue with stakeholders worldwide who success in applying the principles of the 3Rs in all issues relating to the use of animals in have a legitimate interest in our use of animals their work: science. We are confident that we have robust in research. As well as providing funding to >A team from the US and Japan who built a governance and oversight mechanisms that organisations and working groups that educate successful case to reduce primate studies will allow us to drive continuing improvement the public about the use of animals in research, that received regulatory agreement in laboratory animal science and welfare. we take active steps to be open about our own animal programmes. For instance, we >A UK team who have established a battery of Our Bioethics Policy states that all research conducted over 30 UK facility tours to staff and applications including in vitro tissue slices to involving animals must be carefully considered external representatives from UK universities better address tumour progression and justified, that the principles of the 3Rs be and animal welfare organisations. >A nother UK team that established the applied and that the welfare of the animals we science to support group housing of ferrets use is a top priority. Our requirements apply Our UK Animal Welfare and Ethical Review during essential batch efficacy testing globally across all our internal animal research, Body (AWERB) meetings, where we discuss of FluMist®. to third parties who conduct research on our past, present and future animal work to ensure behalf, and to the breeders and suppliers of appropriate ethical review, are open to all staff Many of the submissions represent significant animals for use in such studies. on site, not just those involved in the animal efforts at the grass roots of laboratory animal programme. In the US, we have invited groups care. To recognise the efforts of these teams The Concordat on Openness of schoolchildren to our site to learn more in doing the right thing, the panel chose to on Animal Research about the crucial role animals play in bringing recognise an additional two teams for the 2016 We are transparent about our use of animals new drugs to patients. C-SAW Culture of Care Award. in research and, as such, we became a Implementing and sharing high standards “ signatory of The Concordat on Openness on Animal Research in 2014. Now in its second Our C-SAW is the expert decision-making full year, we have again contributed to the group accountable for animal welfare and Concordat’s annual report in 2016. compliance across the AstraZeneca Group of companies. We signed up to all four of the Our annual C-SAW Global 3Rs awards, Concordat’s commitments: which ran for the third time in 2016, recognise efforts to reduce, refine and replace the use Science, animal welfare > Being clear about when, how and why we use animals in research of animals in research. and our reputation all go > Enhancing our communications with the The judging panel, which included a lay hand in hand when it media and public about our research member and an external expert from the comes to animal research. using animals NC3Rs (Dr Vicky Robinson CBE) as well as > Providing opportunities for the public to find representatives of science, veterinary and The 3Rs wholly represent out about our research using animals laboratory leads from across the geographic our Values to put patients > Reporting annually on our progress. business, reviewed 30 very high-quality entries. first, follow the science and do the right thing.” Pascal Soriot, CEO, AstraZeneca Sustainability Update 2016 | 17 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance In F cus: How are we improving the ethical use of animals in science? We rely on animal studies in order to create new and improved medicines. Some types of animal studies are required by regulators before they approve a new medicine to be tested in humans during clinical trials. We are also still working to understand fundamental biological processes, where often there is no alternative to the use of live animals. Until we have a good understanding of these processes, we can’t look at ways of replicating those using non-animal models. But that doesn’t mean that we are relaxed about how many or what kind of animals we use. Our scientists are constantly looking to find better, more accurate models that can reduce our reliance on animal studies, with the hope of one day replacing them altogether. For the time being the use of animals remains a necessity, so we are equally committed to improving the care and welfare of the animals we do have to use. We have a proud history of reducing, refining and replacing animals in scientific studies and have made further progress in 2016. Our scientists collaborate and communicate to share innovative practices with our peers to continue to advance the 3Rs. Recent examples include: > Ongoing strategic collaborations working to develop new technologies (e.g. ‘organ on a chip’ on page 17) that may one day replace many types of animal studies > Working with academic collaborators to develop a new model of human heart cells to help provide a better indication of the potential effects of new drugs. We hope this will be more widely used by others and work towards reducing the number of animal studies in this important field > Publishing and sharing refinements we developed in animal welfare to benefit animals more broadly, for instance with regard to social housing and refined methods of blood sampling. We support and advocate for the NC3Rs, and work with them on many of the innovations that advanced the 3Rs. Sustainability Update 2016 | 18 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Animal welfare The welfare of the animals we use in research Improving ferret welfare through group housing – is a top priority. It is the right thing to do 2016 C-SAW Global 3Rs Awards Winner ethically, but it is also essential for reliable research outcomes. Stress can cause As a requirement for licensing, each batch of Fluenz/FluMist® must be tested. This involves different responses in different animals. the use of several hundred ferrets each year because like humans, ferrets are susceptible Ensuring animals are fit and well and that their to flu virus. behavioural needs are met reduces stress, Ferrets are social animals and we usually house them in groups. However, regulators reduces variation and produces better quality have expressed concerns that increased play and proximity could be seen to increase data from fewer animals. body temperature, which would make interpretation of test results difficult. Elevated To reduce stress in the animals we use, we temperature is also a symptom of flu, so we had to be able to show that any temperature work to high standards of animal welfare and increases in our animals were as a result of the flu, not from play or other activity. are constantly looking for ways to improve. The team worked with the contractor to demonstrate that group housing did not affect We provide mandatory training, ongoing body temperature. By providing this compelling scientific evidence to support our stance, competency assessments and continuing we were able to persuade the regulatory agency to allow us to group house ferrets for professional development opportunities such Fluenz and FluMist® testing. This is an example of how we are always seeking ways to as certifications and ratifications for employees apply our high animal welfare standards in practice. involved in our animal research. To work towards comparable animal care standards around the globe, we employ a single consistent Global Standard for all animal work, whether carried out in our own facilities or by third parties acting on our behalf. We require the work to be: >C  ompliant with laws or regulations in the location where the work is conducted >C  onsistent with the principles of the 8th Edition of the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (Institute for Laboratory Animal Research) – internationally respected good practice guidelines for animal care >W  herever possible, conducted in facilities accredited by the Association for the Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC International). We undertake a range of due diligence activities, overseen by the C-SAW, to ensure that this is the case. Sustainability Update 2016 | 19 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Approving animal studies Internal studies: Each country where we Rat Playtime – 2016 Global 3Rs ‘Culture of Care’ have internal animal facilities has a different Award Winner requirement for the in-house ethical review of internal studies. In the United Kingdom Long-term housing of rats in caging that does not give them the opportunity to fully carry the committee responsible is AWERB. In out valuable natural behaviours such as standing fully upright, climbing, burrowing and Sweden it’s the Djurskyddsorgan and in the foraging has been shown to affect rat behaviour. In order to allow our rats the chance to United States and China it’s the Institutional experience an environment that provides them the opportunity to carry out these natural Animal Care and Use Committee. Each behaviours, socialisation pens were created, where they could spend time out of their home of these committees has slightly different cage and socialise, exercise, explore and play with each other. requirements and responsibilities to regulatory The design of the pen and the provision of enrichment materials within it was carefully authorities, but their shared remit is to ensure considered to encourage and allow the rats to carry out natural behaviours while allowing proposals for research involving animals are them to feel secure. Access to different enrichment materials, covered areas and tunnels properly reviewed and to assure the welfare to hide in were provided, as well as furniture that allowed them to climb and explore the of the animals. vertical space. Food treats were hidden around the pen to promote foraging behaviour, External studies: Review and approval of and some treats were hand fed, encouraging the rats to see hands as a good thing and external animal research is performed by increasing interaction. representatives from each site that have It became very apparent that there was an increase in the confidence and friendliness of been appointed by the C-SAW. This group the rats. They became more used to and amenable to being handled and were much more is known as the PARTNER (Platform for likely to voluntarily interact with people. Refining their environment proved to be of great Animal Research, Tracking, and External value to both the rats’ and their carers’ wellbeing. This activity will be shared more broadly Relationships) Site Coordinator Team. through a jointly hosted NC3Rs/AstraZeneca workshop in March 2017. The PARTNER Site Coordinator is the primary contact at each site responsible for animal study ethical review and tracking. Their key responsibilities include providing training in the requirements of the AstraZeneca Global Measuring compliance Standard: Animal Care and Welfare, reviewing The Institute Risk Assessment Tool is > The reputation and standing of the facility study submissions and being a point of designed to assist PARTNER Coordinators > AAALAC accreditation status contact for incident reporting. with determining if an on-site inspection is > The nature of regulatory oversight and the The PARTNER Site Coordinator may also warranted. The template calculates risk factors laws or regulations that apply to the facility. perform the duties of an Institute Inspector to provide an overall risk score, which can then be used to quantify the degree of risk and and manage the relationship between thirdInspections can be done virtually or physically provide the PARTNER Coordinators with an party institutes and AstraZeneca. Above all and inspectors use our Facility Inspection objective course of action. the inspector’s role is to ensure that thirdTemplate to guide their analysis. Inspectors parties acting on our behalf have bioethical must evaluate the information that is critical Factors for evaluating risk include: standards consistent with our own, and that to the success or failure of a project, so the the requirements of the Global Standard are > Species being used question list is just a baseline for inspecting being met. > Whether the study involves novel or sensitive an institute. Inspectors are empowered to use procedures their professional judgement and experience to build upon this where necessary. 100% of staff working with > Our track record with the facility animals are appropriately trained in animal care, use and welfare. Sustainability Update 2016 | 20 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance The use of animals in research is a complex topic. For more information visit: Understanding Animal Research: www.understandinganimalresearch.org.uk Americans for Medical Progress: www.amprogress.org/animal-research/faqs The National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research: www.nc3rs.org.uk Number of animals used in research The majority of animals we use – over 97% complexity of the diseases under investigation – are rodents and many are undergoing and regulatory requirements. We believe that mild procedures such as oral dosing, blood without our active commitment to the 3Rs, our sampling or a simple injection under the skin. animal use would be much greater. The total number of animals we use will Our priorities are to ensure we are using the continue to vary because use depends on right number of animals needed to deliver a number of factors, including the amount a statistically reliable result, and to avoid of pre-clinical research we are doing, the repeating studies unnecessarily. Year In-house External contract research Total 2013 260,930 19,676 280,606 2014 194,162 15,634 209,796 2015 182,055 33,220 215,275 2016 193,451 25,651 219,102 Nagoya Protocol material and keep a record of this for 20 years receive in return. We do this with consideration AstraZeneca is supportive of the Nagoya (‘due diligence’). We also have to set ‘mutually for and adherence to local laws, procedures Protocol, an international agreement to agreed terms’ – a contract that legally defines and customs wherever we work. protect the benefits enjoyed by the country the conditions of the deal and the benefit Whenever a researcher wants to use biological of origin of natural biological resources that will be received by the country of origin material that is in the scope of the Nagoya used in research. if a new drug is produced. This protects Protocol, our internal processes ensure they indigenous and local communities, by ensuring The pharmaceutical industry sometimes uses meet the appropriate requirements. We have that their rights to their natural resources are natural biological resources (such as plant or created a dedicated e-tool to help researchers protected, and promotes a measured and fish extracts) that might be modified to support establish whether or not the resource they transparent approach to the use of natural its research and development programmes on want to use is in scope and provide guidance. resources, which supports the sustainability of the path to finding a new medicine. Our procurement team can help the research our planet’s biological diversity. team contact appropriate suppliers, our The Nagoya Protocol is an international treaty We are committed to ensuring these business development team oversees the which helps to ensure fair reward is given communities understand their ownership process to ensure it is fair and our Nagoya to the country that originally supplies the of and associated rights to their natural governance team guides the research team biological material. In accordance with the resources, and that they are giving informed through the process. Protocol, we, as users of biological resources, consent before the removal of these materials have to record our access and use of the and understand the equitable benefits they will Sustainability Update 2016 | 21 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance Antimicrobial resistance The increasing resistance of infectious diseases to antibiotics is a global issue. We have previously invested in research and development in infection and are calling on our colleagues across the industry, health leaders, patients, physicians and governments around the world to come together with a multi-stakeholder approach to tackle the global threat that antimicrobial resistance (AMR) poses to society and the barriers that prevent new antibiotics coming to the market. At the World Economic Forum in Davos in early 2016, we signed the Davos Declaration on Combating Antimicrobial Resistance We believe the fight against antibiotic resistance along with over 100 other companies. The requires three key developments: Declaration acts as a collective call on governments to commit to the investment Stronger antibiotic stewardship needed to support the development of new Appropriate selection, dosing, route and duration of antimicrobial therapy, along antibiotic technologies. with proper manufacturing controls and environmental management, is necessary We sold the antibiotics part of our business to to help address the threat posed by antibiotic resistance. Pfizer this year, but, recognising the impact of There is an urgent need for global collaboration to develop or update a locally AMR now and in the future, have committed relevant framework of stewardship practices, which delineate responsible to continuing to share our research and use surveillance, prescribing practices and antibiotic use to address current trends our influence to contribute to addressing this in increasing AMR. global challenge. Innovative regulatory pathways New antimicrobial drugs are needed urgently, but the current drug pipeline is alarmingly thin with many companies moving away from antibiotic development. Innovative regulatory approaches that balance the data needed for registration with the unmet medical need would encourage further drug development. Positive steps have been taken by leading regulatory authorities. These new approaches to regulatory pathways will facilitate the development of new drugs to combat emerging, rare pathogens, especially those that are resistant to multiple antibiotics. It will be important to see these new ideas implemented globally. Commercial models Current private/public models are not conducive to bringing antibiotics to market. The pipeline is virtually dry, especially in Gram-negative bacteria; an area which particularly needs new antibiotics. Antibiotics need to be viewed as a public good, similar to the firefighting system in place in all communities, and will require a reimbursement strategy that recognises the reality of the insurance value of antibiotics. Sustainability Update 2016 | 22 Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental protection Ethics and transparency Ethics and transparency Our approach Compliance Supply chain management Patient safety and product security Bioethics Antimicrobial resistance The AMR roadmap In September 2016, we became one of 13 signatories to the Industry Roadmap for Preventing pneumonia to Progress on Combating Antimicrobial Resistance. The roadmap includes a series of reduce the antibiotic burden commitments made by pharmaceutical companies to work towards a sustainable and predictable market for antibiotics, vaccines and diagnostics that enhances conservation Among the most problematic for new and existing treatments. It also called for coordinated action to improve multidrug resistant bacterial pathogens prevention of infections, hygiene, stewardship and conservation measures. are Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. These are These commitments include: frequent causes of hospital infections and often result in death or significant > Implementing measures to reduce environmental pollution from production of antibiotics illness and a longer stay in hospital. > Working with partners to ensure antibiotics are only used in patients who need them MedImmune, the biologics research > Improving access and ensuring affordability for existing and future antibiotics, diagnostics and development arm of AstraZeneca, and vaccines is currently conducting two > Exploring new opportunities for open collaborations between industry and the public Phase 2B studies of MEDI4893 and sector to address challenges in the research and development of new antibiotics, MEDI3902 to prevent patients with vaccines and diagnostics, recognising the value these bring to society. one of these pathogens from going on to develop pneumonia. This approach may well spare the use of antibiotics in the first place or improve outcomes in patients who do develop pneumonia, further preserving the usefulness of antibiotics. MedImmune is also continuing to work to discover new kinds of antibacterial agents that work against the most resistant strains of bacteria. Sustainability Update 2016 | 23 AstraZeneca PLC 1 Francis Crick Avenue Cambridge Biomedical Campus Cambridge CB2 0AA, UK T: +44(0)20 3749 5000 This full Sustainability Update and our Summary Sustainability Update are also available on our website www.astrazeneca.com/sustainability
