Made for life Sustainability Report 2016 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 External Assurance We declare this report in accordance with GRI G4 core level. Material aspects and indicators are shown on p8 and p9­10 of this report; detailed Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) are in online supplement ‘C’. The scope of the information and data in this report covers global operations from January to December 2016. Aperam’s production capacity is focused on: > 6 production sites in Brazil, Belgium and France: Genk, Gueugnon, Isbergues/Recyco, Timóteo, Châtelet, Imphy. > 14 Steel Service Centres (SSC from our Service & Solutions segment), > 13 transformation facilities: 7 in Service & Solutions segment ; Pont de Roide and BioEnergia from Stainless & Electrical Steel segment ; Rescal, Amilly, Imhua and ICS from Alloys & Specialties, > 26 sales offices: 20 for Service & Solutions segment and 6 from Alloys & Specialties. > Registered office: 12C, rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L­1882 Luxembourg. Safety data cover Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialties, as well as contractors on site. Human resources data exclude contractors. Subject to the exclusions indicated below, environmental data cover all main industrial sites, SSCs and corporate offices. Environmental information is compiled locally, and then aggregated centrally. In our greenhouse gas emissions calculation we apply the standards of ISO 14404­1 and ISO 14404­2, which state that biomass is considered to be carbon neutral. The CO2 emissions data relate to Scopes 1 and 2. The following exclusions apply to the environmental data: (1) Raw material data exclude packaging and miscellaneous parts; (2) Scope 3 indirect emissions. The report represents our Communication on Progress relating to UNGC membership (see Online Supplement ‘A’). The report does not cover any joint venture operations or activities of partner organisations. Independent assurance statement The ‘made for life’ report is a component (the ‘summary’) of our complete sustainability reporting (the ‘Report’) for the year ended 31 December 2016. The Report is composed of five items: the ‘made for life report’ and four Online Supplements – A,B, C and D. Our 2016 Report can be found on our website on www.aperam.com/sustainability, together with the four online supplements. The summary report provides part of the information required to satisfy GRI G4 ‘In Accordance Core’. Therefore, the summary should be read with its accompanying Online Supplements to constitute the complete Report. Deloitte Audit Société à Responsabilité issued an unmodified opinion using ISAE 3000 limited level assurance with respect to the Report on the following subject matters: adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines (the ‘GRI’ or ‘GRI Guidelines’) with respect to the Principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness adherence of the disclosures in the Report to the GRI ‘In Accordance Core’ criteria and the appropriateness of the GRI Index on pages 43-44 of the Report and; fair presentation in all material aspects in accordance with GRI Guidelines, of selected performance data, marked in the Report with a ‘*’: – EN5: Energy intensity (pages 9, 22 and 23) – EN18: CO2 intensity (pages 9, 22 and 23) – EN21: NOx, SOx and other air emissions (dust only ­ pages 9, 22 and 24) – LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work­related fatalities, by region and by gender (only LTIFR pages 3, 9 and 12, and Severity Rate ­ LDR ­ page 9) 1/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Contents About Aperam Our vision An opening word from our Chief Executive Officer. Company profile A global leader in Stainless and Specialties Steel, serving multiple markets through three main operating segments. Our values Our mission, our values and our ambitions. Strategy and Performance Strategy How Aperam’s roadmap and reporting comply with GRI principles. 2016 in numbers Social: Our People With safety as our top priority, Aperam aims to be a sustainable and profitable company. The key to achieving this is our productive and passionate workforce. See how our approach ensures the safety, development and well­being of our people. Environment: Our Planet As part of an energy­intensive industry consuming metallic ores and other raw materials, Aperam takes our environmental stewardship seriously. Read about the many ways we are becoming a more sustainable company by reducing our industrial footprint and working to raise awareness about the issues. Governance: Our Stakeholders From the energy of our sub­contractors who assist our teams, the strong partnership built with our suppliers and our customers, up to the local infrastructures ­ our success is dependent on the communities we operate in. Knowing this, our Corporate Governance is based on the highest standards and complies with the most rigorous business ethics. See how we continually strive to develop in a way that benefits the public at large. About this report GRI Index Supplements ­ online versions only Country Supplements Initiated in 2016, our Country Supplements are meant to enhance our main report, allowing stakeholders from our three most important countries of operations (Belgium, Brazil, France) to read about Aperam’s core sustainability actions in their local languages. Methodology Supplements ­ United Nations’ Global Compact reference; Report Materiality Process at Aperam; GRI Index for 2016 Report and Disclosures on Management Approach. 2/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 About Aperam Opening Word Although we are proud of all of our ὓ On the social side, which focuses accomplishments, we are engaged in on Aperam’s people, our roadmap is a journey to reach sustainable clear. In addition to the extensive excellence and we must continuously Health & Safety programme kicked improve on our key priorities. off in 2016, we launched a large project that will fully upgrade our Nowhere is this more important than People Management processes with in the area of Health & Safety, which an integrated HR IT platform. This remains our top priority. Despite new system will enhance the tremendous efforts to improve our efficiency of our competency performance in this area, our lost time management. Furthermore, by injury frequency rate deteriorated from combining this with our first global 0.98 in 2015 to 1.46* in 2016 due to Employee Engagement Survey aimed isolated under­performances at two of at a better understanding of the our European sites. We worked hard expectations of our employees, we Timoteo Di Maulo to reverse the situation as you will can further develop our workforce and Chief Executive Officer see in the following pages and started spur innovation. to see progress towards the end of Needless to say, this is a key At the heart of our commitment to the year. sustainability are two core elements. We are continuing to make all our component to our strategy, one that I First is our mission to provide am sure will foster the cohesion efforts to sustain this trend in order to needed to meet our objectives with reliable, recyclable stainless and alloy reach our ultimate goal of zero solutions for our customers. Our existing teams while appealing to the accident. talents we need to hire in order to energy­efficient steel products are part of the solution to solve the Although I started with Health & speed up our transformation. challenge of global development while Safety, as I always do, there are Speaking of talent, in this year’s having a limited impact on natural many other aspects to our journey to report you will notice I have given resources, and our charcoal­based sustainable excellence. Using the more room to our female workforce, steel production in Brazil that uses three dimensions of our Sustainability who are changing our company’s our FSC­compliant eucalyptus Roadmap, I would like to highlight our image and challenging stereotypes on plantations is a perfect example of progress on the other key sustainable a daily basis. that. Second is our identity as a priorities in 2016. ὓ Lastly, on the governance side, socially responsible company, which Aperam continues to benchmark and ὓ First, on the environmental side, for Aperam means building honest, implement the best practices. A key our teams continue their internal mutually beneficial relationships with achievement in 2016 in transparency efforts to spread awareness. While all its stakeholders. was the release of our online Country our energy objectives are fully As explained in our Annual Report, integrated into everyday operations, Supplements in local language. In 2016 was another year of solid we can further progress on many addition, our compliance culture progress with respect to our other aspects. continues to mature, with action operational and financial performance To demonstrate this commitment, we plans to reassert our ethics internally despite tough operating conditions. have set up a new compulsory while also addressing risks via our We continued to optimize our procedure for assessing the impact of first external audit. industrial footprint, invested in our any new investment project on five Our objective is to become the best performing assets, strengthened key sustainability­related factors. I standard for innovative Stainless and our balance sheet and focused on am convinced that the ingenuity of Specialty Steels. To achieve this, we exceeding customer expectations. our teams and their ability to propose remain committed to listening to our Our performance track record led to solutions addressing environmental customers and stakeholders in order an upgrade to Investment Grade by issues for each single project will be to innovate the industry’s best Moody’s in February 2017, ranking a true added value going forward. solutions. Aperam amongst the most solid With this report, we ask you to As a result, I am confident we remain players of the industry. evaluate our current progress and to on track on our long term goals, I am extremely proud of these help us to further improve in our particularly as some of the actions achievements which have only been journey to sustainable excellence. described in this report shall bear fruit made possible thanks to the support in 2017 already. Sincerely, and engagement of all our employees. 3/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 About Aperam Our Values We are a leading global Stainless and Specialty Steel producer: a leader in South America and the second largest in Europe. We are also a leading manufacturer of high value added specialty products, including electrical steels and nickel alloys. From machinery to cutlery, we are proud to be the manufacturer behind an array of products that last a lifetime and offer our industrial customers and end users both strength and versatility. With this pride, together with our values of Leadership, Ingenuity and Agility, we aim to reshape the future of our industry, position our products as solutions to global challenges, and act as a catalyst for change. “After just six years as an Leadership independent company, we A leading company is bold, audacious, daring, and sustainable. are happy to see the fruits of A catalyst is not a pioneer in everything it does. It is about being our Sustainability Strategy, bolder and audacious in our approach while remaining relevant to the marketplace. We are a stable driving force which encourages with Aperam increasingly the development of new standards in the industry. We promote sustainable being recognised as a solutions. sustainable and profitable > This value is echoed not only in the way we drive change within our industry, company led in accordance but also in how we challenge and develop our employees. With leadership, we think long­term, we think accountability ­ to both our people and the with its ethics and values. communities we are part of. This can be seen in our approach to Health & Safety, Ethics, Compliance and Sustainability. Leadership, Ingenuity and Agility are indeed the values Ingenuity that drive us in our everyday An ingenious company is clever, skilful, imaginative, and innovative. operations and in Ingenious is about thinking laterally, not literally. Our people are passionate and always keen to share their knowledge and skills. implementing our Sometimes this means developing new ideas or applications; other times it forward­looking strategy.” implies seeing things differently, with new eyes to find the appropriate solution without compromising quality. Bert Lyssens Aperam CHRO, > And so this characteristic of ingenuity is bred and stimulated within all our Head of Communication and staff. Our engineers' skills and imagination have led to an array of innovative, Sustainability energy­efficient steel solutions for our customers. But ingenuity can even be found across our administrative and managerial staff: from managers to communication, legal and finance: ingenuity ­and innovation­ is everywhere. Agility An agile company is fast, adaptable, and flexible. Being agile is about moving faster and adapting to the changing market conditions with more ease. It is also about being flexible according to specific customer requirements, whether in terms of cost efficiency, lead time or product characteristics. > It is because of our agility that financial analysts credited us with a three­notch increase within a single year ­ one of the fastest credit rating improvements ever. Looking ahead, we are confident that our agility will be further demonstrated by the ability of our leaders and our talent to embrace opportunity and to quickly address any risk that comes our way. 4/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 About Aperam Company profile Aperam Global Performance G4­EC1 Aperam is a public limited company listed (2) USD millions unless otherwise stated 2016 2015 2014 on the Luxembourg stock exchange and on Euronext Amsterdam, Brussels and Shipments (mt) 1,92 1,89 1,81 Paris Revenues 4,302 4,739 5,485 Operating costs (3) 3,213 3,655 4,259 4 melting shops: Employee wages & benefits 556 555 681 Timóteo (Brazil), Châtelet and Genk (Belgium), Imphy (France) Payments to providers of capital (4) 107 26 65 60 70 67 5 main cold rolling sites: Payments to government Timóteo (Brazil), Genk (Belgium), Community investments 0.5 1.0 1.0 Gueugnon, Isbergues and Imphy (France) EBITDA 492 501 547 BioEnergia charcoal production facility Economic value retained 366 439 393 and eucalyptus plantations (Brazil) Direct economic value generated 4,302 4,739 5,485 Economic value distributed 3,937 4,300 5,092 (2) Differences between Global Aperam and the sum of the different regions and segments (next page) are due to all operations other than those that are part of the Stainless & Electrical Steel, Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialties operating segments, together with inter segment eliminations and/or non­operational items that are not segmented. (3) Operating costs include R&D costs of USD 18m for Aperam Group. (4) Payments to providers of capital = Net Cash Interest and dividends paid to capital providers during the year, in line with amount of interest paid (net) of USD 10m and dividends paid of USD 97m stated in the cash flow statement of the 2016 Annual Report. In 2014 and 2015, payments to providers of capital only related to net cash interests as there was no dividend paid. 5/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Our multiple markets and applications Earning stakeholder support through a transparent approach to sustainability reporting. Our sustainability policies, available on our website, were inspired by international references: ­ International Labour Office ­ United Nations Human Rights Charter ­ United Nations Global Compact ­ United Nations Convention Against Corruption ­ OECD Guidelines for Multinationals ­ ISO standards (Quality, Energy, etc.) This report is intended to materialise our commitment to transparency and responsible business behaviours. It is based on our interpretation of the following initiatives: ­ United Nations Global Compact ­ Global Reporting Initiative ­ Carbon Disclosure Project. ­ ISSF Sustainable Charter ­ WorldSteel Sustainable Charter Services & Alloys & Stainless & Electrical Steel Solutions Specialties Europe: South America: Worldwide: Worldwide Genk, Châtelet, Timóteo, BioEnergia ­ 14 steel service Imphy, Amilly, Rescal Aspect Indicator Unit Gueugnon, centers (FR) Isbergues, Precision ­ 7 transformation units Imhua (PRC), & Recyco ­ 20 sales offices Indore ­ICS (IN) People Own Staff (End of Period)* FTE 3,123 3,307 1,923 1,147 Shipments Steel shipments kt 1,243 639 799 30 Revenues 2,591 919 1,964 415 Employee Wages & Benefits 285 86 106 66 Payments to Providers of 70 45 2 1 Capital (3) Economic millions of Contribution Community Investments USD 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 Payments to Government 26 10 16 5 EBITDA 286 124 81 30 Economic Value Distributed 2.4 0.8 1.9 0.4 OHSAS 18001 100 100 90 100 (excl.Imhua & indore) ISO 14001 100 100 55 80 (excl. Sales offices) (excl.Imhua & indore) % of sites Site ISO 9001 100 100 95 100 Management (excl. Recyco) (excl.Bio Energia) (excl. Sales offices) (excl.Imhua & indore) System ISO 50001 60 0 3 SSC 0 Certification ISO TS16949 FSC CoC & M (BIoE) 1 site ISO 26000 Others total ISO TS 16949 75% 3 sites EN 9100 * In 2016 there were 64 FTE at our Luxembourg headquarters, up from 52 FTE in 2015. 6/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy and Performance Sustainability Strategy Our sustainability strategy is a key lever towards realising our business ambitions without ever compromising our values. Aperam places a strong emphasis on Governance with a majority of Independent Directors and Board Committees comprised exclusively of Independent Directors. Aperam is committed to adopting the best governance standards and is continuously monitoring best practices to make adjustments when necessary. Our high ethical standards are visible in our strict governance strengthened by a structured compliance program. We are very proud that our Sustainability Strategy and our continuous efforts in this area have been recognised by ESG analysts with improved ratings and better rankings in benchmarks. Aperam has put in place a clear organisation with respect to Sustainability as described below at the level of its Board of Directors and Leadership Team. Conservation centre for the departmental archives of the Nord region ­ Lille, France de Alzua+ / ZigZag Architecture © Sergio Grazia ­ Aperam 304 (Uginox Mat) 7/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Knowing that only sustained efforts The materiality of an issue is based This is due to the fact that smaller will lead us to the results we want, in both on its potential impact on our sites, especially our Service & 2016 we built on the initiatives and business and our stakeholders. This Solution Centres differ greatly from successes of 2015. assessment, based on a 4­level our main sites. Also, our Timoteo unit scale ranging from minor to critical, is has wished to add a specific item Sustainability Strategy and regularly reviewed and updated: named “Corporate Responsibility”, governance in 2016 that goes well beyond “Philanthropy” ­ 2013 and 2014: defined the and covers social impact investing. The organisation, set up in 2015, materiality matrix based on In the group consolidated matrix, it is remains valid and is comprised of: stakeholder input gathered at our six merged with “Philanthropy” as we major sites. ➤ Members of the Board of considered that Aperam’s Corporate ­ 2015: updated matrix based on a Responsibility was a not a specific Directors: upon proposals from the survey of our closest stakeholders: item but the fact that we address Leadership Team, they are in charge Aperam’s employees. each single material aspect below. of the overall management of the ­ 2016: using a prior study on local Company, with their work supported engagement practices, we resumed Lastly, late in the process we by Audit & Risk Management the matrix update while expanding its realised that a topic had to be Committee reviews. scope. Thanks to the 11 matrices inserted as it reflected a crucial ➤ CEO: responsible for Aperam’s defined by the major sites from all concern expressed throughout the sustainability performance and our segments, we covered 85% of company and one that was already compliance. our global workforce. touched upon last year: ‘Attracting ➤ CHRO, Head of Communication talents to our industry’. and Sustainability: responsible for This regular exercise allows us to For these reasons, we incorporated it defining the Sustainability Strategy confirm and refine our vision. after review and validation by the per discussions with and monitoring Although our priority list remains ESG committee. by a specific Environment, Social more or less similar (weighting is and Governance (ESG) Committee For full details of our final based on the staff, thus reducing ➤ ESG Committee*: meets consolidated matrix and its visibility of newly included regularly to monitor progress, variations, see our online sites),important variations were made propose new work streams and lead methodology appendices. clear nonetheless. validated projects. On several topics, and in particular in Top Material Aspect 2016 Category Page Comment environmental­related areas, our Occupational Safety People 11 strategy includes clear targets for Sustainably Profitable Governance 39 + Annual Report 2020. Here we are already seeing some initial successes, such as the Occupational Health People 14 improved ratings from ESG analysts Legal & Fiscal Compliance Governance 38 + Annual Report and various benchmarks (CDP, etc.). Customer Satisfaction Governance 33 Moving forward, we expect to see Air & Dust Emissions Environment 24 even more rapid results as the organisation further incorporates our Pollution Prevention Environment 27 sustainability roadmap into everyday Competencies & Employability People 16 decisions. For this reason, Employee Engagement People 15 awareness­raising actions will be Product Innovation Environment /Governance 41 Here in Governance accentuated, as well as updates to internal procedures (eg. internal CO2e Energy Consumption Environment 23 price). Social Dialogue People /Governance 30 Here in Governance Fair Business Practices Governance 38 With Integrity Working and reporting on the Anti­Dumping Governance 30­40 + Annual Report p20­21 right topics Waste/Recycling Environment 25 Since 2013, Aperam has used GRI4 Cash, Debt & Financing Governance n/a Annual Report p42­29 standard principles (Global Reporting Raw Material Consumption Environment 25 With Waste/Recycling Initiative’s sustainability reporting guidelines) to define our most Diversity & Equal Opportunity People 18 material sustainability issues and the Supplier Labor Practices People 32 impact they have. Attracting talents to the industry People 19 New item 2016 Water Consumption Environment 26 * made of three members of the Leadership teams (the chairman being the CHRO, Head of Communication & Sustainability ; the CFO ; and the CEO of Alloys ­also in charge of Health & Safety), and assisted by the Company Secretary & Head of Communications, the Head of Sustainability & Compliance, the Head of Health, Safety & Environment and the Environment Coordinator. 8/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy and Performance 2016 Performance at Group... ¹ Internal staff + interim + contractors. 9/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy and Performance … and segment level 10/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 2016 progress in... Social (Our People) Our people are colleagues with whom we share values and a common future. Their safety is our non­negotiable priority. In 2016, our lost time injury frequency rate was impacted by isolated deteriorating performances at two of our European sites. The Leadership Team decided to further reinforce Health & Safety training to stimulate excellence in behaviours, further leveraging the best practices in the industry and within Aperam. We have started to see some progress towards the end of the year, and all efforts are being made to sustain this trend. The Social pillar of our Sustainability So, how did we do in 2016 for our Voices Strategy refers first and foremost to 9,558 own full­time employees (of our people (for other stakeholders, which 10% are exempts and over “I still feel that we have a long way see Governance section, p29). 98% permanent) and our 471 to go in becoming a sustainable, supervised workers (G4­10)? safe company. When it comes to our people, safety Even though we start every working will always be our first duty and our We invite you to read on and find out. day and begin every meeting uncompromised commitment. For And while we look back, we must thinking ‘safety first’, incidents and this reason, we again cover this also keep in mind the challenges of potential severe incidents still occur aspect extensively in this report. today, as 2017 is indeed a year of at our plants. transition, with a new organisation In addition to a healthy and safe and many projects set to be launched My priority is to lead the entire staff, we also want an efficient and throughout the course of the year. Aperam community, managers, motivated team empowered to workers, unions and subcontractors develop, thrive and innovate for 1. Health & Safety towards an absolute respect of Aperam. To accomplish this, we are Health and Safety priority. continuously improving our training > In 2016, we conducted a Join me in continuing to reflect about and career development programmes complete review of our what we can do to further improve and promoting proximity and team organisation. our procedures, as well as our spirit. mindsets. In 2015, our Chief Technical Officer Health & Safety Campaign 2016, Poster 1 was also in charge of safety, My promise to you is that, with the supported by a Group Safety expert entire Leadership Team, we will who coordinated local resources at make no compromises to our the plant level. In 2016, we reviewed commitment to safety until we have our safety organisation, allocating two reached ­ and sustain ­ our goal of full­time persons to provide on­site zero accidents.” safety training, along with appointing a Group Head of HSE. Today, Guy Bélanger, our new Safety Leader, travels across the group to collect and diffuse best practices. Guy reports to Leadership Team member Frédéric Mattei, who also leads the Alloys & Specialty segment ­ a segment that posted impressive safety results, these past few years. Timoteo di Maulo Chief Executive Officer 11/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Picture: This Aperam Genk plant team (with one team member absent on the picture) won the Trophee 2015, awarded in February 2016, amongst 12 identified improvement proposals. The selection procedure for the internal competition started in November 2015. Further to real­life audits conducted in January 2016, the maintenance team of the cold rolling mills was chosen as the overall winner for their MKW2 tool. We are proud of all our teams and we want them to be proud of Aperam. At a glance (G4­LA6) Indicator Unit Target 2016 2016 2015 2014 Page Employee FTE n/a 9,558 9,522 9,424 9 Joiners FTE n/a 674 834 n/a 18 Fatalities ­ All # 0 0 1 0 § Safety p9 Fatalities ­ Employees # 0 0 1 0 (and § Suppliers Fatalities ­ Contractors # 0 0 0 0 p31) LTFR ­ All /100000 1 1.46* 0.98 1.10 LTIFR ­ Employees /100000 1 1.60 1.03 1.24 LTIFR ­ Contractors /100000 Below 1 1.10 0.87 0.82 Absenteeism % 2.0 2.19 2.26 2.03 13 *Data highlighted with a star have received external assurance. 12/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 2016 Health & Safety awards 1.1 Safety: Our N°1 Priority Voices To continuously enhance the safety > We kicked off the year with a “The efforts that Aperam invests into of our sites, Aperam has internal tremendous effort to change this SAFE program are truly initiatives aimed at promoting mindsets in a sustainable manner. remarkable and exemplary of our successful teams and sharing best commitment. practices. In addition to these Based on the principle that people As I have seen at our Imphy site, company initiatives, in 2016 many must first believe in a philosophy mindsets can change. But this takes sites also competed in local before they will apply it, Aperam time and requires long­lasting efforts, challenges, including: decided to roll out an educational pedagogy and ever­renewed roadmap on safety. Called SAFE, the engagement. ­ GESiM’s Special Prize, won by a roadmap was aimed at all workshop 12­member delegation from the employees and their hierarchical This is why having a long­term plan Gueugnon rolling mill for their idea on lines. The initiative consists of a is so important. With our new enhancing the process for changing 20­day onsite, full­time programme five­year plan, proposed by Guy grinding wheels for rectification. deployed in three phases. The Bélanger and structured around six programme demands dedicated strong pillars, we are taking a fresh ­ The Regional and National trainers, committed leaders, strong start while building on past Competition organised by the Polish organisation from the plants and the successes and working towards Labour Relation Commission, which flexibility to adapt to shift planning. making safety Aperam’s first and recognises the best safety conditions at foremost priority.” Launched in ‘beta’ mode in spring work. This year, out of 17 pre­selected Frédéric Mattei 2016, full roll­out started in June with finalists, Aperam’s Poland Service CEO Alloys, in charge of Group the programme’s first phase. Centre took home the prize. Health, Safety and Environment This five­day training week is ­ German BGHW Prevention Award, composed of six modules featuring a mix of learning methods, including given to our German unit for their Safe working on factory roofs project. The lectures, classroom exercises, ► SAFE trainings in 2016 shop­floor training, team field team was selected from 60 applications. assignments and debriefings. The 3­phase roadmap learning objectives for this first phase were to ensure that learners: 8,900 hours ­ recognise hazards, 835 people trained ­ speak up, ­ commit as leaders and employees. 4 sites covered Thanks to the support of employee With a mix of written scenes and representatives and unions, interactions with the audience, the approximately 45 people were trained show covered such topics as shared each month during the first phase vigilance, our ‘fair play’ policy and the roll­out. To evaluate the success of Aperam Gueugnon team, winner of the relationship between field operators French GESiM challenge. the programme, we will look for a and their hierarchy. Not only did the powerful flow of change play get some good laughs, it also management. forced workers to reflect on the That being said, initial feedback from inconsistencies between talk and participants make clear that the aim action and what can be done to was understood and the efficiency change this. recognised, meaning the course succeeded in helping to change ▉ Based on a best practices of our mindsets and everyday behaviours. Timoteo plant, several other units, including Gueugnon and Imphy, have Aperam Poland Service Centre National ▉ With the same objective in mind, implemented a new safety video Award for the best safety conditions. our Châtelet plant decided to add a welcome message and quiz. Passing little humor and creativity into the mix the quiz is a prerequisite to site by hiring a theatre group. After a few entrance, but those who don’t can visits and interviews, the group built take it again... until they memorise and performed the playlet the basics! “L’Acier…curité” (see picture next page) for some 150 workers during To ensure all the best practices the plant’s Health & Safety week. happening at all our sites are identified and shared, Guy Bélanger The German Service Centre received the has launched a systematic inventory BGHW Prevention Award 2016 of all local policies. 13/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Safety N°1 priority Over 300 workers (a 51% rate) responded to the survey. Thanks to 5­year roadmap comparisons with other heavy industries, some positive points were ► Company alignment confirmed (participation in decisions ► Training and autonomy, job interest, social support, etc.) and key weaknesses ► Behaviors identified. In addition to the need to ► Audits update our current safety policy in ► Technical expertise Châtelet playlet on Safety at H&S Day 2016. order to prevent serious accidents (which also have a substantial ► Communication 1.2 Health: a local focus impact on the morale and overall Contrary to the company­wide focus well­being of teams), the survey also > Based on this, a five­year, six noted a need to improve our overall of safety, our health initiatives are pillar roadmap has been alertness and our ergonomics as monitored at unit level and with established. The first pillar of this related to computer work. limited input from Headquarters. For strategic plan is alignment, making In regards to alertness and our safety this reason, in 2016 we saw a large sure that all of our 40+ sites work policy, improvements are expected to variety of local actions. hand­in­hand and that no energy is primarily come from our Safety and lost. All best practices should be > In Brazil, we invest a lot in SAFE programmes. In addition, the quickly shared and any risk swiftly prophylactic and curative health daily commitment of all actors, reported. programmes. In 2016 alone, 3,939 including supervisors and unions, will The second pillar is training. Expect medical check­ups and 298 further help prevent any decrease in more training opportunities to be psychological consults were alertness. Finally, as many workers added to complement the SAFE provided. Furthermore, within the are spending more and more time programme, particularly in respect to context of our extensive Eu Pratico using computers and other screens, soft skills and behaviours, which is Saúde plan (I Practice Health), a special focus on ergonomics will be also our third pillar. The fourth and launched last year to promote healthy arranged. fifth pillars are audits and technical attitudes in everyday life, in 2016 we expertise. Audits include not only invited the exhibit Vias do Coração to Seeing all these best practices shopfloor audits, but also fatality Timoteo. The exhibit’s nine stations happening across the company, we prevention and overall maturity offered a range of playful content and are considering adding a centralised assessment. We are currently its interactive games proved to be a level of coordination, possibly via a simplifying our three audit hit for both young people and adults. five­year roadmap, which could methodologies to make them more Most importantly, it fully succeeded efficient. Technical expertise, on the in raising awareness about the heart Quality of Life: 2016 developments other hand, focuses on best and preventing cardiovascular Last year we reported on the practices and incorporates a specific diseases. programme Qualité de Vie au Travail focus on near­misses (a 2017 action (QVT), set up at all French sites. Quality plan). > In Europe, health­related actions of Life at Work is based on two Lastly, our communications will be often come from national or regional principles: prevention and shared updated to include more impactful, programmes or site initiatives. For vigilance. The programme clearly attention­grabbing images and videos instance, in 2016, an initiative of our defined its ambitions and established a Alloys & Specialties segment echoed 2018 deadline. so no­one misses the key messages. the French national anti­smoking At the end of 2016, we are on target. 47 Based on this six­pillar plan covering campaign. Similar actions were also members of local executive committees all aspects of change management, a launched in Italy and Germany. have been trained by external new plan will be set up and improved Psycho­social risks were covered in specialists, blending courses and every year until 2022, with the goal of a multitude of different ways. In simulation exercises, and the 60 incrementally advancing our journey France, the Quality of Life at Work members of the dedicated sites’ QVT to zero accidents. committees (mixing HR and H&S programme continues (see boxed specialists with medical staff and text). In Germany, units have been management and employee holding anti­stress seminars for many representatives) have followed specific years with the same expert firm. As two­day courses for reflecting and a result of this ongoing effort, engaging on the topic. Thanks to this corrective actions are now regularly extensive training, a clear breakthrough debated. happened in terms of awareness and buy­in, with specific action plans having ▉ In Châtelet, the process started been set up at all 10 sites. with a survey, organised in February Follow­up meetings with Work Councils will be organised in 2017 to review the Winners at Genk of the 2016 H&S Day contest 2016 in cooperation with the Walloon metrics and share best practices. having reported the most relevant near­misses. Authorities and the UCL University. 14/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 further develop Aperam’s health For example, our German unit programmes. created a new frame for company car licence plates. Now, all new 2. Efficient teamwork company cars in Austria and Aperam tag for German and Austrian plates. Germany feature a licence tag Best steel employer in Brazil 2.1 Employee motivation number starting with ME­ AP xxxx Having engaged and motivated and proudly stating ‘Your preferred After years of being listed as one of employees is the best way to ensure stainless supplier’ (see photo). Brazil’s best employers, in 2015 we set a high level of productivity, and the goal of earning the top spot. creativity with our people. > The participative programme on work enthusiasm set up in Genk In 2016, Aperam was among 345 from In 2016, our global absenteeism was several sectors who applied to be listed almost stable (2.2% vs. 2.3% in 2015 also deserves to be highlighted. as one of ‘The 150 Best Companies to ie. a 3% improvement) (GR­LA6). Kicked­off in October 2016, it aims to Work for 2016’, an initiative of Você S/A prepare our workers for the fact that magazine and Fundação Instituto de In Brazil, one of our best performers, we will need to work longer. The Administração (FIA). 200 were this rate continues to improve. This programme is supported by an pre­qualified for the contest and is no doubt in part because our external specialist in Human evaluated by specialised journalists, Brazilian teams organise an annual Resources and Change Management who used a specific methodology for climate survey of the entire staff, the and includes a steering committee identifying companies that are the best results of which form the basis of composed of site management at creating top career opportunities and ongoing dialogue via the intranet, representatives and unions, as well work conditions. social events and, as was highlighted as six working groups of 15 volunteer It is our pleasure to announce that in last year’s report, social media workers. Aperam was ranked first in the steel (see boxed text for more information). These brainstorming groups have sector ­ thus accomplishing our goal! We also saw a high number of been formed, each reflecting our similar initiatives happening across diversity in age, shift systems and the Group, complemented by workshops with the goal of spurring corporate communication videos and debates and creativity. They will start emails sent to all workers. their brainstorming sessions early 2017 on four guiding questions: > Take for example our Service & ­ What motivates you to do your job Solutions segment (S&S). with enthusiasm? Comprised of 1,923 FTE spread ­ What (sometimes) discourages you across 39 sites worldwide, to do your job with enthusiasm? Aperam South America: 7th consecutive communication is essential. To help year among the Best Steel employers ­ What can Aperam do to ensure you create a common identity, last year a will work with enthusiasm (...) until branding campaign was launched. the end of your career? Voices Says S&S CEO Johanna van ­ What can you do to ensure you will Sevenant: “The goal was to engage “We are a company that values work longer, with enthusiasm, all of our employees, emphasise how people. Aperam systematically effectively and efficiently? we are all working together to invests in team building activities in The group's’ suggestions will then be achieve common goals, and create a order to ensure self­development, a submitted to the steering committee, sense of pride in being part of the better work environment and the who then will review and prioritise S&S team.” them. ability to overcome business Called ‘We are Proud & We are All challenges.” No doubt these sessions will trigger Aperam’, the campaign included a employee engagement! Frederico Ayres Lima series of posters highlighting five key messages: safety, value creation, COO, Aperam South America results, global presence and customer agility. The popular kick­off events (see picture) were the source of many new ideas, such as S&S Italy’s decision to resume ‘Family Days’ in 2017. Not only does the new brand campaign go a long way in creating a sense of belonging to a global organisation, it also promotes the many local initiatives happening across the segment. Service & Solution Italy kicks­off of the campaign: “We are proud & We are all Aperam”. 15/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 > Other excellent initiatives have Voices been launched in S&S Brazil and in Precision. “By improving the internal climate, ▉ In the latter, an initiative based on people become more motivated to be a quality improvement programme their best and overcome challenges ­ was launched. It uses a specific which results in better performance. intranet form to collect simple ideas Simply said, happy people bring good for improvement from operators, results!” along with a series of measures aimed at making people feel part of Sergio Bustamante the unit’s success. Aperam Precision awarded Karine (SCL), David COO Aperam S&S Brazil & Paul (Shearing) and Alban (Purchasing). In 2016, 280 suggestions were collected, with some of the best One challenge to launching a full, review. All of that is discussed taking ideas rewarded (see picture). Overall, group level survey was finding a into account any problems the programme generated a process able to manage Aperam’s 10 encountered during the course of the significant improvement in the working languages. We also had to year and career aspirations. commitment of the workforce and an ensure data privacy (in accordance impressive cut of non­quality costs: with local laws) and confidentiality (to And truly, we encourage our people ­30% in less than a year! get transparent answers). to develop a long­term view of their Contracting with a specialised firm, career and to explore new Although operating in the very the survey was launched during the opportunities, such as a new different context of a severe national second week of January 2017, function, a new location, or a move recession, S&S Brazil implemented a together with a special towards teaching and mentoring. similar programme themselves. communication plan. ▉ Aimed at promoting teamwork and > In 2016, 95% of exempts, 90% of a sense of having a shared future, The results of this inaugural global other white collars and 71% of the Brazilian initiative focused on survey on engagement, recognition, non­exempts filled out their activities that make people happy work conditions, leadership style and GEDPs (vs. 96%, 85% and 65% and participative. From dance to company strategy will be revealed respectively in 2015) ­ GR­LA11. sports, music, study groups, ‘Casa and discussed starting March 2017. ▉ However, we are sometimes Inox’ stage acting, volunteering for These results will also be elaborated facing a lack of off­the­shelves environmental and social causes, to in the 2017 Sustainability Report and technical training. In our last name only a few ­ all of these actions serve as the foundation for future Sustainability Report, we used the helped increase employee employee engagement plans. Imphy EMA Internal School (Ecole satisfaction, commitment and pride des Métiers des Alliages) as an at work. According to management, 2.2 Training and development example of how we managed to offer the activities were a key factor in Thanks to our formal, systematic training that fits our needs. In Imphy, facilitating the unit’s upturn. Indeed, performance reviews, we are better this need was related to specific productivity, quality and able to structure the way we engage metallurgical competencies. A similar On­Time­Delivery (OTD) metrics with our people. Every year, our initiative is happening in Isbergues. improved significantly in a two­year employees sit down with their With the aim of developing specific period, showing the value of this hierarchical manager and fill out the driving skills applicable to several of method. Global Employee Development Plan the key tools used at our plants (GEDP). (ground or overhead cranes, handling The GEDP includes the worker’s pods, trolleys, etc.), the site created objectives for the year (one of which Fromanut, a unique common training must relate to Health & Safety), platform. With a dedicated trainer and against which they are evaluated a tester, Formanut is Veritas­certified during their annual performance since 2011. 2016 Training follow­up Training 2016 2015 2014 Onoélia, from S&S Brazil, one of the project Country Hours Cost USDK Hours Cost USDK Hours Cost USDK leaders. Belgium 54,114 3,324.1 42,642 2,667.1 41,016 3,193.5 Brazil 191,148 823.3 186,788 868.4 193,984 1,232.9 > To stimulate motivation at the group level, we conducted a global France 71,123 974.0 56,481 979.7 55,384 1,173.1 employee climate survey in 2016. Germany 3,395 108.0 2,965 94.2 1,880 112.8 Previously, our surveys were done at Italy 3,575 47.9 3,831 39.9 4,579 47.8 the local level, taking into account RoW 20,408 310.1 16,500 234.5 17,812 280.8 language and regulatory constraints. TOTAL 340,135 5,581.7 309,206 4,883.8 314,655 6,040.8 The only exception was group level Aperam consolidated. Total of external training hours and spent reported, without internal costs. (G4­LA9) surveys for exempts. 16/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Formanut training is available to all Focus on mentoring practices Aperam companies located on the In connection with our age pyramid, staff renewal and the need to secure site, as well as other area competencies, mentoring programmes are another tool being increasingly used organisations. Amongst the key in such places as Genk, Gueugnon and Brazil. advantages of this solution is the As developing worker competencies has a direct impact on each working unit ability to propose a flexible, reactive and on overall productivity, Aperam is using mentoring as a way to training combined with a perfect level pragmatically share best practices. For example, in Genk, mentors provide of safety. regular feedback to hierarchical managers, letting them know if additional In 2016 alone, 1,834 training hours training is necessary for new recruits. Mentors also provide new recruits with were provided to 281 employees guidance on such in­the­field tasks as how to order working clothes and how (including people from 11 external to fill­in a near­miss declaration. companies). Thanks to this training, In Gueugnon, the company’s most experienced employees are encouraged to our staff have the opportunity to participate as mentors, sharing their years of knowledge and expertise and expand their competencies, allowing coaching new employees and, in some cases, even accomplished workers for a change in jobs or the addition of looking to expand their competencies and improve their employability. a new equipment certification. In Isbergues, Aperam has advocated André Degrange ­ Mentor Pierre Emorin ­ Mentee for extending and harmonising team Orders Management and Shipping Maintenance Technician (picture) capacities. For example, last year ❝Transferring my knowledge and ❝For a student specialised in industrial the entire Recyco electro­mechanics contributing to the continuity of the electricity like myself, to join Aperam in team participated in a multi­skill company are my main motivations for 2016 as an apprentice has been a great development training. All team welcoming new people as a mentor. opportunity. From the beginning, I have members benefited from a After having followed the mentor training, been able to work with several types of combination of external training and I am able to better explain my day­to­day tools and experiment with real­life internal mentoring, giving them the tasks and to measure the development situations. Having my mentor close to me of the mentee, such as their ability to made the learning phase more tools necessary to handle any new deal with in­the­field issues. interesting ­ and faster. challenge. At the end of the training, my mentee will be ready to handle their job with Now, after six months, I have been hired Having such a multifaceted as a full employee and I am very proud confidence.❞ workforce is not only good for to work for such a great company.❞ operational flexibility, but and also for our staff’s career, their motivation and employability. Management System (LMS) but, in In parallel to this technical training, the meantime, data are taken from we are also investing heavily in the the local systems development of soft skills and, in ▉ For instance, the French training particular, leadership. system (see 2015 report), shows us that the majority of training hours in ▉ Take for example S&S Germany, France were on SAFE and QVT (see a unit that is well­aware of the fact p13­14), followed by finance for that being technically competent non­professionals, project does not necessarily make one a management, and various quality and leader. Traditionally, a newly commercial topics. As can be seen, promoted head of service would learn all the training sessions are fully basic leadership skills ­ how to aligned with our strategic roadmap manage a team, budgeting, etc. ­ ‘on and help develop our culture as a the job’. To ensure its new leaders safe and innovative company. Voices are fully prepared for their role, S&S New in 2016 was the introduction of Germany launched an external a systematic process for assessing “Our future integrated HR IT platform training called ‘First­time leadership’, training efficiency. The assessment will enable us to steer the which helps new managers evolve used both on­the­spot impressions development of critical management from being a colleague to being a from participants and post­training and technical competencies while team leader. evaluations on how applicable the Ten newly promoted managers have ensuring a better link between training was to their day­to­day been trained since 2015, and initial tasks. strategic learning needs, the current feedback is very positive. level of competencies, and planned Clearly, training is a key factor in learning actions.” > 2016 saw a +10% increase in enhancing our productivity and training hours, especially in preparing for the future. Bert Lyssens Belgium, France and Brazil (see For our people, it helps with career CHRO, Head of Communication and previous page ­ G4­LA9). development and facilitates a change Sustainability We are currently preparing the in job function. implementation of a global Learning 17/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 For Aperam, it is a way to lock­in the The steel industry of today has competencies we need for our future changed. As a result, we now have Voices success, as identified in our strategic more women in the workforce, plans. including some leading production ''Some traditionally lines at our two largest rolling mill feminine > This is also one of the key tools in France. drivers for the investment in an characteristics Because Aperam sees value in a integrated HR IT platform make a real diverse workforce, we are keen to (Competency Management and attract the very best talent, difference in our Learning Management System). One regardless of age, gender, national company. of our key accelerators for origin or disabilities. transformation is our ability to acquire Women have an increased and develop future competencies. On > However, women only make up perception for details, which plays a top of this our industry is facing a 12% of our staff (16% in Brazil, 20% key role in ensuring the quality of shortage of key technical of global exempts), and 17% of competencies (e.g. maintenance, 2016’s joiners. However, some units our products. metallurgy, etc.). This is why it is report a better rate, such as S&S They also have a special sense of critical that we begin developing Brazil (22% in Campinas), who state responsibility, especially as to these competencies internally that this higher level of female safety and the environment ­ through our own Schools (Aperam employees is a driving factor behind essential for reaching a good level Foundation Brazil, Ecole des Metiers their excellent safety and efficiency des Alliages France) and internal levels (see Sandra’s testimony on of organisation on the shop floor.'' coaching or mentoring programmes the right).. Sandra Signorelli Andrade that link young graduates to senior HR Aperam S&S Brazil experts (see previous pages). ▉ We participate in job fairs to promote the industry and the > However, today we are feminisation of our fields of activity Catherine and Christian in action at Gueugnon confronted with new challenges (eg. in France: ‘Semaine de la Rolling mill. and opportunities. As our industry mixité’, ‘Forum des métiers au continues to undergo a technological féminin’). transformation, in order to maintain our competitive edge, Aperam is Still, despite our best efforts, rapidly up­skilling in a number of recruiting women remains difficult as areas. Many of these areas are few apply, especially in Europe. relatively new to our industry, but will To move further in 2017, our French dramatically increase in importance unit launched a specific workstream as the digital revolution accelerates. on gender diversity, which will be detailed in next year’s report. ▉ Within this context, in 2016 we focused on hiring experts from other industries and young graduates, all of The female touch at Aperam: Catherine, Rolling mill operator in who go through an intense on­the­job Gueugnon training with specific assignments in After 19 years in the industry, first as production worker and then as a key company­wide projects. Quality Inspector, Catherine Ligier joined Aperam in 2015. She had the This induction ensures these new opportunity to start via an apprenticeship programme set up in Gueugnon employees are able to quickly learn (see last report) and graduated with a Metallurgic Professional Certification, our business while also putting their which is valid anywhere in France. fresh energy, knowledge of other “Being a woman on the production line has never been a problem for me. sectors and bold ideas to work. What is important to me is being a part of the team and able to participate In the coming years, we will develop and ask questions without hesitation. Each team member is respected for a number of internal learning who he/she is, and this is why I have always been treated with fairness and academies around key future equality, even if I am the only woman in the Lamination Workshop. competencies ­ similar to what we I participated in the ‘Forum des carrières au féminin’ (Women working have for such functions as finance. carriers show), so I could share my experiences with other women. I recommend any woman thinking about a career in an industrial workshop to 2.3­ Diversity in Aperam look for an opportunity that offers the time and training needed to get used to the job and the ways of the company. Historically, recruitment efforts in the Now, I intend to continue learning and working towards reaching the first steel industry has focused on men, Rolling Mill Operator Standard, which demands time and experience. For filling roles that required intense that, I take advantage of any opportunity I have to learn from my experienced muscular strength and physical colleagues, and I strive to expand my range of competencies to new topics, resistance. like driving forklifts and cranes.” 18/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 > Regarding people with benefits of inclusiveness and the disabilities, as mentioned in a many different ways everyone can ► 674 joiners in 2016 previous report, our ESAT partner in contribute to Aperam’s success. To Alloys Amilly continues to employ ensure a smooth onboarding process, people with disabilities. As this specific care is taken to ensure 80% in permanent programme proved beneficial for both teams are fully prepared to include contract, o/w 11% from the disabled and non­disabled people with disabilities and to help short­term contract workforce, in 2016 our Alloys & walk them through our routines and Specialty segment initiated a new procedures. In 2016,18 people with programme, which could soon be disabilities were hired. We also 31 year­old in average extended across France. enrolled 10 trainees. The key objective of this recruitment initiative 17% are women ▉ Our unit in Brazil launched a was to promote diversity and equal specific process for recruiting people Aperam Precision’s Patrick (Roller) & Maxime opportunities and to ensure that (Maintenance) at “L’industrie en fête” fair. with disabilities. This hiring process everybody is recognised for what is combined with a range of actions they bring to the company. aimed at increasing awareness among our employees about the > Because of our global composition, diversity at Aperam Human rights training in France is often defined by language and culture. We have four main official In France, training sessions were languages: English, Dutch, French organised to reinforce the message conveyed by the dual postering on our and Portuguese, and all corporate Code of Conduct and on Diversity (‘Do communications are dispatched in promote Diversity’ see aside, in multiple language versions. In fact, Turkish). Posted throughout the group many of our official communications, in spring 2016 in many different such as our Health & Safety languages, the poster displayed the campaigns and the Compliance diversity within Aperam community. posters (see left), are translated in up These refreshing courses focused on to 10 languages! In addition, site the ABC of our Code, and on our management are encouraged to use sources of inspiration (Global Compact, the local language of the workers, pre­select candidates. Granted, a International Labour Office, etc.). It also thus ensuring that proximity is not an career with Aperam shouldn’t be a recalled Aperam’s own policies: Human hard sell, we just need to ensure our empty word. Rights, Diversity & Integration, and message highlighting the dynamics ‘Aperam way’ (we+do). That being said, in order to boost of our young, lean company with high Different types of violence and creativity, at times we do utilise ambitions is heard. Some candidates discrimination were discussed, reasserting Aperam’s commitment to positive discrimination. For example, may have outdated notions about our creating a safe, welcoming workplace. when several profiles match, industry. In line with the ‘Aperam way’ leadership sometime we will opt for the local But after hearing about what Aperam style, all managers were asked to lead profile, while other times we will go is really like, many quickly change by example in terms of dignity and with a new nationality in hopes that their views. In particular, many young respect toward their staff. Likewise, they will bring different ideas to the job seekers are enthusiastic about employees were encouraged to stand teams they join. In other words, we the many technical challenges that up against discrimination and, if necessary, raise an alert. The training take a multi­criteria approach to our industry faces ­ and the new was very well received by all. diversity, one that is tailored to our technologies, methods and ingenuity credo. innovations that are being developed to solve them. 2.4­ Attracting new talent to a 100­year old industry ▉ Regardless how exciting we sell the opportunities at Aperam, nothing After a decade of low recruitment is more effective at recruiting young efforts, it is no wonder that attracting talent than having them talk directly new talent today can be challenging. with our employees ­ which is exactly what we arranged at the > To refresh our approach, we French fair l’Industrie en fête. changed our organisation and our Here (see picture above), we had recruitment methods. operators from production and In addition to social media (the maintenance on hand and ready to now­standard LinkedIn) and intensive speak about their career within our campus recruitment efforts, our Precision unit to all job seekers, Human Resources are also testing students and potential interns. ”Do embrace diversity” poster ­ in Turkish. such new solutions as web­forums to 19/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 In addition to these job fairs, we also Careers : Fanny, Product Application Engineer at Imphy regularly visit student lounges to have informal conversations about Ever since I was a child I was always interested in internships with Aperam and the science. As part of my studies in chemical engineering, I changing face of our industry, our jobs looked for a training opportunity in metallurgy and joined and our company. As a result, the Aperam’s Research Centre (then ArcelorMittal) in Imphy. number of apprenticeship contracts After a welding specialisation and a second internship in awarded and young people hired has Imphy, I was hired in 2011 as a Welding Engineer at Imphy been steadily increasing. R&D to study the weldability of our grades. Later, in 2014, I moved to the Product Development Department, but in a > In 2016, we hired 674 people, 80% progressive manner so as to be able to finalise my studies of which were permanent contracts, while starting my new job. In the new role, I was paired thus lowering our average age, with an experienced colleague, which ensured a improving our gender diversity and comfortable transition. adding a sense of renewal to our Today, I have regular contact with customers, getting to know their teams. To sustain this momentum, a processes and constraints, offering them the right technical solutions for lot of energy has been allocated to their needs, and improving or developing new products. It is stimulating and hiring and inducting our joiners, thus it helps build my ability to make prompt decisions to difficult questions! ensuring they become an integrated part of Aperam family. While the Although some people might look at metallurgy as a ‘male’ sector, I only plants often have specific induction experienced that feeling during my studies, when we were just two women days for their employees, the many among 33 men. Since I started working at Aperam, I have only seen a blend exempts who will work in transversal of talents. Today, our team consists of two women and three men all working functions need a different approach. in synergy. I am glad to be here and to have followed my own path ­ irrespective of stereotypes! ▉ To address this need, specific induction programmes were like a part of the Aperam team. relaunched in 2016. As part of this, Overall, this programme was not numerous newly­hired exempts were only well received by the new invited on a European induction trip. employees, but also by their hosts, The programme was structured who were happy to share their around visits to our steel plants in knowledge and passion (see photo). Belgium and France, our biggest ▉ On a similar note, in February rolling mills, our Recyco unit, and our 2016, Aperam Brazil warmly Research Centre. The goal of this Welcoming 16 joiners in Isbergues. welcomed 150 new interns and tour was to give the joiners an apprentices to the Timoteo plant and Welcoming interns and apprentices in Timoteo. opportunity to learn the basics of the Belo Horizonte main office (see steel, see the production tools and picture). discuss company processes with the Following an intense selection people in charge. Moreover, process, these 150 were chosen participants were able to get to know from 2,700 applicants. other joiners, share questions, Apprentices will attend a one­year projects and emotions. training at the company’s Training At the end of the programme, which Centre before starting work in the included extensive safety briefings at industrial area (see photo). each site, all the exempts left feeling 2016 Aperam total workforce Aperam Workforce TYPE Gender Full­Time Part­time TOTAL exempts N­exempts Permanent Female 1,007 112 1,119 196 922 Renewal in progress Contract Male 8,126 136 8,262 768 7,494 Fixed­term Female > Joiners: 674 ie 7% of staff Contracts 17 0 17 2 15 Male 161 0 161 8 153 > Leavers: 579, o/w 39% on TOTAL All 9,311 247 9,558 974 8,584 pre­pension/pension 2015 Aperam total workforce TYPE Gender Full­Time Part­time TOTAL exempts N­exempts A sound structure Permanent Female 993 113 1,106 197 909 Contract 97% full­time contracts Male 8,143 127 8,271 775 7,496 Fixed­term Female 14 0 14 0 14 10% exempts Contracts Male 131 0 131 0 131 471 supervised workers TOTAL All 9,281 240 Aperam consolidated total of Full­Time Equivalent employees, at 31/12/2016 (G4­10) 9,522 972 8,550 20/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 2016 progress in.. Environment (Our Planet) As an energy­intensive industry (Iron & Steel industry accounts for 6.7% of the Global CO2 emissions according to the International Energy Agency), we consider environmental consciousness as a duty to the public­at­large and a trigger to our sustainable profitability. As a consequence, we have started on a journey to reach our ambitious objectives in terms of energy reduction, greenhouse gas emissions, water intake and dust emissions: ✓ 10% target reduction in energy intensity consumption (2012 baseline) ✓ 35% target cut in CO2 intensity by 2020 (2007 baseline) ✓ 5% target cut in water withdrawals by 2020 (2015 baseline) ✓ 12% target decrease in intensity of ducted dust emissions (2015 baseline) 1. Industrial impact We aim to implement a structured five­year roadmap to make sure all our company targets are understood and fully reflected in our everyday decision making, including budget and business plan considerations. Already well underway, and based FSC­compliant eucalyptus forest, as upon our current set of 2020 a natural and renewable substitute Metallurgy is a heavy industry objectives, this process will benefit for fossil fuels (coke). This makes requiring immense energy and the from our previous efforts. For our steel a leader in terms of CO2 use of hazardous substances to example, in 2016 two internal experts footprint. It is also a source of pride transform raw materials into the visited our main sites, the first one for our teams, who are keen to precise blend of alloys required by investigating our energy use and the promote our products with ‘green’ our clients. Together with cost second one evaluating our dust labels. awareness, this has resulted in the emissions. Both ended up with a development of a unique mindset, On the European side, our crude clearer roadmap, with prioritised ideas where resource efficiency has steel is melted using a low and solutions. In the coming months, become second nature. consumption process based on identical studies will be conducted on Consequently, and independent of water pollution and, later on, waste. electric arc furnaces. This process evolving regulatory standards, leverages the locally abundant scrap, Regarding CO2 (scope 1+2), with the thus using less energy (and less resource efficiency topics like energy exception of our charcoal usage, our extractive materials) and generating and raw materials rank high on our carbon footprint is pretty much a a lower level of CO2 emissions than priority list, which also encompass derivative of our energy consumption. traditional blast furnaces. such key areas as waste management and recyclability. 1.1­ Energy and CO₂ Taken together, this means that We also closely manage our Aperam’s CO2 footprint (scope 1+2) effluents, in particular our dust In terms of energy and CO₂, our is closely correlated to our energy emissions that are inconvenient to strategy is twofold. consumption in Europe and to our surrounding communities, as well as On the Brazilian side, our two blast charcoal and energy consumption in water quality. furnaces are fuelled with charcoal Brazil. (biomass) sourced from BioEnergia, our local 21/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Picture: Island Pavilion and Footbridge ­ Wormsley, United Kingdom ­ Robin Snell and Partners © Graham Everitt ­ View Pictures Ltd Aperam 316L with Uginox Top finish The site is on an island in the centre of a lake, surrounded by open parkland and in view of Wormsley House and the Opera Pavilion. It offers 360 degree views from around the estate. The Pavilion is designed and located to maximise panoramic views outwards and across the landscape. The Pavilion is a lightweight, factory­made product, but in contrast to its nearby relative (the ‘temporary’ opera pavilion), the island pavilion and bridge are permanent structures, fabricated using high quality durable materials and finishes – stainless steel as opposed to galvanised steel. Matt Uginox Top stainless steel was selected for construction. It was picked for its bead­blasted effect and reputation for being a long lasting, maintenance­free material ­ a sharp contrast to the highly polished stainless steel finish of the permanent sculpture. Aperam’s environmental footprint at a glance Indicator Unit 2020 target 2016 2015 2014 Page NEW Energy consumption GJ/ t crude steel ­10% intensity vs. 2012 (ie. 12.2) 12.8* 12.8 13.0 § Energy and CO₂ emissions t / t crude steel ­35% intensity vs. 2007 (ie. 0.49) 0.58* 0.54 0.48 CO2 p19­21 Dust emissions t ­ 549.8* 520.9 441.8 § Air emissions g /t crude steel ­12% intensity vs 2015 (ie. 211) 242 240 213 p22 Wastes ­ all kt Zero waste for landfill 115 103 110 Recycled input in production % n/a 27 30 28 § Waste & > Reuse rate % 100% reused or recycled 93.3 93.5 93.4 Recycling p23 > Wastes: hazardous 50.5 35.8 54 kt Zero waste for landfill > Wastes: non­ hazard. 64.8 67.2 56 3 3 Water ­ intakes million m ­5% vs. 2015 (ie. 21.1 millions m ) 23.0 22.1 22.3 > Water recycling % n/a 96.3 95.4 95.5 3 § Water > Water discharge million m n/a 14.9 14.7 16.9 p24 > Suspended solids into water t n/a 355 204 379 > Metal discharge into water t n/a 7.6 6.4 10.7 EN5 EN6 EN18 EN21 EN23 EN8 ­ *Data highlighted with a star have received external assurance. 22/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 > Regarding energy, in 2016 Aperam Group Electricity consumption remained stable in consumption terms of energy intensity (12.8*Gj/ton (Split by source, %) G4­EN5 of crude steel, +0.5% compared to 2015), with a positive performance in Brazil (­1%), which helped balance out an increase in Europe (+1%) and in Alloys (+9%) (G4­EN5). Our electricity mix (see right), is also reflective of our main countries of operation (Belgium, Brazil, France). As a result, and taking charcoal into account, 36% of our energy comes from renewable sources. In terms of absolute values, our consumption increased by 5%, with a 4.5% slab production increase, showing a slight mix effect. Our consumption per slab is twice as BioEnergia plantations high for Alloy products and almost three times as high for our Today, all of our units are > Regarding CO2 (scope 1 footprint), Brazil­based production as compared continuously engaged in an our performance, which was 0.33 tCO to our scrap­based European improvement process, such as can 2/ton of crude steel in 2013­2014, was production melt with electric arc be seen with Recyco (see focus, affected by a temporary stoppage of furnaces. p23). While some are deploying more charcoal use at our Brazilian blast metres (compressed air, power, furnaces in 2015 To capitalise on a good performance natural gas) to track consumption in (0.39) and 2016 (0.43). This explains in 2015, in 2016 we changed our detail and better focus their efforts, why our scope (1+2) footprint stands target from a ­5% to a ­10% cut in others are engaging with third party temporarily at 0.58*tCO2/ton of crude energy intensity (compared to 2012). actors. steel in 2016. (G4­EN18). However, various technical issues However, since May 2016, charcoal impacted our 2016 performance. We ▉ For example, Precision is working usage has been normalised and our hope for clear improvements in 2017. with neighbouring industrialists and low carbon footprint is back to normal. the local chamber of commerce, and ▉ Last year we mentioned that We remain confident our our Genk unit works within the some of our units were ISO­50001 ‘green steel’ is the way of the future. VLEEN club (see last report). certified. In 2016, S&S Germany, our With respect to scope 3 CO2, we are In parallel, we continue to review our largest unit in the Service & Solution just now starting to tackle transport lighting installations at our Genk segment, joined the club. (see p28) and are also contemplating workshops, Czech unit and two projects to further improve our office Italian sites, to name a few. The footprint. In addition to our various Aperam 2014­2016 Energy split (%) initiative in Italy contributed to an awareness­raising actions regarding G4­EN5 action plan on mitigating night shift the impact information technologies risks: they found that by adjusting have in terms of waste and energy lighting (and temperature) to working consumption (especially while in idle conditions, vigilance, safety and mode), we also aim to work on Green efficiency were all improved. Information Technologies. ▉ In 2016, several key projects were > Last but not least, we are now finalised in Timoteo. using an internal carbon pricing The replacement of NG/LPG gas scheme at 15USD/ton and weigh with blast furnace gas in the melt the carbon­equivalent impact of all shop ladle heating is now complete. new investment projects. This Our Viridis energy management tool allows us to monitor our progress and is now fully operational ­ although generate new ideas. We can also give users are just starting to leverage it priority to the projects that have a more extensively. positive environmental impact (see In addition, the installation of p40). With all these actions, notably high­yield motors and a few on energy, we are sure to soon reach converters are also improving energy our sustainably target of a ­35 % efficiency. decrease in intensity in 2020 (compared to 2007 levels). 23/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 1.2­ Other air emissions (dust) Dust in Imphy Steel plants have long been known At the heart of the city of Imphy is a complex industrial site, inherited from a XVIIth for their high chimneys stacks, century plant. Within the industrial site coexist an Aperam Alloys facility, with a melt spreading in the sky continuous shop and hot­ and cold­rolling units, together with an another steelmaking company (formerly a sister company). A slag yard is also nearby. smokes of varying dark colours. Since 2015, neighbours have been concerned about the dust treatment operated Nowadays, they are often white (not by a subcontractor on our slag yard. Operations, which had recently increased always, see below) or invisible, with ten­fold to apurate historical stocks of slag, were generating noise and above all vapour mixed with those particles significant dust falls. In spite of the measures taken (road covering, water spills over escaping the filtering chambers of dust piles, tarping system on truck containers), tensions continued to rise, along de­dusting equipment. Indeed, with fears, in liaison with the dreaded health impact from the metallic content of the regulators have produced rules and dusts. Some media coverage echoed the topic at local and national level. As a result, local authorities requested a specific independent study to measure dust regulations to guarantee the Health & falls and assess their harmfulness. No significant risks related to Aperam Safety of those populations operations were noted. Still, nuisances in terms of volumes of dusts diffused into concerned and we have upgraded our the air were recognized. plants to comply fully with these Although not directly incriminated, Aperam engaged with all stakeholders constraints. (including its subcontractor) to find appropriate solutions with respect to our slag treatments. On top of that, leveraging some takeaways from these discussions, we > We believe that we have made are preparing a new anti­dust plan to reduce the emissions at our Imphy plant. considerable improvements over the past years, as recognized by our conclusions in the course of 2017. +6% increase mostly due to Timoteo neighbours (see Isbergues’ example Some temporary dysfunctioning were unit. On their side, Imphy’s and other p36 and Genk’s in 2014 report). We also spotted and quickly corrected. European plants’ dust emissions are continuously striving to improve Under this stress­test, out of our 43 intensity have decreased by ­33% further to address our neighbours’ chimneys, only eight exceeded the and ­6% in 2016, respectively, thanks legitimate requests. Knowing that limits. to the continuous efforts made. further improvement implies often a ­ Secondly, this new set of measures See Châtelet’s.... full overhaul of our production completes the regulatory reporting. We report a 507­ton volume of annual ▉ On top of 2015 actions (notably scheme and industrial equipment ­ dust for 2016 to Brazilian regional the engagement with populations and which takes time­, we have run an and federal authorities, in line with all the roof laid on the gunning shop), extensive audit in 2016 (with regulatory methods and using the plant has initiated new projects. additional site­specific actions, see measures taken in normal conditions. In 2016 was therefore installed a below) to prioritise works adequately, However, for internal and simulation brand­new system to avoid red at group level. purpose only, we have voluntarily fumes to spread in the air during the We now have a list of all the actions used a more stringent methodology hot strip mill (HSM) processing. needed to plug identified leakages and to reduce the quantities sent out based on stress­test measures To have less than 5 mg/Nm3 into the air, in line with our ­12% dust (abnormal situations), which result in emitted, a specific system was reduction objective by 2020. a 2016 equivalent of 533 tons of dust designed. The difficulty was to install emissions, with a worse case the sprinklers at the right spot so that > We have also decided, in 2016, scenario of up to 18% more, had we most of the dust would be captured to intensify our measurement, not addressed diligently some by the droplets, while protecting the starting with Timoteo, to enhance the significant issues identified during the hot metal from water spills and reliability of our follow­ups, identify stress­test measure campaign. subsequent quality issues. Finally, a more quickly any dysfunctioning in These simulations raised awareness 30­meter range over the last four our dedusting installations and allow at all levels on the criticality of swift finishing cages of the HSM was swifter maintenance interventions. reactions. They led to review the equipped with sprays designed to ▉ At Blast Furnace­based Timoteo scheduling of maintenance works provide the right size of droplets to plant, which adds up to some 90% of and to prioritise upgrades in order to seize the very particles emitted. Aperam dust emissions, we ensure that we are compliant at all The water from the sprays loaded voluntarily changed our methodology times, even in difficult conditions. A with dust are then channeled into and conducted a stress­test with the new workstream will be dedicated to gutters for further treatment. aim to ensure that our dedusting ducted dust, with accrued scrutiny systems can cope with abnormal put on a few chimneys and several situations. The result of this change important upgrades in study. Another in our internal follow­up is twofold. one will aim to improve on diffuse dust, that is inconvenient to ­ Firstly, we identified two specific neighbours. steel grades for which our current systems are not fully satisfactory. > At Aperam level, dust emissions We launched a study to upgrade the are consolidated using regulatory concerned installations and expect methodologies. In 2016, 549.8* tons of dust were emitted, with a Dedusting sprays at Châtelet Hot Strip Mill. 24/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Thanks to this breakthrough system, Recyco: Our champion of the Circular Economy fumes have reduced dramatically and no collateral damage has been Recyco, our fully­owned French subsidiary is a specialist in metallurgical wastes recycling. This Isbergues unit uses the former melting shop’s EAF to melt slags and identified: no accrual of dust in the recover their metallic content ­ primarily nickel. workshop nor any increase in water In 2016, Recyco experienced a very good year. To optimise the utilisation rate of consumption. our installations, we opened up to new customers and increased volumes (+8,0%). We also developed new processes for recycling additional components, like 1.3 Primary resources and sludge mud from our Alloys & Specialties business. These will soon be included in waste recycling our regular portfolio of treatments. In line with our commitment to reducing energy consumption, in 2016, Recyco > Optimising our use of primary reduced electrical consumption of its furnace by 6.6%. This was the result of resources is a key factor to our several improvements, such as the introduction of new additives for reducing metal profitability. We report that 27.6% of oxides and reducing heat losses by better isolating the furnace. our input is from recyclable sources As the production of secondary raw­materials through waste recycling is Recyco’s core business, we are constantly looking for ways to further minimise our (G4­EN2). environmental footprint and, in doing so, we will continue to liaise with our local In addition, some of the residues stakeholders (see page 34). generated by metallurgic processes (which fluctuate with production: The Cruzeirinho project has sold 2015­2016 Residues split (ktonnes, %) +8% in 2016) are ‘aggressive’ wastes G4­EN23 142.5 kt of this waste (slag), thereby like acids, oils and lime, which reducing our historical stock. require storage and treatments ­ all Along the same line, starting in costly measures. Put these factors August 2016, our Imphy melt shop together and you can see why our introduced the processing of industry is a pioneer in the circular high­Molybdenum slags using a economy. careful protocol of sorting and crushing. > As a result, we already re­use 88.9% of our residues (vs. 88.8% in When it comes to more benign 2015) and we are actively looking for wastes, we are moving fast, the best solutions for obtaining our leveraging best practices and objective of 100% re­use/recycle experimenting with new ideas. Our (G4­EN23). We are also treating units are equipped to systematically dusts as a way of leveraging its sort out wastes and are busy raising metallic content. Here our Recyco awareness (see p29). unit is expanding its activities outside of Aperam and serving as a true ▉ For instance, inspired by champion of the circular economy. Gueugnon’s recycling of packaging paper (see last report), our nearby However, some of our by­products, Precision unit in Pont­de­Roide For example, nearly 45,000 canned like certain types of slags with a high installed a new machine to cut and beverages are consumed on site Chromium or Molybdenum content, recycle interlayer paper. This upgrade every year. still require technical solutions and/or will improve workshop safety After training the staff during the April new markets ­ a challenge we are conditions, enhance productivity and 2016 Health & Safety Day, new working with our research partners to increase our re­use rate. We expect recycling bins were put in place, with solve. the number of paper rolls treated to some dedicated to cans. Considering ▉ Still, as can be seen in our increase by 60%. The same goes for that each can contains some Brazilian unit’s Cruzeirinho project, the pallets we use to carry material ­ stainless, they can be sent directly to this can take time. In 2016, the unit many of our units are already reusing our melting shop ­ provided they are began excavating materials that had and recycling them. well emptied to avoid the risk of been in the landfill since the 70’s with At Precision, even defected pallets explosion! the aim of reselling them, something are repaired by a close­by external As a result, in 2016 already, the plant that is just now possible thanks to subcontractor (15 km away), giving recycled over five cubic metres via new technical solutions and an them a second life and minimising this ‘super­short’ recycling loop. available market. the need for more wood and timber. Sorting of industrial waste in Imphy. In 2016, 1,500 pallets were repaired. Cans from consumers at Châtelet EAF. ▉ Meanwhile, our Châtelet plant tries to stay ahead of local regulations, especially as to the disposal of batteries, oils and electronic devices. Staff are also encouraged to sort waste just as they do home. 25/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Even for cleaning After proving our water was pollution 2014­2016 Water use by source agents, the change is free (the vitality of live fish placed in (m3 and %) G4­EN8 visible: new bins are the containment basin was carefully full of cans, which in monitored for several hours), normal turn reduces our use of water discharge into the river plastic bags and the resumed and Imphy plant production kilometres travelled to returned to nominal conditions. the waste sorting unit. Step­by­step, we are progressing > In addition to monitoring, towards zero waste, and in Châtelet periodic reviews are also needed. the move is particularly fast and fully At Isbergues, the water recycling supported by motivated teams! network dates back to the 90’s. As the current industrial configuration 1.4 Consuming less water made the network suboptimal, a new study was launched for a full To increase transparency, we redesign, in cooperation with the decided to disclose more data local water agency and an expert regarding our water monitoring (see firm. p22), compared to 2015, especially It was decided that the new network as it pertains to water discharge should meet three demands: reduce quality and volume. consumption to avoid water > Today, we consider our withdrawals from the canal; improve indicators to be satisfactory, the quality of water channelled and, especially our very high recycling in particular, lower the rate of rate of 96.3% (vs. 95.4% in 2015). particulates in suspension for a more efficient process (and an improved > Still, there are areas for 2016 consumption was +3.9% improvement ­ everywhere. In 2016, higher, a result of specific works, a fire security); and fully leverage the rainwater collected. the ESG committee ordered an few leakages and sourced from an in­depth audit at all of our main sites. increase in rainwater intake (+20%). To be continued in the 2017 report! Since 2014, our levels of water This systematic study, planned for discharge and metal discharged into ▉ At the Timoteo plant, our biggest 2017, will allow us to prioritise water has decreased (­16% and ­29% water consumer, a successful project actions amongst all our facilities and respectively). for reducing consumption was allocate resources in the most launched. appropriate manner and in line with With the exception of BioEnergia It includes installing new cooling our 2020 objective of ­5% vs. 2015. (see aside), we do not operate in towers for air compressors, the areas with high levels of hydric systematic reform of the continuous Our only unit in a water­stressed area: stress. castings’ sand filters and the BioEnergia, in Minas Gerais (Brazil). Our industrial permits specify the elimination of water losses from the Aperam BioEnergia has 40 water dams, volume we are allowed to withdraw, converter cooling tower. authorised by Minas Gerais State Water mostly from rivers and channels Lastly, inverters were added to tailor Management Agency (IGAM), which (92%), and we carefully monitor intakes to real needs ­ no more establishes the maximum volume of our consumption and the quality of the theoretical production. water withdrawal. We carry out a strict water discharge. At Gueugnon, this monitoring of our water consumption, is done every 40 minutes at the end As a result, the unit expects a kept within the stipulated limits, and of our water treatment unit! significant reduction in its water work on addressing such topics as consumption. losses by infiltration or evaporation. We Thanks to this intense monitoring, we also study how to contribute to the are quickly alerted of problems, as natural recovery of water sources. Our was the case in Imphy in 2016. actions focus on reducing our Our Aperam BioEnergia Water Week included consumption during the dry season ▉ As pollution was suspected as the five municipalities in the area of activity of (normally not planting in this period), being the cause of a sudden mortality our BioEnergia unit. creating retention basins in the forests of fishes in the Ixeures River, all in order to contribute to rainwater water discharges of Imphy plant were infiltration during the rainy season, and immediately diverted to a newly leveraging this water (alongside with invested 1.200m3 containment basin, that of dams) during our operational process. in line with Aperam’s precautionary According to our monitoring, BioEnergia approach. is a responsible consumer of this We also cooperated with competent valuable resource while also authorities to run a swift analysis contributing to the awareness­raising of involving also all contractors present local communities (see left, on the site. BioEnergia’s first Water Week). 26/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Aperam S&S Brazil planting trees. 2. Other initiatives to Offsetting our impact reduce our impact In our last report, we reported on Timoteo’s green belt, which serves as a Reducing our environmental impact layer of protection against dust and is a must­do. However, in addition to noise for the benefit of the population. This year, we focus on the efforts our responsibility towards future happening at our Campinas Service generations, we also have a Centre, S&S Brazil’s main site. responsibility to always be ready to address such emergencies as fires or This year, local teams took part in a pollution. To do this, we depend on tree­planting project aimed at offsetting the loss of 171 trees caused by the regular training and on­site and to share resources. As an site’s expansion in 2011. The removal simulations. permit was granted by the local example of this sharing of best authorities under the condition that a 2.1 Pollution prevention practices, Timoteo told other formal compensatory planting was to PAM­VA members about a new follow and last until the trees have At our main sites, we regularly hold anti­fire product it used to replace reached 1.8 meters height. drills with local authorities to assess similar but less­efficient materials. To fulfill this condition, the Aperam the efficiency of our procedures. In Now, many of the members are also teams, together with the city’s Green our last report, we highlighted the using the same product. Department, planted 5,535 seedlings of regular exercises happening at two In the case of a high emergency native and exotic trees in the nearby French plants. This year, we look at Jardim Miranda during the second half situation (those that extend beyond the procedures at two Brazilian sites. of 2014. an individual site’s boundaries), all To ensure the smooth development of > Timoteo is a large factory other companies are alerted. Not only the seedlings, each plant was given a located in the middle of the town does this allow them to prepare their QR Code, making it easy for the Green (the town actually grew around it) site for any possible repercussions Department to adequately monitor (impact on the river, etc.), but also, monthly maintenance and plan with two blast furnaces and stocks of fertilising, pruning and other actions on chemical substances ­ most of which and more importantly, they can lend a an ‘as­needed’ basis until the trees are brought in by road. hand with their own security teams. reach a two­meter height. Emergency procedures are well As an added bonus, they can also defined, and every employee working learn from these events. In addition to this compensatory tree planting initiative, the unit also on the site (including subcontractors) organised a social event where keeps a copy of a small pocket­sized employees voluntarily planted an emergency guide (FPS Manual) with additional 100 seedlings. The event them at all times. This guide defines was a great opportunity to demonstrate the three levels of emergencies and the unit’s environmental commitment, the relevant protocol for each, UN Day of Trees at BioEnergia. raise awareness and promote a team­spirit. including who to contact and the > At BioEnergia, the their main All­in­all, the activities had both a normal flow of action. Furthermore, positive impact on the planet as well as risks are fires that could potentially 10 emergency scenarios have been our employees’ morale and pride. destroy acres of forests, reducing drafted, which is more than is legally valuable assets to zero, devastating required, and at least one simulation the flora and fauna, and endangering water and fire (see picture). In total, exercise is run every month (unless nearby villages. In addition to over 750 people attended the various an actual incident occurs). traditional fire­prevention methods events. In addition to these workshops, the (firewalls, watchtowers, permanent site benefits from a team of 15 Sipin: learning through entertainment. watch teams fully equipped with a full­time firemen who operate in shifts fire combat kit and special trucks), of four during the day and 13 at night. the unit also counts on the support of The efficiency of our procedures was a fire­aware ­ and prepared ­ recently confirmed during an incipient population. fire that was extinguished in less than 20 seconds! ▉ Its 7th Week of Fire Prevention (Sipin) used a range of activities ▉ To ensure even more efficiency, (lectures, theatre, quizzes, etc.) all FPS Manual: Timoteo Security booklet cover the unit also participates in the aimed at reducing the lead time for PAM­VA association, along with fire detection/localisation, alerting the seven other nearby industrial plants firemen and their subsequent from the Vale do Aço (Valley of reaction. The event also included an Steel). The association, which also analysis of the region’s history with includes local authorities, meets fires. One of the most popular once a month to discuss risks, activities, especially for children, was mitigation actions and best practices, a play that portrayed a duel between 27/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Facing natural catastrophes accomplishment that was recognised by our insurers as being a strong performance . Staying open during the summer holidays allowed us to quickly Overall, thanks to the location of our catch up. facilities, we believe our exposure to climate­related disasters is low (see To draw a line after this exceptional situation and to capitalise on the hard work of page 38). However, one of our Alloys all employees, Rescal management organised a ‘Stop & Go Day’ on September 9th units in Epône (France) was impacted and in the presence of Aperam’s Alloys & Specialties segment management by the rising waters of one of the committee. During this meeting, everyone was able to share their experiences ­ Seine’s tributaries during Europe­wide from flooding to re­opening. It was also an opportunity to congratulate the team for flooding in May 2016. The flood their good work and to initiate a new company dynamic built around even higher damage forced all wire­drawing activity standards of cleanliness, tidiness and quality… and proven resilience. at Aperam Alloys Rescal to stop for Post­flooding Stop & Go Day at Aperam Alloys Epône. three weeks. Thanks to the general mobilisation of our employees, subcontractors and Imphy colleagues, Rescal overcame this disaster with limited customer impact. More importantly, when an oil tank spilled over 10,000 litres, we were able to act quickly and efficiently to contain the overflow, resulting in no pollution being incurred. Following intensive cleaning, drying and substantial repairs, partial activity resumed on June 20th . By August 4th, the factory was fully operational ­ an 2.2 Transportation impact method to optimise truck volumes further optimise loading... when the from Campinas to São Paulo and, roads allow it! The steel industry is typically viewed from here, using smaller vehicles as being a large energy consumer better optimised for distributing > Aperam is also committed to (and smoke emitter). However, the products locally. As a result, we promoting the best social and industry also has a myriad of small reduced our traffic on the road to São environmental standards with our units that have a much bigger impact Paulo by four to five trucks per day. suppliers. In practice, this means on traffic and noise than they do on Brazil also started using encouraging and recognising the air emissions. In fact, from our recent double­decker trucks and trucks efforts of our carriers who excel in study, this impact of traffic and noise composed of one tractor unit and up this area. This is an area that we ranks among the most important to three semi­trailers, all of which expect to enhance in 2017. among our sites, not in terms of complaints or harm done, but in Transportation impact (estimations) terms of frequency. Indicator Unit 2016 figure & trend Rail traffic* % 5% of shipments to customers > Aware of this fact, in 2016 Road traffic* % 87% of shipments to customers Aperam built its Sustainable Transport Charter and committed to Sea/River/Other traffic* % 8% of shipments to customers annual reporting (see table, right). Trucks average loading* # 89.5%, with lower rates in S&S This charter has since been Eco­driving training at suppliers h/man Being collected for 2017 converted into internal guidelines that # Safety audits at site checkpoints* 100% of outbound trucks were rolled­out throughout the year to * Estimations based on all our major plants and our three largest Service Centres. Aperam employees in Logistics, Security and Purchasing. Its aim is to address our impact by continuing our efforts in security (see p32), loading optimisation (94% truck loading rate at Timoteo, 92% at Imphy) and, when possible, giving preference to sustainable modes of transportation. Here it must be noted that 100% of traffic coming from Châtelet (semi­products, not in table figures) is by rail. ▉ In Brazil, where truck delivery is the norm, in 2016 our Service Centre implemented the ‘Cross Docking’ Forklift and truck loading in progress at Aperam Gueugnon site. 28/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 2.3 Changing mindsets > A few local actions took the form of dedicated intranet sites. To ensure our sustainability efforts ▉ For instance, our Imphy unit are effective, all Aperam staff must created an intranet site with practical adhere to our goals. By all staff, we information and tips in simple files. mean everybody ­ from those on the shop­floor to those focused on The first page focuses on waste, environmental programmes, even explaining in detail how to sort, store those in offices, quality management, and manage it efficiently. Volumes purchasing and in administration. At were disclosed and contact Aperam, we all work towards information provided in an effort to sustainability. raise awareness, address common questions and gather suggestions. > 2016 saw the launch of several The site successfully facilitated the new sustainability­related actions. deployment of new flows in the For example, the release of our 2015 recycling process, including for Sustainability Report was plastic bottles (see picture, bottom). accompanied by a communication campaign in four languages that used our group newsletters to promote our Renewal of Aperam BioEnergia achievements. Later in the year, to FSC® certification celebrate World Environment Day, a series of articles re­asserted the Aperam BioEnergia finished 2016 with many ways one can adopt two completed FSC® process cycles: eco­practices at work. Specifically, Chain of Custody (CoC, with zero we focused on the efficient use of IT non­compliances!) and Forest tools, which have a major impact on Management (FM)! CO2 because of the energy they consume, the raw materials that are This remarkable accomplishment puts extracted for making them, and the ▉ At Châtelet (see above), a new the spotlight on the company’s significant waste they generate. environmentally­focused intranet site responsibility and the workforce’s Shocked by seeing the heavy CO2 also calls for suggestions. Initiated in individual commitment to impact these technologies have, 2016, it quickly gathered ideas, environmental, social, health and safety many of our colleagues changed their including some creative proposals for issues. IT habits ­ both at home and in the using recycled material to improve The FSC® FM certification confirms that office. the site’s aesthetics (flower pots Aperam BioEnergia used best practices made from packing boxes, for in forest management, conducted in > Several of our sites organised example). accordance with FSC® principles and special events. For example, World Environment Day inspired numerous The site also echoes local criteria, conciliating ecological activities at Timoteo during its campaigns, like those from the protection (flora and fauna, but also ‘Encontro Day’ (see p37). Walloon region. In November 2016, it water reserves) with social benefits and was used to instruct all staff about economic feasibility. In parallel, the the five rules to prevent waste: 1) FSC® CoC certification ensures the Buy, 2) Produce, 3) Use paper, 4) traceability of the product, from the Distribute, and 5) Develop. forest harvesting process to the delivery The Environment Group regularly of charcoal. updates the site. BioEnergia is dedicated to the production and trading of charcoal, wood, seedlings and seeds from renewable eucalyptus forests in the state and Minas Gerais. The forests are renewed every seven years, thanks to regular planting. The entire charcoal production of BioEnergia is destined for the furnaces of the Aperam Brazilian steel plant, which is located in the city of Timóteo, some 350 kilometres away. Châtelet sorting bins ­ also for cans! Imphy’s waste management files. 29/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 2016 progress with.. Stakeholders & Governance Aperam is committed to applying best practice standards in corporate governance and in its dealings with all its stakeholders, as well as with respect to transparency and quality of reporting. We aim to take the interests of all our stakeholders into account and engage with them on a regular basis. This commitment can be seen in the approach we take with our customers, always finding the best stainless steel solutions based on our innovation capacities and R&D ­ a pattern we repeat in our social dialogue and community engagements. 1.1 Within Aperam This was a key element in allowing our production pattern to be Employee representatives and unions thoroughly optimised and able to take are a natural intermediary for our full advantage of the volumes offered staff. They are also a familiar by a better global economy. business partner in our discussions We consider this achievement a relating to operational organisation. success. > We promote a positive dialogue, > In beginning of 2017, we ensure the right to collective announced our decision to divest Slitting line in Gueugnon. bargaining and have several Aperam Stainless S&S Tubes collective labour agreements in place Europe with completion of the We aim to achieve the best practices for our largest sites. divestment on April 3, 2017. in governance and the strongest All necessary care is being taken to business ethics. These are the keys The total number of days of strike in 2016 was higher than in 2015 (15 vs implement this decision addressing to building trust with our customers, social aspects and concerns of our employees and the communities 9) which is largely explained by the difficult social context at a National employees, in accordance to our we work in, to protecting our market values. position and license to operate and level in France (new labour legislation). Nevertheless we believe Although the news was only our ability to thrive. announced in early 2017, we think it that we have an open and Our strong customer focus, with constructive social climate. deserves mention here. innovation and R&D being a key Moreover, our discussions with the 1.2 Across the value chain pillar, is testament to the fact that we European Work Council resumed are good at listening and able to find with four meetings in 2016 ­ all of In the past, we have seen the the right solutions ­ a pattern we which were held in a positive negative impact that a poor social repeat in our social dialogue and atmosphere. climate at one of our suppliers can stakeholder engagement. Our unions also participated in have. In the case of a subcontractor, anti­dumping demonstrations held in this can trigger a chain reaction 1. Social dialogue Brussels (see picture ­ right, and in within our own staff ­ or even disrupt front page), calling for employment our production process. As employers, we must constantly protections in the steel industry. engage with our people, both Brussels anti­dumping demonstration. face­to­face and through collective ▉ In addition, as employees are bargaining ­ during both good and expected to work longer, a program challenging times. was started by HR, with the We organise positive, constructive involvement of the social partners, to dialogues, aware of the fact that it prepare for longer working can sometimes be impacted by ( Werkbaar Werken ). This is a international crisis and national general issue at national level as the debates. After all, our employees are Belgian government has been taking also citizens, meaning our sites are measures during the last years to not impervious to what’s happening disencourage early retirement and to outside the workplace. increase the retirement age. 30/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Picture: This picture was taken during the demonstration organised in Brussels on February 15, 2016 to protect the sustainability of our business and of our employment. On that date, thousands of steel employees and their employers from at least 17 European member states gathered in Brussels to march in protest at damaging dumping of steel products from China, and to protest against the premature granting of Market Economy Status (MES) to China. For this action, many of our usual stakeholders, employees of all ranks, unions and communities and European competitors joined our Trade Associations to fight together for the same cause and for the benefit of all. At a glance G4 PR5 ­ GRI Indicator Unit 2016 2015 2014 Page Customer satisfaction: Alloys 9.3 9.2 9.1 Rate on § Customer & Product responsibility Customer satisfaction: Stainless 10 n/a 7.4 (1) 7.8(2) p32­33 Innovation (R&D spent) $m 18 18 20 § Innovation p38­40 ( 3) EWC committees # 4 4 4 § Social dialogue p29 Strikes # 15 9 n/a Fraud allegations reported Forensic # 7 11 9 # 2 5 3 § Integrity and §Risk management cases founded p37­38 ­­ o/w significant cases(4) # 0 0 0 Local purchase at main sites % 57 58 62 § Engaging with our neighbours p36 (1): Europe (2): Brazil (3): EWC (European Work Council) initiated in April 2013 (4): Following review by the Audit & Risk Management Committee. 31/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 ▉ In 2016, we experienced a tragic scenario: one of our suppliers reported a fatality that occurred on a part of our Timoteo site that we had leased to them. Because the fatality was ‘outside’ our company, and in line with all health and safety reporting standards and legal requirements, this fatality is not reported in our figures. Nonetheless, the trauma and its effects were very much felt inside our company. Our own production stopped and we An additional 126 other strategic non Through this new approach, we will engaged with our supplier in order to raw­material suppliers were also be better able to recognise the learn from this sad experience and to assessed. performance and progress of the ensure it doesn’t happen again. Out of these 215 suppliers, 16 were most mature suppliers while also We pay a lot of attention to the identified as fostering potential encouraging new suppliers, inviting safety policies of all our partners. For socio­economical risks due to a lack them all join our sustainable supply years, subcontractors have had to of sufficient Health & Safety chain. sign off on specific Health & Safety programmes (according to our guidelines and prove their standards). Furthermore, six Safety in the supply chain commitment. We have no tolerance suppliers showed no evidence Our ethical responsibility towards our for any subcontractor who ignores concerning support of labour supply chain requires us to demand our safety rules. practices standards (a Human Rights more from our partners and from topic). All of these suppliers were > Prior to 2016, we used a ourselves. A good example of this informed about the results and an structured process for assessing can be seen in Genk. action plan was requested to improve supplier practices in terms of After a series of serious near­misses on these topics, to be followed in sustainability (starting with Health & and incidents with our carriers that 2017. Safety). This process was used for reflected an intolerable level of risk, a raw material suppliers. This action comes on top of our new action plan was set up to cover In 2016, we deployed a new system yearly Boss­to­Boss meetings. This personal behaviour, knowledge of ­ and have started to integrate other common Aperam practice places a and compliance with ­ our safety important, non­raw material suppliers, specific focus on our Health & Safety rules, and mitigating hazardous into the analysis. Our new procedures when meeting with situations. assessment method looks at supplier suppliers and, above all, contractors Based on a rigorous risk­analysis, a actions and their commitment to (G4­LA15). wide range of actions were rolled out, Health & Safety, and also covers From these actions, we concluded including: seminars with carriers, other Human Rights topics like that the majority of our main listing authorised tools for conflict minerals. suppliers are in line with Aperam’s (un)loading, separate waiting zones, As a result, 89 raw material suppliers principles and values. safety instructions via a multilingual were assessed in 2016 (76 in 2015). video, local audits, awards & fines > In 2016, a working group of key These assessments looked at any system and regular boss­to­boss non­raw material buyers was setup negative impact they may have on meetings, to name a few. Through to upgrade our follow­up process. labour practices relating to Health our audit system, we captured over and Safety. Taking inspiration from the Global 2,500 remarks that were analysed Genk signaling board at entrance. Compact and the SA8000 standard, and, where possible, converted into during each Quality Audit we also corrective actions. plan to verify our suppliers’ Carriers that were unwilling to follow performance in specific areas of this plan were banned. For some, sustainability. improvements of their own safety The goal is to engage with our statistics and even of their fleet have suppliers, both on human rights and been noted. the environment, as our suppliers can also a significant environmental By having a multi­faceted approach impact that is both detrimental to our (technical and behaviour safety, plus own image and to our operations (see communication) and working with all also p24). This process will allow us involved parties (truck drivers, their to soon report also on our suppliers’ bosses and our staff), we succeeded environmental practices (GRI­EN33). in improving our safety awareness and results. To be continued! 32/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 2. Customers & Product responsibility Within our corporate responsibility, there is also our mission to propose energy­efficient steel products as one solution to global environmental challenges. Undisputedly, its properties of endless recyclability, durability and mechanical resistance make stainless steel the perfect fabric of a sustainable society, opening up new opportunities for Aperam. 2.1 Aiming for ‘preferred B/S/H Supplier Award supplier’ The B/S/H Supplier Award Europe > Our products are used mainly to > Aperam strives to better serve ceremony was held in Berlin on tackle global environmental our customers by proposing September 27th 2016. The ceremony challenges thanks to their unique solutions that anticipate their was an opportunity to recognise properties such as emission needs and help meet their B/S/H’s best European suppliers for reduction function for cars, highly objectives. their performance over the last two efficient heat exchangers or are key We aim to be their ‘preferred years in terms of quality, reliability, components in food & beverage and supplier’. With that aim, we must flexibility, innovation and price. cutlery sector where their hygienic and anti­corrosion properties are maintain the right level of Following an evaluation of 2,489 essential. engagement to share in our suppliers from across five customers’ successes and to commodities (electrical, plastic, As examples, we can mention our overcome, in partnership, any arising metal, modules & other, and special grades (K44X…) entering into difficulty. packaging) and five categories the SCR and EGR components for Not only do we have to avail the right (laundry, dishwashing, cooking, cars, which allow to reduce gas steel products for each customer, refrigeration, small appliances), emissions. Our products are also together with the expected quality, B/S/H welcomed approximately 30 widely used in desalt plants (Duplex) timing and price, we also have to suppliers to Berlin. Aperam Stainless in water treatment and water anticipate new requests with Europe was among these, taking distribution (reduction of leakage). real­time information or to address home the award for Best Global The other use of stainless steel is topics such as customer credit. Supplier 2014­2015 in the metal based on its TCO which is better category (out of 425). than other material when it comes to > This multi­layered standard of challenging environments where high quality service is reflected in higher efficiency is required or more the way we monitor customer durable material. In that sense, it satisfaction levels. helps to reduce carbon footprints in a Since 2014, our Alloys & Specialty large variety of process. segment monitors its satisfaction index annually. In 2016, it went up Finally, for less than 15% of our again, from 92.3 to 92.8% (G4­PR5). sales stainless steel is used for aesthetics reasons. Although our European and Brazilian stainless operations usually organise their own surveys every other year, our Brazilian unit delayed the bi­yearly survey until 2017 so as to gain improved efficiency. 33/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 2.2 Key applications Last but not least, MaX is nickel free, meaning it is one of the most stable Building & Construction ­ The and competitively priced stainless Philharmonic Society of Paris steels currently on the market. ▉ Paris’ Philharmonic Society, MaX’s differentiator is its unique designed by Ateliers Jean Nouvel, suitability for both direct and indirect captures the eye from the ring road hot stamping processes. With a and surrounding suburbs (see picture thickness far below its competitors, on the right). Over 30 years after its down to 0.55 mm, MaX is enabling launch, the iconic piece completed Philharmonie, Paris ­ France, manufacturers to reduce a vehicle’s the cultural transformation of this Ateliers Jean Nouvel / Metra & Associés overall weight by up to 30%. former slaughterhouse district. © William Beaucardet Aperam 316L with Uginox Bright finish MaX advantage From the outside, the metal cladding of its harmonious shapes reflects the Automotive ­ MaX for light­weight > Can be hardened by hot stamping green landscape and the movements stainless steel applications up to a tensile strength of 1.6 GPa. surrounding it. As an allusion to Mr > Ability to be air­quench hardened. C. Escher, the main pattern of the ▉ To meet increasingly stringent > Oxidation resistance with no façades assembles seven different environmental regulations, car coating needed. makers are focusing on reducing a > Outstanding fatigue behaviour. models of a stylised bird to constitute > Compatibility with fast heating. the aluminium coating in four tints of vehicle’s overall weight, either via > Allows a more flexible hot stamping matt grey: according to light, clouds product redesign or with an extensive process (with cost savings). of birds recompose. use of advanced lightweight > Can be formed on either a single­ Overhanging these flat, sharp­edged materials – such as high­strength or multiple­step process façades, the heart of the building is stainless steels like Aperam’s MaX covered with a bright stainless steel product. Available in MaX 1.2 for chassis plate (Uginox Bright surface finish). High­strength steel formed by hot (1200 MPa tensile strength) and MaX Designated as the Tourbillon and stamping, when used in conjunction 1.6 for BIW (1600 MPa tensile developed by the HDA office, this with a light structure, achieves better strength), both versions’ excellent volume seems to escape from the in­use performance. The automotive fatigue properties make it an ideal inside and it corresponds to the industry uses hot stamping to choice for such automotive chassis common spaces of the large produce complex parts with large parts as lower control arms and philharmonic hall. in­use properties, allowing for a engine cradles. With a surface of almost 7,000 m2, significant reduction in vehicle mass the garment is an assembly of of between 15 to 50%. stainless steel fragments, arranged in Although martensitic boron carbon a mixture of zones of double convex, steels are well adapted to hot concave curves and, in some places, stamping, the industry is looking for almost flat. new materials, especially those that With a thickness of 1.5 mm, the will allow for the use of very thin stainless steel sheets are fixed on a parts along with complex geometry ­ three­dimensional structural system all at an extremely competitive price. combining flat plates for the frames MaX, Aperam’s martensitic stainless and curved tubes. Connecting rod steel (MSS), meets this demand. As Also, its elevated crash plies ensure the connection to the MaX contains between 11 and 14% performances makes it a good fit for edges of the floors. Cr, which considerably enhances its BIW applications, such as structural oxidation and corrosion resistance, it panels, where energy absorption is In contrast to the matte envelope, the key. Lastly, steel being fully and shiny appearance of the stainless is not necessary to add expensive coatings for oxidation protection ­ easily recyclable, MaX has a clear steel intensifies the relief it moulds. edge over other metals. Besides its aesthetic appearance, its making MaX compatible with fast low roughness helps limit the heating processes. deposition of dust and pollution Furthermore, its excellent quench residues. This particularly aggressive hardenability make the product atmosphere, caused by the building’s insensitive to cooling rates between proximity to the ring road, justified 100°C and 1°C. the choice of an austenitic stainless Combined with the low oxidation steel grade (Aperam 316L) for a kinetics, this makes the hot stamping sustainable beauty. process extremely flexible. 34/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Aperam’s various shapes of steels and alloys Made for life and to protect life A gigantic airtight enclosure was designed and built in Chernobyl to withstand extreme temperatures, earthquakes and tornados, while also being able to prevent corrosion. Clad in Aperam 316L stainless steel, in order to protect the environment from the encapsulated yet still very dangerous reactor, the structure will safely contain radioactive dust and debris for more than a century. The stainless steel was annealed and pickled to create an evenly matte exterior finish, thus minimising reflections that could jeopardise the vision of pilots flying within view. The arch’s interior skin is Aperam 304, a non­magnetic grade used to minimise radioactive dust accumulation that Alloys and Specialty Steels would impair access for dismantling reactor components. DILVER® special steels to The interior surface required 80,000 concentrate solar power sqm of 0.5 mm thick stainless steel ▉ With the shift towards renewable sheets. energy, the question becomes how to The matte stainless clad designed to cover best take advantage of an accessible Chernobyl power plant. and unlimited source of energy? This question has led researchers to look towards thermal energy sources, DILVER® Seals Glass and Metal for including solar panels, photovoltaic Concentrating Solar Power fields panels and concentrated solar power. This latter technology seems to be a LNG as fuel, with INVAR® very effective and economically viable solution, and is already being ▉ Aperam is an uncontested world used in solar fields in the United leader in the supply of specialty States, Morocco and Spain. materials for liquid natural gas (LNG) tankers. How does it work? Concentrating Thanks to this experience, we Solar Power (CSP) technologies use promote INVAR® grade and its lenses to focus the sun’s energy to controlled expansion properties, Voices produce heat (steam), which is then stable down to ­163°, to ensure a converted into electricity. Heat safe and reliable solution for the “ For more than 100 storage allows one to continue to newly designed LNG fuelled vessels. years, we have been generate power ­ and remain Stricter environmental standards and using our technical productive ­ even after sunset. cost efficiency requirements have A glass­to­metal device, having a know­how to design caused new challenges to emerge. Coefficient of Thermal Expansion innovative steel and (CTE) matching to borosilicate glass To satisfy these new demands, alloy solutions: from and ceramics, is sealed to the solar Aperam introduced its cryogenic the Eiffel Tower to the Chernobyl receiver’s glass cylinder, thus INVAR® for LNG fuel tanks. This allowing for the transfer of fluids. cover, and from aerospace new technology is acclaimed for its clean, cost­effective and flexible industries to renewable energies, To answer this system’s metal and characteristics. The solution not only you can count on us to address glass sealing requirements, Aperam works for new ships, but also allows challenges of all sorts!” has DILVER®, a dedicated grade existing ones to be converted from (FeNi29Co17) perfectly fitted to the fuel to LNG. Nicolas Changeur requirements of the CSP ­ thus opening the door to a solar­fueled Aperam Chief Marketing Officer future. 35/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 3. Engaging with our Focus: defining Aperam’s stakeholder engagement policy neighbours In order to define Aperam’s stakeholder engagement policy, share best Our relationship with local practices and monitor further progress, a specific survey was conducted in communities often go back decades. 2016. Site managers were asked to respond to three topics: the impact of Even though we have remained an each site on key dimensions pertaining to sustainability, the current practices important economic player, as is in terms of local stakeholder engagement, and their existing grievance reflected in our local purchases (58% mechanisms. in 2016 vs. 57% in 2015 ­ GR­EC9), Some 30 responses from sites ranging from simple offices to our largest in those locations where local plants allowed us to drill into the details of the subject, collect interesting engagement was not structured by ideas and define future standards. These standards will specify the such dedicated bodies as engagement mode promoted by Aperam with some key stakeholder groups foundations or yearly agreements, (incl. neighbours, local authorities and academics) for each type of site some routines were discontinued (office, small plant, large plants), along with define the topics to be during difficult times of recession. discussed, the ideal frequency and suggested operating mode. In addition, a This, in turn, has hurt our relationship standard grievance mechanism will be deployed throughout the company, with these communities. using a contact form available in the local language, 24/7. This form will also For example, when recruitment invite questions and suggestions, thus further enhancing engagement for a needs were down, we often stopped smoother central monitoring. our work with local universities and This first exercise has already confirmed the impact analysis previously run schools. As a consequence, we are at large sites, and our significant tax and employer responsibility. In addition finding that Aperam is no longer ‘top to other environmental areas often reported, the study made clear that our of mind’ at many of these schools impact on traffic, water and noise are relevant topics for many smaller sites. and amongst potential recruits. This It also allowed stakeholder groups to voice suggestions, reflecting our shows just how important ­ and ongoing commitment to local relationships. fragile ­ these community From these take­aways, we will assess and report the GRI 4 indicator SO1 relationships can be. on an annual basis and, more importantly, enter into a continuous > However, Aperam sites are still improvement process that lets us become even more involved in the fabric of actively engaged with our the surrounding communities and local populations. neighbours. We know that having a regular dialogue with local NGOs and Dissatisfactions such as this From this first visit, a quarterly neighbourhood associations can reverberated over Isbergues’ entire routine was put in place in order to preempt problems and turn situations site ­ eventually catching the build a long­term relationship. Today, into opportunities. We often mention attention of public authorities and the these regular discussions are no the long­lasting programmes run in local media. To address the problem, longer only focused on environmental Brazil under the umbrella of our a process improvement was soon put issues, but serve as an open forum Acesita Foundation (see below), but in place, but tensions were remained regarding the news of the town and our European units also have strong high. The only exchanges between prospects. links with their surrounding the site and the community happened An opportunity for all forces to work communities. during the annual meetings. together towards improvement. ▉ The story in Isbergues started Needless to say, these meetings with a delicate situation. After the were often very tense. Voices closure of the melting shop, which To amicably resolve this dispute resulted in local employment impact, sustainably, in 2015 Aperam’s local “Aperam wants to conduct its this valuable asset was reconverted managers decided to implement activity with a total respect for its in 2009 into the Recyco recycling regular routines of transparent stakeholders: it is that simple.” facility (see previous reports). This communications. To start, EQVIR new activity, recovering secondary was invited for a site tour where they Gérard raw­materials (ferro­alloys) from saw the new installations aimed at Grimbert wastes, created more than 80 new reducing dust emissions and the Plant jobs. maintenance plan for the roofs that manager At the time, EQVIR, a local involved using drones to detect Aperam neighbourhood association, voiced leaks. The meeting was also an Isbergues their concerns about the facility’s opportunity for managers to listen to possible environmental impact. the concerns and expectations of Unfortunately, during the ramp­up EQVIR, for Aperam to present our phase, Recyco indeed faced projects and challenges and, technical problems that caused dust. together, reach a mutual understanding ­ and agree upon solutions. 36/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 This initiative shows how local Last but not least, specific events Aperam’ Acesita Foundation interactions and good terms with our were also organised at Aperam’s closest stakeholders are necessary offices in Sao Paulo and Belo Aperam in Brazil continuously for smooth operations. Horizonte, all with the same idea of invests in social development In previous years we mentioned the having a good time while thinking programmes, in line with the joint engagement set up in Genk (2015) about the community at large. interests of the company and of the and Imphy (2014). This year we can neighbouring communities. point to our Brazilian unit and our site In 2016, our Acesita Foundation, in Czech Republic, along with the which is responsible for carrying out many other initiatives planned for the majority of these social Gueugnon and Italy, as testaments to initiatives, took action in the regions Aperam’s culture of openness and of Vale do Aço and Alto engagement. Jequitinhonha for the benefit of more than 75,000 people. That same year, ▉ For example, in May 2016, USD 1 million (R$ 2.86 million) was Aperam S&S Tubes in Usti organised invested in programmes defined with an Open Day for all employees and the local leaders and in line with the ‘Encontro’ at Timoteo. their families, along with external diversity and needs of the local guests. The idea was to give families ▉ The town of Gueugnon was populations. an opportunity to learn more about selected as one of 100 cities to The Foundation participates in the work place of their loved ones participate to the 30th French National several municipal, regional and state and to position the site as an Telethon, an annual charity event for councils, helping to analyse local attractive employer. The programme research on genetic diseases. The needs and contributing to the roll­out included a plant tour, which was fundraiser accounts for 3% of of public policies aimed at increasing followed by a quiz, sports exhibitions France’s yearly donations ­ making it the wellbeing of the communities. from local teams and regional the largest national fundraising event We are currently members of the champions, activities for children and of its kind in the world. Each city has Council of the Elderly, Council for a live concert. a special challenge to achieve, and Children & Adolescents, Education This unit of approximately 200 the whole event is broadcast live on Council, Council for Culture and employees specialised in tubes for national channels. Historic Patrimony, Vale do Aço the automotive industry managed to Business Citizenship Committee, welcome over 430 guests, including As the town of Gueugnon is strongly among others. 70 external guests. associated with expertise in stainless steel and agriculture, in particular the In 2016, new projects were set up. raising and breeding Charolais cows, Although not all can be reported, we the challenge brought these two can highlight the projects aimed at symbols together. strengthening teacher training on Participants had to place stainless such topics as entrepreneurial steel disks in a crate set on the culture, inclusive education and platform of a scale until it surpassed environmental education. Training the weight of a heifer standing on the was provided to over 1,800 opposite end. professionals. Open day at Usti (S&S segment). The disks were supplied by our We can also mention an Gueugnon site and were available to entrepreneurship programme for ▉ At Aperam Timoteo, at the request middle and high school students, of employees, the ‘Encontro Aperam’ buy from local shops. The entire €1,300 collected was donated to the which benefited 1,400 students in (Aperam Meeting) was relaunched Timóteo and the Jequitinhonha after a several year hiatus. telethon. Just out of interest, the total amount collected in Gueugnon was valley. We also promoted local Set on the eve of the United Nations’ €8,100 ­ impressive for a town of culture through 82 events that World Environment Day, around less than 7,300 inhabitants! benefited around 35,000 people. 3,000 employees and their families Many other actions deserve gathered in the nearby Environmental recognition, such as those combating Education Center of Oikos. drug addiction, those helping to In addition to recreational and provide professional qualifications to educational activities on the theme of young adults, and the support preserving natural resources (see granted to the many social picture), the event also promoted organisations close to Aperam’s practical tips on saving energy, while operations… To learn more about also raising funds for social projects, these and other Foundation thanks to the sale of cakes and Telethon day at Gueugnon. initiatives, be sure to visit our beverages. website: www.brasil.aperam.com 37/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Addressing third­party risk: our external agent survey In 2016, to address what is called the ‘third­party risk’, Aperam launched a first exercise to assess our risk level regarding the external agents used to support our own commercial forces.Based on an internal audit of all external agents conducted by our Combined Assurance Department, the survey collected data relating to these agents (markets served, ownership, compliance issues like gift policy, etc.) directly from the agent themselves and from their Aperam counterpart in charge of monitoring the relationship. Thus, the initiative not only led to more focused action plans for the years to come, but also raised awareness across our sales staff, educating them on red flags and triggering an increase in vigilance. In addition to the 16­questions dispatched to our 98 agents, the cover letter also provided links to Aperam’s policies (Code of Conduct, Anti­ Corruption, etc.) as well as an invitation to follow a free online multilingual training proposed by an undisputable reference: the United Nations (UNODC & Global Compact) http://thefightagainstcorruption.org/. A good way to promote compliance inside and outside of Aperam! Compliance 2016 campaign: poster #4. To stress this need for shared Thanks to this excellent preparation 4. Integrity as a key vigilance, the campaign was work, a ‘speak­up’ culture is launched on Dec. 9th, United spreading, with some situations element of our culture Nations International Day Against already being unveiled. 2016 was a busy one for our Corruption and under the shared Where relevant, appropriate Compliance Department. slogan of ‘United against Corruption’ measures were set up by the local (see below). team to protect those concerned ­ as > Building on previous efforts well as the organisation. In particular, defining our policies and rolling out > Earlier in the year, we launched a specific add­in was integrated into the Code of Conduct training, this a specific global process that SAP to link employees with partners year we initiated new programmes invited employees from targeted they may have an interest in, and (see focus on Third­Party risk) and functions to report any potential prevent them from any validation in invested a lot into cultural aspects conflict of interest they may the system. and awareness. encounter. Together with the poster, Using posters (above and p19) and screen messages were also On a different topic, our Brazilian home­made training, we detailed the deployed locally. committee again paved the way with do’s and don’ts specific to Aperam. Further, in order to address specific their two­fold campaign against country risks, our Brazil Compliance corruption. ▉ For instance, together with the last Committee boldly decided to roll­out poster illustrating an obvious case of the same group initiative with a ▉ Although we have taken some fraud, a specific training pack was built bigger scope that included all line actions on this topic, such as a with Combined Insurance and managers and, later, all staff. specific training using Transparency distributed throughout Aperam in local International material for our sales languages. ▉ To make sure the message was staff in charge of Middle East/ CIS/ The short presentation was followed by clear, dedicated face­to­face Asia, Brazil took it to the next level. a quiz showing that there is no specific meetings were held to clarify In parallel to the launch of an profile for fraudsters and that fraud can definitions and objectives and to employee campaign highlighting a occur anywhere. ensure people understood that local gift policy (see next page), a The natural conclusion is that only a reporting a potential conflict of letter was sent out to our suppliers well­prepared and united workforce is interest was proof of transparency and customers clarifying our stance able to identify the early warning signs and not something to resent, fear or and requesting them not to send any and sound the alarm in time to protect retaliate for. material gift to Aperam employees. Aperam’s reputation and future. > In 2016, we had seven allegations of fraud (vs. 11 in 2015) but no significant case out of the two that were considered founded, as per the review conducted by our Audit & Risk Management Committee. Official French Banner for 9th Dec.2016, International UN Day against Corruption. 38/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Brazil 2016 Gift policy teaser poster. The action was very positively received, strengthening our local Lieven Houben image as a company with Head of Combined uncompromising business ethics. Assurance (Internal Assurance, Risk > Of course, other workstreams are Management & Fraud in place to ensure compliance with prevention, detection and evolving regulations, such as investigations) European Market Abuse regulations “We aim to be a trusted (on insider trading, coming into force advisor by providing value­adding in 2017) and European Global Data Privacy laws (enforceable in 2018), assurance services and facilitating but we believe that having the right change through a talent pool of future culture is more powerful than only business leaders. relying on policies. Our mission is to embed risk And so in 2017 we aim to go even awareness into every single decision further into compliance education and awareness. we make. The biggest mistake we can make is 5. Strategic thinking and believing that Aperam is immune to our long­term view fraud, whereas in reality, any person In order to go beyond assurance and and any company can fall victim to it. Since inception, Aperam has always unlock its full potential, Aperam taken a long­term view towards risk Our department is here to ensure that Combined Assurance developed a analysis and opportunities. This five­year strategy to complement the we are ready for that.” allows us to define the best strategy company's transformation. and maintain our position as the industry’s catalyst for change. > Our risk mapping covers all dimensions, including those related 5.1 Risk management Best­in­Class Internal Risk to environmental topics (eg. pollution, litigation), climate change (eg. Assurance, Risk Management > We have strong risk & Forensic Services change in regulations, consumer management process led by our patterns) and other sustainability Combined Assurance Team Europe receiving Combined Insurance Department, risks (ESG rating, etc.). Although Certification. with detailed policies and quarterly many of these risks harbour reviews done by our Audit & Risk potentially significant impacts, we Management Committee. This often conclude that there is a low combined bottom­up and top­down likelihood that these will manifest approach allows us to identify, and, in some cases, we’ve even assess, mitigate and monitor all identified great opportunities. risks. ▉ The challenges of sustainability Each risk is assessed in terms of tend to increase demand for our impact and likelihood using multiple affordable, recyclable and criteria (cost, brand, productivity, energy­efficient steels. Luckily, the etc.). This mapping is reviewed by risks associated with climate change the owners until the Leadership Team (rising sea levels, floods, etc.) are level and main risks at group level relatively low for our company due to are consolidated into the Global Risk the location of our plants. Matrix and validated by the Audit & As an example, some recent Risk Management Committee. regulations addressing air pollution All principal risks are disclosed in and the use of catalytic converters Aperam’s Annual Report. were in fact beneficial for our Combined Assurance Team Brazil receiving > Aperam’s risk management industry, generating a strong demand Certification. approach was recognised in 2016 for our products (Ferritics). as being ‘best in class’ in internal On the other hand, while we environmental sustainability should assurance, risk management and understand the urgency of combating not jeopardise social sustainability ­ forensic services by the Institute of climate change, we support our trade such as in the debate on ‘carbon Internal Auditors certification and associations (eg. EUROFER in leakages’ happening within the based on external assessment (see Europe) when they claim that European Union. pictures). 39/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 ▉ European steelmakers fear an For a smooth deployment of this new ▉ New investment unbalance in global competition if procedure, the qualitative those who are already the most assessments were based on validation procedure sustainable (with the lowest CO2 concepts used in operations (eg. footprint) and the ones with the most on­time delivery for the customer Qualitative appraisal of fragile profitability, are requested to impact, activity or noise emissions > Health & Safety impact do even more in terms of for the social impact, etc.). > Customer satisfaction impact environmental sustainability, while at > Social (footprint) impact the same time imports from other Overall, this procedure will help change mindsets across Aperam, > CO2 impact countries can freely penetrate without respecting the same level of CO2 monitor our sustainability risks and + [2nd environmental topic] regulations. even identify opportunities for improving our ESG performance ➕ > Overall, Aperam tries to while realising important industrial anticipate regulatory changes. projects. This is the kind of sound CO2 at 15 USD/t In 2016, we voluntarily set up an governance and real leadership that internal CO2 price of USD 15/ton to we strive for, and we believe this Voices be accounted in all investment combination will make us stronger. projects, not only in Europe (where “We have to think the ETS market price is much lower), 5.3 Innovation inside and out sustainability in our but also in Brazil, where CO2 pricing We cannot talk about having a daily activities. A policies are only in the conceptual long­term view without talking about good example is the phase. But the best way to stay on innovation. inclusion of a top of risks and make responsible As a natural correlative of ingenuity, sustainability sheet decisions is to keep a long­term and it applies as much to technical fields all­encompassing view on things. in the investment approval form. as to industrial processes and A good example of how our strategic management methods. Now, whoever requests a project thinking works can be seen in the ▉ For instance, we were excited should evaluate the negative and 2016 upgrade of our procedure for about being awarded a silver medal positive impacts of their project on validating investment projects. from the ‘Trophées du Droit several axis of sustainability: impact Enterprise’ 2016, organised by on CO₂, waste and recycling, air 5.2 Insightful governance Leaders League in Paris. This award emissions, raw materials Starting in 2016, the (CAPEX) recognises our legal team’s ability to innovate and nurture a true sense of consumption, etc. This way I believe investment approval procedure demands that every project be partnership with their internal people will be encouraged to assessed on five axis covering the customers (see picture). implement projects that have positive three aspects of sustainability. effects on sustainability. Also, both our Annual and ­ Social: for a perfect alignment with Sustainability reports were fully Here in Brazil, we trained more than our N°1 priority, we will assess the created in­house thanks to simple 90 people in this reviewed procedure, impact on Health & Safety. Only collaborative tools, reducing the need reinforcing these concepts. projects having a beneficial impact for external support while also We want Aperam to produce the will be validated, all others will be improving internal interactions. This rejected. is a great example of how we use our ‘greenest steel’! agility to reduce costs. ­ Environment: the CO2 impact Shirlleny Flores assessment will be mandatory, in line Clearly, innovation can apply Capex Controller, Brazil (Timoteo) with the USD 15/t CO2e pricing we everywhere! use in all our profitability calculations. > A truly powerful innovation flow A second topic is to be chosen by is put into motion within Aperam, the project teams themselves, based extending throughout our global on a project’s potential impact (air, organisation. water, etc.). The aim is that this open To promote the most disruptive ideas choice will foster questions ­ and generated by our teams, the theme of ideas. our 2016 internal ‘challenge’ was ­ Governance: will deal with the Innovation and New Technologies. ‘customer impact’ and, more often, with the ‘social footprint’ (also called ‘licence to operate’). Aperam Legal team receiving the 2016 Trophee. 40/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 Over 1,000 breakthrough ideas were In a steel market overwhelmed by Challenge Winner in the Health & collected in three months, ranging commodities, innovation serves as a Safety category: safety cone from the use of new technologies like differentiator. By fast­tracking the materialisation drones and robots, to the innovative development of new products and by roll­out of more familiar technologies achieving a fivefold increase in like collaborative tools and the innovation, Aperam is preparing itself digitisation of documents. for the future. The 12 final teams in the three categories (Commercial, Health & Below is an overview of some of the Safety and Cost Competitiveness) technologies making their way were encouraged to use high­quality, through our innovation pipeline. self­made videos and collaborative 5.4 Products and services tools to present their ideas. ▉ The world's first concrete mixer Challenge 2016 Safety Cone materialisation The initiative was a huge success, truck made of stainless steel spreading enthusiasm at all levels of One of Aperam policies forbids the organisation. It also drove home Concrete is a highly abrasive employees from standing on the floor the important message that all our material. When you add the water within an area below any suspended people, from shop­floor to offices, needed to prepare it, you get to load, known as ‘the safety cone’. need to be creative, ingenious and corrosion. Put that together and you agile. see why the equipment used to As this area is difficult to grasp, produce concrete have a relatively especially when the load is high, the Challenge 2016 winners: a Châtelet / S&S short lifetime. idea behind this winning concept is to Detroit joint team (category Health & Safety). illuminate the safety cone. Customer VALEMIX challenged Aperam to come up with an After having analysed alternatives, innovative solution to improve the the team proposed to install a lifetime of their concrete mixer powerful (now blue) LED flood light trucks. on a crane’s pulley system so the illuminated zone varies with the First, Aperam developed stainless height of the load. steel D410 internal cut pads, which With a cost of only EUR 5,000 per have produced excellent results after crane (way cheaper than a laser!), a six month trial. Based on the this simple and clever solution allows amount of abrasion seen and the workers to easily see if they have simulations made, these pads could crossed into a danger zone and crane be used for a total volume of drivers to check and stop operations 30.000m3 of concrete, which is if necessary. double the capacity of existing steel pads. > The source of Aperam’s After this first success, Aperam went innovative soul is its Research one step further and proposed to Challenge 2016 team. Organised into three hubs, winning project make the entire mixer bowl out of 40,000 ­ 100,000 two in France (Imphy and Isbergues) stainless steel, along with the cut lumen led flood­light and one in Timoteo (Brazil), together pads. As a result of this new design, the Research hubs include roughly the new truck can have a thinner 130 researchers working within a mix skin, increasing capacity in terms of of transversal disciplines and across volumes of concrete produced. numerous sectors. According to the initial target, the These researchers examine how to lifetime extension is expected to be substitute steel for other materials. about three to four times current They study the impact of what are standards. called mega­trends and foresee the To great fanfare, Aperam presented future needs of end users. With this the world’s first concrete mixer truck information in hand, they can come made out of stainless steel at the to our customers with innovative Concrete Show South 2016, a solutions. leading civil construction show in In 2016, our R&D investments South America. Overall, the project is Concrete mixer truck designed with Valemix. remained at USD 18 million, the a great success and further proof of same amount as in 2015. the ingenuity of our teams! 41/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 ▉ A new green lubricant for Its innovative genius is found in its forming operations chemical nature ­ AFULudineTM is non­toxic and fully biodegradable as Metalwork companies traditionally it consists only of water, alcohol and use petrochemical oils for most of dedicated active molecules that have their forming operations. Although a high reactivity with stainless these oils are efficient, they come steels. with severe constraints. Firstly, their usage requires regular degreasing of For the end user, AFULudineTM is tools and materials, which results in simply a game­changer. onerous operations. In addition, these According to the utensil manufacturer oils are deemed harmful to the Cristel, by switching to environment, leading to AFULudineTM, the company will no environmental restrictions (EPA, longer need to clean oil from their REACH) that will potentially intensify tools, presses or other equipment, over the course of the years. nor from their products after forming De facto, many of the traditional oils operations, allowing them to directly that stamping companies use will no move to the next step in the longer be available in the future. As a manufacturing process (i.e. brazing). result, the stamping world is in dire The company also fully appreciates need of a disruptive lubricant. the decrease in the use of water and detergent, improving its The answer may be AFULudineTM. environmental footprint. Aperam joined the AFULudineTM start­up in its early stages, bringing Investing today to be the first its industrial and metallurgy skills and the ambition to avail a new solution tomorrow for the processing of stainless steel. AFULudineTM is an environmentally The world is changing fast, and friendly lubricant that removes the Aperam fully intends to continue its risk of damaging the metal with role as a change leader, especially extreme pressure while stamping. as it pertains to positioning stainless steel as the sustainable material of AFULudineTM’s advantages the future. ­ Simple and fast to use Whether one is looking to become ­ Efficient for severe forming more sustainable themselves or is operations. busy developing completely new ­ Suppress post­shaped products that will disrupt the status degreasing steps with their energy quo, Aperam’s mission is to support and water impacts these efforts with innovative ­ Significant TCO* savings ­ No chemical risks for the users stainless steel products and ­ Better working conditions at processes. plants ­ Environmentally friendly and eco­toxicity certified by accredited laboratories. 42/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Index GRI Index Disclosure code and label Information or reference Economics Economic G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 1 Performance G4­EC1 Direct economic value generated & distributed Present report ­ page 5 ; Annual report 2015 page 3­4 Procurement G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 1­2 Practices G4­EC9 Proportion of spent on local suppliers at main sites Present report ­ page 36 Environmental Material G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 2 G4­EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material Present report ­ page 25 Energy G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 3 G4­EN5 Energy intensity Present report ­ page 23 Water G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 4 G4­EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Present report ­ page 26 Emissions G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 3 G4­EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Present report ­ page 23 G4­EN21 NOx, SOx and other air emissions Present report ­ page 24 Wastes G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 2 G4­EN23 Weight of waste by disposal method Present report ­ page 25 Labour Occupational Health & G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 4 Safety G4­LA6 Rate and gravity of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Present report ­ page 12 absenteeism, number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender Training & Education G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 5 G4­LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Present report ­ page 16 and by employee category G4­LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Present report ­ page 16 reviews, by gender and by employee category Supplier Assessment G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 5­6 for Labour Practices G4­LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour Present report ­ page 32 practices in the supply chain and actions taken Society Local Communities G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 6 G4­SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Present report ­ page 36­37 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes Product and Service Labelling Customer G4­DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C ­ page 6 Satisfaction G4­PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Present report ­ page 31­32 43/44 Aperam Sustainability Report 2016 General Standard Disclosure Information or comment Reference Strategy & Organisation G4­1 CEO statement Opening Word Current report, p3 G4­3 Name of organisation Aperam Cover G4­4 Primary brands, products, and services Aperam Annual report 2016, p7­8 Current report, p6, 35 G4­5 Location of headquarters 12c rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L­1882 Luxembourg Back Cover G4­6 Countries of operation Production facilities are listed by geography in Aperam Annual Report 2016, p8 G4­7 Ownership and legal form Public limited company in Luxembourg G4­8 Markets served Sales by destination are also listed in Aperam Annual report 2016, p107 G4­9 Scale of organisation Aperam Annual report 2016, p7­8 G4­10 Employees and workforce Employees Supervised Workers 2016 Figures based on FTE as of December Total Full­Time Equivalents 2016, Full time own employees at year­end including Europe 443 Aperam Drosbach (64) and excluding Haven Genk. Female workers: 12% of the Aperam overall; South America 18 20% of exempts. Rest of the World 10 The small workforce at BioEnergia in Brazil is subject to variations due to seasonal factors (growing cycle of the trees: planting, harvesting etc.) Total 471 Alloys ICS is included starting 2015 reporting (60 FTE). G4­11 Collective bargaining agreements 100% of the Aperam employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4­12 Description of supply chain Description of supply chain available within our Online Supplement C – p1 G4­13 Changes to organisational profile Change between 2015 and 2016: liquidation of a sales agency in Russia G4­14 Precautionary approach See our risk management approach Current report, p39 Annual Report, p58 G4­15 External initiatives We also operate in partnership with various organisations, principally via the Current report, p6, 37 Aperam Acesita Foundation in Brazil. G4­16 Associations and advocacy organisations We are also a member of EUROFER, Brazil Steel Institute and World Steel. Current report, p6 Annual Report, p35 Identified materials aspects and Boundaries G4­17 Entities included in consolidated financial Annual Report, p155 statements G4­18 Process for defining report content In line with the GRI4 framework Current report, p8, Online Supplement B – p2 G4­19 List of material aspects Description of our Stakeholders groups as well as our reporting process and Current report, p8 Online Supplement B materiality analysis is to be found within our Online Supplement C – p1 – p1­2 G4­20 Aspect boundaries within/ ­ and without/ Online Supplement B G4­21 the organisation – p1­2 G4­22 Restatements Restatements may result from: Mergers or acquisitions, change or scope of segments (eg. precision), change of base years or periods, nature of business, measurement method Stakeholder Engagement G4­23 Changes in scope and boundaries No significant changes on scope and boundaries G4­24 Stakeholder groups Current report, p8, G4­25 Basis for identification and selection of and Online stakeholders Description of our Stakeholders groups as well as our reporting process and Supplement B materiality analysis is to be found within our Online Supplement B. G4­26 Approach to stakeholder engagement G4­27 Key topics and concerns G4­28 Reporting period Calendar year 2016 (Annual) is reported into Made for life Report 2016. G4­29 Reporting cycle Previous issue reported on calendar year 2015 G4­30 Previous report G4­31 Contact point sustainability@aperam.com or contact@aperam.com G4­32 Content Index Reporting to GRI G4 in accordance at Core level. Current report, p43­44 G4­33 External assurance Main report, and online supplement bundle. Current report, p1 Governance, Ethics and integrity G4­34 Governance structure p7, Supplement D – p1, Annual Report, p53 G4­35 Values, principles, standards, and norms Aperam Code of conduct – available on the web in multiple languages Current report, p4 For other GRI­related reference documents, please see the Online Supplements at aperam.com/sustainability. 44/44 Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume J. Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Email: contact@aperam.com For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com For more information please visit our website: aperam.com/sustainability Copyright 2016 © Aperam Produced by Aperam Disclaimer – Forward Looking Statements In this Sustainability Report, Aperam has made certain forward-looking statements with respect to, among other topics, its financial position, business strategy, projected costs, projected savings, and the plans and objectives of our management. Such statements are identified by the use of forward-looking verbs such as ‘anticipate’, ‘intend’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, or ‘estimate’, or words or phrases with similar meanings. Aperam’s actual results may differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to the known and unknown risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed, including, without limitation, the risks described in the Annual Report. Aperam does not make any representation, warranty or prediction that the results anticipated by such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Please refer to the ‘Principal risks and uncertainties related to the Company and the stainless and specialty steel industry’ section of the 2016 Annual Report page 50. Such forward-looking statements represent, in each case, only one of many possible scenarios and should not necessarily be viewed as the most likely to occur or standard scenario. Aperam undertakes no obligation to publicly update its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless indicated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references in this Sustainability Report to ‘Aperam’, the ‘Group’ and the ‘Company’ or similar terms refer to Aperam, ‘société anonyme’, having its registered office at 12C, Rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and to its consolidated subsidiaries.
