RADIOMETER CSR REPORT 2016 Statutory Report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act sections 99 (a) and (b) Table of Contents 1. Introduction • President’s Statement • Company Profile • Our role: helping save lives • Our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility 2. People • People are at the heart of our business • Diversity & Inclusion • Investing in our People 3. Planet 4. Economy 5. Supporting our communities • Improving Global Healthcare • Access to Healthcare The UN Global Compact Principles Radiometer CSR Report 2016 2 I 20 1. Introduction President’s statement At Radiometer, our mission is to provide caregivers with Along the lines of our CSR policy, we insist that our the insight needed to make diagnostic decisions that help associates and business partners conduct business in an save lives and support them in what they do best: caring for ethical manner in full compliance with applicable laws, patients. Social responsibility and continuous improvement operating policies and procedures as well as our Standards are keystones in our endeavor to fulfill our vision of of Conduct. improving global healthcare through reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses. We care, and we know that our actions impact others: members of the communities in which we operate, We find it crucial to conduct business in a sustainable and caregivers around the world, and the hospitals and responsible manner to safeguard our business integrity healthcare facilities that we serve. and reputation of fairness and honesty. Therefore, I am pleased to reaffirm Radiometer’s continued support of the Yours sincerely, Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The UN Global Compact prescribes a principle-based approach Henrik Schimmell for working with human rights, labor rights, environment President, Radiometer and anti-corruption. This enables us to implement a globally recognized framework and improve our policies, procedures and activities in the name of the triple bottom line; people, planet and economy. Laying the ground for this aspiration, we have formulated a CSR policy, a policy stating our commitment to sustainable social, environmental and economic development reflecting the Global Compact Principles. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 3 I 20 Introduction Company Profile Founded in 1935 and headquartered in Copenhagen, Worldwide, six samples are performed every second using Denmark, Radiometer Medical is a pioneer in blood gas a Radiometer analyzer. That equals 360 samples a minute, testing, introducing the world’s first commercially available 21,600 samples an hour, 518,400 samples a day – or blood gas analyzer in 1954. 189,216,000 samples annually. Today, Radiometer develops, manufactures and markets Since 2004, Radiometer has been part of the Danaher solutions for blood sampling, blood gas analysis, transcuCorporation (NYSE:DHR) life sciences and diagnostics taneous monitoring, immunoassay testing and related IT platform, which offers a broad range of analyzers, management systems under the ABL, AQT, TCM, AQURE, consumables and software used in the diagnosis of disease PICO, CLINITUBES and QUALICHECK brand names. and to aid treatment decisions at pathology labs, hospitals and other critical care units. Radiometer alone has more With our leading position within blood gas analysis, than 3500 associates worldwide and is directly represented Radiometer is dedicated to improving global healthcare in 32 countries. We also have more than 600 distributors by ensuring reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses at globally and production/R&D companies in Denmark, the hospitals, clinics and laboratories in over 130 countries. USA, Switzerland, Finland, Poland, and India. Radiometer solutions help caregivers make life-saving diagnostic decisions by accurately offering information on the most critical parameters in acute care testing, in settings such as intensive care units (ICUs), emergency departments (EDs) and operating rooms (ORs). 6 samples are tested using a Radiometer analyzer every second somewhere in the world That’s 360 a minute, 21,600 an hour, 518,400 a day Production/R&D companies in Denmark, USA, Switzerland, Finland and Poland 189,216,000 samples are tested every year on a Radiometer analyzer somewhere in the world More than 600 distributors cover the rest of the world Direct representation in 32 countries 2,842 employees worldwide Radiometer CSR Report 2016 4 I 20 Introduction Our role: helping save lives Every year, millions of lives are touched by the information our solutions provide, and this is why we strive to do our OUR VISION very best every day. Whereas our Mission reminds us why we do what we do, our vision tells us where we want to go, and how we OUR MISSION want to contribute in this world. Our vision is to improve global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy patient At Radiometer, our mission is to help caregivers make diagnoses. diagnostic decisions that save lives. Only by understanding the needs of the caregivers, can To provide caregivers with the insight and confidence that we develop the right products and solutions to fulfill our help them arrive at the right diagnostic decisions, which vision of improving global healthcare. The more critical the help save lives. setting, the greater the requirement and that is why we strive to provide solutions that are reliable, fast and easy to It’s a matter of pride and humility for us that the information understand and use. our solutions provide are often the difference between life and death. And this is what drives and unites us as a Building on the value of continuous improvement and an company. ambition to meet customer needs, our vision is to improve global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy patient We are blessed with ambitious and innovative colleagues diagnoses. that continually work hard to meet the needs and even surpass the expectations of our customers by bringing new This is who we are and the essence of why we come to and innovative life-saving ideas to the market. work every day. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 5 I 20 Introduction Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility Our commitment to CSR, compliance and continuous Standards of Conduct improvement is grounded in our CSR Policy and Standards of Conduct. Each of these elements is essential to our Our Standards of Conduct is the cornerstone of our approach to conduct business in a responsible and fair compliance culture and apply to all associates at all Danaher manner. operating companies worldwide. We expect our agents, distributors, representatives, independent contractors, Our CSR Policy consultants, suppliers, business partners and others who support our business to comply with our Standards of Our approach to corporate social responsibility is based on Conduct, which provide a framework for our associates our responsibility to conduct business with respect for the within which to develop and nurture a compliance culture triple bottom line; people, planet, and economy and we that guides and assists them in making fair and honest are committed to ensuring responsible and ethical business decisions. processes throughout our organization and activities. Scope of report Our commitment is built upon internationally recognized principles on human rights, environment and anti-corThis report constitutes the statutory report according to ruption. These principles stem from the UN Global Compact; the Danish Financial Statements Act, sections 99a and the United Nations’ corporate social responsibility initiative 99b, regarding social responsibility. The report is published that we joined in 2009. annually together with Radiometer’s Annual Report, and covers the calendar year of 2016. In addition, this report In practice, our commitment means that we work to also functions as the Communication On Progress (COP) to identify, prevent and mitigate adverse impacts on the triple the UN Global Compact. bottom line. We communicate transparently about how we manage this work on an annual basis; about our progress, Radiometer follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) challenges and goals and our annual report is a tool of framework to determine the areas and content covered evaluating our progress. in the report, but does not apply specific GRI disclosures. The report is a presentation of our activities in the field of We will work actively to manage potential and actual corporate social responsibility, and unless otherwise noted, adverse impacts, which we cause or contribute to, or the data and reporting include the Radiometer Group. to which we are directly linked through our business Third parties, such as distributors, are not included in the relationships. reporting, except for the fact that our Standards of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policy apply to our distribution channels as well. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 6 I 20 2. People People are at the heart of our business Radiometer employs more than 3,500 people, operates in Being aware of our potential negative impact on some of more than 32 countries, and has customers, distributors these human rights, we seek to improve our measures to and suppliers on a global scale. Our daily work involves a prevent and mitigate physical and psychological discomfort great number of people, and our products affect the lives of and stress, which might lead to negatively impacting the millions of people: caregivers, patients, and relatives. health of our associates and consequently their family life. Acting with respect for people in line with our values is Work-life balance fundamental to Radiometer. Our responsibility is to have processes in place to ensure respect for human rights for all For that reason, we have now formulated a work-life human beings connected to Radiometer one way or another. balance policy as part of our Personnel Policy: Our respect for human (and labor) rights is based upon internationally recognized principles for human rights that “We want capable, well-motivated associates. We can are included in the UN Global Compact, the International achieve this by creating conditions that make it possible for Bill of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles (UNGPs) the individual employee to create a natural relationship and on Business and Human Rights. The UNGPs constitute the balance between work, family life and leisure. internationally recognized minimum standard for companies’ effort on human rights and is a natural foundation for our Radiometer wants to enable associates to tailor their work on human rights. We aim to identify our impact on working lives to strike a good balance with family life and each human right in order for us to prevent and mitigate leisure time. While taking the company’s needs, collective any potential and actual adverse impact. agreements and legislation into due consideration, we take a positive view of requests for flexible working hours, Well-being Health and Safety leave of absence for family, educational or political activity, reduced working hours, etc.” We engage in ongoing dialog with our associates and have well-established work councils with associate representatives Moreover, Radiometer wants to improve and maintain at all production sites. a stimulating, open and safe working environment that promotes the health and wellbeing of all associates and In 2016, we conducted our first Human Rights Impact to ensure that associates in need are offered help on an Assessment (HRIA) as prescribed by the UN Global Compact individual basis. We also want to create an environment and the UNGPs. Following best practice we have started where it is natural to talk about personal wellbeing and our assessment journey in the headquarters in Copenhagen where individual team members have an appreciative and with the ambition to expand our scope in the years to come. respectful approach to each other. Based on our assessment, we can conclude that the specific human rights issues of relevance to Radiometer concern the All associates in Radiometer have a responsibility to create, right to safe and healthy working conditions and the right maintain and develop a safe, healthy and open working to protection of the family the right to a healthy work-lifeenvironment, but managers have a special responsibility to balance. do so and are empowered to take action if needed. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 7 I 20 People A safe and healthy working environment Health Insurance We are continuously improving our measures regarding We are continually concerned with improving our processes health and safety, and we are committed to providing a and procedures in order to prevent any negative impact. safe and healthy working environment for all associates. We However, we find it essential to have measures in place to have various initiatives aimed at reducing our Days Away manage cases where prevention has not been successful. From Work rate (work-related accidents/incidents), which by For that reason, Radiometer has introduced a mandatory, the end of 2016 was 0.74. We are working to improve our company-paid health insurance that gives our associates reporting, investigation and follow-up on incidents through access to a range of treatment alternatives both targeting training and updated tools, and thereby enhancing focus physical and psychological issues. on near-misses and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) observations in order to react before accidents occur. As part of our health insurance policy, we also have a ‘Stress-Free’-program aimed at ensuring that early stage Additionally, Radiometer is concerned with continuous stress does not develop into anxiety, depression or physical improvement initiatives in the area of EHS: In 2016 we made ailment like cardiovascular disease. Radiometer encourages preparations for an EHS audit program for Radiometer’s all associates to contact the Stress-Free line if they or one production facilities worldwide, which will be launched of their colleagues are showing symptoms of stress to in 2017. The program prescribes a formal and structured make sure that they or the person in question get help as review of an area/site with the purpose of uncovering fast as possible. The Stress-Free line also embraces family, potential improvement opportunities including sharing of providing associates with a safe place to receive advice and “best practices” and proactively identifying EHS compliance guidance if a family member is showing symptoms of stress. challenges, which can subsequently be rectified. Guidelines and a list of early symptoms are available for all associates on the company intranet. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 8 I 20 People Diversity & Inclusion At Radiometer, we are working to create and sustain an We acknowledge that discrimination is a general human inclusive culture as we believe that diversity is enriching not rights issue, which is why we have zero tolerance for only to us as human beings, but also to our business by discrimination in our Equal Treatment Policy. Conduct that creating a competitive advantage in the markets we serve. violates human dignity in the workplace, or conduct that By building and maintaining a culture rooted in inclusive violates current legislation on equality and discrimination, values, we maximize the unique perspectives and fresh ideas will not be tolerated. available to drive innovation, fuel our growth, and ensure our technologies and products serve a global customer Women in Management base. At Radiometer, we believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce is a condition for success; it strengthens us and At Radiometer, we invest in the growth and development ensures that we fulfill our mantra of ‘Best Team Wins’. of our people and take meaningful action toward building a culture of diversity and inclusion. We believe that we Diversity enables us to recognize the existence of similarities build the best team by developing leaders at all levels of and differences, both seen and unseen, within our our organization, recognizing outstanding performance and workforce, and throughout the markets we serve. Inclusion shaping our culture to meet the needs of our customers. We creates a work environment that is open-minded and seek out a wide range of unique experiences, perspectives respectful without judgement. Diversity and inclusion are and talents, ensuring that diverse voices and viewpoints are essential elements of our culture that help us to maximize heard and celebrated. associate engagement. Diversity and inclusion should be core to everything we do-from recruitment and career According to the Danish Financial Statements Act, section advancement, to new business development and supplier 99b, Radiometer defines other management levels as all relationships. positions at or above manager level, and we are proud of our statistics of female representation in management The working climate at Radiometer is based on mutual roles. With 28.4 % female managers, we are headed in the respect. All associates – irrespective of nationality, gender, right direction of getting equal representation of men and age, religion, sexual orientation, ethnic background, etc. women in the management. – must have the same opportunities for employment, training and promotion. Our Performance-for-Growth The same positive trend is reflected in our Top Management, process reflects our commitment and obligation to ensure which includes our President and Vice Presidents, where equal opportunities for all associates. At the heart of this women made up 50 % in 2016. process is open, ongoing dialogue between managers and associates – dialogue that enables sharing candid and timely 50 % feedback on performance and progress. women in 28.4 % Top female Management managers Radiometer CSR Report 2016 9 I 20 People Investing in our People Our commitment to corporate sustainability corresponds DBS Academy well with our focus on the most vital part of our business, our people. We believe that having exceptional people In Radiometer, we have a special focus on DBS and on our teams is crucial to sustaining our business and to advancing our associates’ competencies within DBS through fulfilling our mission and vision. For that reason, we invest in the Radiometer DBS Academy. The cornerstone of the developing our associates and offering them formal training academy is the Advanced Lean Education (ALE), a formal and coaching. training in the fundamental tools of the Danaher Business System. Following the mantra that the success of our A strong element in our business culture is the Danaher associates is just as important as the company’s success, ALE Business System (DBS), which provides us with an creates job satisfaction and results at Radiometer and has operational model to develop our business and people. DBS proved to be a key driver for continuous improvement and is who we are and how we do what we do. The DBS engine development in Radiometer. drives the company through a never-ending cycle of change and improvement: exceptional people develop outstanding Radiometer encourages all associates at all levels to attend plans and execute them using world-class tools to construct the DBS Academy offering them the possibility to develop processes, resulting in superior performance. their personal and professional skills. Number of associates graduating from DBS Academy 2014 2015 2016 2017 110 180 250 400 expected Radiometer CSR Report 2016 10 I 20 Associate Engagement At Radiometer, we believe that a winning team is a team We are continually seeing high survey participation rates. where all members are fully engaged. In 2016, and in line with previous year, 95% of Radiometer associates took the opportunity to make their voice heard and Every year, we conduct an engagement survey in which we invested time in making Radiometer a better place to work. invite all Radiometer associates to voice their opinion and evaluate their experience working at Radiometer. At the We saw an increase in our overall engagement score heart of this effort is our vision of building a winning team moving from 66% to 69% an increase in 11 of the other of fully engaged associates, and in order to achieve this we 15 dimensions we measure and four staying on 2015 need to listen and to respond to associate feedback. level. We are especially happy to see that our three 2015 action priorities improved: Trust in Radiometer Leadership, To us, engagement is all about passion, commitment and Radiometer Future Vision and Manager Effectiveness. responsibility in driving the success of Radiometer, and we want to make sure that our associates have the right tools, We are close to and strive to be among the Top 25% resources, training and development opportunities to succeed highest scoring companies within Danaher, and the results and grow. The engagement survey provides our associates motivate us to continue our journey towards making with a platform for free and anonymous feedback to help Radiometer an even better place to work. identify and shape areas of improvement. Based on the results of the yearly survey, actions plans are developed at the leadership, group, and individual levels in order to cooperate on improvements in all areas of the business. We believe that the best results are reached through collective action. Our Engagement Progress ss ex BS ) ne nd (D g ive tI ent in ct en x m ng Ef m de ys te n sio pm lo ex fe ab In sS ve Be or le ge clu lo nd tInd vis En an n tio es In De ch in d io ta en er ce ica ce us an n an d en iti m up an ur un pl rB vis io n m on ge tS rm vio m ia n he ity rs re th at lve gn ty ga Di rfo ha m m na ve tu ro w ov vo co fe st En re c Pe Be Co Co Da Di Fu G In n In Re Sa Tr u 2016 69% 73% 72% 71% 73% 72% 84% 80% 70% 67% 71% 77% 76% 87% 77% 2015 66% 69% 71% 69% 70% 67% 80% --65% -75% 75% 85% 76% 2014 60% 64% 68% 61% 64% 62% 75% 62% 51% 79% 72% 51% 69% 80% 69% IBM Global Danaher 64% 68% 66% 62% 65% 69% 75% 77% 64% 63% 67% 70% 69% 86% 71% Norm Overall 70% 69% 70% 60% 66% ----66% 66% 73% 64% 82% 74% Radiometer CSR Report 2016 11 I 20 3. Planet As a medical device manufacturer with global operations, chosen to purchase only organic coffee for our associates, Radiometer has a responsibility to do our part in addressing and as something new, it has just been decided to move to environmental challenges related to our production and organic tea as well, which will be completed in 2017. On to mitigate potential risks and take countermeasures. Our a yearly basis, 5.1 tons of coffee is consumed at Radiomresponsibilities for the environment are evident in the eter’s headquarters, which has quite an impact on the UN Global Compact principles 7-9, deriving from the Rio environment. By moving to organic coffee and tea, we are Declaration on Environment and Development. happy to do what is right for both our people and the planet. Environmental performance Radiometer is committed to continuously improving the environmental performance of the company. Our efforts regarding environment is a continuous process and consist primarily in optimizing our gathering of data in order to make further actions of improvement. The significant environmental aspects for Radiometer include: • Use of energy 117 new trees have been planted • Generation of waste • Use of hazardous chemicals and substances Plant-for-the-Planet is a project that plants trees on behalf of Staples’ customers around the world, especially in areas In 2016, Radiometer used 19300 MWh of energy at our where they have the greatest environmental and social production sites globally and generated 1144 tons of waste impact and thereby restore fragile ecosystems and create of which 57% was recycled. jobs in communities around the world. Easy on the planet Program Part of our efforts towards the program consists in having trees planted on our behalf to compensate for CO2 In order to reduce our negative impact on the environment, emissions. Each year, one tree removes 10 kg CO2 from we are part of Staples’ Easy on the Planet Program in the atmosphere. In this way, we are not only reducing our cooperation with the organization Plant-for-the-Planet. environmental impact through the reduction of packaging Through this program, we are continuously aiming at consoland pollution in relation to transportation, but also seeking idating our order deliveries and enhancing the purchase of to contribute to a more sustainable future. environmentally friendly products. One example is a project to replace plastic cups with bio-degradable paper cups in In 2016, Radiometer was among the top 100 in the Easy our headquarters in Copenhagen. We estimate that 100,000 on the Planet 2016 Program in Denmark because of our plastic cups have been replaced in 2016. Moreover, we have performance with regard to reducing small order deliveries. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 12 I 20 Planet Our contribution was rewarded by Staples by planting 100 extra trees on our behalf. This means that Radiometer was responsible for the planting of 117 trees in 2016. On a yearly basis, these trees will reduce around one ton of CO2. This makes us very proud, and we look forward to continuing our efforts as part of the program. Amount of small order deliveries Benchmark for small order deliveries (%) 53.97 For every 2% decrease in small orders, Staples will plant 5 trees on behalf of our company Small orders 2016 (%) 47.35 Amount of small orders (%) -6.62 Trees planted based on our performance in 2016 17 Radiometer CSR Report 2016 13 I 20 4. Economy Our reputation is a prerequisite for fulfilling our mission Integrity and Compliance Training of helping save lives; it is our license to operate and the foundation for building a company where people are proud In addition to our Standards of Conduct and in order to to work. It is essential to Radiometer to keep it that way and support our associates making the right choices, Radiometer to foster a strong culture of compliance and integrity. and Danaher have developed a number of detailed compliance policies which our associates must follow. The Transparency and Anti-corruption policies regulate our relationship with e.g. business partners, government officials and healthcare professionals and are Radiometer supports the UN’s Convention against supported by a mandatory Integrity and Compliance training Corruption, and we expect our associates to comply with program. In 2016 99 % of Radiometer’s associates went all applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations. Our through this online training program. Furthermore compliance anti-corruption commitment is evidenced by the clear tone training is also provided throughout the year via tailored set by the Top Management in Radiometer and Danaher. in-depth face-to-face training of specific associate groups such This sets our compliance direction. as newcomers and sales and marketing associates. We have zero tolerance for corruption, and our Standards Responsible Supply Chain Management of Conduct are the cornerstone of our compliance culture. No matter where in the world our business takes us, all As Radiometer continues to grow, so does the number of associates are expected to conduct themselves in accordance companies around the world that we collaborate with. It is with these standards and ensure that our business partners essential to us that our distributors, referred to as channel understand and comply with them too. This can be partners, share our high ethical standards and adhere to our challenging at times, but provided with the right framework, Standards of Conducts and Anti-Corruption Policy. This is a training and guidance our associates show every day that key focus area for Radiometer, and we therefore continue to they know how to act with integrity, while at the same time develop our comprehensive screening process, which involves doing business in an honest and transparent manner. rigorous pre-hire review of all our channel partners, inclusion of specific compliance contract clauses, ongoing training and continuous monitoring to identify and mitigate non-compliance risks. In 2016 more than 1000 channel partners were screened and received mandatory online training. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 14 I 20 Economy Speak UP! Program The Future At Radiometer it is very important that we foster an Although Radiometer already has a strong compliance open and honest working environment where associates culture, we continuously strive to improve. Our channel know that any compliance concerns they may have will partner screening program is currently being further be dealt with in a fair and transparent manner without strengthened through an ongoing 2017 due diligence fear of retaliation. Our Speak Up! Program is a reporting project, which aims at reviewing and reassessing all current mechanism which allows associates (anonymously if channel partners. preferred) to raise their concerns with management, the Legal or HR function, via a dedicated telephone line or Our Speak Up! Program will also be in focus in 2017 in via our company intranet (anonymously if preferred). All order to further raise associate awareness and potentially concerns raised are tracked and investigated in a thorough increase the number of reported concerns. A dedicated and respectful way. In 2016 a total of 16 concerns were Compliance Week is planned, which will provide the raised. Following investigation eight were validated, and compliance organization with additional opportunity to corrective action was taken in the form of additional engage with all associates on all aspects of compliance training or dismissal of associates. including the Speak Up! Program. Finally, Radiometer’s commitment to compliance can be seen in the recent hire of our first dedicated Global Compliance Officer. In addition to driving Radiometer’s global compliance program and setting the direction the focus of our Global Compliance Officer in 2017 will be on Interactions with healthcare visiting affiliates and channel partners to build relationships and provide further training as well as carry out internal professionals compliance spot checks to ensure Radiometer’s strong compliance culture continues to be lived by all. As a medical devices manufacturer Radiometer receives valuable input from the medical profession. While the collaboration undoubtedly benefit Radiometer and thereby ultimately the patient community, it is important to us that the collaboration is done in a transparent way. Radiometer therefore tracks and reports all such collaborations in accordance with existing global disclosure requirements. As reporting requirements increase worldwide, so does Radiometer’s focus in this area, and we continue to work to enhance our reporting procedures. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 15 I 20 5. Supporting our communities As a market leader affecting millions of lives every year, we have a responsibility to work to improve global healthcare. Radiometer seeks to promote the interests of caregivers around the world through dialog and awareness and by addressing issues such as the right to care. Promoting and fighting for the right to a better standard of care and access to healthcare in general are important to us, and we see it as our responsibility to get involved in the communities in which we operate. Either through donations, involvement in local NGOs or formal education and training, we do what we can to make an impact. To ensure that our donations are meaningful and benefit both the local community and Radiometer as much as possible, we focus our donations on activities that either seek to advance innovation and research within our main areas of business, support the local community, or engage our associates. In 2016 we supported, amongst others: The Night Ravens in Husum: an organization of volunteers with the purpose to increase the feeling of security for both young and old people in the streets at night. Livsbanen: a creative association aiming to develop creativeness and language skills of young boys who have immigrated, or whose parents have immigrated, to Denmark. Design workshop for women and girls: an initiative with the aim to create a social space for women and girls new to the Danish society. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 16 I 20 Supporting our communities Improving global healthcare An important member of Radiometer Group is HemoCue. HemoCue has chosen to focus in particular on pregnant HemoCue develops, produces and markets medical diagnostic women, women in the reproductive age and children, as products for Point of Care testing. The fundamental concept these are the groups who have an increased risk of anemia behind the HemoCue products is to perform important with serious and lifelong consequences as a result. Besides common blood and urine tests that offer lab quality results creating awareness, HemoCue is establishing relationships at the Point of Care without sacrificing the accuracy and with NGOs actively fighting anemia and malnutrition in precision offered by a central clinical lab. developing countries to contribute to the conquering of this terrible condition. HemoCue offers accurate devices for Global Call to Action: Fight against Anemia hemoglobin testing, a key denominator for distinguishing between anemia, a normal blood count and polycythemia. Anemia is one of the most serious challenges that global With the help of HemoCue analyzers, nurses and doctors can public health is facing, and HemoCue has joined the fight detect risks of anemia at the point of care, thereby decreasing against anemia to help eradicate the condition globally. the risk of anemia outbreaks. HemoCue has initiated a Global Call to Action campaign with We are very proud of HemoCue’s efforts to partner with the purpose to shed light on the significance of screening and a great number of large global and local NGOs in the treating anemia. The campaign is created in support of the fight against anemia, as well the broad network of local World Health Assembly’s (WHA) target to reduce anemia by distributors who allow HemoCue to make a true and lasting 50 % by 2025. difference in healthcare by offering HemoCue solutions. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 17 I 20 The WBC Project – Training of healthcare personnel in rural areas of China Another project supported by HemoCue with the aim of creating impact in the primary care clinics in the rural areas of the Chongqing area in China, the White Blood Cell (WBC) project focuses on improving the use of WBC analyzers. The WBC analyzers make testing easier and faster for caregivers, thereby enabling faster and more accurate treatment. In 2016, 101 primary care clinics in the counties of Chongqing, covering 79 village doctors, were trained in the use and practice of the WBC analyzers, helping save lives in this vast area of China. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 18 I 20 Providing access to healthcare With the ‘Access to Healthcare’ program, Radiometer is The program makes used analyzers available to developing expanding the reach of our solutions to markets that could markets, such as the Philippines, Serbia, Brazil, Russia and otherwise not accommodate such solutions. Iraq, and the program was built on the premise that every patient is equally important and that having better access to With a vision of improving global healthcare with reliable, fast healthcare is a human right. and easy patient diagnoses, Radiometer is helping caregivers around the world provide accurate diagnostic decisions that To ensure quality, all analyzers go through standard help save lives. With ‘Access to Healthcare’, Radiometer is procedures before they reach the end user. The program does finding new ways to exploit our resources to further improve not only improve global healthcare, but also helps reduce the treatment of patients in less privileged parts of the world. waste and environmental impact by reusing analyzers. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 19 I 20 The UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and approach to environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and Labour Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Anti-Corruption collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and all its forms, including extortion and bribery. compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Radiometer CSR Report 2016 20 I 20 OUR MISSION We help caregivers make diagnostic decisions that save lives OUR VISION Improving global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses Contact Katrine Tranum Rørdam Tel: +45 30293331 Email: katrine.roerdam@radiometer.dk
