COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT FROM SPROUT FOUNDER & CEO MICHAEL STAUSHOLM April 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sprout hereby reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this document, our first, annual Communication on Progress Report, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. At Sprout, we are on a journey and we hope to engage the world in our mission: To inspire people and businesses to adopt a more sustainable mindset. We want to make sustainability fun and easy to understand. Everyone talks about sustainability. But what does it really mean? And where do we start? By creating the world’s only sustainable pencil that can be turned into a plant after use, we have created a simple symbol of sustainability. Let’s do our bit to make this shared blue planet of ours a little greener for generations to come. Yours Sincerely, Michael Stausholm Christiansen INTRODUCTION SPROUT IS SUSTAINABILITY FOR EVERYONE HUGE GLOBAL INTEREST UN GLOBAL COMPACT Sprout is a green start-up and the developer of the world’s first The first Sprout pencil was sold in the summer of 2013. There March 1st. 2016 Sprout joined the world’s largest CSR sustainable pencil that can be planted after use. Our vision is to was overwhelming interest from press, bloggers, businesses, corporate citizenship initiative; UN Global Compact. As a become the global leader in green and sustainable products. organizations, and consumers. Demand increased steadily as responsible company, we respect the UN Global Compact’s ten We sell both to businesses and to retailers in over 60 countries. awareness spread across the globe through PR and word of principles, and we are committed to internalizing them within As a company, we are developing rapidly and our sales and mouth. our strategies, policies, and operations. Based on a materiality development potential remains relatively untapped. analysis, we have selected four principles we will focus on. The four principles we wish to give extra focus: ULYSSES GRANT, an American general, jotted down battle plans with one. Otto von Bismarck, a Prussian chancellor, used his to tamp down the tobacco in his pipe. Vincent van Gogh Human Rights used one to “draw a woman sewing” and found they “produce a marvellous black and are very agreeable to work with.” Principle 2: (http://www.economist.com/node/17043890) Make sure that they/we are not complicit in human rights abuses. THE WORLD’S FIRST PLANTABLE PENCIL Labor Three students from Massachusetts Institute of Technology Principle 6: (MIT), Boston, came up with the idea for the pencil when they The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment were challenged to “design the sustainable office article of and occupation. tomorrow”. The students set out to create the world’s first plantable pencil. The Sprout pencil was designed to be made Environment from sustainable wood with a dissolvable end capsule containing seeds. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: 1. 2. 3. Bestseller 2016 Both in EU and USA: Write with Plant it Watch as new plants 1) Basil 2) Mint and 3) Cherry Tomato Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, your pencil Add sunlight & water sprouts from the ground including extortion and bribery. REVIEWING 2015 NUMBER OF TREES USED TO MAKE SPROUT PENCILS Just like in 2016, our focus in 2015 was on growth. This included Sprout has always offered health and travel insurance to its activities such as the launch of our own webshop to engage the B2C market. We also went from five employees to 12, with employees. In addition to that, we have now devised a health and wellbeing policy and established five key steps to be met 2013 a total of nine women and three men in the team. This meant in relation to a healthy working environment. We succeeded in 100.000 Pencils 0,4 tree having to move to a larger office facility, although we remain meeting all five steps in 2015. located in Taastrup, Denmark. The Sprout pencil is 100 % sustainable, made from FSC or PEFC wood, graphite, and NON-GMO seeds. We are working hard to This was the year we started a great new Christmas tradition. ensure that all of our pencils will be made from FSC wood or Instead of giving company Christmas presents, we now use other kinds of certified sustainable wood from local forestry. the money to buy Christmas gifts for orphans, which we buy ourselves from a wish list sent in by the children. We also offer our knowledge about sustainability to interest2016 ed businesses and consumers. Our Founder & CEO Michael 2.000.000 Pencils 8 trees Stausholm has a blog in Børsen, a Danish business newspaper In our first year, 2013, we sold about 100,000 pencils worldwide. and in the Huffington Post. He writes about the dilemmas and In 2016, we sold roughly around 2,000,000 pencils. Our goal for challenges of working with sustainability. This is all part of our 2020 is to sell 7,500,000 pencils. work with principle 8 (Environment): undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. ACTIVITIES 2020 Each year about 3.5 billion pencils are made in the US, and 7.500.000 Pencils 30 trees 2015 was the year we sat down and made some very relevant around 15-20 billion are produced worldwide. That’s a lot of and important goals for 2016: pencils! In fact, 15 billion pencils laid out end to end would be enough to reach from the earth to the moon almost seven • Set number of trees used to make Sprout pencils times! The precise number of trees needed depends on the • Code of Conduct for suppliers and self-assessment size of the trees, so the exact figure changes depending on which type is used. The California Incense Cedar has varying • Sign up to the UN Global Compact dimensions but is about 60 feet high and 3-4 ft. in diameter on • Transparent supply chain average. • Maternity Scheme Using these dimensions, and 15 billion pencils per year, means that about 60,000 trees are used to make pencils on an annual basis. (http://www.economist.com/node/17043890) REVIEWING THE PAST YEAR, 2016 2016 was a very busy year for Sprout. New employees joined, CHALLENGES while other colleagues chose to take on new challenges elsewhere. Today our team is made up of 15 employees 4 men, Between 2013 and till today, we have achieved a production and 11 women. growth rate of 2000 %, from selling 100,000 pencils in 2013 to selling approximately 2,000,000 pencils in 2016. This is fantastic and a clear sign of how the pencil can act as a strong symbol The average age is 42 and the age span is between for today’s focus on sustainability. But it also means that our 22 to 62 years old. suppliers are starting to face challenges in meeting demand. At present, we produce pencils in Poland for the European market and in the US for the American market. For us here at Sprout, working with Human Rights in a business context is paramount, and it shapes all aspects of our work At times, it may be impossible for our Polish supplier to meet from ensuring transparency in our supply chain to informing demand and for us to avoid negatively impacting the working our process for hiring new employees. condition of our employees. For this reason, we have decided We are aware of the risks of discrimination when hiring and to produce a small number of orders for European customers at dealing with our employees and we place focus on ensuring our US-based facility. This means we have a slightly higher CO2 equal rights and opportunities for all. Today the majority of our footprint, but we are working hard to find a solution to employees are women simply because they have been the this challenge. most qualified candidates for the job. This year we are pleased to present some exciting achievements. We: • Established the Sprout “House Rules – Sustainability Report” • Created the Sprout Suppliers Code of Conduct and a self-assessment sheet • Signed up to the UN Global Compact • Incorporated a “Beyond Compliance” Maternity scheme • Made our supply chain transparent and identified our weak spots as a result. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) As a member of the UN Global Compact, we respect several of At Sprout, we find that working with the SDGs gives us a solid We have chosen to engage the following four SDG goals – four the global goals, and we work hard to engage them. Implefoundation for identifying opportunities for growth as well as areas we find that we have the greatest opportunity to achieve menting the SDGs in our business strategy is both the right for risk reduction by reviewing our entire supply chain to find results by using our business, knowledge, and experience. thing to do and the key to driving a sustainable business. new ways to incorporate the UNGC and SDGs. SDG GOAL #4: QUALITY EDUCATION GLOBAL CHALLENGE(S) ACTIVITY RESULTS GOALS Around 250 million children are not learning We contribute to greater awareness of and In 2016 we teamed up with the gourmet Our mission is to make products in a basic skills, even though half of them have education about sustainability. We do this restaurant Amass and their Green Kids Prostraightforward and comprehensible way, spent at least four years in school. through strategic partnerships with educagramme, which teaches children about plants to help make it easier to understand what tional institutions. and sustainability. We have also participated sustainability is all about. Education is fundamental to the development in KEAWEEK at Copenhagen School of Design of future workforces. It supports higher levels We wish to inspire more sustainable lifestyles and Technology – a whole week focused on of productivity, adaptability, and innovation. by planting seeds in the public consciousness, innovation and sustainability. using our pencil as an example to get people Education also fosters more stable and prosthinking more about recycling. Finally, this year Sprout was selected as a busiperous societies, i.e. larger and more sustainness case for four student groups participating able markets for products and services. in the Innovation Pilot Project at DTU (Technical University of Denmark). In cooperation with the students, we talked about how to overcome challenges going forward with a new sprout product, complementary to the pencil , and brainstormed ideas on how to become even more sustainable. Finally, we have successfully partnered with a sheltered workshop for people with disabilities, which works to bring previously marginalised groups into the formal economy through employment. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) SDG GOAL #12: ENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION PATTERNS GLOBAL CHALLENGE(S) ACTIVITY RESULTS GOALS A rising population, urbanisation and, Ensuring sustainable consumption is a This year we developed our Code of Conduct Increase consumer awareness of sustainable overwhelmingly, economic growth, are prerequisite for our entire business and so it for Suppliers. All of our suppliers will receive a consumption. The ultimate goal is to create driving an ever increasing demand for natural is only natural for us to use our influence by copy which they will be required to read and a circular economy, which is designed to proresources: energy, soil, water, and minerals. If informing and communicating our experisign. We want to cooperate with our suppliers duce no waste and no pollution. We aim to current consumption trends continue, natural ences. We hope our knowledge and expertise through continuous communication. If our find one more pencil supplier, who can meet resources could be rapidly depleted. will be beneficial and useful to others who suppliers are in doubt about any working the demands in our code of conduct . are going to work with similar materials, and conditions, we want to assist them either products. Our CEO, Michael Stausholm delivthrough understanding or information. ers lectures to companies and organisations about sustainability and writes several blogs for various news channels SDG GOAL #13: TAKE URGENT ACTION TO COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE AND ITS IMPACTS GLOBAL CHALLENGE(S) ACTIVITY RESULTS GOALS The IPCC’s (Intergovernmental Panel on CliSprout is engaging this goal by raising We have been working actively to promote All of our packing will go from being FSC mate Change) review predicted that everyone awareness. Sprout’s vision is to help reduce respect for the environment via the developcertified to being made of recycled material. on the planet is going to be affected in some the world’s use of resources and be an active ment of sustainable products, and by using All of our pencils are made of FSC/PEFC wood way by the impacts of climate change and advocate for issues relating to sustainability Michaels’s blogs in Børsen and the Huffington or otherwise documented sustainable wood that further warming will cause long-lasting in terms of production, green products, and Post to further raise awareness. from local forestry. changes, increasing the likelihood of severe, business. Also, Michael was one of the speakers at this pervasive and irreversible impacts for people year’s “Sustainable Brand” conference held and ecosystems. in Copenhagen. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) SDG GOAL #15: LIFE ON LAND GLOBAL CHALLENGE(S) ACTIVITY RESULTS GOALS Terrestrial ecosystems are critical to all 2016 Sprout joined forces with the organisaSprout made 3 pencils for this event with 3 Both Sprout and Forests of the World wish to aspects of human life, with plants providing tion (NGO) Forests of the World to support tree seeds. 10 % of the sales went to the protect the world’s forests, both in terms of 80% of our diet and land habitats providing a Earth Day 2016. The theme for Earth Day 2016 Forests of the World. sustainable logging and conservation of the range of crucial functions known as ecowas” Trees for the Earth let’s start planting”. world’s forests. It is also very important to us system services. However, human-in fenced to ensure that all our pencils are FSC/ PEFC drivers such as pollution, climate change, certified, and we work hard to achieve this. invasive species, overexploitation and land The same goes for our paper products as well. use change are causing unprecedented shifts, and in many cases degradation, of terrestrial ecosystems. INTRODUCTION TO SPROUT’S OPERATIONAL 2017 GOALS Blueprint for good growth that delivers social and environmenThe Council for Sustainable Development (RBE) has selected tal value, as well as optimal economic benefit. We will reinforce principles that characterise a “sustainable product”. At Sprout, sustainability throughout our business and take responsibility we will work hard to safeguard sustainable set-ups in relation at every stage of the value chain. to these principles: 2. 1. The product is continuously manufactured in compliance THE VALUE CHAIN The product is continuously manufactured under with or beyond what the law requires. decent working conditions. 3. 4. 5. Our products are to be upcycled from recycled materials. The product is marketed based on relevant, credible Offer a high level of service to the product. Recycling and reuse of resources should be promoted through and transparent product information, including information our product development. on how the product can be used sustainably. 9. 6. 8. At Sprout, everyone takes responsibility. It is essential for The product is manufactured under conditions that meet the We must be in constant dialogue with major suppliers and seek achieving our common goals that all employees take responsibility sustainable development of local communities, including climate, to optimise collaboration in order to become becoming even more for these goals. Everyone should reflect on the extent to which their environment, living conditions, ethical considerations, health etc. sustainable. Focus differs from supplier to supplier. working practices are sustainable and in what way this is an important aspect of their activities. . CONCLUSION – SUSTAINABILITY FOR EVERYONE GOALS 2016 OUR PROMISE Everyone talks about sustainability. But what does it really This year we have achieved some exciting goals and set forth We work hard to achieve good growth that delivers social mean? And where do we start? some new ones. We: and environmental value, as well as optimal economic benefit. We will safeguard sustainability throughout our business and By creating the world’s first and only plantable pencil that can • Established the Sprout “House Rules Sustainability Report” take responsibility for every stage of the value chain. be turned into a plant after use, we have made a simple symbol • Created the Sprout Suppliers Code of Conduct and of sustainability. a self-assessment sheet • Signed up to the UN Global Compact When the Sprout pencil is too short to use for its original purpose, give it a second life. Plant the end part of the pencil, • Incorporated a “beyond compliance” Maternity scheme and herbs, vegetables or flowers will start to grow. • Made our supply chain transparent and identified found our weak spots as a result At Sprout, we are on a journey and we hope to engage Furthermore the word in our mission: To inspire and encourage consumers, business leaders and stakeholders to adopt a more sustainable • Introduced a voluntary retirement scheme mindset. We want to make sustainability fun and easy • Produced a blueprint for working with the Sustainable to understand. Development Goals (SDG’s) GOALS 2017 • Our packing and paper are to be made of recycled material • Increase the importance of reusing and recycling materials in our product development phase • Increase our focus on Responsible Supply Chain Management Worldwide we are struggling with the same social -and environmental issues. It is worth trying to solve them together. That way, we can make our shared blue planet a little greener for generations to come.
