COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP 2017 Who we are SACOTEL SAL has known a constant and steady growth expanding its line of business and weight on the markets it operates. Over 70% market share in the field of telecommunications and 40% market share in the field of security in Lebanon is a good indicator of the reputation Sacotel has earned over the past years. SACOTEL SAL is the exclusive agent and distributor in Lebanon for major brands such as Panasonic from Japan, Urmet from Italy, Elkron from Italy, Aprimatic from Italy, and FDI Matelec from France The recognition of the Quality of our products is universal but our pride is the Quality of our service Sacotel is part of the Fernand Hosri Group of companies operating in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Cyprus and France; in diversified fields such as Security and Telecommunications, Building Automtion& Communication, Office Supplies and Equipment, FMGC, Distribution, Editing and Publishing, Insurance, Hotels and Restaurants, Property management Our Mission; The recognition of the quality of our products is universal; our pride is the quality of our service. We are committed to provide our society through our customers with the latest technological solutions in Telecom, Security and Automation backed by the best customer service one could aspire to. Our Vision; By 2020,Sacotel will be a leading brand builder, in targeted markets, with efficient and effective distribution channels, delivering superior Telecom, Security and Automation products, services and solutions. Sister Companies: F. A. Hosri sal, established itself as a major Importer and Exporter of fast moving consumer goods in Lebanon in the year 2000. Today, F.A. Hosri provides logistics, warehousing and supply different products to the Lebanese and Middle East markets. A division of F.A Hosri, and your guide to easy supplies and services that offers you the opportunity to order from your own premises and at your convenient time. Bikes & Co. proposes the full line of Piaggio group namely Vespa, Aprilia, Moto Guzzi, Gilera and Piaggio brands, in addition to the other famous brands KTM, Bajaj, Pulsar and TVS. Moms & To Be is the only free all in one parenting publication bringing moms to be trusted advice on pregnancy and being a parent. Licensed #1 insurance broker in Lebanon deals with all types of insurances life, medical, motor, marine, travel, workmen compensation, fire and burglary, public liability, cash and yacht. Makas Establishment for Safety Equipment (MESE-Jeddah), member of Fernand Hosri Group, is one of the leading professional entities in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the supply, design and installation, service and maintenance of all types of fire protection, safety and security systems Mobiles, Pads, Laptops, IP Cameras & Accessories, Printers and related services. Editing and publishing house. Communication on Progress Human rights: SDG1: No poverty Objectives: Works on reducing poverty by enabling women to work and helping them find decent jobs and therefore allowing financial independence and double income for families. Supports EYWA association. SDG3: Good Health & Well-being Objectives: Our Business provides to all our employees accessible and affordable health care regardless of their gender, sex or any other disaggregation. All our employees are covered in case of work accidents. Our Business provide 70 days maternity leave to all future moms. We also provide work flexibility policy and work from home policy. We have the privilege of having our facility as a smoke-free indoor workplace and offices. Labor: SDG5: Gender equality Objectives: Allow girls and women to be more confident stronger through internships. Struggle to achieve gender equality, empower all women and girls and allowing financial independence. Works on empowering women through providing them with equal opportunities of employment. We have more women on the board of directors than men. 60/40 ratio. SDG8: Decent work and economic growth Objectives: Works on strengthening economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all SACOTEL SAL has known a constant and steady growth expanding its line of business and weight on the markets it operates. Over 70% market share in the field of telecommunications and 40% market share in the field of security in Lebanon is a good indicator of the reputation Sacotel has earned over the past years. We provide open access to our employees to trainings and internship programs. We make sure to consider the diversity of language, culture and family circumstances which may exist in the work place. Our employee seniority is high as proof of privilege work environment. Environment: SDG7: Affordable and clean energy Objectives: For waste reduction and efficiency, we start by the basics, which are the adaptation of a reduced printing strategy. Aside from the use of recycled papers, many reports are filled and filed electronically, along with the use of e-mails for all greeting purposes, therefore reducing the use of printed material to a strict minimum Sacotel's policy firmly requires shredding to reduce litter and recycling the maximum amount of corporate waste. While we at Sacotel switch from regular petroleum based garbage bags to biodegradable plastic bags (D2W), we proceed with changing our car fleet from station wagons to smaller less consuming cars, and we propose an Eco bonus for staff members who accept to shift from using cars to motorcycles and scooters. In the same efforts to minimize impact on the environment, Sacotel's interior furniture is mainly manufactured locally, requiring less transportation and therefore minimizing carbon footprints THE GREEN INITIATIVE: When the whole world is waking up to the cruel reality that we are hurting our surroundings by abusing the resources and changing the landscapes with urban cultures, Sacotel takes measure to make sure its process and growth are not functioning on the expense of mother nature. Aside from our annual Eco-festival and Plantation day, during which we support the reforestation of our land and the plantation of trees offered by us to our customers, Sacotel enforces strict ecofriendly measures in its day to day process. So from the smallest to the largest detail, we try our best to safeguard Mother Nature and avoid paying the price of our success with a degrading environment. We try our best to safeguard mother nature and avoid paying the price of our success with a degrading environment SDG11: Sustainable cities and communities Objectives: On an infrastructural level, Sacotel invests in energy saving equipment in the new head-quarters. We have proceeded with the installation of LED technology for all the main lights, VRV air-conditioning systems, window glazing and partitioning to maximize natural light, special glass films to reduce UV and improve isolation from heat and cold. Our business offers an array of products and services. In the renewable fields, free photovoltaic and led lighting. SDG17: Partnerships for the Goals Objectives: Our business has zero-tolerance against corruption and bribery in all their forms. We assure business growth by working to fight against corruption in order to grow our economy and develop our communities. Work with our partners and distributers on how to ensure an ethical behavior between the employees of both companies. We make sure to have a clause stating that we should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Our company tries to resists the solicitation of bribes and extortion combatting bribery. We enhance the transparency of our activities in the fight against it and we adopt measures in order to honor these commitments. Measurement of outcomes: Management persons: 5 (3 Women and 2 Men) who are also board members. Total employees in Sacotel: are 36 of which there are 5 Women and 31 Men. Age varies between 20 64 years’ old. Rate of absenteeism is 125 = 1.5% times in 2016 The percentage of recycled materials is around 60% if not more 100% of paper, cartons, cans, plastic, goes to recycling 100% Ink & computers also goes to special companies for recycling Your supplier of choice in Telecom, Security & Automation 162 Badaro street Badaro – Beirut Lebanon T.: +961 1 386868 www.sacotel.com
