COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 TABLE OF CONTENT • Statement from the CEO / 1 • The ten principles of the UN Global Compact / 2 • HRA Pharma at a Glance / 4 6 BUSINESS ETHICS Foster its engagement with the UN Global Compact / 6 Promote a responsible and compliant conduct / 6 • Code of ethics / 6 • Anti-corruption compliance policy / 7 • Fair-competition compliance policy / 7 • International trade and restrictions compliance policy / 7 • Employee handbook / 7 9 COOPERATION & ENGAGEMENT • Culture supported performance / 9 • Two way communication with teams / 9 • Learning and development opportunities / 10 • Engagement with customers / 10 • Engagement with the medical community / 10 • Working conditions follow-up / 10 12 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT • Foster wider access to effective birth control methods / 12 • Raise awareness internally on women’s issues / 12 • Support sustainable development through a company’s foundation • Fostering employee engagement / 13 • Minimize our environmental impact / 13 • Recycling / 14 • Environmentally responsible working solutions / 14 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO On behalf of the Executive Leadership Team, I am pleased to express HRA Pharma’s continued support of the UN Global Compact. As an active member of this international initiative since 2011, we are committed to expanding and extending our corporate citizenship efforts, moving forward to create sustained impact in communities around the world. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, David Wright CEO of HRA Pharma COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 • 1 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary initiative for companies that are committed to sustainable business practices. It seeks to align corporate strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. More than 9700 companies from 162 countries have joined Global Compact. HRA Pharma signed up to the Global Compact in 2011 and has adopted its 10 principles. HUMAN RIGHTS • PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ENVIRONMENT • PRINCIPLE 2 • PRINCIPLE 7 Make sure that they are not complicit Businesses should support a precautionary in human rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges • PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater LABOUR environmental responsibility • PRINCIPLE 3 • PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should uphold the freedom Encourage the development and of association and the effective recognition diffusion of environmentally friendly of the right to collective bargaining technologies • PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced • and compulsory labour • PRINCIPLE 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION The effective abolition of child labour • PRINCIPLE 10 • PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should work against The elimination of discrimination in corruption in all its forms, including respect of employment and occupation extortion and bribery 2 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 HRA PHARMA AT A GLANCE HRA Pharma is a fast growing international pharmaceutical company dedicated to consumer healthcare. Our mission is to empower people throughout the world to improve their lives by developing accessible, value added self-care solutions. The objective at the creation of HRA Pharma in 1998 was to provide therapeutic solutions to medical needs that had not been addressed previously by large pharmaceutical groups. Twenty years on from our modest beginnings, HRA Pharma has become an innovative, OTC-focused and rapidly growing company, with direct operational presence in European countries and partnerships that have extended its products’ availability to over 90 countries worldwide. • STRATEGIC EXPANSION INTO WOUND CARE In 2017, HRA Pharma acquired global rights to Compeed® from Cilag GmbH International, a Johnson & Johnson company. Recognized as a leading brand for European • PIONEERS IN WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE pharmacists, Compeed® provides consumers with a Our company launched its first product –an emergency comprehensive portfolio of products for the relief and contraceptive pill in 1999, and through our development treatment of blisters, corns, calluses, cracked skin and cold and commercialization efforts become the European sores. leader in emergency hormonal contraception. Our women’s healthcare franchise, including innovative and • GROWING PORTFOLIO IN CONSUMER value-added products and ambitious projects under HEALTHCARE AND OTC development, constitutes a major engine of the future growth of HRA Pharma. Currently, the HRA Pharma portfolio encompasses four well-known consumer and OTC brands in blister care, lip care, emergency contraception and intimate care. In • STRONG PRESENCE IN ENDOCRINOLOGY the years to come, HRA Pharma intends to pursue its & RARE DISEASES development combining organic growth with targeted The company has a fully-dedicated Endocrinology & Rare acquisitions. Our objective is to become one of the fastest Diseases division, which mission is to make meaningful growing Consumer Healthcare Company, while building health solutions broadly accessible to rare disease on our strengths for the benefit of our customers. patients. With a portfolio of medicines that address We are developing new products and identifying new Cushing’s syndrome and Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma, opportunities that fit our unique skills. Backed by the company’s goal is to support rare disease patients supportive shareholders, we have the resources to and healthcare providers with appropriate products and pursue our growth strategy and capitalize on investment services from diagnosis to treatment follow-up. opportunities as we uncover them. 4 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 We are an innovative consumer healthcare company, building and developing strong OTC and consumer healthcare brands BUSINESS ETHICS To better meet the needs of customers, patients and healthcare providers worldwide, HRA Pharma has built a scalable business model while reaffirming the principles of integrity and responsible business conduct. FOSTER ITS ENGAGEMENT Thus, HRA Pharma’s newly defined valuesPassion, Results-Driven and Trust – are now gradually inteWITH THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT grated into all levels of our organization. All around the world, HRA Pharma strives Equally important for long-term success is our to build lasting relationships with its inunyielding commitment to ethical, societal and endustrial and commercial partners. We bevironmental issues. As actors in health and econolieve that building quality relationships mic life, we are called to the highest standards of with our business partners is one of the integrity, respect and engagement in our behaviors, key factors to achieve growth and profieveryday, everywhere. This conviction is not new for tability. us. We made a major step forward by signing the Following our engagement with the UN Global ComUnited Nations Global Compact in 2012. In 2017, pact, HRA Pharma systematically introduces a clause we have taken important steps forward by develoto all newly negotiated and/or renewed contracts ping clear, visible and accessible policies and guidance informing the partner companies about HRA Pharin terms of ethics, anti-corruption, fair-competition ma’s engagement with the UN Global Compact and and countries under political trade restrictions. The requiring from every partner to confirm its commitcompany has also updated its Employee Handbook ment to the essential principles stemming from the to satisfy the most up to date legal and regulatory Global Compact. Since the beginning of our engagerequirements. ment in 2012, 244 contracts with the “UN Global Compact” clause have been signed. • Code of ethics A Code of Ethics, provides a set of simple principles and behaviors that should guide the Group PROMOTE A RESPONSIBLE and each of us in the everyday conduct of business. AND COMPLIANT CONDUCT HRA Pharma has a global dimension and the world in which we do business is changing at a rapid pace. Responsible and ethical conduct is inteIn the context of this continually evolving business gral to our corporate identity and forms environment a Code of Ethics offers a real value to the basis for the long-term success of our a company and constitutes a common benchmark to company. guide individual initiatives and ensure greater consistency in practices across the Group’s departments HRA Pharma’s strategic agenda initiated in 2016 and geographies. sets the ambition to become a global innovative Consumer Healthcare player, bringing solutions and In 2017, the company undertook a global review access to people globally. In 2017, according to the of all, already existing, corporate tools supporting company’s willingness to accelerate the deployment ethics. A new comprehensive and up to date Code of this strategy the Executive Leadership Team has of Ethics has been developed. Aligned with company implemented the company’s purpose, vision and values and all applicable laws, it addresses the full goals, and refined the set of core values that will range of ethical dilemmas employees are likely to guide our company’s direction in the years to come. face in their work. Additionally specific measures and 6 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS procedures have been implemented as part of our The company recognizes that fair and loyal comcompliance program. An internal system of alerts depetition is a key element for the development of the signed to enable employees to report any violations company and the market, and is also aware of the of the above Code of Ethics has been defined. commercial, financial, reputational and operational consequences that would arise from a breach of the In 2018, An Ethic committee called also “Risk Marules of free competition and therefore of the impornagement Compliance Board” will be set up and an tance of putting in place an adequate fair-competiEthical Lead will be appointed. Annual audits to assess tion compliance policy. For this reason, HRA Pharma the efficiency of the compliance program will be held has worked on this Policy in 2017. Directed towards and Code of Ethics-related trainings for employees HRA Pharma’s employees, advisors and all persons will be organized in 2018. Our objective is that all of who operate for the benefit of the HRA Pharma our people embrace this Code of Ethics as the best Group, this Policy will be disseminated among the way to support our business and fulfill our sustaiGroup in 2018. nable development responsibilities. • Anti-corruption compliance policy • International trade and restrictions compliance policy Corruption is a global ethical and legal issue of corHRA Pharma operates globally and deals with a porate and public life, having many forms and taking diverse range of third parties.The international complace in both developed and developing countries. munity within which HRA Pharma conducts business HRA Pharma is committed to conduct its business is subject to a number of measures that control with integrity and transparency and does not tolerate dealings with specific persons and/or countries, and any form of bribery or corruption. control the import/export of certain goods and In the previous years, HRA Pharma has published a services. It is important that HRA Pharma operates set of specific guidelines for its employees on conflict within the scope of any such limitations on trade. of interest, gifts and hospitality. Additionally specific A specific International Trade and Restrictions Comanti-corruption training courses had been provided pliance Policy has been developed by HRA Pharma in to selected employees. 2017 and will be shared with employees and relevant In 2017, HRA Pharma decided to strengthen its stakeholders in 2018. commitment to anti-corruption compliance by developing a most up to date Anti-Corruption Compliance • Employee handbook Policy. The objective is to guide all our employees in their daily practice, by supplying the necessary pracHRA Pharma Employee Handbook defines the tical knowledge to detect and prevent corrupt pracguidelines according to which the Company’s emtices, and to know how to act in compliance with ployees should operate. It clearly communicate anti-corruption laws. our workplace policies, processes, rules, norms and workplace behaviors. Its content has been reviewed Next year, this policy will be shared with all emand updated in 2017 in line with legal and regulatoployees and specific training courses will be provided ry requirements and in accordance with the newly to any employee exposed to the risks of bribery and developed set of policies related to ethics, anti-corinfluence peddling. Every employee will be required ruption, fair-competition, international trade and resto read the content of this Policy and carry out his/ trictions. her work and responsibilities in accordance with its principles. • Fair –competition compliance policy CHRA Pharma operates within the principles laid down by the domestic and international rules put in place to protect free competition and therefore, in carrying out its business, operates by promoting fair competition. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 • 7 We are an effective change agent aiming to provide innovative, self-care solutions to people globally COOPERATION & ENGAGEMENT At HRA Pharma, we firmly believe our employees are our greatest asset and an 26 % integral part of our success. We work hard to make sure 172 EMPLOYEES 75 WOMEN % MEN we attract, develop, retain (Dec 2017) 42 % and motivate our peopleto OF FEMALE ensure that they are insEXECUTIVES ON THE EXECUTIVE pired by our company and LEADERSHIP TEAM ledership. (Dec 2017) CULTURE – SUPPORTED PERFORMANCE TWO-WAY COMMUNICATION We strive for a performance-based culture based on individual accountability, which we believe WITH TEAMS supports our ability to successfully address our The company aims to build an environment that competitive market and to achieve ambitious promotes effective two-way communication objectives collectively. with its team. We ensure employees understand The Company strives to objectively evaluate each the company’s vision and purpose; are clear on employee’s contribution to the overall success of the their responsibilities; have the right information company. A critical factor in this work is to set, and to execute their role effectively; are given the continuously support, individual goals linked to our opportunity to give feedback and submit ideas to strategic business. Each year we bring improvements drive ongoing improvement. to our performance evaluation system with the There are a variety of ways that the company enobjective to provide an equitable measurement of an courages two-way communication; including regular employee’s contribution to the workforce thanks to team meetings, manager cascades, electronic newsthe use of standard evaluation forms and the SMART paper , access to the company intranet, senior leatechnique to goal setting. dership video and email broadcasts The company As performance is not only about what individuals also conducts employee surveys through a profesachieve but how the objectives are achieved, sional employee opinion consultancy. The survey faemployees are therefore expected to achieve the cilitates employee dialogue and is a tool to assess the individual and team performance results in line with levels of employee engagement. The results are used our three corporate values: Trust, Results-driven, as part of a process of continuous improvement. Passion. A Pulse Check survey was conducted this year cloTo assist managers in performance evaluation, the sing on May 2017 to take a temperature check on Human Resources & Communication department engagement levels. The results have been reviewed will be launching in Q1, 2018 a new online tool for by the Executive Leadership Team and action plans objectives setting and follow-up. have be created and cascaded through the Management teams to drive change in any areas where we felt we had not achieved results that we were hoping for. In line with our philosophy of continuous improvement, the Pulse check survey will be renewed on an annual basis. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 • 9 COOPERATION AND ENGAGEMENT LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT In the future, HRA Pharma plans to engage with customers in a number of different ways to improve on OPPORTUNITIES our products, services and sustainability. And overall The Company’s objective is to help its employees to create a better overall customer experience for perform at their best and bring about improeach customer. vements to the culture of the organization, so enabling improved staff wellbeing and enhanced ENGAGEMENT WITH organizational performance. THE MEDICAL COMMUNITY Learning and development is an important factor leading to opportunities at work. HRA Pharma enHRA Pharma has a fully-dedicated Endocrinology sures that all employees have opportunities for re& Rare Diseases division, which mission is to make gular learning and development and monitors the meaningful health solutions broadly accessible to level of employee attendance. Through its perforrare disease patients. With a portfolio of products mance review and appraisal schemes, HRA Pharma (medicines) that address Cushing’s syndrome and ensures that employees are given an opportunity to Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma, the company’s goal is take part in both job specific trainings and have indito support rare disease patients and healthcare providual development plan designed to promote their viders with appropriate products and services from opportunities and career advancements. Additionally, diagnosis to treatment follow-up. to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, all In 2017, HRA Pharma supported the development employees of HRA Pharma are requested to comonline of a Cushing’s syndrome knowledge center. plete HRA Pharma compliance training as part of This knowledge center is dedicated to healthcare their onboarding process into the organization. professionals, with the aim to raise awareness on the diagnosis and management of Cushing’s syndrome, for physicians from different specialties. InENGAGEMENT WITH CUSTOMERS deed, it offers an overview of the epidemiology and HRA Pharma puts its customers at the heart of pathophysiology of Cushing’s syndrome as well as everything we do. Customer feedback is absolutely guideline-defined best practice for its diagnosis and essential to help us understand and exceed expecmanagement. In addition, you can find sources of tations.Thanks to targeted acquisitions of renowned support via links to professional societies and paconsumer healthcare brands such as Compeed tient groups. The website is accessible on the folacquired in September 2017 as well as the strenlowing link: https://www.epgonline.org/cushings-syngthening of its leadership and management team drome-kc/en/. It has been developed by EPG Health with consumer health industry experts the company Media (Europe) Ltd for epgonline.org, supported by intends to become a significant player in the consuan unrestricted educational grant from HRA Pharma, mer healthcare field and a privileged partner for our and is intended for European Healthcare Professiocustomers. nals only. lF  ollow-up on mesures taken since 2013 at HRA Pharma Headquarters and Working its French operational subsidiary conditions HQs + FR Dec 2013 Sept 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 follow-up One day per week telecommuting system 14% 21% 19% 16% 17% Part time hours Data NA 15% 11% 9% 7% Child-care initiative 15% 16% 12% 20% 10 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 We empower people throughout the world to improve their lives by developing accessible, value added self-care solutions SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT HRA Pharma is aware about the ecological, social and economic impacts of each business activity and aims to develop its business while contributing to economic, environmental and social development RAISE AWARENESS INTERNALLY ON WOMEN’S ISSUES All around the world, International Women’s Day represents an opportunity to celebrate the The HRA Pharma achievements of women while raising awareness Company’s Foundation of the challenges and struggles faced by women worldwide and calling for greater equality. In March of each year HRA Pharma organizes an internal awareness raising event called “Women’s FOSTER WIDER ACCESS Week” with the aim of broadening understanding TO EFFECTIVE BIRTH CONTROL and mobilizing its staff around various women’s issues. In 2017, our program included: METHODS • a historical exhibition at our headquarters reHRA Pharma is proud to partner with Ibis Retracing the 60-year old history of the French productive Health and the OC OTC Working Family Planning ; Group to bring to the U.S. market a safe and • a talk by Ms. Emmanuelle Piet, Founder and effective over-the-counter contraceptive. President of Collectif Féministe contre le Viol, At HRA, we are proud of our pioneering work to a collective of feminist organisations against expand access to contraception for millions of worape This talk was held in conjunction with men. We share the OC OTC Working Group’s comour company’s Foundation, which financially mitment to increasing safe and effective options for supported this association in the past years. preventing pregnancy and improving the reproductive health of women in the U.S. Oral contracepSUPPORT SUSTAINABLE tives are some of the best-studied medicines on the market today and enjoy longstanding support from DEVELOPMENT THROUGH medical and public health experts. The science is A COMPANY’S FOUNDATION clear, and U.S. experts including The American ColleThe HRA Pharma Foundation was established in ge of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American 2012, to reinforce our historical corporate social Medical Association, and the American Academy of responsibility commitment and further promote and Family Physicians agree that oral contraceptives are support the implementation of programs and actiappropriate as an over-the-counter option. vities primarily in the area of women’s health. Our We look forward to working together to build a fudream is to foster young girls’ and women’s access ture where each woman can get the safe and highly to education, reproductive health and the arts across effective birth control method she prefers. the world. 12 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT We partner with likeminded individuals and organifined above. Grantees are responsible for the final zations worldwide to develop socially responsible elaboration, implementation and monitoring of programs in three focus areas: the project. They benefit from support from HRA • Education Pharma or other identified partners. Between 2012 and 2016, 44 projects from all around the We focus on providing educational opportuworld have been supported including 17 projects nities to girls and women worldwide. in Africa, 13 projects in Europe, 4 projects in Latin • Reproductive health America, 3 projects in North America, 3 projects Through our initiatives, we aim to expand in Asia and 1 project in Oceania. women’s access to safe, effective and modern methods of contraception and reproductive In 2017, a 5-year extension with an annual budget health services. of 150k€ was granted to the HRA Pharma’s Foundation by the HRA Pharma’s Group. • The arts We recognize that art and culture play a vital To know more about projects supported by our role in promoting social development. Foundation please refer to HRA Pharma corporate website www.hra-pharma.com. •F ostering employee MINIMIZE OUR engagement ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The Foundation provides support for charity or We aim to minimize our environmental impact community projects in which employees are enand help develop environmentally responsible couraged to take part. Each September a call for working environment. We intend to identify and projects is launched, aimed at employees, external control our environmental impact, and improve individuals, organizations or associations. our environmental performance. Proposals can include full programs or proof of • Dispose of waste in an environmentally concept initiatives to be expanded on a larger responsible manner scaled if pilot is successful. They should also in• Reuse and recycle where practicable clude ways to evaluate the outcome of proposed • Develop environmentally responsible initiatives whenever possible. working solutions • Promote sustainability within the Following a rigorous assessment, focused in partiorganisation cular on the social impact, aligment with the Foundation’s key areas of focus, employee involvement and budget, The board of HRA Pharma Foundation select one or several projects in each area deCOMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 • 13 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT •E nvironmentally responsible working • Recycling solutions HRA Pharma believes that recycling & We seek out new technologies and maximize recycling education are critical to sustaitheir use to reduce our environmental impact. nability. The company always assesses the usefulness of air travel while actively recommending and proMeasures taken in this field include: moting the use of information technology-based • Sorting plastic and paper for ways of communication With this in mind, Lifesize recycling. Cloud, a virtual meeting technology that provides •U  sing recycled paper an effective alternative to travel, has been imple•P  rint double-sided by default mented in all of our offices worldwide in 2015 •R  ecycling printer cartridges. (including HQs and subsidiaries). In 2017, commu•C  ommunicating electronically nications via this videoconferencing system repreto reduce paper consumption. sent about 230 calls per month. lE nvironmental key performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (as of Dec 1) (as of Dec 1) RECYCLING Paper A4 & A3 format bought (in kg) 1,351 1,435 1,342 2,475 2,300 1,919 Paper recycled (in kg) 2,022 2,075 2,630 1,950 3,329 3,299 CO2 CO2 equivalent (in kg) 1,112 1,141 1,447 1,073 1,831 1,814 kWh equivalent 8,088 8,300 10,520 7,800 13,316 13,196 Recycled plastic cups NA NA NA NA NA 53 (in kg) Recycled batteries NA NA NA NA NA 11 (in kg) 14 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2017 HRA-COM-1217-INT • Design & creation: scriptoria-crea 15, rue Béranger – 75003 Paris – FRANCE Tel.: +33 (0)1 40 33 11 30 – Fax: +33 (0)1 40 33 12 31 www.hra-pharma.com
