KBZ GROUP OF COMPANIES Communication on Progress 2017 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies CONTENTS Statement from the Senior Managing Page3 Director Introduction Page 4 Human Rights Page 5 Labour Rights Page 9 Environmental Issues Page 15 Anti-Corruption Page 17 Analysis and Strategy for Page 19 May 2017 – May 2018 Contact Details Page 20 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies Statement from the Senior Managing Director “We remain committed to the highest standards of international compliance across all of our business operations. We signed up to the UN Global Compact in May 2015 and have been continuously persevered to implement all the principles of the UNGC across our whole Group of companies. These themes encompass human rights, labour rights, the environment and anticorruption.” “With a total number of staff in excess of 80,000, this is a significant challenge, but I am proud that we have continued “Sustainable development and to make excellent progress with climate & disaster relief continue to our integration of these values. be key considerations in both our We are determined to ensure day to day activities and our our activities both benefit and philanthropic efforts. We are also are communicated to all sensitive to the importance of stakeholders within our sphere democratic change in our country of influence.” and the importance of the peace processes.” “KBZ will continue to cooperate with the Government, International organizations and U Nyo Myint foreign Governments to ensure Senior Managing Director it further strengthens its KBZ Group of Companies reputation as an exemplary global corporate citizen.” 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies INTRODUCTION In May 2015, KBZ Group became a signatory of the UN Global Compact and strives to adhere to all its 10 Principles. KBZ is fully committed to meeting its obligations towards the requirements of the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is also committed to following the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) core conventions and the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Performance standards. It is committed to providing all employees and other stakeholders with a secure environment and to treat them with respect and dignity. It has significant diversity in its work-force, which we believe contributes enormously to the Group’s success. Our core values as an organization determine the way in which we behave. On that basis, we have set out a Code of Conduct to which we expect all our staff, suppliers, contractors or other engaged parties to adhere. Our Code of Conduct outlines these commitments: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/sites/default/files/kbz_coc_eng.pdf Accountability for implementation of this Code of Conduct and the more detailed Stand-alone policies outlined below is designated to our Managers at all levels in all our companies. It is their responsibility to communicate the importance of the Code and policies to all staff, suppliers, contractors or other engaged parties or stakeholders to ensure the standards expected by KBZ are universally met. This process includes training, follow up support/engagement, reporting on issues and communication thereof as well as periodic reviews on quarterly basis. 4 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESMENT OF POLICY, GOALs SDG 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere. As an employer of more than 80,000 staff across a wide variety of sectors, KBZ is making a significant contribution to the Myanmar economy and the wellbeing of its employees who are all paid estimated at 50 to 55 million to a minimum of, or in excess people, fled overseas. Migrant of the minimum wage workers are among the 10% who requirements. are often exploited and abused because of the lack of proper travel The Brighter Future Myanmar documentation and thus the legal Foundation (BFM) is an award protection. The BFM provided winning philanthropic courtesy charter flights to foundation founded by KBZ 10 repatriate stranded Myanmar years ago. The mission of the migrant workers who were unable foundation is to uplift the lives to obtain pay for the flights by of the under privileged and themselves. impoverished at the grass roots level. Its goal is to help SDG 2: End hunger, achieve eradicate poverty in the long food security and improved term. nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Prior to the reopening of Myanmar to the world, a KBZ has some agricultural interests significant number of Myanmar and endeavors to ensure these are people emigrated. About 10% maintained to international of Myanmar’s population, standards of compliance. 5 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies KBZ has a strict policy to negate Meanwhile, BFM has provided fresh drinking water through under age employment. In tube wells as well as irrigation Myanmar where identity to support healthy living in rural documentation is not always areas. reliable, we do our utmost to ensure we are completely compliant and contributing to the eradication KBZ’s emergency disaster relief has impacted on broad tracts of of child labour in all our businesses. Myanmar’s affected regions and reinvigorate livelihoods and SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and sustainable agriculture. equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning Undertaking any new projects, opportunities for all. KBZ is committed to carrying out Environmental and Social We implement regular training Impact Assessments (ESIAs) to courses across the Group to ensure ensure land acquisition, all our staff are both prepared for environmental considerations the work they are carrying out and and social impacts are in to support them to strengthen their accordance with local law and skills in preparation for moving on international standards. to a higher level. For this purpose we use internal trainers, external SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives trainers and consultants to provide and promote well-being for the range of knowledge and all at all ages. expertise as necessary. KBZ acknowledges that all staff KBZ’s Women’s Empowerment work to reasonable daily hours project have included financial and have the right to periodic literacy, computer training, rest and leisure breaks with leadership skills and basic paid holidays according to or healthcare knowledge.. beyond national requirements. KBZ has a policy of equal pay for equal employment as well as respect for the right for free choice of employment in accordance with Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies SDG 6: Ensure access to IMPLEMENTATION affordable, reliable, sustainable management of BFM’s social initiative projects water and sanitation for all. primarily focus on five important sectors; Disaster Relief and KBZ makes significant Recovery, Women’s Empowerment contributions through its BFM and Health, the Environment, Youth Foundation to provide sanitary Development and Education and water supplies to staff and local Community Development and communities in the vicinity of Engagement. their areas of operations and further afield. BFM has donated Kyats 3 billion towards the Myanmar peace All our staff have free access to process (more than 2.2 million sanitary drinking water in the USD) through the National workplace. Canteens are Reconciliation and Peace fund. managed under hygienic conditions. BFM has worked together with the Ministry of Health & Sports & Smile SDG 7: Ensure access to Asia to support treatment for affordable, reliable, patients to receive evaluation for sustainable and modern cleft palettes at Yangon General energy for all. Hospital and in Taunggyi in Shan State. As a local partner, KBZ Group As the Nation’s leading tax volunteers committed a significant payer, KBZ contributes amount of time to provide expertise significantly towards the in logistics, administration, customs Government to support clearance, management & implementation of state recruitment to ensure the success supported health & welfare, of the ongoing education, and other projects such as access to energy. Our Land Acquisition Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/69.h Through KBZ’s extensive tml employment and fair remuneration packages, its staff Our CSR Policy: benefit from access to www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/99.h affordable, reliable and modern tml energy in the Myanmar context. 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies Our Land Acquisition Policy: implications. This amounted to a www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/6 total contribution of US$ 8 million. 9.html Staff retention and recruitment at Our CSR Policy: KBZ is emblematic of its reputation www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/9 as an employer of choice. 9.html Repeatedly recognized as the biggest tax payer in Myanmar, KBZ makes an enormous contribution to MEASUREMENT OF support those in need in one of the poorest countries in the region. OUTCOMES To date, BFM has invested in 163 patients have received excess of Kyats 64 billion evaluation for cleft palettes at (approximately in the region of Yangon General Hospital with US$60 million) in donations 113 receiving operations in towards social initiative projects. August 2016. BFM is currently once again partnered with BFM has donated over US$ 7.2 Smile Asia in Shan State to million in disaster relief for the provide free cleft operations to flooding of several states and 129 patients who have been divisions in Myanmar. During the registered. summer of 2016, BFM distributed 1,309,690 gallons of clean drinking In partnership with the water to 154,755 people living in International Organization for drought zones. BFM delivered Migration (IOM), KBZ 205,000 warm winter clothing for spearheaded several rescue those displaced by civil unrest, missions for 500 enslaved orphans and elders living in the Myanmar fishermen in hilly regions of Myanmar. Indonesia, 3000 migrant workers in Malaysia and 273 fishery workers in India with free Myanmar Airways International flights chartered by KBZ Bank. In 2016, KBZ had successfully built 143 wells and safe water facilities across the country. This has had a dramatic impact on an estimated quarter of a million people in Myanmar with hugely positive health 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies LABOUR RIGHTS ASSESMENT OF POLICY, GOALs SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Dynamic business models and sage leadership has led KBZ to being a leading conglomerate in the emerging Myanmar, voluntarily choosing to meet the highest international business standards by vigorously aiming to implement them with urgency. Although the process is challenging age, disability, religion, sexuality, across such a large nationality, ethnicity or any other organization, the distinguishing factors. It does not implementation has moved with tolerate discrimination of any impressive speed. All senior nature. No form of harassment is management are committed tolerated either within or outside and signed up to Group Policies the workplace. and they are cascading these principles across their specific This applies to our processes of areas of influence. hiring staff, evaluation of performance, promotions, training Included in our Code of Conduct & development, disciplinary and Stand-alone policies we processes, compensation and state our commitment to termination of contracts. We strive collective bargaining and to ensure any of these issue are freedom of association. KBZ is dealt with in a professional way in a an equal opportunities spirit of mutual respect and trust. employer, regardless of gender, 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies both their rights and obligations in We abhor any form of forced, the workplace through induction compulsory, bonded or child training programs and subsequent labour in our country or training or provision of updates elsewhere and will work to through various means including support ways to eliminate such email and website as well as practices while looking for ways workplace notices. to support families and individuals that find themselves These make clear appropriate in vulnerable situations that avenues to express concerns may lead to any such situations through our Grievance and Whistlewithin our Group. blowing mechanisms which are We also look to work with local, multi-fold according to the nature of the concern. These are outlined National an d International organizations to in the relevant policies. provide input and take advice. All staff have annual reviews to assess performance and training SDG 9: Build resilient requirements to support career development and identify training infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable opportunities associated with industrialization and foster individual strengths and directions innovation. of progression. These are generally performed by line Managers KBZ has introduced IT although our Human Resources Department is also available to give innovations in the banking sector including mobile banking, support in providing advice in e-commerce, online banking career issues. through KBZ Gateway. It has We have an active inclusion process also established the broadest to support people with disabilities network of ATMs and branches and have ensured facilities are in across the country and has place wherever practicable to partnered with Visa, support their requirements. MasterCard, Union Pay KBZ has been recognized by the International and JCV to Government for its activities in this facilitate international respect. KBZ prides itself on payments. inclusion and equal opportunities. KBZ staff are made aware of 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies Through our banking services we have a presence. and extensive branch outreach, we offer banking services KBZ Brighter Future Myanmar including personal service, Foundation takes pride in sending cashpoints, insurance and outstanding matriculation students mortgages. As the largest bank to Japan for an exchange-visit in the country, we provide a annually in collaboration with vital stability that supports Myanmar-Japan Association. The sustainable development and aim for the exchange program is to growth in the country as well as promote relations between two giving confidence to investors. countries while rewarding the outstanding Myanmar students in Our investment into the airline the matriculation exam. sector has provided connectivity to both nationals and foreign visitors through our multiple IMPLEMENTATION routes internally and internationally. Our two airlines Aside from our policies and training our proud to have achieved courses to help develop Myanmar international accreditation and to match regional and international look forward to continuing to standards, we are also supporting a care for our customers. broad range of social initiatives to enhance livelihoods and education. SDG 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries. We are also in support of MCRB’s Human Rights Impact Assessment As one of the poorest countries (HRIA) initiative to ensure the in South East Asia, we endeavor operations of KBZ have no negative to primarily raise standards at impact on stakeholders human home in order to restore our rights. country’s parity with our neighbors. However our longer According to the Singapore term perspective is to be a Management University Business regional and more broadly Families Institute, 82% of business international Group that families surveyed indicated that respects and supports non-family advisors are valuable in international laws and developing and mentoring their regulations as well as any next generation for critical roles in legislation and accepted norms the family business within any country within which 11 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies For reference visit: www.bfi.smu.edu.sg • Regulators • Partners “KBZ Group is undergoing a • Ethnic/Opposition Leaders period of immense change and • Lobby Groups transformation. We are • International institutions reviewing our business structures to see what needs to Our Grievance Policy: be changed. We are also www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/58.h transforming and retml engineering our business processes. We very much Our Employment Policy: understand the changes in www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/59.h politics, economics and foreign tml policy that require us to adapt to the new environment. We are identifying and developing MEASUREMENT OF our next generation of leaders and trusted advisors into OUTCOMES responsible owners and stewards who will help provide Approximately 60% of our staff at KBZ Bank are women and they also guidance and directions.” occupy an equal share of senior KBZ strongly values the support management positions. We also of its stakeholders which retain a majority of women staff in effectively grant it a social our airlines and significant license to operate. Stakeholders proportion in our other subsidiaries. mapping has indicated the following are key considerations BFM sponsored a total of 40 for KBZ: students on scholarships to Japan over the previous two academic • Staff years. • Customers KBZ currently has 5 staff employed • Local Communities with disabilities and provides • Government (National, facilities in the banks for disabled Local & Foreign) access. It also provides braille • Environment pamphlets and documents for staff • Suppliers/Contractors/Con or customers with impaired vision. sultants • Shareholders 12 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies KBZ has erected prominent signboards across its banks and other organizations in both public areas and staff communal areas outlining Grievance and Whistle-blowing Polices to encourage feedback to help KBZ improve its management and operational activities. Within KBZ we are undertaking a range of internal audits to ensure our practices are in line with international standards. passengers with dignity and Results of these help us to respect. improve performance with the support of international Our current international consultants. Subsequent to this consultants are sourced from process, we will engage across the globe and include external auditors and report on experts in, Compliance, Mining, findings. Child labour in mining CSR/Philanthropy, Banking & has been monitored carefully Finance, Legal, Airlines, PR and IT. and eliminated in 34 cases This forms part of a risk identified this year. In these management process to ensure cases, suitable support has KBZ strengthens is direction been provided for the child and towards the standards it strives to the family to subsidize the loss meet. of income enabling a return to school. All miners are obligated Our training courses have helped to to wear hard hats and cascade an understanding of our protective boots in their policies across the KBZ Group. A everyday operations. large majority of our 80,000+ staff have already signed up and we will Our airlines are accredited with continue to pursue implementation disability access with necessary over the next 12 months. support for passengers may to 25,000 microfinance women require the company of their across the country. guide dog or wheelchair access. We try to respect all of our 13 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies KBZ has provided microfinance loans, financial literacy, computer training, leadership skills and basic healthcare knowledge to 25,000 microfinance women across the country. KBZ has sponsored scholarships (1999-2015) for a total of 450 students graduated from Nursing, Economics, Nautical Engineering, IT, Technology, Education, Medicine, Science and Fine Arts Universities with degrees ranging from a Bachelor Degree to Ph.D. level. Every Summer, volunteers from BFM visits regional schools to donate school accessories and motivate the students. 14 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ASSESSMENT OF POLICY, GOALS SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. A key element of our approach to environmental issues is stakeholder engagement. We consider this to be a vital part audits and our work alongside of our Environmental organizations such as MCRB help to Management. This necessitates us ensure we meet the levels to which we aspire. implementation of due diligence processes in consideration of potential new projects with SDG 13: Take urgent action to support of the necessary combat climate change and its internal or external expertise. impacts. This includes carrying out Our Airline MAI is unique in ESIAs. Myanmar as the only airline to be SDG 12: Ensure sustainable IATA compliance and is working consumption and production towards achieving a zero carbon patterns. footprint. Our Procurement Policy reflects KBZ’s primarily office based industries such as the bank have our commitment to ensure all our sourced materials are in implemented policies to recycle line with our ethical standards. paper not to print documents Our Environmental Policy unless necessary and ensure reinforces the concept of minimized use of electricity. sustainable business practice within our Group which in combination with our Internal 15 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies For many of our staff we undergoing an audit to ensure we provide bus shuttles to and are meeting the relevant from work both for their benefit international standards of and for environmental benefits. compliance to which we aspire. Our vehicles are regularly serviced with a low carbon IMPLEMENTATION footprint, especially compared with local transport facilities. It In our mining operations, we have is also more convenient and taken precautions to ensure our environmentally protective than activities protect both our mine staff driving their own cars to workers and local communities. We work. have implemented an internal audit to ensure our mines meet required SDG 14: Conserve and international standards. sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources Our environment policy: for sustainable www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/68.h development. tml This is not an area in which KBZ is currently active with no fisheries or marine interests. MEASUREMENT OF However it has provided OUTCOMES extensive support to support to KBZ is actively implementing ESIAs disaster affected areas in the Delta region of Myanmar in the on all new projects of significance aftermath of the devastating and through its internal audit floods and storms in recent processes, it is carrying out ESIAs years. to ensure all businesses are meeting its standards according to our policies SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Our mining operations are 16 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT OF POLICY, GOALS SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. We have a policy of zero tolerance towards any forms of corruption, bribery or collusion with or failure to report cases thereof. In the case of gifts or KBZ will rigorously examine cases entertainment we have a strict where such issues are raised or threshold as outlined in our identified under the terms of our anti-corruption policy. Grievance-blowing policy. The KBZ Group is committed to This policy applies to all staff regardless of seniority and also leading the way by demonstrating includes our contractual internal accountability values and agreements with suppliers and matching or exceeding highest other contractors, consultants, international ethical standards. etc. Our whistle-blowing BFM has carried out significant mechanisms are clear in the Code of Conduct and Whistledevelopment work in regions across blowing policy whereby suitable the country in areas of conflict and channels are available to raise poverty or affected by natural issues through appropriate disaster in association with local channels according to the organizations to enhance sustainable development. nature of the situation. these policies as an obligation of their terms of work. 17 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies SDG 17: Strengthen the Our Anti-corruption Policy: means of implementation www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/57.h and revitalize the global tml partnership for sustainable development. Our legal and Compliance Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/62.h KBZ Group dedicated to tml engagement with local, regional and international think-tanks Our Whistle-blowing Policy: and other influential institutions www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/63.h to improve its own performance tml as a corporate citizen and build itself as a leader of sustainable Our Procurement Policy: development both in Myanmar www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/64.h and internationally. tml IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT OF KBZ’s policies have been OUTCOMES implemented with considerable vigilance to ensure the Group KBZ ranked No1 in the terms of retains its reputation as a transparency in the 2014 Myanmar responsible corporate citizen. Centre for Responsible Business’ This is considered extremely Pwint Thit Sa Report. It has important for the Group as a retained a ranking within the top whole. ten companies ever since. We will continue to rigorously ensure these standards are maintained and act accordingly should they be breached. We train and expect employees at all levels to understand and respect these policies as an obligation of their terms of work. 18 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies ANALYSIS & STRATEGY FOR MAY 2017 MAY 2018 We have carried out training over the last year initially through Board Members and Managing Directors across our subsidiaries to cascade knowledge throughout our organization. This process has been supported by external consultants and with the help and guidance of the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business. We will continue to evaluate and implement the most effective mechanisms to improve our performance as an organization. The majority of our staff has now signed up to our Code of Conduct and other policies and we will accelerate the implementation of this process over the next 12 months following the successes of our pilot implementation programs. We are continuing to work on our implementation of our Code of Conduct and policies across the Group which firmly reflects our Vision and Mission for business operations to be sustainable and responsible in our practices. Over the next 12 months, we will also continue to strengthen our reporting processes to further demonstrate our transparency. We will continue to engage with organizations with an interest in our operations such as the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business and Global Witness, the Government and all our other Stakeholders to help guide and improve our business decisions. BFM was founded in 2007 and has donated nearly Kyats 114 billion since then for the benefit of Myanmar society (equivalent to approximately US$ 114 million.” 19 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies CONTACT DETAILS Address: Unit 611, Strand Square, No. 53 Corner of Merchant Street and Bon Son Pat Street, Pabedan Township, Yangon, Myanmar. Tel: (+951) 01 230 7002 Fax: (+951) 01 230 7003 Email: info@kbzgroup.com.mm Website: www.kbzgroup.com.mm 20 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2017 KBZ Group of Companies
