Sustainability Report 2016 gri.com.es leadingthechange.com Sustainability Report 2016 Index Part I General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis ................................................................................................................ 8 Organizational profile ........................................................................................................... 16 Identified material aspects and boundaries ........... 28 Stakeholder’s engagement .................................................................................... 32 Report profile ............................................................................................................................................... 34 Governance ....................................................................................................................................................... 36 Ethics and integrity ..................................................................................................................... 44 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Dimension ...................................................................................... 50 Social Dimension ...................................................................................................... 66 Environmental Dimension ............................................................... 92 Part III Annexes Independent Review Report ................................................................. 106 GRI G4 Content Index ................................................................................................... 108 Contents based on the Principles United of the Nations Global Compact .................................................... 113 List of consolidated subsidiaries companies .......................................................................................... 114 Part I General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis ................................................................................................................ 8 Organizational profile ........................................................................................................... 16 Identified material aspects and boundaries ........... 28 Stakeholder’s engagement .................................................................................... 32 Report profile ............................................................................................................................................... 34 Governance ....................................................................................................................................................... 36 Ethics and integrity ..................................................................................................................... 44 Parte I Contenidos básicos generales Estrategia y análisis .......................................................................................................................... 8 Perfil de la organización ................................................................................................ 16 Aspectos materiales y su cobertura ................................... 28 Participación de los grupos de interés ......................... 32 Perfil de la memoria .................................................................................................................... 34 Gobierno ........................................................................................................................................................................... 36 Ética e integridad ................................................................................................................................ 44 Strategy and Analysis Letter from the President G4-1 Dear readers, It is with pride that I present, in the form of the 2016 Sustainability Report, the challenges overcome from the threefold economic, environmental and social perspective. The Report drawn up in accordance with the G4 version of the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, and audited by an independent external body. This document addresses the concerns of the company’s various stakeholders as regards those priority issues that could have an impact on the company. GRI Renewable Industries is a leading firm in the wind energy sector internationally, and is continuing to expand and position itself in new markets, while also manufacturing innovative products in response to the demands of its customers. One of the most significant events of 2016 was the inclusion of the Chinese subsidiary Shandong Iraeta Heavy Industries in the NEEQ (National Equities Exchange and Quotation), which reinforces our commitment into the Asian market and develop new products. We continue to develop the “General Internal Control Framework” begun in 2015 which responds to the identified risks in the company’s operations and the various countries where it does business. Among other aspects, we have defined the Internal Control Committee and Policy, a set of Entity Level Controls, along with the Risk and Control Matrix for each key business process. We are tied to value creation beyond financial returns. Our product focus wholly on the wind market, hence the generation of renewable energy. Therefore, we are committed to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), in particular those that contribute to minimising the effects of climate change, such as: • ODS 7.3: Advance towards the goal of doubling the global rate of energy efficiency improvement. • ODS 13.2: Advance in the various initiatives to combat climate change. Within this context, as a part of our goal of planting one tree for every tower produced the previous year, we would particularly highlight the reforestation initiatives undertaken in Galicia and Avila. The schemes essentially involved staff and families from the GRI Towers Galicia factory and head office in Madrid, respectively, planting a total of 1,250 shrubs. Thanks to the positive result of the initiative, new planting schemes are being planned for 2017 in a number of sites. GRI Renewable Industries 8 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Meanwhile, the manufacturing of 1,277 wind energy generation towers in 2016 meant an indirect contribution to avoiding the emission of 468,219 tonnes of CO2. Customers are a vital asset within the value chain, and we therefore continuously strive to improve our relationship, by fulfilling their requirements, demands and expectations. One clear example would be innovation projects, in particular the installation and hugely successful commissioning of our first hybrid tower at the Rondavino wind farm in Palencia. The Company collaborates with different foundations, to mention some, What Really Matters Foundation (WRM), Juan XXIII Roncalli Foundation, AESLEME (Association for the Research on Spinal Cord Injury) and World Central Kitchen (WCK). In addition, it undergoes local actions amongst which stand out the initiatives carried out by GRI Towers South Africa, primarily focused on the collaboration with local schools to educate children and destitute people in Atlantis community. The well-being of our employees is our priority. As a result, this was a key year in terms of Health and Safety, firstly through continuation of the Be Safe! awareness-raising campaign, with the aim of fostering an active role by all employees in improving safety, and furthermore the gradual implementation of the new IPRL Occupational Risk Prevention Index. The index establishes common health and safety criteria applicable to the factories, while also gathering together on all the specific aspects of the different technologies and production processes. Since its launch last year, it has enabled a considerable reduction in accidents, while in general minimising occupational risks at those factories where it has been implemented. All these achievements have been made thanks to our corporate culture, the values and principles that have steered us since the outset, and are expressed in our Sustainability Policy and our Code of Ethics. We meanwhile comply with all requirements imposed for the renewal of our commitment to the Global Compact in 2017 I would encourage all those with an interest to read this report and explore it in greater depth. All opinions and recommendations will be welcome, as they will help us remain an up-to-date and cutting-edge company. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 9 Letter from the CEO G4-1 Dear friends, It is with pleasure that I present our third Sustainability Report, corresponding to the year 2016, setting out the achievements made by GRI Renewable Industries in economic, social and environmental terms. During the financial year, we included within the scope of the Report information on the three factories in China: GRI Flanges China I, GRI Flanges China II and GRI Flanges China III, the new GRI Castings Zestoa foundry in Spain, and the new GRI Towers USA plant in Amarillo, Texas. We likewise included qualitative information on our three factories that are under construction. Following years of global uncertainty as a result of the economic crisis, we closed the 2016 financial year with a positive result, allowing us to make sustainable progress. We improved our earnings to 401,319 thousand euros, some 20% higher than the previous year, along with a substantial increase in investments, with CAPEX totalling 72,634 thousand euros. One of the most significant milestones during the year was inclusion in the NEEQ (National Equities Exchange and Quotation) of our subsidiary Shandong Iraeta Heavy Industries (SIHI), thereby taking a major step forward in the company’s goal of internationalisation. Our 2016-2019 Strategic Plan has a clear focus on sustainable growth, internationalisation and the diversification of our product portfolio for the wind energy market. In line with this goal, we embarked on the construction of three new factories, as summarised below: · “GRI Towers Sevilla” in Spain, our first factory focusing on the offshore market. Seville was chosen as the location, among other aspects, because of the space available, allowing us to achieve a production capacity of 110 offshore towers a year, as well as its dockside location, which hugely facilitates logistics. The plant will begin operations in 2017. · “GRI Flanges China IV”, which will allow us to manufacture 16-metre diameter flanges, using a wide range of materials and high-strength and stainless steels, copper alloys and aluminium, so as to serve the offshore market, nuclear, aerospace, pressure equipment production and other segments. · “GRI Towers India II”, construction of which began in December 2016. This new factory will allow us to make a contribution to fulfilling the ever-increasing demand on the wind energy market, above all in India. GRI Renewable Industries 10 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Meanwhile, we began operations at the “GRI Towers USA” factory, with production capacity of 300 towers/year, thereby allowing us to consolidate the company’s position on the North American market, and we have furthermore completed the adaptation and hugely successful commissioning of the “GRI Castings Zestoa” factory in Spain, our first foundry, which will allow us to supply steel for the manufacture of wind energy components, while also serving other markets. Given our activities, we believe that we must play a lead role in the fight against climate change. This is expressed in our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), and in particular the achievement of objectives connected with energy efficiency (SDG 7.3) and climate change (SDG 13.2). At GRI Renewable Industries, we offer high-quality, efficient and cost-effective products that hold all certifications and approvals required by customers and accredited bodies. Customers are at the heart of our business, and we therefore focus in particular on maintaining a fluid and satisfactory relationship with them. During the year we continue to advance and implement the measures begun in 2015, intended to improve quality, service and personalised attention, among other aspects, through the hiring of new professionals at each factory so as to optimise customer follow-up and management. We are committed to innovation so as to develop new products, working in partnership with our customers to adapt to their needs and requirements. The main objectives of our innovation projects are the development of taller, lighter and safer towers rooted to the new generation of higher-powered turbines, and the reduction in the unit price of our installations, while maintaining quality and safety conditions. These initiatives also help minimise the environmental impact of wind farms, by requiring fewer towers and increasing the generation of energy. Within this context, we would highlight the initiatives undertaken at “GRI Hybrid Towers”, with the installation of our first patented hybrid tower at the Rondavino Wind Farm (Becerril, Valencia), which will allow us to demonstrate the viability and efficiency of these installations, the Rocket Tower innovation project for the manufacture of towers more than 130 metres high, along with the corresponding approvals and certifications. Lastly, in order to develop these projects in both the tower and flange segments, we are making substantial investments and improvements in our processes, allowing us to be more efficient, and to cut production costs. As regards our professionals, we would emphasise the expansion of the workforce, to a level of 3,357 employees around the world, thanks mainly to the launch of the new factories in the United States and Spain. In conclusion, I would like to thank the whole team who make up GRI Renewable Industries for their effort, hard work, optimism and trust in the company, which is what allows us to be a leading firm in the wind energy sector. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 11 Main effects, risks and opportunities DMA and G4-2 GRI Renewable Industries strives to mitigate and reduce risks through mechanisms that are integrated within the organisation. The company enjoys a prominent position on the current landscape thanks to its activity, leaving behind a polluting energy model based on fossil fuels, as we convert to a renewable and sustainable model. This is how it contributes to the development of those communities where the company has a presence, through improvements and the reduction of pollution, and access to electricity. Operational risks Operating risks Reputational, ethical and As for operating risks, such as product failures, management problems, human rights risks competition, etc., various initiatives have been set up for improvement These risks arise through behaviour that and efficiency in production. These go hand-in-hand with innovation could potentially breach the guidelines projects that allow GRI Renewable Industries to improve and better set out in the GRI Renewable Industries adapt to its customers’ requirements. All of which is achieved without policies and codes as regards ethics, riundermining the quality for which the company stands out, while ghts and anti-corruption. To combat and adapting to the constant changes seen in the marketplace, such as minimise such risks, the company draws the consolidation and downsizing of major client companies. up policies and documents, such as the As a result, GRI Renewable Industries is increasing its efforts to improCode of Ethics, the Behavioural Guide in ve and retain the existing relationships with its customers, while also Response to Offering of Incentives, Gifts or developing new ties, as it expands its market by diversifying its serviInvites, the Harassment Prevention Guide, ce and product portfolio, without neglecting the high quality standards the Sustainability Policy and the Integrathat are its hallmark. ted Environment, Quality and Health and Safety Policy. In the field of the manufacturing of towers and other elements for the offshore market, GRI Renewable Industries will be playing a vital role The company has likewise established in corporate development. In this regard, 2016 saw the start of conschannels of communication in response truction of the GRI Towers Sevilla factory, dedicated to the offshore to any grievances and conflicts that might market, completion of which is scheduled for mid-2017, along with a arise. Given the type of service we provinew flange factory in China, and a tower plant in India. de and the companies we subcontract, no risks connected with child labour, threats Meanwhile, the Strategic Plan also includes an operational strand seto freedom of association or forced labour tting out the guidelines for efficiency and enhancement in production, were identified in 2016. During this period, as well as technological improvement and innovation in the products the factories were not examined or evaand services developed jointly with customers. luated as regards human rights. (G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6 and G4-HR9). Opportunities Thanks to the General Internal Control Framework the company Opportunities has in place, any possible failings that might arise in processes and Production plans have a local economic impact, above all those in developing supervision are analysed. This involves a testing procedure so as countries. They serve to generate new to ascertain whether efficiency and efficacy are being fulfilled in business opportunities for local suppliers processes, along with the guaranteeing of financial reporting and and services, create jobs in the region, compliance with the applicable legislation and standards. contribute to the development of the local economy and provide economic resources for public authorities, through the payment of taxes. GRI Renewable Industries 12 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Market risks Defined as the exposure of results and assets to a possible loss caused by variations in the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments as a result of changes in market prices, interest rates or exchange rates. • Exchange rate risk: the company operates on the international stage, and is exposed to exchange rate risk through foreign currency operations. At 31 December 2016, as in 2015, there were trade receivables and payables registered in currencies other than the euro, and as a result variations in the exchange rate of said items are recorded on the income statement at the close of the financial year. Financial risks • Price risk: the company operates with raw materials that are partially exposed to the risk of variations in the prices that might apply on international The activities of GRI Renewable Inmarkets. dustries are exposed to various fi• Exchange rate risk from cash flows and fair value: as the Company does nancial risks: market risk, credit risk not have any major remunerated assets, revenue and cash flow from opeand liquidity risk. The Company’s rating activities are fairly independent of variations in market interest rates. overall risk management programThe company analyses its exposure to interest rate risk on a dynamic basis.A me focuses on the uncertainty of simulation of various scenarios is performed, taking into account re-financing, the financial markets and aims to renewal of current positions, alternative financing and hedging. Scenarios are minimise any potential adverse implemented only for those liabilities that represent the most significant inteeffects on its financial profitabilirest-bearing positions. At 31 December 2016, as in previous financial years, ty. The company uses derivatives and based on the consideration that this risk would be of little significance, to reduce the impact of exchange along with the optimistic expectations as regards the evolution of interest rate risk. rates, the company did not feel it was necessary to arrange any interest rate Risk management is handled by hedging contracts. the Finance Department, which Credit risks identifies, evaluates and hedges Credit risk is derived from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instrufinancial risks in accordance with ments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, and essentially customer the policies approved by the Board balances pending collection. of Directors. With regard to banks and financial institutions, the average rating of the entities Below are summarised the most that the company uses is “BB”, while in accordance with credit risk, the company significant financial risks: insures its sales to customers based on geographical location. If customers have been rated independently, then these ratings are used. Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, credit control evaluates the client’s Opportunities credit quality, taking into account its financial position, past experience, and other Operating in different countries factors. provides a competitive opportunity and the chance to develop a Liquidity risks close relationship with customers, Prudent management of liquidity risk involves holding sufficient cash and tradable thereby mitigating risks or incisecurities, having access to finance through a sufficient sum of agreed credit facilidents that could arise in certain ties and having the capacity to unwind market positions. Given the dynamic nature countries, by offsetting against of the underlying businesses, the company’s Cash Management Department has others that are more stable and the aim of maintaining flexibility in financing, through the availability of shortand offer more profitable and sustailong-term credit facilities. nable growth. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 13 Social and enviRisks connected Risks: ronmental risks with health and confidentiality Growth forecasts indicate that over the coming decades the world’s posafety and privacy pulation will shoot above 7.3 billion, Health and safety is a priority objecInformation Security reaching 8.5 billion by 2030, and 9.7 tive for the company. The model is based on Integrated Prevention, in GRI Renewable Industries is convinbillion by 2050, according to calcuced that information has become a lations by the United Nations (UN), accordance with the Health and Safety Policy, compliance with which strategic asset for businesses and mainly as a result of demographic individuals alike. growth in developing countries, abois mandatory, and applicable to all ve all in Africa. professionals at company facilities, The required mechanisms are theas well as in the fulfilment of the refore established to safeguard the This growth means more intensive requirements and obligations estaprivacy of information and the prouse of the available natural resourblished in the health and safety matection of customer and supplier ces, products and services, and hennagement system under standard data, and also properly to handle ce a greater environmental impact OHSAS 18001. and manage documentation in acand increasing atmospheric emiscordance with its level of signifisions. cance, and to underpin security. To minimise this impact, GRI ReOpportunities Information security procedures newable Industries helps to enThe implementation of new moare periodically reviewed, and the hance its management by means nitoring and measurement indices systems are continuously tested to of its Integrated Management Sysfor health and safety aspects helps guarantee their robustness. tem, which includes environmental detect new opportunities for imIn 2016, the following initiatives management under standard ISO provement. were conducted, among others, to 14001, along with the contribution improve the security policies: that its own operations make to the generation of renewable energy. • Periodic scanning of the systems to identify external and Likewise, the company incorporainternal vulnerabilities and to cotes the principle of caution through rrect these in accordance with its Code of Ethics and Conduct, the their level of criticality. Sustainability • Diagnosis of information security and risks, based on standard ISO Opportunities 27000. Renewable energies are becoTo reinforce awareness and training ming more important year by year, among group employees, training and to this end GRI Renewable initiatives and campaigns were Industries strives to offer a more staged. Of particular note was the efficient and innovative product, “Anti-Phishing” campaign conducted by developing products with the in November 2016, with the aim of lowest possible impact. Innovation detecting the degree of vulnerabiliand new technologies are the avety, and raising employee awareness nues pursued so as to address the about this type of attack. Training challenges that arise day by day in sessions were subsequently held to the wind sector. address prevention and protection techniques at corporate offices and at the plants, given the risk that this new type of criminality represents for people and assets. GRI Renewable Industries 14 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Business Process Support Systems are a fundamental element in executing business processes. To this end, the IT Department centralises the Group’s infrastructure and communications services, while conducting transformation projects in parallel to align systems with the company’s growth and new processes, placing the focus on business support, efficiency, and profitable and sustainable growth. These services are managed with third parties, in accordance with an impartial process to publish the specifications dossier, followed by the receipt and evaluation of bids, and finally selection in accordance with quality criteria for business support and IT systems efficiency. In this regard, the Systems area was involved both in the incorporation of new companies within the group (GRI Castings Zestoa, GRI Towers USA, GRI Towers Sevilla), and the new challenges faced by the organisation in its strategy of innovation and the enhancement of productivity and efficiency, such as the indicator dashboard, and the launch of digitisation initiatives. Opportunities Monitoring, control and diagnosis mechanisms serve to detect opportunities for improvement at the information security area. All of which is underpinned by training and communication. Situation in 2016 In 2016, GRI Renewable Industries • Low oil and gas prices. faced various risks as a result of the • The risk of a new global financial crisis. market situation in the countries • The attempted coup in Turkey where it is present. Overall, this had • In the West, the impact of Brexit, political instability in Spain and no significant impact on the results for uncertainty caused by Donald Trump’s victory in the US election. the financial year, thanks to diversification across different markets. • The slowdown of the Chinese market. The most significant risks identified • The trend towards the consolidation of major customers, reducing during the period were: the overall number. • The rise in raw materials prices, specifically steel. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 15 Organizational Profile Name of the organization and headquarters G4-3 and G4-5 GRI Renewable Industries S.L. The headquarters is located at: Street Ombú 3, floor 12 28045 Madrid (Spain) GRI Renewable Industries 16 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Brands, products and services G4-4 GRI Renewable Industries began its journey in the renewable energies sector in 2008, swiftly consolidating its position as the leading industrial supplier of towers, flanges and castings in the sector. The company applies the very latest technology in its industrial processes, allowing it to supply high-quality products and services to customers worldwide. They are grouped into 3 divisions: GRI Towers GRI Flanges GRI Castings This is the division responsible for This is the company responsible maGRI Castings Zestoa was set up in the industrial process of tower nufacturing flanges, the product used 2015 for the purpose of producing manufacturing worldwide for the to connect sections of wind towers. steel components for the wind inleading OEMs in the wind energy It currently has 5 plants in operation, dustry. The Casting division currently market. It likewise handles the across Spain, Brazil and China, and 1 has one single plant, although the outfitting of towers in accordance under construction. possibility of expanding the market with the specifications established by producing blanking and stamping by each customer. It currently runs parts has not been ruled out. 6 plants in operation, with 2 under construction. All the factories at the different divisions operate using the same brand identity The same structure is maintained in all cases, while specifically detailing the type of product or service performed (towers, flanges or castings). At each of the factories, the logos are customised with the name of the country or region. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 17 Global Presence and main figures G4-4 and G4-6 Towers * GRI Headquarters Madrid** Towers * Facilities under construction Brazil **Offices and logistic Flanges Data updated at the end of December 2016. Brazil Services ** Brazil GRI Renewable Industries 18 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Towers Turkey Flanges China I Flanges China II Flanges Towers China III India I Towers * India II Flanges * China IV Towers South Africa Main Figures G4-9 € € € 7 12 3 3,357 330,989 401,319 Countries Operative Facilities Professionals Thousand € Thousand € plants under Equity Sales construction GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 19 Ownership structure and legal form G4-7 GRI Renewable Industries, S.L. was established on June 22, 2008 under Markets the name of “Gonvarri Infraestructuras Eólicas”, later it was denominated G4-8 “Gestamp Wind Steel”, before changing to “GRI Renewable Industries” and GRI Renewable Industries has a absorb Gonvarri Eólica. presence in 7 countries, which are It is engaged in the manufacturing of towers, flanges and castings, along home to its 12 operational factowith integration of the entire value chain in the renewable energies secries, 3 under construction, as well tor, by applying the very latest technology to industrial processes, thereby as offices and service centres. The consolidating its position as the leading industrial supplier in the renewable company’s products and services energies markets, through the following divisions: GRI Towers, GRI Flanges, are summarised under indicators GRI Castings. G4-4 and G4-6. In 2015 it reached an agreement with the Mitsui & Co Ltd Group, which During the year we launched our acquired a 25% stake in the divisions specialising in the manufacture of first factory in Texas, “GRI Towers towers, flanges and castings for the wind sector. The corporate structure is USA”, which will allow us to serve summarised below: the US market, as well as a new foundry in Spain, “GRI Castings Zestoa”, allowing us to serve the remai25% Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 75% Holding Gonvarri, S.L ning facilities. Meanwhile, the future “GRI Towers Sevilla” factory marks the start of our venture in the offshore market, and the construction of the new GRI Flanges China and GRI Towers India factories underpins our presence in this market, mainly in Asia. The subscribed capital stock at 31 December 2016 amounts to ten million twenty-one thousand three hundred and forty-four euros (€10,021,344), represented by three hundred thousand four hundred (300,400) shares of one single class and series, of a par value of thirty-three euros and thirty-six eurocents each (€33.36). They may be accumulated but not divided, are numbered in sequence from 1 to 300,400, both inclusive, and are fully subscribed and paid up. The company is not listed on the Stock Market. GRI Renewable Industries 20 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Employee workforce G4-10 Direct and indirect employment USA During 2016, the workforce of GRI Re6% Turkey newable Industries was made up of 9% 27% China 3,357 professionals, distributed across 7 countries. A total of 261 external profesSouth Africa 10% sionals likewise collaborated with us. The enclosed graphic shows the percen11% India tage of employees in each country: 19% Spain 18% Brazil 2015 2016 The workforce increased consideraDirect employment M W M W bly in comparison with the previous Spain 340 65 559 86 year, mainly through the addition of Brazil 672 110 525 82 the new factories in Spain and the Turkey 310 8 289 10 USA, as well as the inclusion of our India 358 1 381 1 factories in China within the scope South Africa 93 12 322 29 of the Report. These changes have USA 164 14 a similar impact on the indirect emChina 712 183 ployment figures. Indirect employment M W M W The enclosed tables show the distriSpain 208 28 10 2 bution of direct and indirect employBrazil 3 4 1 0 ment by country and gender. Turkey 0 0 18 6 India 26 0 146 0 South Africa 0 0 0 0 USA 78 0 As for job stability, this is a priority China 0 0 for the company, as reflected in the results: 99.8% of employees have a full-time contract (88% men and Nº OF EMPLOYEES 2015 2016 12% women). Meanwhile, 84% of the workforce has a permanent conLabor Contract (Time) H M H M tract. Full-time 1,993 209 2,950 399 Part-time 17 19 2 6 The following tables summarise Labor Contract (Kind) H M H M the distribution by gender, type and Permanent 1,773 196 2,438 366 contract duration. Temporary 237 32 514 39 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 21 Employees covered by collective agreements G4-11 The employees of GRI Renewable Industries are covered by collective agreements and/or similar arrangements in accordance with local requirements and legislation in each region where the company has a presence. 18% of the workforce is covered by a Handbook, namely a guide specifying employment conditions, the behavioural standards in each location, indicating the rights and duties of employees with regard to working hours, salary, social benefits, holiday periods, etc. 55% are covered by sectoral collective agreements or similar arrangements. The remaining 27% correspond to our employees in China, who have agreements or similar formulae in accordance with the specific provisions established in connection with collective consultation issues and collective agreements, governed by the Ministry of Employment and the legislation in force in the country GRI Renewable Industries 22 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Supply chain DMA, G4-12, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-SO9 and G4-SO10 For GRI Renewable Industries, suppliers are a hugely important asset within the value chain, as project planning is dependent on them, while they likewise represent a considerable volume of the cost involved. The corporate “Supply Chain” division handles this entire process, comprising the following areas: Supply and management of warehouses, Purchases (direct and indirect), Supplier Quality, and Logistics. The different areas that make up this division are as specified below: Supply and warehouses Direct Purchases This area is a fundamental part of the supply chain, as For GRI Renewable Industries, the main raw material, in the first link in the whole process within the supplier area. terms of both volume costs, is steel. In order to purchaIn order to ensure that the whole process runs smoothly, se this in some countries where the company operates the procurement team needs to ascertain that suppliers limitations exist, both in legal terms and through custocomply with the specified deadlines in order to offer the mer requirements. plants an adequate service, monitor alignment between In the steel purchasing process, only those suppliers the end costs and the budget, and foster the usage of with a proven record in the marketplace are selecnew technologies in pursuit of synergies, optimising mated. Responsibility for this lies in most cases with the nagement within the supply chain. purchasing area, following completion of the supplier They are furthermore responsible for maintaining approval questionnaire known as the SIA (Supplier Inicontinuous communication with the stakeholders in tial Assessment). the project, and managing the risks identified. So that The SIA evaluates 100% suppliers for aspects conneceverything runs smoothly, periodic meetings are held to ted with the environment, health and safety, human identify these risks and establish mechanisms to minirights and employment and social aspects (G4-HR10, mise them. G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-SO9). For 2017, the plan is to Those responsible for warehouse management aim to include new requirements regarding human rights and optimise these facilities so as to reduce costs, manage compliance as part of the assessment questionnaire. stock levels and improve the service without undermiMeanwhile, a new clause was included in supplier conning quality or turnaround times. tracts in 2016, by means of which the contractors register their acceptance of and commitment to comply with the GRI Renewable Industries Code of Ethics and ConPurchases duct, which is included as an annex to the contract itself. For those materials purchases where this is applicable, Within the purchasing area, there are two separate the provenance of the material is specified as a requiteams for supplier selection and materials purchasing: rement, as materials cannot be sourced from foundries “direct purchases” and “indirect purchasers”, dedicated using so-called conflict minerals (coltan, casiterite, gold, to aspects of the production process and investments, wolfram, tantalus, tin, or any other mineral or derivative) supplies and services, respectively. that could contribute to the funding of conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighbouring countries. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 23 Growth in the 2016 financial year, through the purchase of a new rolling mill at GRI Flanges Iraeta, the commisSupplier Quality sioning of the GRI Castings Zestoa foundry and the new The quality departments at the corporate level and at GRI Towers USA plant. This required an in-depth review each factory are responsible for supervision and overof the area to adjust to new requirements and market sight of products, together with the customer service conditions. department. In order to resolve any supplier complaints, the head of quality at the plant is responsible for administering the process up to closure. Indirect purchases Thanks to all the projects begun during 2016, the suFor those purchases connected with investments, supplier quality area established goals focused on the repplies and services, etc., a supplier and subcontractor duction of complaints and the associated costs. To this selection process has been performed, in accordance end, new specific procedures and new monitoring indiwith criteria of service quality, market position and risk cators were drawn up, with implementation scheduled prevention. for early 2017. In the case of indirect purchases, completion of the SIA The Supply Chain Area was expanded in 2016 with the (supplier approval questionnaire) is voluntary, although incorporation of new professionals at all the plants. The all contracts include a mandatory Code of Ethics and aim here is to improve coverage of all aspects connected Conduct acceptance and commitment clause. with the supply chain at each factory. Meanwhile, inforGRI Renewable Industries does not evaluate environmation is to be formally included as regards sustainabimental impacts (G4-EN33), or impacts on employment lity, ethics and human rights in the product and/or propractices (G4-LA15), social impacts (G4-SO10) or hucess audits, as a part of the General Process Check List. man rights impacts (G4-HR11) with any actual or potential significant negative effect in the supply chain. . Logistics The external process logistics area refers to internationalisation with the aim of reducing transportation costs, improving service and generating a competitive advantage against rival firms in the sector.. GRI Renewable Industries 24 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Relationship with suppliers Expenditure on local GRI Renewable Industries only selects major suppliers that can handle the orders in question. suppliers G4-EC9 Assessment and approval of these raw materials and materials suppliers (steel, paint, etc.) are coordinated and managed by In 2016, the expenditure on suppliers amounted to head office in Madrid, through the Purchasing Department, fo400,108,238 euros, of which 78.46% corresponds llowing a procedure that requires evaluation of all new suppliers, to local suppliers. The table below sets out the perand re-evaluation of existing suppliers every two years. centage distribution by country: This evaluation is performed by means of the SIA (Supplier Initial Assessment) questionnaire, which includes numerous aspects connected with quality, the environment and safety, as well as requirements associated with ethics and human rights. For all 97% 96% 83% applicable materials, there is the further requirement that they must not be sourced from foundries using “conflict minerals”. A 79% 78% total of 49 suppliers were evaluated and re-evaluated in 2016. 68% In addition to the evaluation, in situ audits are conducted by the purchasing team, about products and processes. As one aspect 52% for improvement, the plan 2017 is to include and verify on the audit checklist the availability of codes or policies as regards ethics and anti-corruption, the availability of information and the 22% Sustainability Report, along with demands as to suppliers with regard to conflict minerals.. Spain Brazil South Africa Turkey India USA China Total GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 25 Significant Changes External initiaG4-13 tives supported • In 2016, “Gonvarri Eolica S.L.” changed its company name to “GRI Renewable Industries, S.L.” by GRI Renewa• On 29 August 2016, Beijing was the setting for the ceremonial inclusion in the NEEQ (National Equities Exchange and Quotation) of ble Industries the Chinese subsidiary of GRI Renewable Industries, S.L., Shandong G4-15 Iraeta Heavy Industries (SIHI). GRI Renewable Industries contribu• The scope of the Report has changed since the previous year, as a tes to cultural, social and educatioresult of the commissioning in July and August 2016 of the new “GRI nal integration by fostering social Towers USA” factory in Texas, and “GRI Castings Zestoa” in Spain, as progress and equality. Social action well as the addition of our three factories in China. projects are aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals of the • Qualitative information is included on the future factories under United Nations, setting the priorities construction in China, “GRI Flanges China IV”, in Spain, “GRI Towers for global contributions. Sevilla”, and in India, “GRI Towers India II” Within this context, the company aims always to combine the utmost Principle of precaution social impact with consistency with its business daily operations. G4-14 By means of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the Sustainability Policy and the Environment Policy, GRI Renewable Industries includes the Associations principle of precaution, while also dedicating its efforts to the protection of the environment and continuous improvement. and organizations G4-16 Colaborate with: · AICA: Carballiño Industrial Area Association · ASIME: Metal Industries Association · AIMEN: Metallurgical Research Association of the Northeast · BOSB: Bandirma Organize Industrial Zone · GTO: Gönen Chamber of Industry · BSO: Balikesir Chamber of Industry · IMMIB: Istanbul Metal and Mining Exporter Commerce GRI Renewable Industries 26 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures United Nations Global Compact The company’s objective is to promote and implement the 10 universal principles on Human rights, labor standards, the environment and the business strategy of the companies. Therefore, in 2014 GRI Renewable Industries adhered to the United Nations Global Compact, fulfilling all the necessary requirements for the renewal of the commitment in 2017. What Really Matters (LQDVI) Foundation Since 2013 GRI Renewable Industries has supported the LQDVI Foundation, dedicated to promote the dissemination of universal human, ethical and moral values to young people through the development of congresses in which stories are presented as personal growth and hope for the future. In 2016, a project has been done together with the foundation to promote values among the company’s employees. AESLEME (Association for the Study of Spine Injuries) In 2016, the collaboration with AESLEME was renewed, aiming at the prevention of accidents and their serious consequences, social awareness of the problems that people face after an accident and the improvement of their quality of life, offering them support psychological and legal. Seres Foundation The aim of SERES is to make companies play a more relevant role in improving society, through initiatives focused on creating value and assuming their role as a key agent to solve social problems. John XXIII Foundation for mental disability GRI Renewable Industries has been supporting the Foundation since 2007, whose mission is to improve the quality of life of adults with intellectual disabilities and to promote their social integration. Also, it carries out actions aimed at helping them to develop and interact in the place where they live, acquire an office through an adapted vocational training center and facilitate them in the job search process. World Central Kitchen (WCK) Word Central Kitchen is a non-profit organization whose mission is to find sustainable solutions to end food insecurity and malnutrition in areas suffering from humanitarian disasters. The company supports this organization every year. Since it started in 2013. Aladina Foundation It is a Spanish entity founded in 2005, which aims to help children and adolescents with cancer and their families. GRI Renewable Industries started its collaboration in 2016. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 27 Identified material aspects and boundaries Coverage G4-17 Scope This Report sets out information regarding the 2016 financial year, Content, scope and principles. running from 1 January to 31 December. In the case of references to Material aspects information from outside the stated G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 and G4-27 period, this will be clearly indicated The Sustainability Report and Materiality Study were drawn up in accorin the corresponding subsection. dance with the guidelines established for the preparation of sustainabiliIn comparison with the previous ty reports by version G4 of Global Reporting Initiative, while definition of year, we have extended the scope the content and scope took into account all activities of GRI Renewable of information to cover our three Industries. factories in China and the new faciThe 2016 Materiality Study allowed us to identify the most significant lities at “GRI Towers USA” in Texas, aspects for our stakeholders. The second part of the Report provides and “GRI Casting Zestoa” in Spain. extended information on the material topics. Meanwhile, qualitative information The Report has been drawn up in accordance with the “Principles” to is included on the future factories determine the content of the report established by GRI, as summarised “GRI Flanges China IV”, “GRI Towers below: Sevilla” and “GRI Towers India II”. • Sustainability context: the report presents the performance of the organisation within the broader sustainability context Limitations on • Materiality: the Report sets out and develops in Part 2 the material aspects reflecting significant economic, environmental and social the information effects For those indicators where informa• Participation of stakeholders: stakeholders are identified throution is not available, “not available” ghout this section, and the dialogue mechanisms indicated will be stated. • Comprehensiveness: the Report addresses the organisation’s perFor those where the coverage and formance in all material aspects and their coverage. scope differ from that indicated, the relevant specifications will be given. GRI Renewable Industries 28 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Process of execution of the materiality study A B C D IDENTIFICATION PRIORIZATION VALIDATION REVIEW A. Identification of relevant aspects B. Priorization In order to determine the external context of the comUFollowing identification, the 23 topics were weighpany, a benchmarking process was conducted of comted by importance, viewed in terms of the impact on panies in the sector, detecting trends as regards sustaisustainability, and both the internal and external persnability, and other significant topics. As for the internal pectives. context, consideration was given to the material topics Prioritisation of the identified aspects took into achighlighted in the 2015 Materiality Study, along with count their importance as regards relevance for stakethe recommendations report generated by an indepenholders, as summarised below: dent body. This resulted in the identification of 23 topics. Internal perspective • Analysis of content and objectives of the company established in the Strategic Plan C. Validation • Policies and undertakings acquired by the company • Internal prioritisation of topics drawn up by Senior All the topics identified were reviewed and approved by Management, taking into account the opinion as to the CEO. the importance category assigned to the aspect, and also its timeframe (relevant impact in the short, meD. Review dium or long term). Furthermore, following publication of the Report approExternal perspective priate mechanisms will be established in order to be able to obtain feedback. Following this process, 18 material • Analysis of the most relevant topics for the competition issues were defined, as summarised below: • Topics identified in the press • Assessment survey regarding material topics for employees, on this occasion involving: 25% of the workforce. • Information, requirements and vision of sustainability of the main customers and suppliers. Identified material aspects GOVERNANCE-ETHIC PRODUCT 1 Global Presence 10 Quality Importance for the stakeholders 90% 2 Ethic and integrity 11 Technology and innovation 3 Fight against corruption 12 Product 4 Risk management 80% 1 16 ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE AND EMPLOYMENT 13 Use of raw materials 70% 2 18 5 Diversity 14 Energy 7 17 5 6 8 4 6 Human Rights 15 Emissions 14 15 10 3 12 7 Health and Safety 16 Environmental management 60% 11 13 culture 9 8 Talent Attraction ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT 50% 17 Customers LOCAL COMMUNITIES 18 Supply Chain 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 9 Impact, dialog with the community Importance for GRI GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 29 Summary of material topics G4-20, G4-21 and G4-27 RELEVANT MATERIAL IMPORTANCE STAKEHOLDERS RESPONSE ASPECTS ASPECTS Commitments Part 1 General Companies are currently required not only to comply with the applicable Ethics, integrity legislation, but also standards of ethics and integrity in their management. undertaken standard disclosures and compliance A failure to do so involves exposure to significant risks as regards Employees Part 2 Economic competitiveness, reputation and possible penalties. Dimension Clients and Suppliers Furthermore, companies are exposed to different types of risk (financial, Management environmental, legislative, reputational, etc.) that could depend on both Part 1 General Commitments Risk external and internal factors. It is essential to identify these risks so as to be undertaken standard disclosures management able properly to manage them by means of appropriate plans and control Part 2 Economic Government mechanisms. Risk management provides solidity and trust, and contributes to Employees Dimension Ethics the sustainable development of companies. Clients and Suppliers The fight against corruption is one of the greatest challenges of modern society. The main concerns focus on irregular practices in purchasing Commitments Part 1 General processes, tax evasion, the awarding of contracts, permits and authorisations undertaken Fight against without transparency, and unlawful payments. Given this situation, it is standard disclosures corruption important to develop mechanisms above all to prevent and, where necessary, Employees Part 2 Economic to combat corruption. Meanwhile, clear and transparent information for Clients and Suppliers Dimension stakeholders underpins the trust and competitiveness of companies. Management Maintaining a significant position in strategic markets and the existence of Commitments Part 1 General Global presence proven solvency help companies achieve financial robustness. Meanwhile, undertaken standard disclosures and financial diversification of products, locations and markets, alongside experience Employees Part 2 Economic soundness and know-how, serve to diversify customers and identify new business opportunities, and thereby profitable and sustainable development. Clients and Suppliers Dimension Mass Media The proper management of the supply chain, maintaining lasting and stable Management relationships with suppliers, promotes quality and good performance on the Commitments Responsible part of the company. Meanwhile, customers increasingly demand fulfilment undertaken Part 1 General Economic supply chain of environmental and ethical requirements, safety and human rights Employees standard disclosures throughout the supply chain, enabling the economic development of the Management regions where the company operates. Clients and Suppliers Customer satisfaction is a strategic goal for most companies. Elements such as quality, timely delivery, communication and the efficient handling Management of complaints help to develop and guarantee satisfaction, forging strong Commitments Client and lasting relationships. Within the current context of economic crisis and Part 2 Economic management undertaken reduced demand, the ability to develop quality products and to provide Dimension and satisfaction efficient services aligned with the requirements imposed, and also to Employees anticipate customer needs, make a significant contribution to corporate Clients and Suppliers competitiveness. Good business practice means operating efficiently and responsibly, so as Commitments to supply more competitive, cost-effective and environmentally friendly undertaken Part 2 Environmental products. Having in place environmental management systems that take management Sector Environmental into account the control and monitoring of indicators such as consumption and impact of raw materials, water usage, and generation of waste, serve to detect Employees Dimension opportunities for improvement and to reduce environmental impact. Clients and Suppliers Use of raw More efficient usage of resources offers both ecological benefits, by Management Part 2 materials and reducing the negative impact on the environment, and economic benefits, by Employees Environmental dangerous reducing the costs associated with purchasing, transportation, storage and products management of waste, in the increasingly significant “Circular Economy”. Clients and Suppliers Dimension Energy is an important element in the production process. Currently, the Environmental concept of energy efficiency is undergoing extensive development through Management Energy: Part 2 the benefits it offers both in economic terms (cost-cutting) and environmental consumption and aspects (reduction in fuel use and emissions). This trend is also reflected Employees Environmental efficiency in increasingly restrictive legal requirements, such as the European Energy Clients and Suppliers Dimension Efficiency Directive 2012/27/EU. Emissions and climate change. Climate change is increasingly significant, hence the growing need to establish strategies and targets that will help arrest global warming. Management As regards companies, most of these targets are tied to emissions of Part 2 Climate change Sector greenhouse gases, contributing to mitigation through measurement plans, Environmental and CO2 reduction targets, compensatory actions and the use of renewable energy. Employees Dimension This last aspect is directly connected with the activity of GRI Renewable Clients and Suppliers Industries. GRI Renewable Industries 30 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures RELEVANT MATERIAL IMPORTANCE STAKEHOLDERS RESPONSE ASPECTS ASPECTS To maintain and improve their competitive position, companies need to Management attract new talent and specialist staff, allowing them to innovate and to Talent attraction improve their operability, and to develop measures so as to retain teams and Employees Part 2 Social and retention. maintain their know-how. This is typically achieved through the development Commitment Dimension Training of measures focused on underpinning a sense of belonging, recognition of undertaken merit and the development of talent through training. GRI Renewable Industries has a deeply rooted culture of risk prevention. However, given its considerable importance it remains a strategic aspect. Commitment Identify and mitigate potential risks that could arise, raise awareness among undertaken Health and all staff in accordance with their position, and underpin accident prevention Part 2 Social safety at work and health enhancement measures. All these are fundamental aspects. Employees Dimension People and The proper administration of Occupational Health & Safety contributes to a Clients and suppliers employment company’s reputation, and the efficacy of its processes. Respect for human rights is a risk factor in several countries in particular. In addition, working conditions are a decisive factor in the company’s effective Management Part 2 Social Human rights performance and sound working climate. These days companies, through Employees their human resource policies and the demands they place on suppliers, play Dimension Clients and Suppliers a decisive role in protecting human rights and improving working conditions. Diversity and Respect for equality and diversity is a risk factor. Meanwhile, the existence of Management Part 2 Social equality (not diversity and equality are decisive factors in the proper development of the Employees Dimension discrimination) company and a positive working climate. Clients and Suppliers GRI Renewable Industries activity typically has a substantial repercussion on Impact, dialog local communities because of its social impact (above all the creation of direct Management Local and indirect employment) and economic impact (rates, local purchasing, etc.) and investment and on the environment (increased opportunities to access renewable energy). Employees Part 2 Social community in local Dialogue with social organisations is fundamental in order to ascertain their Commitment Dimension community interests, concerns and expectations, so as thereby to improve the quality of undertaken life of the local population. The sector faces numerous challenges to reduce costs, adapt to new and increasingly powerful wind turbines, and above all to adapt to the demands Management Technology and of the offshore market. In order to address these requirements, and likewise Employees Part 2 Economic innovation as a way of making its products and services stand out, innovation is a Commitment undertaken Dimension strategic tool fostering corporate competitiveness in the medium and long Clients and Suppliers terms. Management Product Product quality is of critical importance, since it guarantees customer Employees Part 2 Economic Quality satisfaction and improves brand perception, representing a significant Commitment undertaken Dimension competitive advantage. Clients and Suppliers Product: Management environmental The marketplace increasingly demands more efficient, safer and greener Employees Part 2 Economic impact and products. This aspect is therefore increasingly important for companies. Commitment undertaken Dimension security Clients and Suppliers Significant changes and reformulations regarding previous reports G4-22 and G4-23 The focus of this Report is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guide in version G4. As regards the scope, qualitative and quantitative information is included on GRI Castings Zestoa, GRI Towers USA and GRI Flanges China, with the exception of Health and Safety in the case of the last of these. Qualitative information is also included on our plants under construction. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 31 Stakeholder´s engagement Collaboration between GRI Renewable Industries and its stakeholders G4-24, G4-25 and G4-26 GRI Renewable Industries enjoys constant dialogue with its stakeholders through the various communication channels that have been set up to maintain a fluid and two-way relationship. Below are detailed the communication methods in place with the different users: SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS »» Auditorias Audits »» Corporate intranet “Leading the Change” »» Visit’s to GRI installations »» Criteria for subcontractor’s selection with daily news of the company as well »» Audits conducted by clients »» Regular supervision through the H&S Deas discussion forums »» Periodic meetings partment »» Interdepartamentl Meetings with »» Quality System. Monitoring & Performan»» B2B platforms available for some clients Management in each of our work sites ce Measurements »» Social Networks and Website »» Business and Health & Safety Committees MASS MEDIA »» Semiannual information meetings LOCAL COMMUNITIES »» Social Networks with the CEO & GOVERNMENTS »» Corporate Website »» Sustainability Report »» Agreements with local authorities »» Press Office (available on the web) »» Email »» Licenses, permits and authorization »» Press Releases »» Social Networks and website »» Consultation time for Environmental Impact Assessment »» Social action activities SHAREHOLDERS »» Meeting with the Board of Administration »» Ordinary and informative communications GRI Renewable Industries 32 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures GRI Renewable Industries is a signatory to ObservaRSE GRI Renewable Industries has signed up to ObservaRSE (the Co-responsible Communication Observatory). Its aim is to serve as a meeting point for all organisations, whether large companies, SMEs, non-profit organisations, associations or the academic world, who are striving for a better world and who believe in information, communication, transparency, accountability and the importance of generating partnerships and dialogues with all stakeholders. ObservaRSE was founded for the purpose of helping to showcase responsible and sustainable activities by all manner of companies and organisations in Ibero-America, and will aim to clear up prejudices and misunderstanding as regards CSR communication. Communication with stakeholders by means of social media, the website and the intranet obtained the following results: GRI RENEWABLE INDUSTRIES WEBSITE 2016 Nº of visit to www.gri.es.com 29,242 Nº of pages visited 83,497 % of new visitors at the website 75% Nº of website users 22,217 GRI RENEWABLE INDUSTRIES SOCIAL 2016 MEDIA Number of Twitter followers @GRIRenInd 484 Number of profiles' s visits 5,126 Number of Linkedin followers 5,239 Number of visitors to Linkedin 4,033 INTRANET LEADING THE CHANGE 2016 Number of visits to LTC intranet 268 Number of pages visited 342,069 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 33 Report Profile Period covered by the report G4-28 Period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Date of the previous report G4-29 Sustainability Report for the 2015. Sustainability Report for the 2015 G4-30 Annual. Contact G4-31 For general issues regarding this report, information is available at: rsc@gri.com.es +34 913 791 900 Street Ombu 3, 12º 28045 Madrid. España GRI Renewable Industries 34 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures GRI conformity and external verification G4-32 and G4-33 The 2016 Sustainability Report was drawn up in accordance with the approaches, guidelines and recommendations of version G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative, on a comprehensive basis. The GRI Table of Contents can be found in Annex. GRI Renewable Industries has once again this year performed independent external verification with the company PwC. Both the annual accounts report and the consolidated report are audited by the same body. The external verification report can also be found in the Annex. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 35 Governance Structure of governance G4-34 The governing bodies of the company are the General Shareholders’ Meeting and Board of Directors, the highest body of governance, supervision, decision-making and control of GRI Renewable Industries. The Articles of Association of GRI Renewable Industries set out the functioning of the Board of Directors, and the requirements and deadlines established for the General Shareholders’ Meeting to be called. No provision is made for any other means of administration of the company, and as a result the modification to the executive body would entail a modification to the Articles of Association. At 31 December 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company comprised six members, namely: President ACEK Desarrollo y Gestión Industrial, s.L represented by D.Juan María Riberas Mera. Secretary Gestamp Bizkaia, S.A. represented by D.Francisco José María Riberas Mera. Members D. Javier Imaz Rubalcaba D. Mario Ruiz Escribano D. Noboru Katsu D. Tomofumi Osaki The company Acek Desarrollo y Gestión Industrial, S.L., represented by Mr Juan María Riberas Mera, held the position of CEO of the Company at 31 December 2016, being delegated each and every one of the powers vested in the Board, except those that by Law or according to the Articles of Association may not be delegated. The Governing Body will represent the Company in all matters lying within the corporate purpose and associated with the trade or dealings thereof, subject to no form of limitation, its acts and contracts placing obligations upon the Company, with the entitlement to exercise all powers not expressly reserved by the Act or by these Bylaws for the General Meeting. GRI Renewable Industries 36 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Delegation of the highest body of governance G4-35 The Board of Directors reaches relevant decisions at its plenary sessions, and where relevant, delegates execution of the decisions. Meanwhile, the Board of Directors may agree special powers of attorney to be vested in company employees to address individual aspects of operations previously approved by the body. Economic, environmental and social responsibilities G4-36 The responsibilities of the Board include the approval of and commitment to comply with the Code of Ethics and Conduct, and the Sustainability Policy. It may likewise expressly vest powers of attorney in company employees to perform one-off aspects in those operations previously approved by said body. The members of the Board will perform their duties with the diligence of a responsible business owner and loyal representative, and must maintain secrecy as to confidential information, even after leaving their posts. Likewise, GRI Renewable Industries integrates its economic, social and environmental responsibilities at the various Departments, the most senior managerial figures of which refer any decision to be taken to the CEO and, where applicable, to the Board of Directors. Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the senior body of governance G4-37 The various departments organise the mechanisms for the exchange of information between the Board of Directors and the different stakeholders. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 37 Composition of the senior body Executive of governance and its committees function of the G4-38 President. Indicator G4-34 summarises the composition of the Board of Directors. The members of the Board of Directors are involved in the discussion and Processes of adoption of decisions regarding economic, social and environmental matappointment and ters, and are responsible for approving the Code of Ethics and the Sustaiselection to the nability Policy. GRI Renewable Industries is a non-listed company, the members of the senior body of Board of Directors of which represent all the shareholders, and there is thegovernance refore no legal imperative to have representatives of other stakeholders in G4-39 and G4-40 place. The President of GRI Renewable Industries does not hold an executive Conflict of interest position. Power to appoint Directors lies solely with the General ShareG4-41 holders’ Meeting, representing the interests of all the shareholders (see Shareholders may not exercise the voting rights corresponding to their indicator G4-34). stakes if they are subject to any case of conflict of interest as established in Article 190 of Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010, of 2 July 2010, approShareholder status is not required ving the Consolidated Text of the Capital Companies Act. in order to be appointed as a Director, and the position may be held by On a supplementary basis, the possibility that different local cultures and both natural and legal persons. Simicustoms could condition the understanding of certain subsections of the larly, the Articles of Association esCode of Ethics and Conduct has been detected (including conflicts of intetablish the conditions prohibiting the rest). In order to avoid conflicts in the interpretation and application of the performance of said functions. Code, the “Behavioural Guide in Response to the offering of Incentives, Gifts or Invites” has been drawn up, setting out a more detailed and pracThe Board Members will perform tical operational framework. The distribution of these guides is performed their functions for an unlimited pevia the corporate university, and they are available in English and Spanish. riod, notwithstanding the powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders to proceed at any time to exclude and/or dismiss individuals, pursuant to the terms of the Act and these Articles of Association. GRI Renewable Industries is a non-listed company, at which the members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the shareholders themselves, and as a result consideration is not given any other aspects regarding adversity, minorities, etc. GRI Renewable Industries 38 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Performance of Functions and knowledge of the senior body the body of governance regarof governance ding sustainability G4-44 G4-42 and G4-43 The performance of the Board of We have in place, through the parent company, a global corporate cultuDirectors is not evaluated, as the re that has maintained the same values and principles since the outset, members are, through their stakes, while adapting to the local needs in each country, current market condithe owners the company, and repretions and the demands of our stakeholders. sent all the shareholders. Furthermore, the functions of the Board of Directors include the approval The Board of Directors will meet of and commitment to comply with the standards of the Code of Ethics whenever so decided by its Presiand Conduct, including the Corporate Principles governing the company, dent, either on his own initiative or and covering economic, environmental and social aspects and the Suswhen so requested by two of the tainability Policy. members, and will meet at least The members of the Board are kept permanently informed as to econoonce per quarter, and it all cases wimic, social and environmental issues, via the various internal communithin ninety (90) days of the end of cation mechanisms, such as: periodic meetings with the directors of the the financial year. different areas, generation and approval of the Sustainability Report, and At the General Meeting, unless any the various actions and initiatives of the company, together with such other majorities are established on a communication mechanisms as the Leading the Change Intranet. mandatory basis, and except for the provisions for the adoption of Key Decisions for which responsibility lies with the General Shareholders’ Meeting, corporate resolutions will be passed by a majority of the votes validly cast, provided that they represent at least one third (1/3) of the votes corresponding to the shares into which the corporate stock is divided. Blank or spoilt ballots will not be counted. Key Decisions by the General Shareholders’ Meeting will require a majority of the votes validly cast, provided that they represent least eighty percent (80%) of the shares into which the capital stock of the Company is divided, unless any other majority is established on a mandatory basis. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 39 Functions of the senior body of governance in risk management G4-45, G4-46 and G4-47 At GRI Renewable Industries, for the development and execution of new projects a detailed study is conducted, to evaluate and analyse all quantitative and qualitative aspects of the project, along with the potential risks, with the various departments of the company and the Management Committee making their contributions, prior to presentation before the Board of Directors. In the initial project definition and plants and the measures establiOnce the plant has been built and analysis phase, information is gashed to mitigate any kind of risk. the required machinery installed, thered as to potential clients, the commissioning teams are deployed, The project, if it is continued, is tied potential turnover associated with with experience built up at other to aspects prior to the implementaeach of them, costs and associated group plants, and along with the tion and financing of projects. Firstly, investments, and the inherent counlocally hired teams they are resthe issues connected with the engitry aspects (regulatory, repatriation ponsible for the commissioning and neering and construction project are of capital, etc.). fine-tuning of the productive assets, set in motion for manufacturing setalong with the training of local opeFollowing analysis of these aspects up, along with the processing and ratives, over periods normally ranin depth, a decision is taken as to issuance of all permits, licences and ging from three (3) to six (6) months. whether to refer the project to the authorisations that will allow the Board so as to move on to the next plant to be constructed. Meanwhile, All these actions and the possible phase, or to suspend the process. the purchasing of the productive asrisks derived from them are contisets and required machinery begins. nuously analysed by GRI Renewable Where necessary, the CEO and the Industries’ management and teams, various company departments proSubsequently, the company comserving to detect risks and to implevide the Board of Directors with missioned to perform the construcment the required corrective measuperiodic information. The Board tion is selected and assigned. In res in a swift and agile manner. of Directors has responsibility for parallel, the personnel required to approving the development of new operate the plant are selected. GRI Renewable Industries 40 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Review and Communication with the senior approval of body of governance the Report G4-49 The General Meeting must be called by the governing body and, where Sustainability applicable, by the liquidators of the Company. The Board of Directors will call the General Meeting whenever deemed necessary or desirable G4-48 in the corporate interests, and in all cases on the dates or during the Sustainability Report organisation periods established in the Capital Companies Act. is coordinated by the sustainability They must likewise call a meeting if so requested by one or several stocteam, including the Corporate Comkholders representing at least five (5) per cent of the capital stock, stamunication, Marketing and Sustaiting in the request the matters to be discussed thereat. In this case the nability Department. The function is general meeting must be called to be held within two (2) months of the transversal within the organisation, date when the notarial demand was served on the Board of Directors and so covers all the different comto call the meeting. The order of business must necessarily include the panies of the Group. matters which formed the object of the request. The Report and the materiality Unless any other requirements are established on a mandatory basis, analysis are produced annually by the General Shareholders’ Meeting will be called by the Board of Directhis team, in collaboration with the tors by means of an individual, written announcement to be sent by redifferent areas and departments ingistered mail with confirmation of receipt, telegram, registered post offivolved at the company. ce fax or some other written or remote electronic means guaranteeing Once the Report has been generareceipt of said announcement by all shareholders, at the address they ted, a process of supervision and have designated for this purpose, or the address recorded in the Comreview is conducted by the CEO and pany’s documentation. the Communication Department, Those responsible for the various managerial departments maintain prior to final approval by the Presipermanent and fluid communication with the company CEO. Any major dent. concern is passed on immediately by the managers of the various areas Furthermore, in order to guarantee to the CEO, who will, if necessary, immediately refer it to the Board of the reliability of the information, the Directors. Report is externally verified by an Meanwhile, periodic meetings are staged, attended by all corporate independent body. professionals. These meetings are two-way, with the CEO informing all personnel of relevant aspects connected with the management and situation of the company, and in turn receiving feedback from the professionals as to these issues and other aspects of interest. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 41 Nature and number of issues raised at the Board of Directors G4-50 The Board of Directors is responsible for calling the General Meeting, which will be held within the first six months of each financial year so as to scrutinise corporate management, approve, where applicable, the accounts for the previous financial year, and rule as to any matter regarding the results. The Board of Directors may call a of the Board of Directors, listing presented, on an individual basis for General Meeting whenever so deethe matters to be discussed at the each meeting. This notwithstanding, med necessary or desirable in the meeting, along with the information if a board meeting cannot be held corporate interest. required to allow the Directors to because of a lack of the establitake part in an informed discussion shed quorum, it may once again be The General Meeting will be validly as to the matters set out in the orcalled just 7 days in advance, with convened to discuss any issue, wider of business. Where applicable, the same order of business, in which thout the need for prior notification, announcement of the meeting must case it will be deemed validly conprovided that all the capital stock is make reference to the fact that it vened if the meeting is attended, in present or represented and those may be attended in person or by person or by proxy, by the majority present unanimously agree to hold proxy, whether physically in person of the members. a General Meeting and the corresor through teleconferencing, videoponding order of business. Resolutions may validly be passed conferencing or some equivalent in writing, without a meeting being Unless any other majority is estasystem, with a requirement that the held (including via written electronic blished on a mandatory basis, and technical resources required for this means), provided that no Director except for the provisions of the purpose be indicated and provided, should object to this procedure. adoption of Key Decisions for which which must in all cases provide the the General Shareholders’ Meeting possibility of direct and simultaUnless any other majorities are esis responsible, corporate resolutions neous communication among all the tablished on a mandatory basis, and will be passed by a majority of the attendees. except as provided in the following votes validly cast, provided that paragraph regarding Key Decisions Unless all the Directors should agree they represent at least one third that are the responsibility of the otherwise, the announcement will (1/3) of the votes corresponding to Board of Directors, the Board, if vabe served 30 calendar days in adthe shares into which the corporate lidly convened, will pass its resoluvance of the date when the meeting stock is divided. Blank or spoilt bations by an absolute majority of the is to be held, except in cases of exllots will not be counted. Directors validly attending the Board treme urgency, in the judgment of Meeting, it being understood that in As regards the Board of Directors, the President, or at the request of the event of an uneven number of it will meet whenever so decided any Director, when it may be served Directors, the absolute majority will by the President, either on his own five (5) working days in advance. No be determined by rounding up (for initiative or when so requested by announcement will be required if all example, 2 Directors voting in favour two of its members, and will meet Directors are present and decide to of the resolution, if 3 are in attenat least once per quarter, and in all hold a meeting. dance, or 3, if 5 are in attendance). cases within ninety (90) days of the The Board of Directors will be validend of the financial year. The Key Decisions of the Board Dily convened whenever the meeting rectors will require a vote in favour The announcement will be sent by is attended by five (5) of the memby five (5) of the six (6) members letter, telegram, fax or some other bers, with each Director entitled to of the Board of Directors present in written or electronic means. The be represented by another Director, person or by proxy, unless any other announcement will be addressed with authorisation being issued in majority is established on a mandain person to each of the members writing and signed by the party retory basis. GRI Renewable Industries 42 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures Remuneration of the Board of Directors G4-51, G4-52 and G4-53 The position of Director is unremunerated in said capamust be drawn up between said individual and the Comcity, notwithstanding payment of any fees or salaries pany, in accordance with the legally established provithat might be payable by the Company as a result of sion. the provision of professional services or an employment The contract will detail all items for which the direcrelationship, as applicable, resulting from a contractual tor may receive remuneration for performing executirelationship other than that derived from the directorial ve functions, including, where applicable, any possible position. Said fees will be subject to whatever legal regicompensation for premature dismissal from said funcme would apply to them. tions, the amounts payable by the company by way of In addition, and irrespective of the above, if administrainsurance premiums, or contributions to savings plans. tion and representation of the Company is entrusted to The contract must comply with the remunerations polia Board of Directors, and a member of the Board of Dicy that would, where applicable, have been approved by rectors is appointed as CEO, or is attributed executive the General Shareholders’ Meeting. functions by virtue of some other title, then a contract Remuneration and increase in remuneration G4-54 and G4-55 Indicators G4-54 and G4-55 are not reported on this financial year. We do not have a uniform methodology to obtain a result that would comply with the requirements of the indicator, and in some cases the information is deemed confidential. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 43 Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, code of ethics and risk management DMA, G4-56, G4-57 and G4-58 GRI Renewable Industries strives to grow as a sound and responsible company, through sustainable action in all countries where it has a presence, while also expanding its activities in all countries where appropriate conditions are met. Our global corporate culture preserves the same values and principles that have since the outset acted as the guarantor of these objectives, adapting to local needs in each country, current market conditions and the demands of stakeholders. Alongside this, sustainability has become another key element at the company, since sustainable development is believed to be the best way to fulfil its objectives and the expectations of its stakeholders. GRI Renewable Industries 44 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures The formally established Policies and guides are summarised below: The Sustainability Policy, approved by the Board of Directors in early 2016, for the purpose of underpinning the main commitments in every country where we operate. The Code of Ethics and Conduct Approved by the Board of Directors in January 2014, as the text guiding all decisions taken by all members. Global Compact GRI Renewable Industries has for a further year renewed its commitment to the Global Compact, stating its wish to promote and implement the 10 universally accepted principles in the spheres of human rights, employment regulations, the environment and anti-corruption. Harassment Prevention Guide and Operational Protocol Including measures for prevention and reporting of possible situations of harassment, with the basic aspects for mandatory compliance in order to be able to act honestly and responsibly in all the countries where we operate. Behavioural Guide to deal with offers of incentives, gifts or invitations With the aim to comply with all laws, standards and regulations governing bribery and corruption in every country where we operate, such practices being deemed illegal throughout the world. The Ethics Committee As the internal consultative body responsible for promoting the company’s values and conduct, along with the monitoring, communication, dissemination and oversight of the Code of Ethics, processing and support in the resolution of queries, and the response to any possible incidents or grievances that might arise, via the three available whistleblowing channels: by email, telephone or post. During the 2016 financial year, the Ethics Committee received one harassment complaint from an employee, the case having now been closed (G4HR3). The company did not receive notification of any grievance of any third party (G4-LA16), nor any regarding discrimination or other human rights (G4-HR12). The “Economic Dimension” chapter develops on these issues in depth. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 45 Risk management Project GRI Renewable Industries may be affected by risks inherent in its activifunding ties and the various countries where it has a presence. It has therefore DMA since 2015 had in place a “General Internal Control Framework”, based on the COSO methodology, which includes: The projects developed and funded at GRI Renewable Industries incluINTERNAL CONTROL COMMITTEE AND POLICY ded no clause or commitment as regards human rights or anti-corrupSET OF ENTITY LEVEL CONTROLS tion practices. (G4-HR1). RISK MATRIX AND CONTROLS FOR EACH KEY BUSINESS PROCESS For the definition thereof, a material impact study was performed at each group subsidiary and for the captions of the income statement and balance sheet, with the scope of the testing procedures being defined in accordance with the outcome thereof. The tests were conducted so as to detect any existing supervisory failings in the various processes, and to ensure that the supervisory system fulfilled its fundamental requirements. In Part 2: Economic Dimension, further information is given in this regard. GRI Renewable Industries 46 Sustainability Report 2016 Part I General Standard Disclosures GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Policy DMA GRI Renewable Industries mission is to globally ders. Furthermore, it strongly supports the compliance meet the needs of our customers considering their acwith the ten principles of the United Nations Global tivity, the safety of our employees and the respect for Compact. the environment. This Policy aims to establish a global framework for GRI Renewable Industries is aware that its actions GRI Renewable Industries in order to reinforce the have a direct impact on the environment, thus Sustaiactions, initiatives and behaviors in all the countries in nability is positioned as a key element, as it is reflecwhich it operates, as it is summarized in the following ted on its corporate culture and on the development commitments: of mechanisms able to create value for all its stakehol• Contribute to the creation of • Maintain a smooth communicarelations based on equal opporlong-term value for society, tion with stakeholders being tunities, remuneration based customers, suppliers, emploable to listen and to respond to on responsibilities and personal yees and communities in which their expectations through the and professional development it operates, as well as for any available channels. support through training and other stakeholder particularly employment generation. • Achieve excellence through relevant to the Company. innovation and continuous • Take part in social action • Promote Corporate Governanimprovement in its processes initiatives and projects aligned ce best practices, prioritizing and products, maintaining high with its business and corporate transparency, risk management quality and safety standards, culture to contribute effectively and fight against corruption, minimizing its environmental to the welfare of Society. through the Ethics Code disseimpact, reducing greenhouse This Policy must be dynamic and mination and the management gas emissions and improving its adapted to the changing situaand denunciation channels hold contribution to Society. tions of the environment and the by the Ethics Committee. • Collaborate with its clients markets where GRI Renewable • Comply with applicable local to adapt our products to their Industries operates. Thus, the legislation adopting, where needs, always offering a quality Sustainability Master Plan is perioneeded, additional commitments service. dically elaborated, reviewed and and standards recognized to act updated and the different improve• Work closely with its suppliers, with integrity in all countries. ment objectives are gathered in its promoting ethics and respect for different action axis. • Protect, respect and promote human rights in the supply chain. the human rights in all its GRI Renewable Industries is • Promote the health and safety activities and anywhere in the committed to offer transparent, care of all professionals working world, as well as to establish, reliable and accurate information directly or indirectly in its facilities, where circumstances warrant about its performance through its and contribute to the improveit, mechanisms strengthening Sustainability Report, as well as ment of their quality of life. this commitment and ensuring any other channel deemed suitacompliance. • Develop measures for promoble to fulfill this commitment. tion and retention of talent, framed by favorable labor GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 47 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Dimension .............................................................................................................. 50 Social Dimension ................................................................................................................................. 66 Environmental Dimension ..................................................................................... 92 Economic Dimension Material Aspect Content »» Economic Performance Economic management »» Growth and Global Presence »» Balance Sheet Customer Satisfaction »» Customer management »» Customer satisfaction »» Our product and quality Product »» Research, development and innovation Supply Chain »» Responsible supply chain »» Ethic, integrity and compliance Governance »» Risk Assessment Economic performance DMA GRI Renewable Industries aims to consolidate its position in the wind energy industry through quality service in response to its clients’ expectations, innovation, and positioning in strategic markets. GRI Renewable Industries 50 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Momentum of the wind energy industry G4-EC2 There has been for some years now MW. The figure is 14.1% lower than 2016. Of the new megawatts insa global trend to fight climate chanin 2015, when a record volume of talled, 10,000 MW are land-based ge by developing various initiatives 63,633 MW was installed. wind and 2,000 marine installations. in order to make the fight effective China remains in first place, with 23 According to GWEC sources, Spain around the world. MW, followed by the United States, has maintained its position, despiDuring the year in question, the Germany and India. te having installed just 49 MW in 22nd United Nations Climate Change 2016, as a result of the controverIn the case of Latin American counSummit (COP22) was held in Morocsial Energy Reform. tries, Brazil tops the market rankings, co, reflecting the worldwide commitfollowed by Chile. As for the tower building trend, the ment and intention to arrest global technology employed continues to warming through specific actions, On the African continent, wind inevolve towards larger wind turbine such as the speeding up of the tranvestments are particularly signifiblades, increased electricity generasition to a structure based 100% on cant, with 418 MW in South Africa tion, taller towers, and considerable renewable energies. alone. growth in the offshore area. According to data provided by According to figures from WindEuthe Global World Energy Council rope, half of the power installed (TWDC), in 2016 54,600 MW were in Europe was wind, with an addiinstalled worldwide, the cumulatitional 12,500 MW installed, and a ve total power by the close of the total power of 153,730 MW, coveyear being nearly 490 thousand ring 10.4% of electricity demand in GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 51 Growth and Global Presence GRI Renewable Industries is a leading global supplier in the sector, with plants in Brazil, the United States, India, South Africa, China, Spain and Turkey. It follows to offer all its customers tailored and high-quality services. During 2016, two new plants began operations (GRI Towers USA and GRI Castings Zestoa) while work will begin on the construction of additional three plants (GRI Towers Sevilla, GRI Towers India II and GRI Flanges China IV). NEW PLANTS GRI Towers USA GRI Castings Zestoa GRI Towers USA began consGRI Renewble Industries acquired in 2014 the former TS Fundiciones fountruction in 2015, with the aim of dry in Zestoa (San Sebastian, Spain). Over the course of 2015, the comunderpinning its position in the pany was hard at work modernising and adapting it to produce steel parts marketplace. Operations began in for the wind sector. August 2016, following successGRI Castings Zestoa, as the plant is now named, is the group’s first founful completion of all the audits, dry, set up with the clear aim of including the machining process and the and with the collaboration of the company’s international ambitions, while also establishing its position in start-up teams who came mainly the centre, expanding the product portfolio, in order to gradually attain a from Brazil and Spain. leading position. The plant enjoys a strategic locaAn investment of 7.1 million euros was made; the infrastructure covers tion thanks to its positioning in the 24,780 m2, of which 12,000 m2 are industrial shop floor, expected to provicinity of a major highway, one duce some 15,000 tonnes/year, with a maximum weight per part of 22 of the main railway lines, and also tonnes. There is currently a workforce of 42 employees, which is planned with direct road access to shipto increase shortly to 150. ping, assisting considerably in the factory’s logistics. During 2016, final commissioning work was completed, and the factory began operations in July, ending the year with an output of 1,340 tonnes. The The plant currently covers 27,900 target for 2017 is to manufacture 8,000 tonnes, in other words to have the m2, with more than two hundred factory running at 50% capacity. employees working two shifts. The aim for 2017 is to increase the workforce to 300, and to raise output to 140 towers. Zestoa Sevilla Amarillo GRI Renewable Industries 52 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures PLANTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION GRI Towers Sevilla GRI Renewable Industries is adapting the former shipyard facilities at the River Port of Seville for its marine wind tower factory. It is the company’s first offshore tower production plant, and so represents its initial inroads into the market as part of its expansion plan. The official concession for 50 years GRI Flanges China IV was granted in May 2016. The plant will occupy an area of 159,700 m2, GRI Flanges China IV, located in the including industrial workshops, offiprovince of Shandong in the east of ces and storage areas, and more the country, is currently under consimportantly will have a direct route truction. to sea thanks to its position on the It will manufacture 16-metre diamedockside of Spain’s only inland port, ter flanges from a wide range of maon the River Guadalquivir in Seville, terials: High-strength and stainless 80 kilometres from the mouth of the steel, copper alloys and aluminium. river. Output is intended for the offshore The demolition and construction limarket, nuclear, aerospace, pressure cences were received in October and equipment production, etc. November, respectively, allowing 50% of the factory is scheduled to definitive construction work to bebecome operational in late 2017, rigin on 26 November. The plant is GRI Towers India II sing to 100% by mid-2018. scheduled to become operational in In 2016, GRI Renewable Indusmid-2017. tries acquired land to build a seIt will have capacity to manufacture cond tower factory in India. The up to 110 complete towers per year new plant will be located in Anof maximum size, along with a furthavaram, in the Nellore district of ther 15 with no surface treatment. Andhra Pradesh, and will provide There will also be additional space support for the current GRI Towers available for future expansions. India I plant. The planned investment amounts GRI Towers India II will occupy an to 37.4 million euros, and more than area of 263,136 m2, and is sche400 direct jobs should be created. duled to have a production capaciThe GRI Towers Sevilla project will ty of 300 towers per year. revitalise an industrial area which is The planned investment in the facat present depressed, but which in tory amounts to 20 million euros, the past was a landmark of the Spaand some 300 direct jobs should nish city of Seville. be created. Shandong The facility is scheduled to begin Anthavaram operations in the final quarter of 2017. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 53 Balance sheet G4-EC1 and G4-EC4 The GRI Renewable Industries Strategic Plan aims to maintain a leading position in the marketplace, by increasing the firm’s international presence, and creating value for all its stakeholders. This is made possible by a positive bottom line to the balance sheet, with investment 136% higher than the previous year, along with appropriate financing. The company’s key economic figures are summarised below: Economic Value Generated (EVG), with a total of 409,228 thousand euros, distributed as follows: Economic Value Generated (thousand €) 2015 2016 Turnover 318,289 401,319 Financial revenue 4,617 4,207 Other revenue 3,362 3,702 Total EVC 326,268 409,228 Economic Value Distributed (EVD) amounting to a total of 434,919 thousand euros, distributed as follows: Economic Value Distributed (thousand €) 2015 2016 Operational costs (purchasing materials + auxiliary services and 227,478 269,480 other general expenses) CAPEX 30,474 72,634 Payment to capital providers 7,188 7,069 Taxes 14,600 28,236 Personnel 41,233 57,300 Investments in the community 304 200 Total EVD 321,277 434,919 The Economic Value Retained (EVR), with a total of -25,691 thousand euros. The Economic Value Retained (thousand €) 2015 2016 Total 4,991 -25,691 The company’s Net Worth is 330,989 thousand euros. Net Worth (thousand €) 2015 2016 Total 242,532 330,989 GRI Renewable Industries 54 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Meanwhile, the company received 7,502 euros (G4-EC4) by way of tax benefits from public authorities, as may be seen below: Tax Benefits (thousand €) 2015 2016 Tax reliefs and tax credits 16,253 1,914 Subvention 4,630 111 R&D 4 320 Financial Benefits 4,657 5,157 Total 25,244 7,502 The locations where GRI Renewable Industries has a presence received a total of 28,236 thousand euros in the form of business rates, taxes and levies, helping to improve the quality of life and services available to the local population. The distribution by country is summarised below: Taxes by country Thousands of euros Brazil 11,638 Spain 8,877 India 599 Turkey 2,151 USA 187 South Africa 1,061 China 3,723 Total 28,236 As for other accounting obligations, individual GRI Renewable Industries Group companies are in the main obliged to draw up annual audit reports on their individual annual accounts, given the total volume of their assets, turnover, and their average workforce, contain no exceptions in their respective reports. Following approval by the corresponding body, these reports are filed in due time and form at the Companies Register for each of the financial accounting years with legalisation of official records and the filing of annual accounts. In addition, the Group companies have no outstanding Social Security or taxation payments. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 55 Customer satisfaction management DMA For GRI Renewable Industries, customers are a key asset within the value The GRI Flanges chain, and it therefore tries to satisfy them by fulfilling their requirements, demands and expectations. division attends the Tube Trade Fair Düsseldorf In early April, the GRI Flanges division was present at the Tube Trade Fair, the largest commercial event in the tubes and flanges sector, staged in Düsseldorf. The trade fair is the most influential gathering in the sector, featuring professional appointments and suppliers from all round the world in the business of tubes, flanges and equipment. This is the second time that GRI Flanges has attended the event, although on this occasion it had a larger stand and a better location than last time around. The customers of GRI Renewable Industries are major corporations engaged in the design, development and manufacture of wind turbines and wind energy installations. For our customers, quality is an essential element in the production process, as are service and fulfilment of delivery deadlines. In order to comply with these conditions, indicators are defined jointly with the customer, for the proper monitoring and measurement of the whole process. Meanwhile, the customers themselves perform periodic audits and visits to the factories so as to verify that the stipulated requirements are being fulfilled. Meanwhile, the established partnerships are reviewed, together with a progressive adjustment of working methods, times, quality specifications, etc. In order to underpin its presence in the sector, GRI Renewable Industries takes part at trade fairs. Of particular significance are those staged in China, where the company currently has three factories in production and one under construction. GRI Renewable Industries 56 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Customer satisfaction G4-PR5 Through the quality supervisors at its plants, GRI Renewable Industries conducts monthly monitoring of the satisfaction of each customer. This is performed by measuring key performance indicators (KPIs), such as: • Budgetary compliance • Fulfilment of stipulated delivery deadlines • Handling and reduction of claims received • Fulfilment of response time to non-conformities arising in audits • Work towards continuous improvement Given the company’s product diversity, two different reports are drawn up, setting out the customer satisfaction KPIs in accordance with the product delivered: wind towers, and flanges. GRI CASTINGS ZESTOA These reports reflect aspects to be strengthened and improvement tarIn the specific case of GRI Castings Zestoa, as it is a relatively new gets, along with the goals specified factory it proved possible to perform the standardisation process for for each customer and indicator. The the product intended for the automotive, wind and machinery sectors with 5 of the customers involved in 2016, while also conducting ultimate aim is to achieve an overall the relevant audits for each of them. increase in satisfaction. Periodic meetings are staged with all of them so as to monitor work, In 2016, a Customer Satisfaction Inincluding an annual meeting at the close of the year to consider the dex of 80% was achieved for towers results and plan for the coming year. Audits are conducted with all and flanges, and 85% for castings. customers, covering products and processes. Calculation of the Satisfaction Index The production volume achieved in 2016 totalled 1,340 tonnes. The did not take into account the GRI target for next year is to reach 8,000 tonnes, more than 70% higher Towers USA plant, as this was its than the output achieved in 2016. first year in operation, and it is still at the start-up and adaptation phase. (G4-PR5). GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 57 Our product and quality G4-PR1, G4-PR2, G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR6, G4-PR7, G4-PR9 and G4-EN28. Product For GRI Renewable Industries, offering good service and a quality product is a vital aspect. Hence the establishment of the mechanisms required in order information to fulfil the various quality standards. Meanwhile, the company has in place and labelling an expert team with considerable professional experience in the field, guaranteeing the process of designing the manufacture of towers and flanges, 100% of the towers and flanthereby fulfilling the expectations and objectives set by the customer. ges delivered to GRI Renewable Industries customers have the GRI Renewable Industries has a Quality Policy in place at all its factories in corresponding CE conformity deoperation, together with an integrated management system. Over the courclaration, certifying compliance se of the year, quality certification was issued for the GRI Castings Zestoa with the technical and legal requiand GRI Towers USA plants, which means that all plants in operation are rements established by the Eunow certified. Meanwhile, all the factories except for GRI Towers Brazil liropean Union in terms of safety. kewise hold certification under standard EN1090. (G4-PR3). To adapt to the new ISO 9001 standard (ISO 9001:2015), an adaptation In this regard, the company has replan has been designed, beginning in 2016 for implementation in 2017, with ceived no complaints based on a the aim of certifying the plants within the context of this new framework. breach of information and product In any event, given their characteristics the products do not entail any chelabelling regulations. (G4-PR4) mical or environmental risk (G4-PR3). Meanwhile, no incidents regarding health and safety involving products and services were registered (G4-PR2), nor were any prohibited products nor any subject to litigation sold (G4-PR6), nor are there any breaches regarding marketing regulations (G4-PR7), nor any breaches connected with the supply and use of products (G4-PR9). Our product (towers and flanges) does not have any packaging as such, since it is transported as is when the production process is completed (G4EN28). GRI Towers Brazil is the second-ranked wind tower supplier in the world, according to GE In late August, General Electric announced that GRI Towers Brazil claimed second place in its World Ranking of wind tower suppliers, on the basis of Product Quality. GRI Renewable Industries 58 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures GRI Towers Research, development India claims First and innovation Gamesa QIT GRI Renewable Industries develops its competitiveness through innovation applied to its processes and products. The R&D+i department is resAward ponsible for managing and coordinating projects, which are developed and GRI Towers India claimed the executed jointly by the corporate department and the plants. Particular first Gamesa QIT Project Award mention should also be made of the GRI Hybrid Towers division as another for the “Paint Low Gloss” project. significant company development line in the field of hybrid towers. The project was selected in late 2015, when the GRI India team was invited to take part at a QIT training event. Before the award was made, Gamesa and the GRI QIT team had to perform three tests, which began in February. The winning team analysed the problems connected with paint low gloss, and produced The company plays a lead role in both national and international projects. It a database for internal procesis likewise directly involved in the Spanish Wind Energy Sector Technology ses. The findings were obtained Platform (REOLTEC), which coordinates various research, development and with tools that were internally innovation initiatives in accordance with the needs of the sector. reviewed by members of Ga2016 saw the successful conclusion of a number of innovation and promesa QIT. duction improvement projects, although the main lines of innovation and development (WINDFIT and FLANGEROUTE) remain open as long-term projects. We should likewise emphasise the commencement of 2 new R&D+i projects, “Protos” and “Roll 4.0”, that aim to improve the efficiency of the welding process for towers and flanges, respectively, for the latest generation of towers, and adaptation to new trends in the wind energy industry. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 59 First Hybrid Tower Installed Ongoing projects Brief mention is made below of the projects in progress and their evolution: GRI Renewable Industries WINDFIT The aim of the WINDFIT project is to develop a new generation of wind energy stems, from the initial product design stage using new calculation models, optimising individual elements and welded joints, and progressing up to the development of specific manufacturing processes to minimise the distortion and tension forces generated in the stem. During 2016, GRI Hybrid Tower performed the design, manufacThis new design will serve to reduce the thickness and weight of the turbine ture and installation of its first hybrid tower. This first tower was towers, so as to address the new deinstalled at the Rondavino Wind Farm in the municipality of Bemands being raised in the sector. cerril de Campos, in the Spanish province of Palencia, owned by Gestamp Wind. WINDFIT is one of the major GRI Renewable Industries development lines, The total height of the tower installed was 110 metres, of which with the first project milestone having 30.8 metres corresponds to the concrete part, and the remainder been successfully completed in 2016. to 3 metal sections. A modern VESTAS V110 2.0 MW turbine The aim of the second milestone will be was installed on the tower, with a hub height 20 m higher than to optimise this calculation tool and dethe turbines previously installed at the park. The tower is fitted sign the first WINDFIT prototype. Comwith a monitoring system that will permanently record technical pletion is planned for 2017. The project data from the structure for implementation in future designs. was funded by the CDTI, following R&D The project began in late 2015 with the dimensional scaling, classification. calculation and certification of the tower. The whole design was GRI Flanges Iraeta produced by the GRI engineering department on the basis of the FLANGEROUTE design requirements provided by VESTAS. The development was derived from the R&D+i effort that GRI Hybrid Tower has underThe aim of the project is to research and taken since it was founded. develop new manufacturing and validation technologies, serving to integrate Manufacturing of the steel sections was performed by GWGA, know-how and needs in the wind sector while the prefabricated sections that make up the concrete part in terms of tower flanges (offshore and were produced at Prefabricados Zenet in Escalonilla, Toledo. onshore), through the study and characBoth the design, and the manufacturing, logistics and installation terisation of new materials in the selecprocess, proved a success in terms of quality and deadline, fulfition and welding process. lling all the objectives that had initially been set. This prototype The aim of all the above is to produce constituted the validation of the GRI Hybrid Tower patented solarge-dimension wind energy flanges lution, and will serve as a showcase to demonstrate viability and that can fulfil the quality and competiefficiency to customers. tiveness conditions demanded by the wind sector. This project is planned for conclusion in 2018. GRI Renewable Industries 60 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures New projects The new projects being undertaken at the R&D+i area including particular the following: PROTOSGRI Towers Galicia Focused on developing new high-productivity welding strategies for the manufacture of offshore wind towers. This project is headed by GRI Renewable Industries, although it also involves GRI Towers Galicia and the AIMEN technology centre. The main aim of the PROTOS project is to develop welding and inspection strategies serving to achieve the productivity ratios required so as to be able to compete in the global market for the manufacture of wind towers, taking into account current trends as regards the increased size and weight of turbines, in particular in the offshore market, where the welding phase is of considerable impact. This is a three-year project focused on two major lines of research: • Integrated welding system for wind turbine towers, that will integrate optimised welding processes. • Integrated welded joint quality control software. This project was approved as part of the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness funding round entitled Challenges-Collaboration of the State Research, Development and Innovation Programme Focused on Social Challenges, within the context of the 2013-2016 State Scientific and Technical Research and Innovation Plan. Energy efficiency GRI Towers Galicia also stands out for its innovation in terms of energy efficiency. As a result, one of the development lines has been funded by the public authority, as a result of its innovative nature as a project: “New systems for the recovery of heat issued by compressors for metallisation booths”, financed as part of the INEGA “Energy Efficiency and Savings in Industry and Services Project”. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 61 ROLL 4.0-GRI Flanges Iraeta Focused on the development of a new, efficient and sustainable rolling mill configuration for the production of advanced steels. The main aim of The GRI this rolling mill is to respond to the need to produce higher quality steeFlanges Iraeta ls, making the producer stand out from other conventional producers, and allowing optimal adjustment to manufacture the new generation of wind FLANGEROUTE energy flanges. This increase in quality is pursued by combining innovaproject tions in the rolling process and the use of micro-alloys that give the product The GRI Flanges Iraeta FLANhighly specific mechanical characteristics. GEROUTE project is based on The main drawback that they suffer, however, is their high cost. This thethe research and developrefore represents a quantum shift in quality in the field of special steels at ment of new manufacturing a lower cost. and validation technologies for large-sized (onshore & offshore) wind energy flanges, and is supported by the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness. As part of the “2015 Challenges-Collaboration” funding round under the 2013-2016 State Scientific and Technical Research and Innovation Plan, co-financed with European Union ERDF funds, the consortium headed by GRI Flanges Iraeta and comprising the Lortek and Azterlán technology centres, agreed government support for the development of the FLANGEROUTE project over the next 3 years. The main objective of the FLANGEROUTE project is to develop new manufacturing technologies to optimise costs and cycle times of products manufactured at the GRI Flanges Iraeta plant in Zestoa, using advanced welding technologies such as flashwelding, along with research into new raw materials. The project is being developed in partnership with the company Industrias Lagun Artea S.L. and is approved as an R&D+i project within the Basque Government’s HAZITEK 2016 funding programme. It also involves collaboration by a number of centres belonging to the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Network. The project is planned for completion in 2017. GRI Renewable Industries 62 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Responsible supply chain G4-12 For GRI Renewable Industries, suppliers are a hugely important asset within the value chain, as project planning is dependent on them, while they likewise represent a considerable volume of the cost involved. Supply Chain is the corporate division that handles this aspect of the business, comprising the following areas: Procurement and warehouse management This is the first link in the supplier area process, verifying compliance with the specified deadlines, monitoring alignment between cost and budget, and employing new technologies to generate synergies so as to optimise the supply chain. They are likewise responsible for optimising warehouse management and stock levels. Purchases There are two purchasing teams, those responsible for “direct purchases” and another for “indirect purchases”. The former handle the purchasing of raw materials, such as steel. To this end, they select suppliers in accordance with prior completion of the SIA (Supplier Initial Assessment) approval questionnaire. The SIA includes aspects such as quality, the environment, safety, ethics and human rights. In those cases where this is applicable, it also includes the provenance of the materials, since they cannot be sourced from foundries that use conflict minerals that help to fund unrest in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The latter, “indirect purchases”, are connected with investments, supplies, services, etc. The selection of suppliers and subcontractors is based on service quality criteria, market positioning and risk prevention. In this case, completion of the SIA is voluntary, although there is a mandatory Code of Ethics and Conduct acceptance clause and undertaking. Supplier quality Quality management is conducted from a twofold perspective. Firstly, the corporate department manages and consolidates the results from all the factories, and furthermore each factory is responsible for control and supervision of the products sold, serving to increase customer proximity. In 2016, procedures and monitoring indicators were drawn up to allow us to measure and fulfil objectives focused essentially on reducing complaints and the associated costs. Logistics The external processes logistics area is responsible for internationalising these processes, reducing transportation costs, improving service and generating a competitive advantage. For further information, turn to Part I: General Standard Disclosures. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 63 Ethics, integrity, regulatory compliance and anti-corruption DMA and G4-SO4 GRI Renewable Industries is an established and responTo complement and round out all these aspects, the sible company that acts sustainably in those countries “Harassment Prevention Guide and Operational Protowhere it has a presence, while continuing its expansion col” was approved, with the aim of minimising this prowherever conditions for growth are appropriate. blem, along with the “Behavioural Guide in Response to the Offering of Incentives, Gifts or Invites”, so as to guide All of which is performed in accordance with values and employees as to possible conflicts that can arise in their principles that form a part of our corporate culture, and professional activities. The company has also signed up are adapted to the local requirements in each country, to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Commarket conditions and the different stakeholders. Thepact. se values are Honesty, Humility, Perseverance and Hard Work, the principles being Customers, People, LeadersAs regards training and familiarity among the governing hip and Sustainability. bodies as to policies and procedures in the sphere of ethics, anti-corruption and sustainability, they are resIn accordance with this approach, in December 2015 ponsible for formally approving the Code of Ethics and the Board of Directors approved the Sustainability PoConduct, which sets out anti-corruption practices, and licy, with the aim of underpinning the commitments also the Sustainability Policy and those guides affecting established in those countries where GRI Renewable the organisation in this sphere. (G4-SO4) Industries is located. For more detailed information about the handling of All the above within the context of a Code of Ethics ethics, regulatory compliance and anti-corruption, turn and Conduct that guides the company in its actions to Part I: General Standard Disclosures. with stakeholders, and which has no place whatsoever for wrong doing as regards customers, employees, suppliers or the community at large. GRI Renewable Industries 64 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Risk management DMA, G4-EN29, G4-EN34, G4-LA16, G4HR12, G4-SO3, G4-SO5, G4-SO7, G4-SO8 and G4-PR8 GRI Renewable Industries faces various risks inherent The aim for next year is to extend the analysis, incluto its activities in the different countries where it opeding other plants and with training delivered in this rerates. It has since 2015 had in place a “General Internal gard for the first time (G4-SO4). Supervisory Framework”, which includes: All these activities conducted by the company are • Internal Control Committee and Policy based on the COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) methodology • Set of Entity Levels Controls to guide corporate actions in the sphere of risks and • Risk matrix and controls for each key business internal control. process Anti-corruption policies and guides are furthermore Tests were conducted to detect existing supervisory available: shortcomings in the different processes, with the aim • The “Harassment Prevention Guide and Operatioof defining whether the control system fulfils the funnal Protocol” was drawn up to inform workers as to damental requirements: efficacy and efficiency of prothe company’s position regarding such matters, and cesses; guarantee of financial information, and comthe operational framework to deal with them. pliance with the applicable legislation and standards. • United Nations Global Compact, with a renewal of An analysis was first conducted of the scope of the the commitment for a further year, expressing an testing processes, along with a study into the material interest in promoting and implementing the 10 uniimpact that each group subsidiary could have in the versally accepted principles. Group’s income statement and balance sheet. In acIn 2016, no significant fines or claims were received cordance with the materiality detected, 8 companies with regard to social, working practice and/or human were defined, accounting for 53% of GRI Renewable rights aspects in excess of €100,000, nor any that giIndustries, where the testing was conducted and the ven their nature would have a particular impact on the processes affected. (G4-SO3). company. Likewise, no grievances or penalties were All the risks analysed, which might or might not be received with regard to aspects connected with unfair connected with fraud/corruption, are associated with competition practices, monopolistic practices or leakaa control to mitigate the risks in question. ge of customer data (G4-LA16, G4-HR12, G4-SO7 and During the testing process, certain control deficiencies G4-PR8). were detected, with an action plan being defined and The number of penalties, and fines resulting from a executed so as to correct these deficiencies by 31 Debreach of legislation and regulations in 2016, was cember 2016. It should be pointed out that despite the considering significant above of €100,000 (G4-SO8). shortcomings detected, no fraudulent activity/case of As for environmental matters, no significant fines in corruption was uncovered in the operations analysed excess of €100,000 were received (G4-EN29), althou(G4-S05). gh an environmental grievance was presented by the Lastly, as regards fraud and corruption, mitigation talks authorities in India in the process of renewal of the were staged as a part of the Entity Level Controls. Theenvironmental licence, but this was not harmful to the se are internal controls, of a global nature, applied to environment itself (G4-EN34). the whole company, defining some at the top of the corporate culture of the organisation and establishing guidelines for the fulfilment of aspects of good governance, regulations and finance, among others, helping to achieve the organisation’s goals. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 65 Social Dimension People Materials aspects Content Attraction, development »» Management focus and retention of talent. »» Training and professional development Training »» Performance evaluation Human Rights »» Labour conditions and human rights Diversity, equality and »» Diversity and equality non discrimination Management focus DMA GRI Renewable Industries has highly qualified professionals, committed to the corporate culture, values and principles of the company. The workforce is very diverse and international, with shared values that help promote sustainable growth. GRI Renewable Industries 66 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Human resource management is an essential task at the company, serving a function of change management, as the driver of transformational processes. The activities undertaken at Human Resources include hiring, development, skills, training, along with comprehensive administration of salaries, performance evaluations, social benefits, and above all staff motivation. GRI Renewable Industries takes care to guarantee stable and quality employment, with opportunities for growth promotion for all its professionals. In 2016, the team that makes up GRI Renewable Industries comprised 3,357 professionals, distributed as shown below (G4-LA12). Personnel by country Personnel by age China Brazil 18% 61% 27% 19% 32% Spain 6% USA 7% 9% Turkey 10% 11% 30 years 30 years 50 years India 50 years South Africa MEN WOMEN >30 ≤50 >30 ≤50 Country ≤30 years >50 years ≤30 years >50 years Total years years Brazil 171 327 27 20 61 1 607 Spain 93 404 62 18 61 7 645 India 84 287 10 1 0 0 382 South Africa 101 206 15 14 12 3 351 Turkey 170 117 2 4 6 0 299 USA 77 71 16 3 9 2 178 China 262 362 88 68 108 7 895 TOTAL 958 1,774 220 128 257 20 3,357 Particular mention should be made of the increase in As for the distribution of employees by age, there is the workforce through the inclusion of China within the a particularly notable percentage of workers aged bescope of the Report, accounting for 27% of all emplotween 30 and 50 years, accounting for 61%, followed yees, followed by Spain and Brazil. by those aged under 30, at 32%, while workers over 50 represent 7%. As for executive staff, 50% are aged over 50, and the remaining 50% are between 30 and 50 years old. Meanwhile, 67% are of local nationality, and all are men. (G4-LA12) (G4-EC6). GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 67 Attraction, development and retention of talent DMA In order to continue its plan for expansion and market consolidation, GRI Renewable Industries is aware that it needs a stable, motivated and qualified First Human team. Aside from these requirements, it needs to create a pleasant working atmosphere, since this is a key aspect for a competitive and sustainable comResources pany. The tasks of attracting and retaining staff are therefore fundamental meeting in guaranteeing the commitment of employees, and minimising churn in the workforce. GRI Renewable Industries Hiring and internal training organized one training week for the human reInternal promotion sources responsible in the Internal promotion is a resource to achieve employee satisfaction through the corporate office as well as development of and commitment to professional careers and the recognition plants worldwide. of talent. The aim of this first HR When a vacancy is to be filled, the job offer is published internally via the convention was to stablish intranet in the “GRI Renewable Industries Job Posting” group. This group is guidelines to incorporate accessible to the whole company, and if after a reasonable time period the standars process in order position has not been filled, it is then advertised externally. to simplify the company policies and promote comAs an international and expanding company, the firm needs to fill vacancies in munication and cooperadifferent countries and factories, and as a result therefore sometimes offers tion between the departpositions to posted workers. On other occasions, short-term deployments are ment teams. made available, such as the “start-up teams”. These teams assist in the commissioning of new factories, by passing on the know-how and experience Also, thanks to the diversithey have acquired and integrated within corporate culture. ty of the company, it took special interest to share With the aim of detecting current and future needs and improving promotion the best practices or the through the development of individual shortand medium-term plans, the deinitiatives of performance sign and development of a “Talent Map” was approved in 2015. of all plants with the idea This management and planning tool will serve to adapt the available talent to of being able to replicate the company’s needs. 2016 saw the identification of firstly the critical posts, them. and secondly the abilities, skills and capacities at the executive level, while this analysis will be extended to the rest of the company in 2017. Hiring As mentioned earlier, as soon as the need to fill a job vacancy arises, the search begins for a professional with an appropriate profile. This process employs digital tools, such as job exchanges, as well as attendance at job fairs and collaboration with specific recruitment agencies. Bursary programmes for young professionals represent another of the company’s job creation approaches. GRI Renewable Industries 68 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Performance Training and professional development evaluation DMA, G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-HR2 and G4-HR7 G4-LA11 Training is a fundamental aspect at GRI Renewable Industries, since having a committed workforce is a key aspect allowing the company to grow, be GRI Renewable Industries has had sustainable, and improve day by day. The company therefore provides emits performance evaluation system ployees with a range of tools in this sphere to help develop their capacities in place since 2015. and contribute to their motivation, thereby fostering the company’s compeThis evaluation currently applies to titiveness. the corporate site in Madrid (102 workers), and the managers of each Each year, the factories analyse the training needs of their own employees plant (77 managerial positions). and draw up a “Training Plan” for the integration of new employees, along Performance evaluation is intended with the improvement of existing capabilities, and risk prevention. To superiodically to assess employees in pplement this initiative, mandatory global courses are launched from time qualitative and quantitative terms to time, such as those addressing the Code of Ethics, use of equipment, and as to the level of effectiveness in guidelines for the use of the Internet. the activities they perform, the reDuring 2016, the level of English of employees at head office in Madrid was sults achieved through their work, assessed, to ascertain their skills. Thanks to this study, more customised clasand the employee’s own satisfacses are now being delivered to achieve development and then certification in tion. accordance with international standards. In Turkey, courses have been deliFor those employees working wivered in the field of improving welding work and performing work at height, thin the operations division, a multithereby increasing the employability of the workers in question (G4-LA10). functionality analysis is conducted, evaluating the skills and know-how A total of 147,067 hours of training were delivered in 2016. This represents that would allow them to perform an average of 43.81 hours per employee (47.86 for men and 14.10 for wodifferent functions at the factory. men) (G4-LA9). Their distribution by category and gender is set out below: Managers Middle Managers Plant & Office personnel Country M W M W M W Brazil 4.0 48 1,578.0 267.0 16787.0 928.0 Spain 100.0 0.0 837.0 221.0 443 255.0 India 81.5 0.0 700.5 0.0 153.5 0.0 South Africa 32.0 120.0 904.0 272.0 112,780.0 2,956.0 Turkey 15.0 0.0 37.5 75.0 5,427.0 45.0 USA 45.0 0.0 720.0 120.0 400.0 35.0 China 96.0 96.0 100.0 100.0 144.0 144.0 TOTAL 373.5 264.0 4,877.0 1,055.0 136,134.5 4,363.0 It should be borne in mind that training increased considerably this year because of all the courses delivered by the start-up teams supporting the launch of the factories in the USA, South Africa and Spain. 23% of training hours were dedicated to the field of Health and Safety. As regards human rights, 311 hours of training were delivered, in South Africa, Brazil, Turkey and India. (G4-HR2). Meanwhile, since staff safety is dependent on the subcontracted safety companies, no information in this regard is available. (G4-HR7). GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 69 Brazil improves productivity and safety through risk index training The factories in Brazil registered greater productivity communication of the content of each factor. These and safety thanks to specific training undertaken to specialists were given the task of delivering weekly cover the “IPRL” Occupational Risk Prevention Index training, using photos, illustrative videos and practical in the various working areas. examples to capture the attention of the workers and improve the learning process. At the end of each traThe aim of IPRL training is to publicise the safety reining session a short theory test was conducted, and quirements for each factor, and to generate a cultuthe most important concepts to take into account in re of safety and continuous improvement, based on daily operations were reviewed. strong teamwork. The results obtained so far are highly positive, maThe training was delivered internally by workers king a direct contribution to the improvement of worthemselves. To this end, a group of specialists was esking conditions, fulfilment of the established internal tablished to study all of the factors in depth, creating standards and the launch of improvement ideas and educational materials to provide the simplest possible increased productivity. GRI Renewable Industries 70 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Turnover G4-LA1 The workforce has expanded considerably in comparison with the previous year, mainly through the inclusion of the new factories in Spain and the USA. We likewise included the three factories in China within the scope of the Report. As for the other factories and offices, hirings were slightly higher this year (3.2%) compared with 2015, and the churn rate was 14.86%. Hires Men Women Total >30 ≤50 >30 ≤50 Country ≤30 years years >50 years ≤30 years years >50 years Brazil 21 22 0 7 1 0 51 Spain 26 56 10 7 9 0 108 India 7 1 0 0 0 0 8 South Africa 72 96 7 16 9 0 200 Turkey 12 7 0 2 0 0 21 USA 83 62 19 3 9 2 178 China 0 70 5 6 14 0 95 TOTAL 221 314 41 41 42 2 661 Turnover Men Women Total >30 ≤50 >30 ≤50 Country ≤30 years years >50 years ≤30 years years >50 years Brazil 57 98 2 9 7 2 175 Spain 32 48 5 6 18 0 109 India 4 4 0 1 0 0 9 South Africa 17 40 4 3 0 0 64 Turkey 28 10 2 0 0 0 40 USA 5 15 5 0 1 0 26 China 36 24 3 7 4 2 76 TOTAL 179 239 21 26 30 4 499 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 71 Employment conditions and human rights DMA In order to remain a leading company in the sector, we need a competitive and committed team, and the company is therefore aware that it must generate an appropriate working climate, and, as mentioned earlier, retain motivated and qualified workers. Work-life balance G4-LA2 Flexible working is one of the most highly valued aspects, hence the commitment to flexibility in terms of working hours, above all in office departments. The process begins from the point at which employees first join the company, selecting the band of working hours that best suits them. In the case of factory personnel, as the work is dependent on customer needs and orders, different shifts will operate, and flexibility in adjustments to working hours will be applied individually. Maternity/paternity G4-LA3 In 2016, 93 men took this leave option, of whom 96% resumed their job, while of the 9 women, 100% have now rejoined. Meanwhile, 99% and 24% of men and women, respectively, who took paternity/maternity leave in 2015 remain at the company. Men 96% 100% 99% Women 24% Resumption Rate Retention Rate GRI Renewable Industries 72 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Diversity and Equality G4-LA12 GRI Renewable Industries is committed to the diversity of the people who make up the company, giving it an unquestionable competitive advantage. The inclusion of staff with different perspectives and origins helps to achieve positive changes at the organisation, in the way of working, and in the ability to innovate. The distribution by gender and category breaks down as follows: 88% of the workforce are men, although over recent years there has been a focus on hiring women, bringing the number up to 12%. In fact, there are now 16 female managers: 13 in China, 2 in South Africa and 1 in Spain. Personnel by gender Personnel by professional category 12% 88% 79% Men Women As for the distribution of staff by professional category, “plant and office personnel” represent the 7% 9% 2% 1% 2% most significant group for both genders, as may be seen below: Managers Middle Plant & Office Managers personnel The following table shows the distribution of staff by gender, category and country: Men Woman Total >30 ≤50 >30 ≤50 Country ≤30 years >50 years ≤30 years >50 years years years Brazil 171 327 27 20 61 1 607 Spain 93 404 62 18 61 7 645 India 84 287 10 1 0 0 382 South Africa 101 206 15 14 12 3 351 Turkey 170 117 2 4 6 0 299 USA 77 71 16 3 9 2 178 China 262 362 88 68 108 7 895 TOTAL 958 1,774 220 128 257 20 3,357 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 73 Social benefits G4-EC3 and G4-LA2 Social benefits at GRI Renewable Industries are not uniform, given the specific aspects of standard practice in each country. Information is summarised below for each country in terms of medical benefits, life assurance, disability insurance and the canteen service. Social Benefits Brazil Spain India South Africa Turkey USA Medical insurance 100% 0% 100% 0% 100% 100% Life insurance 100% 100% 100% 0% 0% 100% Disability insurance 100% 100% 100% 0% 0% 100% Canteen-tickets 100% 0% 100% 0% 100% 0% Meanwhile, factories such as those in Brazil, Turkey, India, China and South Africa have a special bus service for employees, while the canteen service is offered only in Brazil, India and Turkey. “Pension Plans” are available at the GRI Castings Zestoa and GRI Flanges Iraeta plants, as a mandatory requirement of the Metals Sector Collective Agreement for Guipuzkoa Province, while India and South Africa also offer this benefit, although in the case of South Africa, it is available only to certain employees depending on their contract. Lastly, India offers workers a retirement scheme under a system whereby the employees contribute 12% and the company a similar percentage, with those who complete 5 years of service at the company receiving an additional contribution. As for further benefits, Brazil has agreements in place for pharmacies, schools, leisure services, etc. In Spain, the “PRF” Flexible Remuneration Plan offers the chance to include a range of products within the remuneration package, such as meal and childcare vouchers, transport season tickets, etc. allowing the benefits to be adapted to each individual’s needs, while also benefiting from the corresponding tax breaks. In 2016, the PRF scheme covered the following demands: Medical Insurance: 47% Childcare voucher: 14% Training: 1% Restaurant voucher: 33% Transport: 5% GRI Renewable Industries 74 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Job stability G4-10 As indicated, GRI Renewable Industries is committed to stable employment. 83% of employees are on a permanent contract, while 17% have a temporary contract. Nearly 100% of employees work full-time, except for the 8 people in Spain working part-time. This demonstrates the company’s firm commitment to the consolidation of a reliable workforce of employees, with experience and a sense of belonging. The distribution of figures by gender and country is as follows: Contract Employment Paí Permanent Temporary Permanent Part time Country M W M W M W M W Brazil 525 82 0 0 525 82 0 0 Spain 380 73 179 13 557 80 2 6 India 355 1 26 0 381 1 0 0 South Africa 202 22 120 7 322 29 0 0 Turkey 289 10 0 0 289 10 0 0 USA 14 8 150 6 164 14 0 0 China 673 170 39 13 712 183 0 0 TOTAL 2,438 366 514 39 2,950 399 2 6 Remuneration DMA and G4-EC5 GRI Renewable Industries is aware that remuneration is an important factor in terms of talent attraction and retention. The company therefore aims to improve on the minimum salary established by local legislation. Below is set out the ratio between the annual starting salary at the company for the lowest professional category and the minimum salary established by local law: Remunerations Brazil Spain India South Africa Turkey Men ratio 1.10 1.12 1.23 3.40 1 Women ratio 1.10 1.12 2.40 3.40 1 General ratio 1.10 1.12 1.81 3.40 1 China and USA data are not available. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 75 Social Dimension Health and Safety Material aspects Content »» Management focus »» Training and awareness Culture of management »» Communication and organization in health and safety »» Risk assessment »» Tracking indicators Management Focus DMA For GRI Renewable Industries, the health and safety at work of its employees is a strategic aspect, and its significance at the company is therefore integrated within the Code of Ethics and Conduct, as well as the Health and Safety Policy itself. GRI Renewable Industries 76 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures The most important aspect for GRI Renewable Industries is to have a healthy and safe working climate at all its sites, and to integrate health and safety as standard practice among workers in their daily operations. Health and safety management is therefore essentially organised through the development and implementation of management systems based on standard OHSAS 18001, and through the IPRL excellence index, which goes beyond the legal provisions applicable in each of the countries where the firm operates. At present, OHSAS 18001 certification is held by the GRI Towers Brazil, GRI Towers Turkey and GRI Towers Galicia factories, while the IPRL excellence index is gradually being implemented at all the plants, with the aim of achieving excellence in health and safety. The model is developed on over the course of the chapter. IPRL as a model of excellence The IPRL index establishes a safety standard for GRI Meanwhile, the IPRL likewise serves as a precise saRenewable Industries factories, defining common healfety performance indicator. At each of the company’s th and safety criteria applicable to all the company’s fafactories, all the IPRL factors are evaluated specifically cilities, combining all the specific aspects of the different in accordance with standard criteria, defining a level of technologies and production processes. performance for each of them. The IPRL standard includes and surpasses the legal The index is divided into three groups: “Indices”, “Worprovisions applicable to each of the countries where king Conditions”, and “H & S Management”. For each of GRI Renewable Industries operates, as well as all the these, the IPRL has a number of performance factors OHSAS 18001 requirements. It likewise includes best with a maximum percentage to be attained. By combipractices and solutions developed internally, in pursuit ning these three groups, the IPRL index establishes an of continuous improvement. average value for all the factors. This serves to represent the overall level of safety performance at the plant The index is based on 90 factors, which are the technical in question. and management aspects with an impact on the safety conditions of each factory. For each of these factors, the The graph below shows the three groups that make up IPRL defines a series of criteria and performance levels. this index, in addition to the weightings given to each Through the implementation of all the IPRL criteria, the factor evaluated. factories attain excellence in safety. IPRL Index Rates 30% Working conditions 35% H&S Management 35% 3 Factors 59 Factors 28 Factors Frequency Rate 27% Routes of traffic (3 factors) Accidente investigations 5% Severity Rate 27% Stores (5 factors) Training 4% Severe Accidents 45% Lifting tools (4 factors) Special Works 5% Fine protecton (3 factors) Risk assessment 7% Productive machines (31 factors) External companies 4% Auxilliary machines (6 factors) Healtth surveillance 4% Environmental conditions (5 factors) Safety Inspections 5% Ergonomic conditions (2 factors) Audits 3% GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 77 The objectives pursued through this index are a reducThe success achieved at those factories with the hition in accidents, alignment of the entire organisation ghest points scores has taken the form of spreading to improve safety, the integration of productivity and responsibility for implementation of the index across all safety within continuous improvement, as well as deciworkers at the factory and the departments. This serves sion-making based on greater information, the developto create a virtuous circle that aligns different people ment of a working safety culture and the achievement and departments with shared safety objectives, filling of excellence in occupational health and safety. them with pride and dedication when they see such positive scores awarded to their work, as well as satisfacWith the aim of overseeing the evolution of each GRI tion with regard to the other factories and colleagues at Renewable Industries factory, the results of the IPRL different sites. are continuously monitored and evaluated quarterly by the team responsible for Health and Safety. The results As mentioned, the IPRL is a continuous improvement obtained by each plant are available to the whole ortool not only for the factories, but also for GRI Renewaganisation over the corporate intranet, in more general ble Industries as a whole. By including IPRL criteria in or detailed form, depending on individual specific needs. the design of new factories, the company channels past experiences at the safest factories from the outset, Another of the aspects to highlight is that this is an thereby avoiding possible problems that can easily be effective vehicle for continuous improvement, and a caresolved. talyst for change at most factories. The improvements are palpable in each individual part of the unit, and the Lastly, another notable aspect of the IPRL is the genegeneral output of the factories. ration of an appropriate framework for collaboration between companies and factories. As the factories are at The most obvious conclusion about IPRL is that good rethe heart of IPRL, they are encouraged to manage and sults are, among other aspects, down to the fact that the inhave in place their own safety strategy. Meanwhile, at dex is not a vertical system, with strict rules to be followed, the corporate level only minimal resources are required but instead encourages independent initiatives. In truth, it is to provide support, share experiences and provide oba desirable standard, while also serving as a precise measujective supervision. rement system to detect any deviation from this. After a full year preparing and Work Prevention conditions management fine-tuning the IPRL, the index was implemented in the first 4QT % 4QT % 2016 Improvement 1 2016 Improvement 1 quarter of 2016 at seven GRI Renewable Industries sites. GRI Flanges Brazil 35 29% 26 7% By the end of the year it beGRI Towers Brazil 30 56% 31 16% came clear that the occupatioGRI Towers Turkey 57 30% 48 27% nal safety practice had been a success, since most of the GRI Towers India 86 10% 68 14% factories registered significant GRI Towers South Africa 86 -4% 85 -13% improvements. Specifically, two GRI Towers Galicia 66 7% 60 0% of them (GRI Towers Brazil and GRI Flanges Iraeta 86 0% 80 19% GRI Flanges Brazil) managed to attain the “green” performance GRI Renewable 17% 10% Industries level (IPRL excellence), as may be seen in the following graphic 1 The percentage improvements were calculated by taking into account the results for Q1 in 2016. *GRI Towers USA and GRI Castings Zestoa will be incorporated within the IPRL indicator over the course of 2017. GRI Renewable Industries 78 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Training and awareness-raising GRI Flanges The two most important principles drawn from the Health and Safety PoBrazil licy are to create a health and safety working environment, and to incorporate health and safety as standard practice in workers’ daily operations. achieves In accordance, those workers joining the company for the first time, or thoexcellence in se switching to a new job, are given specific training for their category and the functionalities they are to perform. The same applies to subcontractor IPRL indicator staff beginning work at the plants, thereby guaranteeing that risks are milevel nimised, and quality standards are fulfilled. For workers handling specific machinery, aside from the general health and safety training given to everyone, they receive more specific instruction in GRI Flanges Brazil managed the use of the tool. Meanwhile, some workers receive additional training to achieve the level of “excecompared with their colleagues, and are responsible for reaction in cases llence” in the IPRL (Occupaof emergency. tional Risk Prevention IndiAll the training delivered is reviewed and refreshed by the supervisors of cator) in the sphere of Health each area on a periodic basis. The company is also responsible for launand Safety in the third quarching other awareness-raising actions to reinforce all the lessons learned ter of 2016. in this field. This made GRI Flanges Brazil One of the most notable training initiatives is the Be Safe! programme launthe first plant to achieve this ched for the first time in 2015, comprising an awareness-raising campaign excellence target, following to make employees more sensitive to Health and Safety issues. months of hard work and dedication by all its workers. Other initiatives include the international celebration of “World Health and Safety Day”, involving a range of initiatives addressing the importance of The task began in late 2015 the involvement of workers in improving health and safety. with the overall presentation Below we set out the total number of hours of health and safety training of the indicator to all manadelivered by country: gement teams, by the local Safety team. The benefits South Training Brazil Spain India Turkey USA associated with implementaAfrica tion were swiftly identified, Hours 14,760 2,184 503 1,746 7,538 8,992 establishing goals and the pathway to be followed so as to achieve the aim of excellent performance. 41% Brazil USA: 25% 6% Spain 2% India Turkey: 21% 5% South Africa GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 79 World Health and Safety at Work Day To mark World Health and Safety at Work Day, on 28 involvement of all workers in improving health and April all GRI Renewable Industries plants staged a safety. Meetings were staged at the various plants, range of awareness-raising events for workers. along with information talks, theatre performances, educational safety tours of the plant, and small-scale Continuing the Be Safe! campaign, over the course of festive events. The new health and safety standard the day a number of activities were undertaken as rewas also presented: IPRL. gards the importance of personal attitudes and the Communication and Organisation G4-LA5 Communication As seen in the stakeholder partiaccident rates, the investigation of Other internal communication cipation section, there are various accidents and incidents, and the channels aside from the commitchannels to engage in direct and planning of preventive and correctitees include: two-way communication with the ve actions (G4-LA8). • Suggestions boxes, such as the various audiences. In the specific Employee representation on the Be Safe! box located at each case of the safety area, two-way health and safety committees is deplant communication is conducted at the tailed in the following table: plants, the figures responsible being • Information boards the manager and/or safety coordi• Daily, weekly and monthly meenator each site. These two indiviEmployees representation at tings to monitor relevant issues duals are responsible for reviewing Health and Safety Committees such as risk prevention planning. the issues proposed and for prioritiCountry % representation sing those deemed of greatest rele• Leading the Change intranet Brazil 95% vance for the factory. Spain 75% External notifications of serious The Health and Safety Committee, India 100% and very serious accidents and which includes a workers’ represenTurkey 100% employee deaths are conducted in tative, meets quarterly to discuss reaccordance with the terms of local USA 100% levant issues regarding plant safety, legislation, in compliance with ILO Total 91% the approach to risk mitigation, the recommendations. selection of protective equipment, China and South Africa data are not available GRI Renewable Industries 80 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Organisation of safety Health and safety management at GRI Renewable Industries is conducted at the plant level, coordinated and supported by the corporate Occupational Health and Safety department. All GRI Renewable Industries plants have a health and safety coordinator in place, and depending on the scale of the factory, this figure will be supported by one or more risk prevention technicians. The coordinators and technicians are responsible for including risk prevention tasks within production processes. In the case of the factories in Brazil and Turkey, there are also medical teams who help ensure that this culture of risk prevention is constantly applied. However, the efforts made by the company to mitigate risks does not stop there, since aside from the IPRL, the awareness-raising campaigns, the committees, training processes, etc. there are certain Health and Safety principles that serve as guidelines governing the implementation of such Risk topics: analysis 1. Provide a healthy and safe 8. Learn from experience and conG4LA7 working environment at all our tinuously improve Occupational Each factory conducts a risk asoperational sites. Health & Safety Management. sessment that is periodically re2. Integrate Occupational Health 9. Permanently train, raise awaviewed by both the plant and cor& Safety within all our managereness and develop the skills of porate coordinators. In accordance ment processes. employees, in accordance with with the results obtained, the dethe functions and risks of their fined risk mitigation protocols are 3. Involve all employees in Occujobs. deployed. pational Health & Safety Management in accordance with the 10. Monitor the state of health of In the case of jobs that are classifunctions and responsibilities of workers in accordance with the fied as involving exposure to risk, each. risks of their jobs. all protective measures are imple4. Foster a genuine risk prevention 11. Evaluate Occupational Health mented, using appropriate PPE in accordance with need. culture at every level of the & Safety Management through organisation. internal and external audits to During 2016, 6 risk-exposed jobs 5. Achieve the highest standards verify the fulfilment and effectiwere identified, affecting a total of in the field of Occupational veness of this policy. 24 workers, distributed as follows: Health & Safety, fully complying 12. Demand that partner compawith the applicable legal requinies and suppliers take responPositions Nº rements and local regulations, in sibility for occupational health at the employees company affected addition to all corporate policies and safety, and comply with the GRI and procedures. requirements of GRI Renewable Castings 6 24 6. Permanently evaluate the risks Industries in this regard. Zestoa applicable to each job. 7. Plan, coordinate and implement risk prevention actions to minimise the risks detected at each operational site. Review risk prevention planning by Management at each site. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 81 Tracking indicators Days lost G4-LA6 Rate of professional illnesses G4-LA7 GRI Renewable Industries performs continuous monitoring of the indicators connected with both internal and external employee accidents. Incidents Own personnel are also followed up so as to be able to establish preventive measures that Country Men Women will improve employee safety, and hence the working climate. Brazil 2.3 0.0 Spain 1.0 0.0 TOTAL 0.87 0.00 Accidents Rate of the professional illness: calculated on the basis the following formula (nº of During 2016, there were no fatal accidents at GRI Renewable Industries. occupational diseases/nº of hours worked) *1,000,000 The different accident rates are detailed below: In all other countries, the rate of Accidents professional illnesses is 0.0 for with leave Own Personnel External personnel both genders. rate Country Men Women Men Women Rate of days lost Brazil 5.3 0.0 2.0 0.0 through accident Spain 28.2 50.0 150.2 0.0 Own personnel India 4.7 0.0 13.7 0.0 Country Men Women South Africa 0.0 33.4 14.0 0.0 Brazil 323.0 4.5 Turkey 8.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Spain 569.6 1,200.0 USA 0.0 0.0 0.0 96.7 India 62.6 0.0 Total 9.97 18.42 16.97 66.67 South Africa 113.4 167.1 Rate of accidents with leave: Calculated in basis of the following formula: Nº accidents with medical leave 2016/ nº hours worked *1,000,000. Turkey 122.1 0.0 USA 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 261.3 400.6 Accidents Rate of days lost through accident: calculawithout leave Own Personnel External personnel ted on the basis the following formula (nº of rate days lost due to occupational accidents/nº of Country Men Women Men Women hours worked) *1,000,000 Brazil 14.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Rate of days lost Spain 102.1 71.4 0.0 0.0 through absence India 22.4 0.0 3.4 0.0 Own personnel South Africa 0.0 0.0 14.0 0.0 Turkey 3.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Country Men Women USA 48.7 87.7 10.7 0.0 Brazil 1,922.3 4,294.9 TOTAL 32.0 25.3 12.7 0.0 Spain 2,054.8 3,001.3 India 115.8 0.0 Rate of accidents without leave: Calculated in basis of the following formula: Nº accidents with medical leave 2016/ nº hours worked *1,000,000. South Africa 2,838.7 2,673.2 Turkey 1,129.4 104.2 USA 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 1,576.26 3,366.20 Rate of days lost through absence: calculated on the basis the following formula (nº of absence days/nº of hours worked) *1,000,000 GRI Renewable Industries 82 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures GRI Towers India stages its Safety Week with a range of activities and the “Example to Follow” award As every year, GRI Towers India staged its Health Various competitions were also staged with the aim and Safety at Work week. The campaign is an event of motivating employees and underpinning safety staged at the national level. To mark the occasion, as awareness, with two drills being conducted to prepawell as the safety posters that were put up, emplore workers to deal with emergencies such as fires. yees were called on to perform numerous activities such as safety drills at the plant, theatre performanLastly, the “Example to Follow” Safety Awareness ces, creative competitions, and also participation in Award was presented. The award involves following the “Example to Follow” award handed out this year. all the safety rules and making proper use of PPE. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 83 Social Dimension Local community Material aspects Content Impact, dialogue and »» Management focus investment in the local »» Social Action community Management focus DMA GRI Renewable Industries contributes to the creation of value in the local economy through various focuses that aim to strengthen and consolidate the business fabric in the region. GRI Renewable Industries 84 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Details are set out below of how the company makes its Furthermore, GRI Renewable Industries uses value contribution of value to society, and the form that this takes. creation within society as an obligation to the contexts within which it operates, and aims through its • Employment created and maintained, with a figure of products and services to respond to the social cha661 for new hirings and a total workforce of 3,357 llenges faced globally. employees, 86% of whom are of local nationality, while 83% have a permanent contract. Further informaTo achieve this objective, the aim is to align social tion is given in this regard in the People section. collaboration with business activities and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), through di• Economic value distributed (EVD), with a total of rect engagement with the communities where the 434,919 thousand euros. Meanwhile, purchases from company has a presence, among other aspects by local suppliers, which corresponded to 78% of overameans of social initiatives and partnership with a ll purchases, and an expenditure of 400,108 million range of associations, membership of local induseuros, while the payment of taxes and social security trial associations, and the relationship with public contributions totalled 28,236 thousand euros. authorities. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 85 Local suppliers Contribution DMA and G4-EC9 to local In 2016, the expenditure on suppliers amounted to 400,108,238 euros, of development which 78.46% corresponds to local suppliers. The table below sets out the percentage distribution by country: DMA GRI Renewable Industries is awa100 re that in order to be able fully to 97% 96% develop in those countries and communities where it has presen80 83% ce, it must make a contribution to 79% 78% their constituent societies. So as 60 68% to achieve this aim, it establishes a direct and fluent dialogue with its 52% audiences. 40 In dialogue with third parties (lo20 cal authorities, public bodies, local 22% administrations) it follows the guidelines set out in the company’s 0 Spain Brazil South Africa Turkey India USA China Total Code of Ethics and Conduct. Meanwhile, involvement with associations (G4-16) and local bodies considerably enriches the company’s development, by keeping it abreast of the queries, studies and working parties in the sector, allowing a reference framework to be built up. Although it was not possible to conduct a study as to the company’s impact on the environment or on society, GRI Renewable Industries did not identify any real or potential significant negative impact on the local community as a result of its facilities (G4-SO2), nor did it present or receive any grievances regarding social impacts during the year (G4-SO11). GRI Renewable Industries 86 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Payment of Support for development levies and taxes The output of GRI Renewable Industries is based on raw materials such as steel, the component most heavily used by the company, which thanks to its properties is entirely recyclable. This therefore serves to reduce usage The regions where GRI Renewaand consumption of natural resources, while also facilitating energy sable Industries has its sites receive vings by turning waste into a raw material. revenue through business rates, Consideration must likewise be given to the fact that the construction of levies and taxes, that help improthe towers and flanges themselves facilitates the use of clean and reve the services and life of the local newable energy sources. This thus promotes the use of new energies, with population. The amount transannual output serving to avoid 468,219 tonnes of CO2. ferred during 2016 was 28,236 thousand euros, with the countries During 2016, 1,277 towers were manufactured at the various factories of receiving the greatest amount beGRI Renewable Industries, as may be seen below: ing Brazil and Spain. The breakdown by country is shown in Part I: Towers sold by country General Standard Disclosures. 35 30 31.5 31.08 25 20 15 15.97 10 14.17 5 7.2 0 Spain Brazil Turkey India South Africa As for the output of flanges, the cumulative volume over the course of the period was 109,526 tonnes. All this is made possible by the close relationship the company enjoys with its customers, seeking ways to achieve efficient and innovative production, reducing environmental impacts and generating sustainable development. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 87 Social Action DMA and G4-SO1 So as to support local development in the regions where To improve the participation in and communication of GRI Renewable Industries has a presence, various agreethese initiatives, the corporate intranet includes a group ments are being put in place with non-profit organisations, entitled “Charitable Initiatives”, allowing all employees to with which corporate activities are staged. interact and find out about different charitable causes and projects, while also explaining the social tasks performed Local initiatives are undertaken at operational sites in an by the various NGOs and Foundations. The group on the attempt to improve the quality of life and daily reality of Internet so far has 213 subscribers. the local population. These initiatives focused this year on care for the environment, sports activities, and econoA number of the initiatives undertaken by the various GRI mic donations to local educational and health projects. Renewable Industries sites are detailed below: As for development programmes and actions with the local community, these are staged mainly at 6 of our factories and at head office (40%). CORPORATE INITIATIVES EDUCATION GRI Renewable Industries organised a volunteering day with the John XXIII Roncalli Foundation, delivering classes that address various issues, such as “how to access the job market”, “how to set about job interviews”, and “how to search for an employment using social media”. These classes were given by employees from the human resources addressing ethical, human and culLastly, to mark the 10th Anniverand IT systems area, for 80 stutural values, delivered in various sary of the LQDVI Foundation, dents of the Foundation. Spanish cities and intended for children’s stories were purchased, In addition to these activities, the pre-university students. using brief narratives to convey a children of employees were girange of values. In partnership with the Foundation, ven the chance to attend an uran online course in the values of ban summer camp to foster their “Effort and Entrepreneurship” was integration with students of the launched among GRI employees in Foundation. The camp involves late 2016. The course was built on such activities as “how to care for the basis of the company’s values, an allotment”, “treasure hunts” and and led by speakers such as Toni “handicraft workshops”. Nadal and Jorge Font, who through GRI Renewable Industries sutheir experiences provided exampported the LQDVI Foundation in ples of how to put these values staging a number of congresses into practice. GRI Renewable Industries 88 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures LOCAL INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND SPORT GRI Renewable Industries strives GRI Renewable Industries believes that positive habits are vital for the to preserve the environment and health of employees and the community, and so has staged numerous to combat climate change, whiinitiatives connected with the promotion of sport. le also supporting sporting and These ventures in many cases have a twofold objective, as an important healthcare initiatives. As a result, tool in raising funds for social projects. various plants in Turkey, Spain and South Africa staged the following A number of examples are summarised below: social action initiatives: GRI Towers Galicia suGRI Towers Galicia and pports sport and healthy lifestyles head office in Madrid staged enamong its employees, and as a vironmental activities compriresult sponsors the cycling team sing the planting of 1,250 trees, made up of a number of workers to match the number of towers at the plant. The scheme has beproduced the previous year. The nefited 15 users. It has also sponchosen locations, close to the sored the football Academy and hinterland of the company, were youth fivea-side football team the municipality of Carballiño and in O Carballiño, the Piñor car rally the area around Ávila. A total of and the Arenteiro charity race. 130 people attended the events, planting 800 and 450 indigenous GRI Flanges Iraeta supporplants, respectively, including such ted the local five-a-side football species as silver birch, maple, holm team by sponsoring the players’ oak, cork oak, conifers, pines and kit. These projects amount to a mountain ash. sum total of 10,434 euros, benefiting nearly 500 people. GRI Towers Turkey staged a blood donor day for plant employees. This involved hiring a Turkish Red Crescent bus to attend the GRI Flanges China confactory during all the shifts, giving ducted campaigns in the villages employees the chance to give round the factories with the aim blood once the health staff had of fulfilling the basic needs of conducted a suitability test. underprivileged elderly people. These campaigns were staged GRI Towers Turkey, Another activity undertaken by prior to the spring break and on meanwhile, donated the cost of GRI Towers Turkey was involveworkers’ day. 50 young trees to an association ment at the local fair, raising funds for the reforestation of greenthat were donated to an associabelt land close to the factory site. tion dealing with child cancer. The trees were properly planted Numerous employees purchased thanks to support from the Assoarticles produced by the patients’ ciation. families. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 89 EDUCATION GRI Renewable Industries views training as an important and beneficial aspect for the development of the regions where it has a presence. As a result, through a range of corporate and local initiatives it implemented various educational projects during 2016. Of particular note is the extensive • Meanwhile, the development of activity of GRI Towers South skills and knowledge on the part Africa in the field of education in of the underprivileged populathe Cape region. tions of Atlantis, where GRI has GRI Flanges China has its factory, is also promoted. through bursaries and study ma• Over the course of the year, partnerships were established with • Support has been given in this terials helped students at the the two main educational instiarea to the technical training of schools nearby the factories. This tutions in the city of Atlantis, to professionals who in the future makes a contribution to the devesupport primary level education. will be company employees. All lopment of the local population. the above was conducted toge• A relationship was likewise estather with the technical campuses blished with the technical school of West Coast College and Cape and all its campuses in the region, Town University. including Cape Town University. This allows GRI Towers South • The possibility of including engiAfrica to support the education of neering roles as apprentices and the local population, from the eartradesmen in the various producliest stages at school up to unition processes at the company versity attendance and vocatiois currently being considered. nal training. All of which benefits 20 apprentices were taken on in socio-economic development in 2016, 50% of whom have some the region, and fulfils the schoodegree of disability. ling needs of 5,000 students. ECONOMIC DONATIONS In addition to conducting social iniGRI Towers Turkey made GRI Flanges Iraeta made a tiatives, GRI Renewable Industries an economic contribution to a local contribution to Zestoa town council also undertakes sponsorship proschool so as to refurbish the builto stage the local festivities. grammes in the communities where ding, thereby benefiting 400 chilit has a presence. dren. GRI Renewable Industries 90 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Local collaboration with public authorities DMA and G4-SO6 GRI Renewable Industries collaborates with public authorities on an altruistic basis, establishing relationships with local authorities with complete transparency, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Code of Ethics. Meanwhile, the company does not make any economic or in-kind contributions to political parties (G4-SO6). Intergune Seminar for to advance details as to the comThe managers of GRI Flanges Iraethe internationalisation pany’s establishment in the Andaluta, and GRI Castings Zestoa also of Basque companies sian capital. showed the Regional President and representatives of the Basque GoGRI Renewable Industries was inIn May, GRI Towers Sevilla was vernment around the facilities they volved at the Intergune Seminar staawarded the 50-year concession run, detailing certain characteristics ged at the Barakaldo BEC by SPRI, to occupy 159,700 square metres of the rolling mill processes, in the the Basque Government’s business at the Port of Seville. The budget case of GRI Flanges, and how the development agency. allocated to the venture is 54 million steel is cast, at GRI Castings.. euros, to supply 110 towers a year, The gathering focused on the interwith 400 jobs expected to be creanationalisation of Basque compaA Basque Government deted. GRI Towers Sevilla will manunies and the risks and opportunities legation visits GRI Towers facture and dispatch from Seville the provided by political and economic offshore metal structures and wind South Africa changes in the various countries. towers used to install wind turbines A delegation of the Basque GoverThe CEO of GRI Renewable Indusat sea.. nment visited the facilities of GRI tries, Javier Imaz, was accompanied Towers South Africa in Cape Town. by the President of Ingeteam, and The Basque Regional PreThe aim was to witness the potenthe President of Mondragón Intersident visits the GRI Flantial of Basque companies and explonacional. ges Iraeta and GRI Casre the opportunities in South Africa tings Zestoa plants for the Basque economy. Analysis with the authorities in Seville: arrival of Basque Regional President Iñigo UrGRI South Africa represents the larGRI Towers Sevilla in the kullu visited the GRI Flanges Iraeta gest production investment in the region and GRI Castings Zestoa plants, acrenewable energies market in the companied by other organisations. country. The President of Gonvarri Steel InCompany President Jon Riberas was dustries, Jon Riberas, and the CEO present at the head of the executive of GRI Renewable Industries, Javier team, alongside Javier Imaz, CEO of Imaz, met with the Mayor of Seville, GRI Renewable Industries. the President of the Port Authority and the Regional Economy Minister GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 91 Environmental Dimension Material aspect Content Environmental performance »» Management and environmental impact »» Energy consumption Energy and efficiency »» Energy efficiency Climate change and CO2 »» Emissions and climate change Environmental performance DMA GRI Renewable Industries, through its Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy, alongside the Integrated Management System, emphasises its respect for the environment, and activates appropriate mechanisms so as to operate efficiently and responsibly, thereby offering quality, competitive and profitable products. GRI Renewable Industries 92 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures GRI Renewable Industries measures and monitors its levels of consumption, emissions, waste, discharges, etc., along with further environmental parameters, so as to analyse its efficiency, and thereby establish periodic improvement objectives helping to minimise its environmental impact, without affecting the quality of its products. Meanwhile, training and environmental awareness raising is a fundamental practice in order to promote responsible behaviour. During 2016, such training focused on good practices and aspects such as energy efficiency, waste management and the environmental management indicators. At present the GRI Towers Galicia, GRI Towers Turkey, GRI Towers India, GRI Towers South Africa, GRI Towers Brazil, GRI Flanges China I, II and III plants hold ISO 14001:2008 certification, representing 67% of the plants in operation. No significant finds in excess of €100,000 have been imposed against the company for environmental matters (G4-EN29). Only one environmental complaint was received from the authorities in India in the process of renewing the environmental licence, but this did not cause any harm to the environment itself (G4-EN34). KPI's 2015 2016 Steel consumption (tons) 262,023 390,933 Energy consumption (GJ) 144,238 271,345 Other energy consumption (GJ) 105,020 133,355 49,160.69 42,879 Water consumption (m3) 78% supply 75% supply 22% Superficial water bodies 25% Superficial water bodies Non-hazardous Waste: scrap (tons) 28,775 25,530 Non-hazardous Waste: Others (tons) 2,555 1,831 Hazardous waste (tons) 2,565 2,081 Environmental investment (€) 20,599 122,306 Environmental expenses (€) (G4-EN31) 532,548 184,000 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 93 Steel and the Circular Economy On 2 December 2015, the European Commission (EC) adopted a new package to promote Europe’s transition to a “circular economy”, to promote global competitiveness, foster sustainable economic growth and generate new jobs. The aim is to achieve a transition towards a more solidly based circular economy, closing the circle so as to make more sustainable use of resources. The proposals cover the whole life-cycle, from producAware of the need to preserve this resource, it has optition and consumption to waste management (reuse, mised processes to ensure that both the machinery and recycling and recovery), with the market including secutting designs make the best possible use of the steel condary raw materials in a closed cycle, rather than the sheeting, achieve efficient consumption, reducing waste former “produce, use and discard” model. generation and minimising environmental impact, while maintaining high product quality standards at all times. Among the objectives that have been set, the build-up of recycled materials at landfill sites is forbidden. This means that waste must be “traceable”, guaranteeing the infrastructure required to collect, classify, condition and recycle under optimal conditions. ircular economy Given its characteristics, steel plays a fundamental role in this framework. C STEEL Steel, thanks to its capacity to recover its original properties without any loss of quality DESIGN after smelting, is the most recycled material G RA in the world. Recycling generates savings LIN W RE of up to 85% of water, 80% of energy RE REC IALS CY and 95% of carbon, avoiding the omisC ER CE sion of almost 2 tonnes of greenhouse YCL AT DU gases per tonne of steel. In fact, there E M are steels that remain within today’s REUSE production process that were originaSIN ROCES G PROD lly produced in the 19th century. (SourP UCT ce: UNESID). As a result, practically 100% of the RE ION products manufactured at GRI Renewable Industies are fully recyclable, significantly reducing their environmental impact at the end of their useful life, and US ED E helping to close the circle. O C ESS PR RE-USE GRI Renewable Industries 94 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures STEEL RECYCLING Extraction of raw materials Steel production GRI Renewable Industries has commercial agreements in place with steel suppliers who provide the raw material in all the countries where it operates. The composition of the steel contains a variable percentage of Recycling recycled steel, depending on the type. Steel can be infinitely recycled while maintaining its properties. Our product, the towers and Manufacture flanges are destined for wind farms and there are 100% recycled. GRI Renewable Industries enjoys a leading position in all the main steel markets through its 12 production Usage centres, its 3 plants under construction and its product portfolio (onshore & Steel has outstanding properties: offshore towers, flanges, etc.). high performance, strength, durability, versatility… allowing us to develop very high quality products, following and fulfilling the specifications of our customers. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 95 Raw materials and hazardous products DMA, G4-EN1 and G4-EN2 Production processes at GRI Renewable Industries led in accordance with the procedures and instructions make intensive use of steel (390,933 tonnes), since this in place, complying with the applicable regulations, and is the main component of all its products, followed by avoiding manual contact as far as possible. welding wire and flux. As for hazardous products used The main volumes of consumption during the year are at our facilities, there are very few, and they are handsummarised below: Consumptions GRI South GRI Spain GRI Brazil GRI Turkey GRI India GRI USA GRI China (tons) Africa Steel 87,984 99,878 31,876 28,331 11,457 88.34 131,319 Flux 504 286 150 102 130.49 28 Painting 460 1,439 179 254 81 12 Grit 81 140 26 65 19 140 Welding wire 516 303 150 158 31 26 With regard to the use of recycled materials, the steel used in our processes is partially made up of recycled steel. This composition varies depending on the supplier and the product. The results by product type are set out below: Steel recycled Product Tons consumed % recycled tons (G4-EN2) Towers 226,713 18% 40,157 Flanges 164,222 18% 29,088 Castings 1,075.6 58% 624 Conflict Minerals Since 2010, following the approval of the Dodd-Frank not be derived from foundries using “conflict minerals”, Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, gothis term applying to columbite-tantalite (coltan), casivernments, companies and consumers are increasingly terite, wolframite and gold, and any other mineral or dedemanding information on the source of so-called “conrivatives that would contribute the funding of conflicts flict minerals” in the manufacturing of the products they in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or any neighsell, and this has therefore become a significant aspect bouring country, serving to continue the perpetration of of the supply chain. human rights atrocities. As a result, for purchases of raw materials, where appliWe likewise inform our customers, where required, as to cable, the SIA serves to request information as to provethe absence of such minerals from our products. nance, the requirement being that the purchases must GRI Renewable Industries 96 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Energy DMA The production process at GRI Renewable Industries makes inInternal energy consumption tensive use of energy as a result G4-EN3 and G4-EN4 of the tower and flange manufacOver the course of 2016, GRI Renewable Industries consumed a total of turing operation. The company is 404,700 GJ, of which 67% corresponded to electrical consumption, and the therefore incorporating measures remaining 33% to fuel consumption (LPG, natural gas, propane and diesel). to increase energy efficiency in The distribution by country is summarised below: its processes, to reduce its carbon footprint and environmental imInternal Gas consumption Electricity GLP Propane Diesel pact. Natural (GJ) Meanwhile, recent climate chanGRI Spain 52,641 0 62,575 2,028 4,419 ge agreements are fostering the GRI Brazil 41,858 838 14,061 0 1,637 development of energy policies in GRI Turkey 15,175 0 5,216 819 0 various countries which will give GRI India 14,251 1,168 0 0 1,211 momentum to the sector of indusGRI South Africa 13,313 351 0 0 0 trial components associated with renewable energy over the coming GRI USA 2,529 0 2 0 1,090 years. GRI China 131,578 0 37,940 0 0 Total 271,345 2,357 119,794 2,847 8,357 Calculation of the conversion factors employed such acknowledged sources as DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) and IDAE (Instituto para la Diversificación y Ahorro de la Energía). As regards consumption of electrical energy, most is used in the production process, as summarised below: Production 93% Use of energy 6% Both uses 1% Conditioning As for external energy consumption, as mentioned in the 2015 sustainability report, no information is available regarding this indicator. Information is expected to be available by 2030 (G4-EN4). GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 97 Energy intensity Emissions and Climate Change G4-EN5 DMA, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN20, GRI Renewable Industries believes G4-EC2 and G4-EN27 that measurement of energy intenClimate change is of increasing significance, and is one of the main chasity is a good way of measuring the llenges we face, the great environmental hill to be climbed by humanity efficiency and impact of its procesin the 21st century. Hence the growing need to establish strategies and ses. objectives that will help arrest global warming. Following the staging in The calculation takes into consideParis of the 21st United Nations Climate Change Summit (COP 21), a gloration both electricity and fuel (LPG, bal commitment was established to “keep the temperature rise below 2 natural gas, propane and diesel), codegrees compared with pre-industrial levels, and pursue efforts to limit rresponding solely to internal energy the increase to 1.5 degrees”. So as to achieve this goal, global CO2 emisconsumption. The resulting annual sions will need to be reduced by 2025 at the latest, and halved by 2050. ratio is calculated by dividing the This is now particularly significant, since in 2016 terrestrial atmospheric internal energy consumption by the carbon dioxide levels were consistently already in excess of the symtotal weight of the products sold in bolic level of 400 ppm of CO2. Although this limit had already been sureach country. passed in some specific places around the globe for a period of a few Given the considerable difference months, it had never been maintained on average and worldwide for a between tower and flange manufacwhole year. turing processes, we have presented GRI Renewable Industries believes that the main options in addressing the information separately for the climate change focus on the use of modern and efficient technology for two processes. renewable energy generation, the development and implementation of The following tables detail the reenergy efficiency measures in its processes, and training and awaresults obtained: ness-raising staff. Energy intensity “Flanges” 7 13 GJ consumed/ tons of sold AFFORDABLE AND CLIMATE product CLEAN ENERGY ACTION GRI Flanges Iraeta 3.38 GRI Flanges Brazil 7.32 GRI Flanges China 2.20 TOTAL 2.56 Energy intensity “Towers” GJ consumed/tons of sold product GRI Towers Brazil 0.69 Goal 7 Goal 13 GRI Towers Galicia 0.77 Guarantee access to affordable, Adopt urgent measures to comGRI Towers India 0.62 safe, sustainable and modern bat climate change and its effects, GRI Towers South energy for all, and in particular particular through the incorpora1.25 Africa work by 2030 towards a doubling tion of national plans, policies and GRI Towers Turkey 0.7 of the global energy efficiency imstrategies that will help minimise Total 0.74 provement rate. the impact. GRI Renewable Industries 98 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Benefits of Reduction in energy consumption renewable energies G4-EN6 Renewable energies, and specifiAs for the obligations to conduct “Energy Audits”, in accordance with the cally wind, provide a guarantee of provisions of Royal Decree 56/2016, of 12 February 2016, GRI Renewasustainability given their non-poble Industries has satisfactorily audited 100% of its factories in Spain: GRI lluting properties. They are inexCastings Zestoa, GRI Towers Galicia and GRI Flanges Iraeta, providing a dehaustible and globally accessible tailed analysis of distribution of electricity and natural gas consumption by sources of energy. Meanwhile, plant, industrial process, equipment and main production line. they reduce the consumption of fossil fuels by helping to combat As a result of the audits, a number of performance improvement and saclimate change and avoid the provings options (MAEs) were detected, and following implementation they duction of greenhouse gases and will allow us to reduce consumption at factories, without dropping perforpollutant emissions. mance levels. Per kWh generated, it has an enviOur aim in 2017 is to analyse the audits in depth and improve the results ronmental impact that is 21 times of the measurements conducted, mainly at GRI Towers Galicia and GRI lower than that produced by oil, Flanges Iraeta, to provide more complete and detailed information prior to 10 times lower than nuclear enerapproval of the Investment Plan. gy and 5 times less than gas, according to the AEE. Wind energy generation does not GRI Towers India celebrates entail any risk to the population in the locations where it is installed. “Woodland Week” Meanwhile, the costs of generating renewable energy cannot be compared with fossil fuels. As a result, investment in renewable energies is a commitment that also allows for development in depressed and rural areas, improving the habitat, generating jobs, encouraging the establishment of local suppliers, and acting as a spearhead for the service industry and economy in the region. That is why GRI Renewable Industries is working to open new Woodland Week has been staged since July 1947, when national factories in strategic locations, for leaders dedicated their efforts to this course. Following Indian indethe onshore and offshore market. pendence, the movement began in 1950 when the Minister of AgriProduction of hybrid towers is culture and Food and the Minister of Health at the time announced another way of contributing new the launch of a National Tree Planting Week. solutions to the current landscape, with unceasing efforts being made To mark the event, the GRI Towers India factory planted 300 trees to arrest climate change and reduin the area around the plant, mostly locals species suited to regional ce the generation of CO2 emissions conditions (Ficus, Indian gooseberry, Neem, Janglee tree and Karanj as far as possible. tree). The process was monitored via satellite by “Latitude and Longitude waves & rays”. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 99 Emissions avoided The main activity of GRI Renewable Industries is the me climatic phenomena. Meanwhile, woodlands help to manufacture of components for wind turbines (towers arrest climate change, by acting as sinks that trap and and flanges) intended for the generation of wind energy. store CO2. This renewable and sustainable energy does not emit GRI Renewable Industries therefore committed in 2015 greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, thereby contrito minimise these impacts through forest repopulation buting to the mitigation of climate change. (planting new trees) and/or reforestation (replanting deWe are likewise committed to the achievement of the forested areas). The aim is, as far as possible, to match Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular the number of trees planted to the number of towers those helping to combat climate change (SDG 7.3 and manufactured. SDG 13.2). In 2016, we conducted a reforestation scheme in GaliBelow we highlight our contribution in this context ducia and repopulation in Avila, involving mainly staff and their families from the GRI Towers Galicia factory and ring 2016: head office in Madrid, respectively, planting a total of 1,250 shrubs, 800 of them in Galicia, and 450 in Avila. Reforestation As a result of these plantations, and in accordance with G4-EN27 the species planted, the estimate is that 1,520 tonnes of CO2 will be absorbed over the next 40 years, corresTrees and woodlands have a direct relationship with cliponding to 38 tonnes per year. mate change. On the one hand, climate changes affect woodlands by raising average annual temperatures and There are plans for reforestation/repopulation schemes modifying rainfall patterns, while also increasing extrein 2017 in Madrid, Galicia and the Basque Country. GRI Renewable Industries 100 Sustainability Report 2016 Parte Part IIII Contenidos Specific Standard básicos Disclosures específicos Tower production The proportional weighting represented by the cost of the wind G4-EN19 tower manufactured by GRI Renewable Industries out of the toIn 2016, the company manufactutal structure is held to be 16.4%. red a total of 1,277 wind towers, If one estimates the net hours per the final destination of which is year of turbine operation in those shown below: countries where they are present, the installed power rating, the conEurope 26% version factor applicable to each America 36% country and the percentage of the Asia 31% cost of the towers out of the toAfrica 7% tal structure, we estimate that we contribute to combating climate change with a total of 468,219 tonnes of CO2 avoided in 2016. GRI Renewable Industries contributed to a In 2016, nes of CO2 between both initiat void 468,257 ton ives. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 101 Greenhouse gas emissions By measuring its carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, GRI Renewable Industries helps to improve the communication of its impacts and gathers specific data with a view to establishing possible improvement targets. Calculation of CO2 emissions took into account the following standards: Green House Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). Emissions Factors from Cross-Sectors Tools (GHG Protocol – 2014) to calculate fuel emissions factors, IPCC Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 to calculate R-22, and for electricity consumption, the average emissions factors of the national electricity mix of each country for the period 2009-2011 according to the IEA (International Energy Agency). Direct emissions (Scope 1) Indirect emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN15 G4-EN16 Emissions are derived mainly from the burning of fuel These emissions correspond to those generated at elecin the production process (natural gas, propane, LPG tricity power plants for consumption at our factories and and diesel). In 2016, 7,709 tonnes of CO2 were prooffices. The total in 2016 was 36,809 tonnes of CO2. duced, around 26.4% more than in 2015, mainly as a This increase is mainly because of the inclusion of the result of inclusion within the scope of the Report of new factories within scope of the Report, as they acthe three factories in China, the factory in Texas, USA, count for 88% of the total. China is particularly signifiand the Zestoa factory in Spain. cant, with 48.5% of emissions, along with the Zestoa The distribution is set out below: factory in Spain, with 18% of emissions, and lastly the factory in Texas, USA, accounting for less than 1% of total emissions. Direct emissions The distribution is set out below: Country Emissions (tCO2) Brazil 1,005 Spain 3,966 Indirect emissions India 163 Country Emissions (tCO2) Turkey 344 Brazil 849 South Africa 22 Spain 4,021 USA 81 India 3,578 China 2,128 Turkey 2,007 Total 7,709 South Africa 3,332 *Emissions calculated on the basis of operational control. USA 361 China 22,661 It should be mentioned that during the year R-22 reTotal 36,809 charging took place only in Brazil, corresponding to 27.20 kg. The other plants did not report any recharging of their equipment. (G4-EN20). GRI Renewable Industries 102 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Other emissions G4-EN17 and G4-EN30 This scope includes emissions from corporate travel by plane and train, and this year we also included emissions from rental cars. Likewise included is an estimate of emissions derived from travel by employees to their workplace, including information as to travel in China. Next year we will incorporate information on GRI Towers USA and GRI Castings Zestoa, as well as new factories entering operation. Below are summarised emissions derived from Scope 3: Intensity of emissions Other emissions G4-EN18 Kind Emissions (tCO2) GRI Renewable Industries likewise takes into account the intensity of Corporate trips 3,671 emissions in order to measure the efficiency and impact of its processes. Employee transportation 4,307 The resulting annual ratio is calculated by dividing consumption as the sum of the direct and indirect emissions, by the total weight of products sold in Corporate Buses 84 each country. Total Scope 3 8,062 Given the considerable difference between tower and flange manufacturing processes, we have presented the information separately for the two processes. Corporate Trips The following tables detail the results obtained: 3,605 Emissions intensity “Towers” Emissions intensity “Flanges” Plane Tons Tons consumed/tons consumed/tons 4 Train of sold product of sold product GRI Towers Brazil 0.01 GRI Flanges Iraeta 0.35 GRI Towers Galicia 0.01 GRI Flanges Brazil 1.00 GRI Towers India 0.14 GRI Flanges China 0.35 62 GRI Towers South TOTAL 0.37 0.31 Rental Africa Car GRI Towers Turkey 0.08 TOTAL 0.01 USA is not included, in 2016, production tests were mainly carried out GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 103 Part III Annexes Independent Review Report ................................................................. 106 GRI G4 Content Index ................................................................................................... 108 Contents based on the Principles United of the Nations Global Compact .................................................... 113 List of consolidated subsidiaries companies .......................................................................................... 114 Independent Informe de Review Report verificación externa GRI Renewable Industries 106 Sustainability Report 2016 Part III Annexes GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 107 GRI G4 Content Index The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity PwC. The corresponding verification report can be found in the Annex to this document. The omissions of information in the relevant indicators are included as a note. The G4-54, G4-55 indicators are not available while the G4-EN31 is a reported indicator but not material. In relation to indicator EC3, some of the information requested to respond to the indicator is not available. Part I. General Standard Disclosures Description 1. Strategy and analysis 3. Identified material aspects and boundaries Page Omissions Page Omissions G4-1 8-11 G4-17 28 G4-2 12-15 G4-18 28-29 G4-19 28-29 2. Organizational profile G4-20 28-31 Page Omissions G4-21 28-31 G4-3 16 G4-22 31 G4-4 17-19 G4-23 31 G4-5 16 G4-6 18-19 G4-7 20 4. Stakeholders engagement Page Omissions G4-8 20 G4-24 32 G4-9 19 G4-25 32 G4-10 21, 75 G4-26 32 G4-11 22 G4-27 28-31 G4-12 23, 63 G4-13 26 G4-14 26 G4-15 26 G4-16 26-27, 86 GRI Renewable Industries 108 Sustainability Report 2016 Part III Annexes 5. Report profile Page Omissions G4-28 34 G4-29 34 G4-30 34 G4-31 34 G4-32 35 G4-33 35 6. Governance Page Omissions G4-34 36 G4-35 37 G4-36 37 G4-37 37 G4-38 38 G4-39 38 G4-40 38 G4-41 38 G4-42 39 G4-43 39 G4-44 39 G4-45 40 G4-46 40 G4-47 40 G4-48 41 G4-49 41 G4-50 42 G4-51 43 G4-52 43 G4-53 43 G4-54 Not available. Confidential information G4-55 Not available. Confidential information 7. Ethic and integrity Page Omissions G4-56 44-45 G4-57 46-47 G4-58 46-47 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 109 Part II. Specific Standard Disclosures 1. Economic Dimension Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 50-55 G4-EC1 54 Economic Performance G4-EC2 51, 98 G4-EC3 74 NOTE A G4-EC4 54, 55 DMA 56-59, 75 Global Presence G4-EC5 75 G4-EC6 67 DMA 84-87 Procurement practices G4-EC9 25, 86 2. Environmental Dimension Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 96 Materials G4-EN1 96 G4-EN2 96 DMA 97 G4-EN3 97 G4-EN4 97 Energy G4-EN5 98 G4-EN6 99 G4-EN7 99 NOTE B DMA 98 G4-EN15 98,102 G4-EN16 98,102 G4-EN17 98,103 Emissions G4-EN18 98,101,103 G4-EN19 98,103 G4-EN20 98,102 G4-EN21 NOTE C DMA 98 Product and service G4-EN27 98,100 G4-EN28 58 NOTE D DMA 64 Regulatory compliance G4-EN29 65,93 DMA 98 Transport G4-EN30 103 DMA 92 General G4-EN31 93 DMA 23-24 Supplier Environmental G4-EN32 23 Assessment G4-EN33 23,24 Environmental complaint DMA 92 mechanisms G4-EN34 65,93 GRI Renewable Industries 110 Sustainability Report 2016 Part III Annexes 3. Social Dimension: Labor Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 68 G4-LA1 71 Employment G4-LA2 72,74 G4-LA3 72 DMA 76 G4-LA5 80 Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 82 G4-LA7 81,82 G4-LA8 80 DMA 65 G4-LA9 69 Training and education G4-LA10 69 G4-LA11 69 DMA 69 Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 67,73 DMA 23,24 Supplier Assessment for Labor G4-LA14 23 Practices G4-LA15 23,24 Labor Practices Grievance DMA 23,24 Mechanisms G4-LA16 45,65 4. Social Dimension: Human Rights Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 46,69 Investment G4-HR1 46 G4-HR2 69 DMA 44 Non discrimination G4-HR3 45 Freedom of Association and DMA 12,13 Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 12 DMA 12,13 Child Labor G4-HR5 12 DMA 12,13 Forced Labor G4-HR6 12 DMA 69 Security Practices G4-HR7 69 NOTE E DMA 12,13 Assessment G4-HR9 12 DMA 23,24 Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 23 G4-HR11 23,24 Human Rights Grievance DMA 44 Mechanisms G4-HR12 45,65 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 111 5. Social Dimension: Society Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 88 Local Communities G4-SO1 88 G4-SO2 86 DMA 64,65 G4-SO3 65 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 64,65 G4-SO5 65 DMA 91 Public Policy G4-SO6 91 DMA 65 Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 65 DMA 65 Compliance G4-SO8 65 DMA 23,24 Supplier Assessment for G4-SO9 23 Impacts on Society G4-SO10 23,24 Grievance Mechanisms for DMA 86 Impacts on Society G4-SO11 86 6. Social Dimension: Products Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 56-59 Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 58 G4-PR2 58 DMA 56-59 G4-PR3 58 Product and Service Labeling G4-PR4 58 G4-PR5 57 DMA 56-59 Marketing Communications G4-PR6 58 G4-PR7 58 DMA 65 Customer Privacy G4-PR8 65 DMA 56-59 Compliance G4-PR9 58 Note A: There is no information related to the percentage of employees participating in pension funds / retirement plans (G4-EC3). Note B: Not applicable. The products follow customer specifications, so we have little influence capacity (G4-EN7) Note C: Information related to this indicator is not reported because it is not considered a material aspect by the entity (G4-EN21) Note D: Packaging information is not considered relevant in our activity (G4-EN28) Note E: Human rights security personnel are not trained internally (G4-HR7) GRI Renewable Industries 112 Sustainability Report 2016 Part III Annexes Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate GRI Renewable Industries’ progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Part I. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights General Standard Disclosures Human Rights Principio 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Part I. rights abuses General Standard Disclosures Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Parte I. association and the effective recognition of the right to Social Dimension collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced Parte I. and compulsory labor General Standard Disclosures Labor Standards Parte I. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor General Standard Disclosures Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect Parte I. of employment and occupation General Standard Disclosures Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Part II. approach to environmental challenges Environmental Dimension Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Part II. Environment environmental responsibility Environmental Dimension Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Part II. environmentally friendly technologies Environmental Dimension Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Part I. Anticorruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Economic Dimension GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2016 113 Scope consolidation of GRI Renewable Industries S.L. and subsidiaries Scope consolidation. The group was composed by the following companies at the end of 2016 Subsidary/ Associated company Country GESTAMP WIND STEEL PERNAMBUCO S/A Brazil IRAETA BRASIL S/A Brazil G&B WIND SERVICES S/A Brazil GWS CORTE E BISELADO S/A Brazil SHANDONG IRAETA HEAVY INDUSTRY STOCK CO, LTD China SHANDONG GOLDEN LUYANG HEAVY INDUSTRY CO LTD China GRI RENEWABLE INDUSTRIES, S.L. Spain GONVAEOLIC, S.L. Spain GESTAMP WIND STEEL GALICIA, SL Spain GESBERG INVESTMENT HOLDING, S.L. Spain FORJAS IRAETA HEAVY INDUSTRY SL Spain GRI CASTINGS, S.L. Spain GESTAMP HYBRID TOWERS SL Spain GESTAMP POWERGEAR WIND STEEL, PVT. LTD. India SHRENIK INDUSTRIES PRIVATE LIMITED India GESBEY ENERJI TURBINI KULE URETIM SANAYI VE TIKARET AS Turkey GESTAMP WIND STEEL US,INC USA GRI WIND STEEL SOUTH AFRICA, LTD. South Africa HAMI IRAETA HEAVY INDUSTRY CO, LTD China JINAN SIEMAT CNC MACHINE CO, LTD China GRI TOWERS SEVILLA, S.L. Spain GRI Renewable Industries 114 Sustainability Report 2016 gri.com.es The conversation continues at leadingthechange.com gri.com.es leadingthechange.com The conversation continues at
