Communication on Progress Our History 2016 Due to national and international recognition of SUTEKS as an exemplary model and Ms Nur GER’s active involvement in gender equaliy advocacy, Ms GER was appointed as the Business Advocate of WEPs in Turkey. 2015 SUTEKS, signed a partnership agreement with UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, to advocate for equality between women and men. 2013 Our Founder and President, Ms. Nur Ger receives an honour roll designation by the UN WEPs Leadership Group. 2012 We were awarded by the Turkish Ministry of Labour and Social Security as a best practice in the category of “Social Gender Equality in Work Life”. Our Group has a non-hierarchical structure where employees work as a team. 2009 We expanded our presence in European and US markets with our private special design Our employees make up our management and makes all the strategic decisions together in which Ms. Nur collections. GER supports the team as a coach. 2004 Manufacturing quality and perfection has been achieved by integrating and personalizing universal values. We began to add very thin and sophisticated woven goods into its production, alongside with its specialization in weaving and emerge into one of the most important companies Furthermore, Gender Equality has formed the basis our Group as a continuation of Human Resources in the industry. management. 1997 We re-strategized and re-launched the company as a ready-made manufacturer in the SUTEKS WORKING GROUPS high-level fashion field 1989 Our current facility in Istanbul Kağıthane was purchased. 1986 SUTEKS was established by Ms. Nur Ger, producing and exporting knitted garments. Nur Ger's mother Mrs. Sevim Ger has been the biggest inspiration since its foundation. • • • • • • • • • We were inspected and assessed by CERES, and our steps and activities have been proved to comply with the criteria of the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) and Organic Content Standard (OCS) Version 2.0 . Furthermore, we also play an active voluntary role in supporting and respecting the protection of international proclaimed human rights. In particular, we have been a major advocate of achieving Gender Equality and broader sustainable development goals. Since our inception, we have engaged closely with civil society organizations and our president Nur Ger as an active member of various CSOs, is a role model for both our company, the textile industry and for the women entrepreneurs in Turkey. We actively collaborate with several civil society organizations, some of which are TÜSİAD, TÜRKONFED, KAGİDER, TESEV, Haklı Kadın Platformu. We also engage closely with international non-governmental organizational level initiatives such as the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (UN WEPs). We are one of the first SME signatories globally and the first in Turkey to the UN WEPs, a joint initiative of UN Women and the UN Global Compact. WEPs Activities of SUTEKS Group In 2016 the CEO of SUTEKS Group Ms Nur GER was appointed as the Business Advocate of WEPs. The main goal of her role was to raise awareness for gender equality among Turkish business world and for WEPs to gain more signatories from Turkey. Ms. Ger at Annual Conference of WEPs in New York. We set up an internal team of four members, solely responsible to work on WEPs and support the Our CEO Ms. Ger had the opportunity to explain the unique governance of SUTEKS to administrational tasks that function under the umbrella of Global Compact Women’s Empowerment sustain gender equality at the annual summit of WEP’s in New York which took place Working Group in Turkey. in March 2016. Thanks to collaborations with several Business Organizations including TURKONFED, TÜSİAD and KAGİDER, We understand the role that such enterprises can take in promoting the the number of WEPs Signatories from Turkey increased from 40s to more than 100 in 2016. empowerment of women in the workplace, marketplace and community at the core SUTEKS Group prepared informational leaflets, an animated video about WEPs* and plaques for CEOs of business level within the value chain of the apparel industry. Beyond serving as a signatory Companies to create brand loyalty and raise awareness. leading good-case example domestically, we bring added value to major global brands and designers whom we supply to because we are conscious of our potential gender equality impact. We constantly inform our clients and stakeholders about our efforts and encourage them to be part of the change. The textiles and apparel industry is human labor intensive and impacts directly the quality of life of employees and their immediate household members. Beyond ensuring safe working conditions and equal pay for equal work, we continuously invest in our employees through professional, vocational as well as non-formal educational trainings and empower them to develop themselves. We have a strict non-discriminative policy and dedication for supplying equal opportunities. We respect the fundamental human rights of our employees, * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JlMlup7pao4 suppliers and partners and ensure that there are systems and mechanism in place for open communication and dialogue. We also provide discounted and pro-bono access to legal services to all our employees to ensure that they are aware of relevant laws and regulations. such as industry and trade unions, local communities, customers as well as government and society more broadly. As SUTEKS Group, we have also been supporting socially disadvantaged groups in our society. In 2016 we contributed voluntarily with donations to several NGOs including LÖSEV and KORUNCUK Vakfı. At SUTEKS Group, we understand that a strong commitment to human rights from senior leaders is a pre-requisite for embedding human rights into a company’s Furthermore, we support the participation of Syrian refugees in working life. In 2016 we cooperated with operations and activities. In addition to the Founder and President, Ms. Nur Ger’s United Work, a non profit foundation, to have better working conditions of Syrian refugees. leadership on achieving Gender Equality, we have an “Employee Management We understand that a corporate policy statement sets our direction and gives the overall goals for a Committee” , “ Quality Management Systems Committee” and an “Ethics Counsel” in company in a certain area of activity. We uphold our commitment publicly through our “Human which any human rights related issues and matters can be raised directly. Resources and Employee Management” and “Ethical Management” corporate policies for which we We ensure all employees are paid fairly and in industry standards. We ensure that all provide training on to all our employees in their on-boarding period. We are in continuous consultations employees work in safe and sanitary work conditions with minimum health risks. All with all our employees during this phase and request their input on any changes in these main policies. employees receive a private health insurance plan along with the national social Should any changes be made, we discuss these matters from the on-set in our weekly management security plan. We have policies and trainings to avoid workers from workplace meetings before a proposal is made to a Board Member. We included a reference and statement of harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or support to upholding the UN Declaration of Human Rights within our “Human Resources and Employee threats. Management” corporate policy. The decision-making structures as well as grievance and suggestion boxes create the At the global value chain level, we recently launched our “Responsible and Ethical Trading” Code of necessary whistle-blowing channels for reporting human rights concerns or seeking Conduct and supporting Corporate Policy Statement that we developed based on the Ethical Trading advice and follow-up mechanisms. We have made the necessary initial investments Initiative (ETI). Here, we included a separate and additional article on non-discrimination as well as such as sourcing the necessary expertise from outside the Group. In 2014, we hired an gender equality. Essentially, rather than a separate Human Rights policy, we have consciously included it independent management consultant to conduct a corporate policies and processes in our Responsible and Ethical Trading corporate policy and statement instead because we want to needs assessment. In 2015, we conducted a Human Rights training to members of our continue to play an active advocacy role. Social Compliance and Corporate Sustainability Committee by an independent expert. Through a “train the trainers” model, members of the committee than trained the We understand the cultural, social and economical complexities of Turkish enterprises, especially family entire staff. Beginning of 2016 all our employees received training on “labor laws and owned SMEs as well as micro-enterprises and are committed to voluntarily inviting our business partners legislations”. Next year, we will continue to improve processes and ensure that to join our efforts as we continue in our sustainability journey. Our ultimate aim is to ensure that our necessary corporate procedures exist and are communicated accordingly. Our suppliers and partners also uphold universal principles, but rather then forcing this adoption upon them, Employee Management Committee monitors that a checks-and-balances system is in we seek to create a channel for mutual experience sharing and capacity development. Moreoever, we place to ensure consistency with human rights commitments and obligations. Social are a leading example on gender equality engagement with other groups within our sphere of influence compliance audits also ensure that we continuously monitor and improve our processes. We are currently in process of being qualified for ISO 140001 Environmental Management System, ISO 9001 Quality Management System and ISO 22301 Business Continuity Management System. +
