Smart Solutions UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer Heimo Scheuch, Chief Executive Officer Wienerberger AG Ladies and Gentlemen: consumption patterns in view of the growing scarcity of We have the courage to take a new approach. The resources, preserving eco-systems, coping with urbanizaWienerberger Group is the technology and innovation tion and strengthening the resilience of urban communities. leader of its sector of industry. Looking toward the future, The United Nations have incorporated these challenges we are ready to embark on a course of continuous further in their 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and development. This is our way of addressing the challenges defined 17 Sustainable Development Goals to be reached confronting us in an environment of ongoing transformaby 2030. As the technology and innovation leader of our tion. The essential issue for us is to put the right questions – industry, we consider it our duty to contribute to the and to find adequate answers. This is how Wienerberger achievement of these goals, especially in view of the fact generates “Smart Solutions”. that many of the challenges referred to, such as climate change, the scarcity of resources, humane working con­­The world is facing major challenges: preserving ditions, urbanization and demographic change, directly peace, fighting against poverty and hunger, providing food, or indirectly concern Wienerberger. drinking water and energy for a growing world population, supporting and integrating refugees and displaced Climate change demands that we fight against its persons, generating sustainable economic growth while root causes and adjust to its consequences. The main cause ensuring humane working conditions, health and edu­­ is well known: the rise in greenhouse gases present in the cation for all, reducing inequalities within and between atmosphere as a result of the world’s increasing consumpcountries, limiting the volume of greenhouse gas emissions tion of fossil sources of energy, above all oil and coal. and adjusting to climate change, adopting responsible Our products are highly energy-intensive: in 2016, Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer Wienerberger’s total energy consumption amounted to future development of our company. Our objective is to be approx. 7,590 GWh. We are making consistent efforts to the preferred employer in our markets. We attri­bute great reduce our energy consumption and to rely, above all, on value to diversity and equal opportunities, a motivating energy sources generating the lowest possible volume of work environment, the consistent involvement of our emspecific CO2 emissions. Our goal is to achieve a 20% ployees, a culture of open communication, and attractive reduction in the specific energy consumption of our major initial and further training options. business units by 2020, as compared to 2010. Thanks to our Group-wide safety standard and the individual safety programs of our business units, we were In 2016, we succeeded in reducing our specific able to reduce the frequency of accidents by 18.4% and energy consumption by 1.3% from the previous the severity of accidents by 15.5% in the Wienerberger year’s level, and the specific CO2 emissions from Group, as compared to the previous year. Despite our our ceramic production came down by 3.3%. efforts, one fatal occupational accident each occurred in We are going to consistently pursue this course. the Wienerberger Group and in a 50% subsidiary of Wienerberger’s. We deeply regret these accidents. We have further intensified our efforts to improve the safety of our At the same time, we are developing forward-looking employees. smart solutions that should enable us to better cope with the consequences of climate change, such as the increasing frequency of extreme rainstorms. In 2016, for instance, As an industrial producer, ensuring occupational we completed a lighthouse project for the construction health and safety for all our employees is our top of tornado-proof houses in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, in priority. Zero accidents throughout the Group is cooperation with Habitat for Humanity. our yearly target. Today, more than half of the world population lives in cities; by 2050, according to a UN study, it will be two Cultural diversity and decentralized structures thirds. If so many people are to live together peacefully in characterize Wienerberger’s corporate identity. We regard a confined space, healthy, affordable and socially acceptregionally recruited teams as a crucial factor of our success. able housing as well as functioning infrastructure solutions In our human resources planning, we therefore make every are indispensable. Wienerberger is continuously working effort to employ local staff and executives, which enables to develop new, innovative products, system solutions and us to gain a better understanding of the local market and services for these applications. In this context, we regard to consider the specificities of the region in decisions taken an innovation-oriented corporate culture and proximity to at Group level. It is our policy to give preference to our customers as crucial factors of success. In 2016, we women for new appointments to senior management and invested close to 1% of our revenues in research and executive positions, provided the candidates’ qualifications development and in future-oriented products. As a strong are equal. In 2016, 12% of Wienerberger’s senior managepartner in new residential construction, renovation and ment positions were held by women, which corresponds to infrastructure, we generated 27% of our revenues through a 50% increase over the previous year’s level. The satisfacinnovative products. All our business units achieved or tion and motivation of our employees are the basic outperformed their individual targets. We intend to prerequisites for positive human resources development. further pursue this course in the years to come. The average length of service with the company remained high at 13 years in 2016. We regard this as a strong vote of Wienerberger currently employs a workforce of confidence in the Wienerberger Group from our almost 16,000 people. They are the key to the successful employees. The ongoing employee survey will be rolled Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer out to all local companies of the Wienerberger Group by 2018; its results will provide the basis for measures to In our production, we see great opportunities in further improve the degree of employee satisfaction. networking and in advanced technologies, as this enables us to meet individual requirements at In a world of digital transformation, Wienerberger is short notice and to adjust to our customers’ needs. directly affected by issues of data usage and data security. Digitalization concerns every segment of our company and covers the entire range of our value chain. At present, When we signed the UN Global Compact in 2003, we we are working on the implementation of our digital officially acknowledged our responsibility as a corporate agenda. It covers a broad range of topics, from product citizen. We actively promote business ethics, we see to it development to webshop marketing, from production that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact are conprocesses to supply chain management, from customer sistently implemented, and we advocate “good corporate apps to integrated 3D planning in real time. Within the citizenship” throughout the Wienerberger Group. Our framework of our digital agenda, we are working inten2016 Communication on Progress in respect of the UN sively on projects for all our product groups. We are Global Compact is reproduced on the following pages. opening up new fields of business and playing a leading role in the digital transformation of our industry. As In the coming years, we will continue to work regards data security, we apply strict rules to protect the intensively on the achievement of our targets and the interests of our customers, employees and suppliers. implementation of the corresponding measures. I will be pleased if you continue to follow our progress. UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 The activities of big industrial companies, such as Progress in 2016 Wienerberger AG, have a strong impact on society and the The long-term target pursued by the Wienerberger environment. Such companies therefore bear a special Group is to reduce the number of accidents to zero. responsibility and should act in an exemplary manner. The Through the Group-wide Wienerberger Safety Initiative, minimum standards to be complied with include, above uniform safety standards were implemented in 2010. In all, the principles of the UN Global Compact regarding 2014, these were upgraded for the entire Wienerberger human rights, labor standards, environmental protection Group and activities within the framework of the Safety and the fight against corruption. Through its accession to Initiative were stepped up in order to minimize the the UN Global Compact in 2003, Wienerberger officially frequency and severity of accidents. Every occupational committed to the ten principles and undertook to foster accident is analyzed by the business unit concerned; core their implementation within the framework of the aspects of occupational safety and individual initiatives are com­­pany’s possibilities. Once a year, we report on evaluated annually. The accident frequency within the progress achieved in this respect. Wienerberger Group was reduced from 8 occupational accidents per million hours worked in 2015 to 6.5 in The 2016 Communication on Progress in respect of 2016, which corresponds to a reduction by 18.4%. the Global Compact forms part of our 2016 Sustainability Accident severity, expressed in accident-related sick-leave Report. In order to ensure maximum transparency and days per million hours worked, dropped significantly by to make it easier for our readers to find the individual 15.5% from 209 in 2015 to 177 in 2016. Despite our examples, we have aggregated the most important stateefforts, one fatal occupational accident each occurred ments on the ten principles and, in addition, marked the in the Wienerberger Group and in a 50% subsidiary of corresponding indicators in the GRI Index and added Wienerberger’s. We deeply regret these accidents. We have references to the pages concerned. further intensified our efforts to improve the safety of our employees. Global Compact Principles – Human Rights Principles 1 und 2 As in the previous year, targeted measures were taken Businesses should support and respect the protection by each business unit in 2016 in order to further increase of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure the level of safety for our employees. These measures are that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. described in detail on pages 45 to 46 of the Wienerberger Sustainability Report. Going beyond the Group-wide Commitment safety standard, each business unit has implemented its Within its sphere of influence, Wienerberger guaranown safety programs: tees the protection of basic human rights. By adopting the Wienerberger Social Charter, Wienerberger committed Clay Building Materials Europe (CBME) itself to comply with the conventions and recommendaCBME’s Safety Management Department centrally tions of the International Labor Organization (ILO). This coordinates the implementation of the Safety Roadmap includes providing safe and healthy working conditions. as well as the Safety Alert and Safety Award programs The safety of its employees is a matter of top priority for and monitors compliance with the safety standards. Wienerberger. Health & Safety Standard with division-specific minimum requirements regarding occupational safety and health protection UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 Safety Roadmap, a binding plan of action to increase Pipelife Safety Portal, an online platform that can be occupational safety accessed by all employees who have an email account, Safety Alert: A standardized process of dealing with serves as a work and information platform. occupational accidents at all CBME production sites, Extensive industry benchmarking and exchange of documenting and communicating the cause of the experience within TEPPFA (The European Plastic Pipe accident, how it occurred and which measures were and Fittings Association) taken as a result Safety Award: A distinction awarded for outstanding Semmelrock performance in the field of safety Laboratory International coordinates the safety activiAccident reduction targets serve as input factors for ties, supports awareness building among all employees establishing the variable salary components of managing through initiatives and training programs focusing on directors and plant managers. the observance of safety standards and measures to increase plant and equipment safety, and reviews North America implementation of the safety strategy. At local level, a safety officer has been appointed for “Safety@Semmelrock” using of the “Accident Investigaeach plant. tion Report Semmelrock” (AIRS document) to centrally Monthly meetings on safety issues are held, which also document, analyze and communicate all accidents and/ clarify the reporting format between top management or incidents and the local management. “Safety Book” listing the principles of occupational Safety targets to be reached within two years are health and safety defined for each production site. “Safety Day” for the exchange of information among Communication on safety issues plant and engineering managers “Safety Culture” for the implementation of mission Pipelife statements, award of premiums, and use of visual aids Responsibility for implementation of Pipelife’s safety by the local companies program lies with the Manufacturing Excellence Officer. Technical safety optimization and risk analyses of Programs aimed at observing employee behavior: production facilities Behavior Observation Program (BOP), Lock-out/ Tag-out (LOTO) and 5 S (method to keep workplaces Steinzeug-Keramo and their environment clean, safe and tidy) Responsibility for safety at Steinzeug-Keramo lies with 2016 safety awareness campaign “Take Care” the Safety Board, which is chaired by the Head of Safety app for early detection of potential hazards and Operations and comprises plant managers, works for safety monitoring at the workplace council members and experts. Zero Accident Club with Safety Award: A distinction Steinzeug-Keramo implemented the DuPontTM STOP® awarded to local companies, depending on the number (safety training observation program) in 2016 and of accident-free months, and for special efforts in the organized training programs at all production sites, also field of safety for the management. Occupational safety counts for Safety audits in the plants performed by specially the attainment of variable remuneration targets of trained employees from other local companies with plant managers. regularly alternating assignments Plant optimization measures Safety Call: Thorough analysis of every accident Initial and further training sessions on occupational resulting in sick leave within the framework of a safety and hazard prevention, including specific safety telephone conference with all managing directors of instructions targeted at individual workplaces the local organizations, leading to the identification of preventive measures for other production sites; the UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 Health is a human right. Wienerberger therefore national Labor Organization (ILO). Besides adequate and ensures safe and healthy working conditions at all its safe working conditions, fair remuneration and the right of production sites. In 2016, the average number of sick-leave assembly and collective bargaining are high priorities for us. days per employee at Group level (excluding the North In our effort to combat discrimination in recruitment and America Division, as its figures are not comparable with employment, we consider it essential to offer our female those of the other divisions of the Group due to local legal employees an attractive working environment and the provisions) increased slightly to 9.6 from 9.1 in the same opportunities as their male colleagues. At the same previous year. Prevention plays an important role in health time, we want to make sure that our male employees promotion. Besides its regular health screening programs, benefit from the same flexible solutions that enable them Wienerberger therefore ensures that company physicians to reconcile work and family obligations as their female are available to all its employees and offers ergonomic colleagues. workplace analyses as well as individual health and fitness programs. In North America, all full-time employees are Progress in 2016 covered by additional health insurance, the scope of which In 2016, 73% of all Wienerberger employees were exceeds that of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in some covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the respects. percentage being the same as in 2015. Being aware of its responsibility for the health and Companies with a primary focus on the production well-being of its employees, Wienerberger for years has of building materials traditionally have a high percentage been making every effort to minimize their exposure to of male employees. In 2016, the number of new entrants potentially hazardous substances. In 2015, particulate was 1,970, i.e. 208 more than in 2015. The number of matter measurements were performed at 98% of all women among the new entrants rose from 234 to 274, the ceramic plants of the Wienerberger Group. Thus, the number of men from 1,528 to 1,696. The percentage of Group-wide target of rolling out particulate matter women among the new entrants increased from 13.3% to measurements to at least 95% of all Wienerberger ceramic 13.9%. As at 31/12/2016, the total percentage of women plants by 2020 was reached ahead of schedule. employed by the Wienerberger Group was 13.6%, i.e. slightly above the previous year’s value (+0.1%). The Global Compact Principles – Labor Standards percentages of women in the individual functional areas Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 remained almost unchanged compared to the previous Businesses should uphold the freedom of association year. In 2016, 12% of senior management positions were and the effective recognition of the right to collective held by women, a significant increase over the previous bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and year’s value of 8%. We continued to adhere to our policy compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; of giving preference to women for new appointments to and the elimination of discrimination in respect of senior management and executive positions, provided the employment and occupation. candidates’ qualifications were equal. One specific measure to increase the number of women in senior Commitment management and executive positions at Wienerberger is to Zero tolerance of child labor and discrimination is an enable women to embark on suitable career paths at an absolute must for Wienerberger. Even before its accession early point in time. to the UN Global Compact in 2003, Wienerberger committed itself, by signing the 2001 Social Charter, The reconciliation of work and family life is an issue to ensure that employment and working conditions of special concern to Wienerberger. We therefore offer our throughout the Group comply with national legislation employees the possibility of working part-time. This offer and/or are based on collective bargaining agreements as is being taken up by a growing number of female as well a minimum standard. Thus, Wienerberger operates in as male employees. The percentage of Wienerberger accordance with the recommendations of the Inter­ employees working part-time increased slightly from 3.4% UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 in 2015 to 3.5% in 2016. The percentage of women in index of specific CO2 emissions from primary energy part-time employment amounted to 16.8% in 2016, sources in kg CO2 per ton of ceramic products produced up from 15.3% in 2015, while the percentage of men was reduced by 3.3%, as compared to the previous year. working part-time decreased slightly from 1.5% in 2015 This trend was seen in almost all areas of ceramic producto 1.4% in 2016. tion. Specific CO2 emissions from primary energy sources dropped more strongly (-3.3% as compared to 2015) than Global Compact Principles – Environmental specific energy consumption in ceramic production (-2.4%). Protection This is due to the consistent downward trend in the use of Principles 7, 8 and 9 CO2-intensive energy sources, such as coal and fuel oil, Businesses should support a precautionary approach and the conversion to natural gas. Pipelife has set itself the to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to target to reduce the volume of specific indirect CO2 promote greater environmental responsibility; and emissions (primarily from the consumption of electricity) encourage the development and diffusion of environmenin production by 20% from the level reported in 2010. In tally friendly technologies. 2016, Pipelife’s indirect CO2 emissions were 17% below the reference value of 2010. Commitment Our goal is to minimize the environmental impact of Specific water consumption is another indicator of the our production processes and our use of raw materials. A use of environmentally friendly technologies. Wienerberger responsible way of operating our clay extraction sites, the regrets to report that no progress was achieved in this best possible conservation of resources, and an increase in area in 2016. In the production of ceramic pipes, the the percentage of recycled materials used: these are the higher percentage of ground products resulted in higher central principles governing our production activity. We specific water consumption (+15%). The increase of are well aware that industrial production processes always specific water consumption in the production of plastic involve a certain degree of interference with the natural pipes (+8%) was due to singular events, such as water environment. Therefore, every effort must be made to leakages from cooling circuits and the refilling of another minimize such interferences. cooling circuit in the course of maintenance operations. The product mix also has an influence on specific water Progress in 2016 consumption in plastic pipe production. Specific water Specific energy consumption and specific CO2 consumption from public networks for plastic pipe emissions are two of the essential indicators of environproduction only accounted for 15.8% of specific total mentally friendly production technologies. Wienerberger water consumption for this product group. Water from has set itself the target to reduce these parameters by 20% sources other than public networks (e.g. water from rivers, each in ceramic production by 2020, as compared with lakes and, in Scandinavia, the sea) is returned to the 2010. In 2016, the Wienerberger Group’s total energy environment after the cooling process in accordance with consumption was reduced by 0.5% through consistent legal provisions and, thus, does not count as consumption efforts made to optimize production throughout the in the true sense of the term. Pipelife’s target is to reduce Group. The share of renewable energy sources in the its consumption of water from public networks to 0.55 m³ consumption of electric energy, expressed in kWh/ton, per ton of products produced by 2020. increased to a satisfactory 31%, as compared with 27% in 2015. In 2016, specific energy consumption dropped by Wienerberger is making a continuous effort to 1.3% from the previous year’s level in the Wienerberger increase resource efficiency in production and, at the same Group as a whole and by 2.4% in ceramic production. time, further improve the properties of its products. Our Continuous efforts are being made by Wienerberger to particular focus is on reducing raw material consumption convert its production processes to low-emission energy and using secondary raw materials in those areas of sources, which had a positive impact on the volume of production where it is economically and technically CO2 emissions, as compared to the previous year. The feasible. We are also working on a continuous reduction of UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 scrap rates and the recycling of production waste and was compliance with the Group-wide standards on health residual materials into production. Semmelrock’s target and safety. In the course of these audits it was found that for 2017 is to reduce its scrap rate by 50% compared to all internal guidelines had been implemented in the the reference value from 2014. companies audited and the employees concerned had been informed accordingly. Deviations from the guideAs part of its commitment to the precautionary lines, if any, were reported to the Managing Board and the principle in dealing with environmental problems, Audit Committee, and the necessary measures, such as Wienerberger has for years been working intensively on improvements in documentation, were agreed upon with the voluntary preparation of eco-balances and environthe respective local management. mental product declarations (EPDs) for its entire product range. All ceramic pipes and fittings produced by SteinGlobal Compact Principles – Implementation zeug-Keramo as well as selected Semmelrock product in the Supply Chain lines have been successfully certified according to the Wienerberger increasingly monitors compliance with Cradle to Cradle® concept. the principles of the Global Compact also along its supply chains. Pipelife’s suppliers, for instance, have for some Global Compact Principles – Fight against time been obliged to comply with the “Pipelife Supplier Corruption Code of Conduct” (www.pipelife.com/media/com/about_ Principle 10 pipelife/Supplier_Code_of_Conduct.pdf). In 2016, Businesses should work against corruption in all its Semmelrock developed a “Supplier Code of Conduct”, forms, including extortion and bribery. and the Clay Building Materials Europe Division (CBME) rolled out a comprehensive and binding “CBME Supplier Commitment Code of Conduct” to all local companies. Wienerberger is committed to fair and free com­­ petition; this implies a firm stance against any form of For further information: corruption. We have always pursued the target of zero Christine Vieira Paschoalique incidents of corruption and expect all our employees to Corporate Sustainability Officer act accordingly. Wienerberger AG A-1100 Vienna, Wienerberg City, Wienerbergstraße 11 Progress in 2016 T +43 1 60 192 10 180 No charges for suspected corruption were brought M +43 664 812 11 22 against Wienerberger in 2016, nor were any penalty christine.paschoalique@wienerberger.com payments imposed. No negative findings were reported by the competent supervisory authorities. Wienerberger expects all employees of the Wienerberger Group to act in full compliance with the law. Any infringement constitutes a breach of duty. Should a suspicion of unlawful behavior be confirmed, the employee concerned will be sanctioned under labor law or civil law, depending on the extent of damage caused. In 2016, internal audits were performed in 19 companies, with a special focus on organization, purchasing, materials management, sales and human resources, as well as corruption and anti-trust legislation. Another priority GRI G4 Content Table GRI G4 Content Table General standard disclosures Indicator Page in Part of UN Global Sustainability external Compact Report assurance Principles Strategy & Analysis 1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 6­–8 Organizational Profile 3–9 Name, headquarters, scale, legal form, brands and products, locations and markets 9–13, 25, Annual Report 96–97 10–11 Total number of employees by employment contract, gender, supervised employees, regions and 41–43, 50–51 any significant variations in employment numbers 12 Description of supply chain 25–27 13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, no significant ownership, or its supply chain changes 14 Handling of precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organization 16, 100 UNGC 7 15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 16, 21, 96–100 initiatives to which the organization subscribes 16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) 21, 90 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 17 List of all entities included in the organization‘s consolidated financial statements 91, Annual Report 180 18–21 Process for defining the report content, material aspects, aspect boundaries inside 25–32, Website, 2014 and outside of the organization Materiality Analysis 2014 22–23 Restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for 59 and mentioned in the such restatements footnotes of respective indicators Stakeholder Engagement 24–27 List of stakeholder groups engaged, basis for identification of stakeholders, organization’s 19–21, 28–29, approach to stakeholder engagement and topics that came up during the stakeholder process Materiality Analysis 2014 Report Profile 28–30 Reporting period, date of most recent previous report and reporting cycle 91 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 100 32 Report of the “in-accordance”-option, GRI-index of the selected option, 91 reference to the external audit report 33 Policies of the organization regarding external audit of the report, scope of audit and relationship 91, 101–102 to audit company Governance 34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees responsible for decisions 21-–22, Website, Annual 2014 regarding the economic, ecological and social impact Report 48–67 Ethics and Integrity 56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as 16–18 codes of conduct and codes of ethics GRI G4 Content Table Specific standard disclosures Indicator Page in Part of UN Global Sustainability external Compact Report assurance Principles Economic Performance Aspect: Economic Performance DMA Disclosure on management approach 9–10 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 11 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report 144–147 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 90 Environment Aspect: Materials UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 19, 58, 71–75 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 64–65, Website, Materiality Analysis 2014 Aspect: Energy UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 19, 58–62, 67–68 yes EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 60 yes EN5 Energy intensity 61–62 yes EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 60–62 Aspect: Water UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 19, 66, 72 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 66 Aspect: Emissions UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 19, 58–59, 62–64, 69–70 yes EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 63 yes EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 63–64 yes EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 63–64 Aspect: Products and Services UNGC 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 80–87 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 80–87 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment UNGC 7, 8 DMA Disclosure on management approach 25, 65, 73, 76–77 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 25, 29 and actions taken GRI G4 Content Table GRI G4 Content Table General standard disclosures Indicator Page in Part of UN Global Sustainability external Compact Report assurance Principles Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment UNGC 3, 4, 5, 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18–19, 40 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 41–43, 50–51 gender, and region Detailed reporting fully in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. The adaptation of the according reporting is in progress. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety DMA Disclosure on management approach 18–19, 40, 43–46 yes LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 44–46 yes and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Detailed reporting fully in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. The adaptation of the according reporting is being evaluated. LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 46 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 47 Aspect: Training and Education DMA Disclosure on management approach 18–19, 48–49 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 48–49 Detailed reporting fully in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. The adaptation of the according reporting is being evaluated. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity UNGC 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18–19, 48–49 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 50–51, Annual Report 49 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Human rights Aspect: Non-discrimination UNGC 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18–19, 49 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 49 GRI G4 Content Table General standard disclosures Indicator Page in Part of UN Global Sustainability external Compact Report assurance Principles Human rights Aspect: Assessment UNGC 1, 2 DMA Disclosure on management approach Website, Materiality Analysis 2014 HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Reporting fully in line with or impact assessments GRI requirements is currently not possible. The adaptation of the according reporting is being evaluated. Society Aspect: Local Communities DMA Disclosure on management approach Website, Materiality Analysis 2014 SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities Website, Materiality Analysis 2014 Aspect: Anti-corruption UNGC 10 DMA Disclosure on management approach 16–18 SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 18 and the significant risks identified SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 18 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior DMA Disclosure on management approach 16–18 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 17 and monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance DMA Disclosure on management approach 16–18 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 17–18 for non-compliance with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society UNGC 1, 2 DMA Disclosure on management approach 25, 76–77 SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply Reporting in line with GRI chain and actions taken requirements is currently not possible. In almost all our business areas, minimum standards have been laid down in “supplier codes of conduct”, which have to be signed and complied with by suppliers upon conclusion of a contract. Note: The Annual Report as well as the Materiality Analysis 2014 can be found on the Wienerberger Website (www.wienerberger.com) Smart Solutions Wienerberger UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 sustainability@wienerberger.com www.wienerberger.com For further information: Christine Vieira Paschoalique Corporate Sustainability Officer Wienerberger AG A-1100 Vienna, Wienerberg City, Wienerbergstraße 11 Part of the Wienerberger Sustainability Report 2016
