#surpriseparty #familytime #healthyliving #philipsairfryer #stohomeimprovement Airfryer Rapid air technology enables you to fry, bake, roast & grill the tastiest meals with less fat than using little or no oil! Attention This report comprises the annual report of state trading organization plc prepared in accordance with the companies act of the republic of maldives (10/96), listing rules of maldives stock exchange, the securities act of the republic of maldives (2/2006), securities continuing disclosure obligations of issuers regulation 2010 of capital market development authority and corporate governance code of capital market development authority requirements. Unless otherwise stated in this annual report, the terms ‘STO’, the ‘group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to state trading organization plc and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures collectively. The term ‘company’ refers to STO and/or its subsidiaries. STO prepares its financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (IFRS). References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to the Company’s financial year ending 31st december 2016. In this report, financial and statistical information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated on the basis of the Company’s financial year. Information has been updated to the most practical date. This annual report contains forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events. These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘will’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or other words of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and STO plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions. STO cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. CONTENTS ENRICHING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 6 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE REPORT STO GROUP IN 2016 7 65 NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 8 68 REMUNERATION REPORT MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE 10 74 AUDIT COMMITTEE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 14 76 RISK COMMITTEE FINANCIAL REVIEW 36 77 RISK REPORT STO FAMILY 40 80 SUSTAINABILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS 43 87 GENERAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 47 92 STO DIRECTORY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 51 95 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VISION Enriching lives through expansion and accessibility VALUES CARING ACCESSIBLE RESPECTFUL INNOVATIVE PROGRESSIVE MISSION Lead through expansion of existing businesses, diversification, exploring new possibilities and entering into new ventures. Explore beyond our borders, expand our markets and establish ourselves as an international player, respected by the international business community. Ensure accessibility with our presence nationwide; offer peace of mind and assurance to the public of uninterrupted provision and affordability of essential goods and services and those that contribute to a fulfilling modern lifestyle. Build a skilled workforce by investing in human development; build our competencies, to achieve sustainable and unhindered growth and fulfill our vision. ENRICHING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE The STO Group operates nationwide with the long-term against manmade and natural disasters for the public by commitment to contributing the country’s community the Allied Insurance Company. Overall, more than 15 new by creating value and enriching the society’s livelihood brands and products were introduced within the year under through the distribution of quality products and services. the trading segment. The company has its presence at all inhabited islands of the country and possesses the capability of reaching With its comprehensive customers and consumer insight, out every citizen through its 54 distribution centers. The the Group aims not only to meet customers needs but to close relationship developed by the frequent interaction go beyond and exceed their expectations. The customer between the company and the customer provides valuable portfolio of the company is diverse, and it ranges from information for the company to use as a foundation for the governmental departments, corporate organizations, expansion and improvement of its product mix and offer resorts to wholesaling for sole proprietors. For instance, new and innovative solutions. within the medical services segment, the company came to an agreement with HEMAS Pharmaceuticals to acquire One of the main reasons behind the effectiveness of quality products at a lower cost. The execution of this the company’s sales and services strategies is the agreement will subsequently enhance the relationship understanding of the customer’s needs, wants and developed between the company and pharmacies and behaviors throughout all the segments. The company hospitals, leading to the public being able to acquire conducted a number of customer on the products essential drugs at affordable rates. and services supplied to customers. The results of this survey provided the company with important data that The Group always gives priority in supplying sustainable enabled the better understanding of customer needs, the products and services that promote prosperity to the performance areas they value and where improvement is customer and their surrounding environments. Eco-friendly required in the company’s services. air conditioners, refrigerators and other home appliances are available at the company’s home improvement To increase customer value and create demand, the outlets, educating customers to become more energycompany focuses on delivering new and attractive efficient. Also, two major continuous medical programs products and services. For example, elements from two were administered by the company towards healthcare different trading segments, construction materials, and professionals by bringing in experts from the medical home improvements combine to provide a much-required field from abroad. The incorporation of MIFCO appended solution to the construction industry by the supply of sustainability targets of the STO Group, as the MSC certified Kone elevators and the delivery of ready-mixed concrete frozen and canned tuna are high-quality sustainable solution directly to the construction site. Additionally, the products produced from traditional pole and line fishing identification of market pitfalls lead to the creation of tailormethods that meet both local and international consumer made insurance packages such as the specialized scheme needs and expectations. for guesthouses was introduced which offered protection Presence in +250,000 19 Customers Atolls 7 STO GROUP IN 2016 Revenue Earnings Per Share Operating Profit 6,939 (in millions) MVR 378 MVR 580 (in millions) MVR Operating Cash Flow Profit for the Year Dividend Proposed 619 (in millions) MVR 431 (in millions) MVR 51 (per share) MVR SHARE OF REVENUE BY SEGMENTS Fuel and Lubricants 2016 56.5% Trading 2016 33.8% Gas 2016 2.5% Insurance 2016 3.3% Fisheries 2016 3.8 % Other services 0.1% CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE On behalf of the board of directors, it is my pleasure to present STO Group’s annual report for the financial year ended 31st December 2016. I feel our report will provide you a comprehensive understanding of our business, financial results, current and future developments. Towards our continuous focus in achieving better results, I can proudly say that the management and the employees of STO together have built an exceptional organization, which has gained immense respect and trust of the community. I can also assure you that our board has the skills, experience, knowledge and the diversity to discharge the company’s operations and responsibilities successfully, and take the company to new heights. Performance and Shareholder return The Company generated a healthy result for 2016 in a volatile market environment. We continued to advance on our goals for a sustainable and profitable development; which include stabilizing essential commodity prices, offering new products, and providing excellent services to our customers. The Group has created numerous job opportunities in the field of medical sector. Simultaneously, with the introduction of power-mix concrete, STO has made a significant mark in the construction industry. The Group’s consistent performance, despite the challenges in major markets, demonstrates the resilience of our strategy. As we execute our long-term sustainable business model, we are confident that we will continue to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Our strategic actions during the year have significantly enhanced our balance sheet, and efforts to decrease tiedup capital in the working capital have contributed strong net operating cash flow in 2016. The potential for profitable growth is better than ever. 9 sustainable returns to our shareholders. STO has always Strategies ensured highest standards of corporate governance, and I During the year 2016, the Government proposed the believe this would continue in the future. transfer of MIFCO to STO; and hence, the Board took the decision to include MIFCO in the portfolio of STO’s Future Outlook subsidiaries. This strategic move proved to be very positive, as MIFCO is able to provide some relief to the huge foreign Over the past five decades, STO has evolved from a currency requirement of STO. And at the same time, we as company that focused only on providing essential items to STO Group can achieve great synergy through utilization one of the country’s leading suppliers of fuel, construction of resources as well. All of STO’s subsidiaries combined, items, medical consumables and pharmaceuticals, and STO Group is stronger and much more competitive in the home improvement items. current demanding business environment. To maintain this momentum, we will focus on ensuring the In addition to a company’s business, I believe it is key for long-term success of the business through our sustainable any company to give back to the community in order to strategies. Also, with many of STO’s projects scheduled to strategically sustain in the future. Keeping this in mind, STO complete during the year 2017, the future looks promising. has always contributed towards various noble causes within Hence, I have no doubt that, STO will go on to further to the community, and also ensures that the same values expand its business and provide an unmatched service are etched within the company, such as gender equality, which will be easily accessible at the fingertips of our women empowerment, good health and a favorable work stakeholders, and will continue to cater to domestic environment for its staff. It is noteworthy that STO has demand for decades to come. always been a people’s company. Acknowledgements STO’s commitment to serving the nation is also truly visible in the ‘all island pharmacy project’ where the company On behalf of the board, i would like to take this opportunity efficiently set up a network to supply medical consumables, to thank the management team for their commitment in pharmaceuticals, and also medical equipment to the entire taking this company forward and to new levels. population. Today, each and every citizen can easily get their needed medications from their own island. I am proud We would like to extend our deepest gratitude to the to say that STO has transformed healthcare in the Maldives employees for their invaluable contribution to the company. significantly. We thank our consumers, partners, distributors and customers, for their continued support. Governance Further, I would like to express my appreciation to my STO has been an excellent company in terms of Corporate fellow directors, for their advice on achieving long-term Governance, where the board and its committees ensure success for STO. that the company is in compliance with relevant laws and regulations and provide necessary information to Last but not the least; I would like use this opportunity to shareholders. thank all our loyal shareholders. I am pleased to say that during the past year, there have been tremendous work done to instill the same values within our subsidiary companies, and that it has been a success. For instance, we have started evaluating our subsidiaries for CG compliance on an annual basis. Hussain Salim Mohamed Chairman Good governance strengthens the company’s processes and supports the company’s efforts in generating MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE It is with great pleasure I address you with a healthier result for the year in review. 2016 has been another successful year for STO Group of Companies. Despite the volatile external factors, the Group managed to sustain its margins throughout most business segments and acheived impressive revenue figures. The Group was able to enhance its competitiveness by investing and expanding on projects and infrastructure that secure future growth and success. The Group is on the right track to acheive it’s long time strategy of creating values for its shareholders while at the same time enchancing the quality of life for the country’s citizens. Over the past year the Group realigned the business strategies in order to provide affordable products and services to the general public. As a part of this, the Group bravely took a step to cut down oil prices by downsizing the margins attainable from the company’s core business segment of fuel and lubricants, which resulted in a decrease of the revenue generated from that segment compared to last year. This intiative has lifted a heavy burden off from the common citizen and brought a postive saving on the living cost. But even with this challenge, the Group managed to pull through and reach its goals through a disciplined strategy that resulted in increased performance and enhanced results in non-fuel segments, year on year. Specially the construction materials, regional sales, supermarket and insurance sector all experienced a significant growth in revenue. Furthermore, the operational cash flow of the Group is at a very healthy level which ensures that the day to day operations of the Group can be managed smoothly. Sustaining Initiatives The company took leadership in investing in the medical sector of the country by providing specialist healthcare equipment to hospitals and fulfilling the demand of the general public in consistently supplying much required 11 pharmaceuticals. Holding agencies of internationally to purchase real estate at very competitive rates. The renowned pharmaceutical brands gave the company the particulars of the scheme are currently under development opportunity to provide quality drugs at affordable rates. In and will be inaugurated eventually within the coming addition to successfully sustaining the ‘all island pharmacy months of 2017. Also, the company was also among one of project’ throughout every corner of the country, the the first to introduce an employee aid scheme that provides commencement of the STO Henveiru Pharmacy assured the the opportunity for employees to gain financial help when extension of the company’s care to a greater area within under circumstances of stress and hardship. the capital city. Building Infrastructure The Maldives has an educated and talented youth population, bursting to seize any opportunity that comes The company is currently working on strengthening its their way. With the ‘all island pharmacy project’, the logistic abilities by investing in new machineries, vehicles company was able to utilize on this by developing and and infrastructure. One of the key project that is currently educating around 400 local individuals as pharmacy underway is the oil terminal expansion at K.Funadhoo, assistants, in partnership with the Ministry of Education. which is designed to expand the current storage capacity This paved the way for disadvantaged youth to venture of fuel and lubricants up to 28 metric tons and provide into the field of medicine, providing sustained employment support infrastructure to accommodate much bigger to the country in an area that was previously dominated by tankers. The product repackaging and distribution project foreigners. that was in the planning stage in the previous year was abandoned due to the project not being feasible enough. The power-mix concrete solution was introduced to the Instead, the company is expanding the cement ready-mix public during the first quarter of 2016. These specially project by establishing a station at Hulhumale’ to further designed cement mixing vehicles enables the delivery extend its reach to the greater Male’ area. In order to enter of ready-mix concrete to the construction site without in to the booming real estate business, the company is also the hassle of closing down roads. This eases the dense undergoing negotiations with its subsidiary company, Allied traffic flow of the city and contributes to the reduction Insurance Company of the Maldives Pvt. Ltd. to develop of congestion in such situations. Furthermore, the quality one of the land plots that is under the ownership of the of the ready-mixed concrete is unparalleled as all raw company. materials are mixed proportionately and the quality is welltested. Corporate social responsibility As the company has always been deeply connected to Employee Welfare the livelihood and well-being of the general population The company is well-known for providing excellent care of the country, priority is always granted in initiating and amenities for its employees. Within 2016, over 15 million corporate social responsibility programs that aim to enrich was invested in providing staff training, welfare programs the society in areas that are in need of improvement. and employee medical insurance. The company was the This includes pledging to NGOs in the form of sponsoring first among public listed companies to announce a housing campaigns, donations and the provision of equipment and scheme directed towards employees that enable them infrastructure. Several MOUs have been executed with such entities in order to empower movements that aim management team and employees. The completion of the to tackle issues such as gender discrimination and youth ‘all island pharmacy project’ and the initiation of the readydevelopment. mix project are two of the most successful highlights of my term. Also, absorbing the shocks caused by the worldwide change in commodity prices was a big challenge that the Success through Subsidiaries company was able to overcome. However, we managed to Subsidiaries are vital business ventures that contribute to generate a reasonable profit and maintain the company’s the sustainability and success of the STO Group as a whole. status quo as the market leader in the respective segment. One of the main underlying reasons behind incorporating STO has always been a benchmark company in the subsidiary businesses is due to the substantial growth Republic of Maldives. We need to strive hard to maintain experienced by the respective lines of business when it the company’s position and reputation and I am pleased was once a core business of STO itself. In order to induce to say that we have in our possession an experienced, further growth and incite flexibility, such lines of businesses dedicated and hard-working workforce that drives the are now currently operating as successful individual company forward. companies under the umbrella of the STO Group. One of the prime examples is MIFCO, which was once the export department of the company. After it was spun-off as an individual SOE, the government once again executed an order that brought about the fisheries company under the Ahmed Shaheer domain of the STO Group due to its recent deteriorating Managing Director financial health. Our aim is to bring positive changes to the organization both financially and operationally. The same can be said regarding the STO Singapore Company which has been completely overhauled and transformed to a profit-generating company. The STO Group’s subsidiary companies conducted several successful activities within the past year that have enhanced and promoted the solidarity maintained between the companies. A numerous amount of brand new diversified and tailor-made products and insurance policies were introduced by the Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives. The Maldive Gas Company exhibited strength by achieving its sales target even with the offset caused by the reduction in the sales prices on two separate occasions. Three new barges were added to the fleet managed by the Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. resulting in an increase of 670 metric tons. The company’s success in managing subsidiary businesses can be evidenced by the fact that four of its subsidiary companies were included in the recent ‘Gold 100’ companies list. Key Message During my tenure as the managing director of the company, numerous challenges have been met accordingly with business intelligence and strategic execution from the OUR BUSINESSES BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The Economy Focus on core businesses In 2016, advancements in factors such as technological The company’s progress towards long-term success is innovation and greater productivity in labor forces, globally, reflected by how the company confronts forthcoming provided the horizon to which organizations such as STO challenges with precision and grasps business and social clang to in terms of expanding and strengthening the development opportunities that are innovative and business. Within a global context, the world’s economy relatively cutting-edge compared to our competitors. expanded by 3.6% as per the data reported by the IMF. The core business of the company is the distribution of The continent of Asia, in particular, proved to be a wildcard fuel and lubricant products which yielded approximately with an increase in consumer expenditure and a decrease 57% towards the total revenue generated within the year. in commodity prices which enabled emerging economies to Despite the continuing dip of worldwide commodity prices, expand further. the company managed to maintain the operating margin which is contributable to an improvement observed in Driven by an increase of imported construction materials the sales volume and cost efficacy. The company is set to to the country, continued investments into the construction expand its reach domestically in line with the continuous industry in line with the commencement of several national investments by the government to the national social development projects initiated by the government caused a development projects. With the growth of demand substantial increase in the domestic demand subsequently for products constantly increasing, the company has driving the real GDP of the country forward. Prospects planned to strengthen the operational and infrastructural of wholesale and retail trade also looked favorable as capabilities. reflected in an increase of commercial bank credit injected to the industry. Although not as incremental as expected due to the decrease of Chinese visitors, tourist arrivals to the country also increased by approximately 2.3%. Reflected by the dip of commodity prices, the local inflation rate floated below 0, in the second and third quarters and rose to 1.8% in the last quarter. With the assumption that the value of commodities increase due to higher costs of importation, the inflation rate dependent on the local consumer price index is set to rise to 2.4%. This can also be attributable to the recovery of productivity in the tourism industry and the continuous investments by the private and public sector to the ongoing national social development projects. SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Similar to the past couple of years, the performance of most business segments under the umbrella of the STO Group continued flourishing. NET REVENUE Trading The trade segment of the STO Group includes wholesaling 2,344 and retailing of supermart, home improvement, medical and (IN MILLIONS) MVR construction materials. It is the largest business segment in terms of the number of products offered. Share of revenue 33.8% 15 Gas Fuel and Lubricants The Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. is the country’s leading supplier The aim of the fuel and lubricants segment is for of gas and has its distribution networks across multiple selling, marketing and distribution of clean and reliable sectors including the resorts as well as numerous petroleum products to its customers nationwide. It is the restaurants. The company provides household customers most profitable business segment in terms of the share with LPG as well as medical gas solutions essential to the of revenue generated with a figure of MVR 3.9 billion healthcare industry. generated within the year. NET REVENUE NET REVENUE 171 3,921 (IN MILLIONS) MVR (IN MILLIONS) MVR Share of revenue 2.5% Share of revenue 56.5% Insurance Fisheries The Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives provides The Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company (MIFCO) was tailor-made insurance solutions and coverage to a diverse incorporated under the umbrella of the STO group during range of customers and is specially designed to meet the this year. The company is engaged in the processing and challenges faced in each specific market. This includes life exportation of tuna, tuna products, reef fish and other insurance and general insurance plans along with health, fishery products. MIFCO’s products are in increasing diving, travel, accident and third-party motor insurance. demand by discerning customers, especially in Europe due to its high quality. NET REVENUE NET REVENUE 232 261 (IN MILLIONS) MVR (IN MILLIONS) MVR Share of revenue 3.3% Share of revenue 3.8% TRADING The aim of the company has always been to create and remain as a sustainable and responsible business by maintaining long-term value based on strategic development and a solid economic model that provides a satisfactory return for both the shareholders and stakeholders. With the founding objective of the company being the distributor of essential goods and services to the public, the company remains committed to catering the demands of the growing and evolving population. The largest business segment under the umbrella of the STO group is the component of trading which includes areas such as construction materials, home improvement and medical services. Net revenue in trading Share of trading revenue 3000 2016 33.8% 2500 Net Revenue (in millions) 2000 1500 MVR 1000 500 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year Sustaining excellence in performance The performance of the company in 2016 served its purpose of solidifying the company’s reputation as the main forefront business enterprise in the country. Expansion was observed in the product portfolios of almost every segment and the subsequent service quality offered with these products were maintained and worked upon which led the company to successfully achieve a fruitful sales figure. The trading segment experienced an ascent in revenue by 12.7% compared to the previous year, amounting to MVR 2.34 billion. It should be highlighted that within the trading segment, the construction materials sector made a huge leap of 60% growth in revenue, producing a sales figure of MVR 303 million which is contributable to the continuous investments by the government into constructing several national social development projects. However, revenue generated from the medical services sector was the highest out of all lines of business conducted under the trading segment. Approximately 34% of all the revenue generated by the trading segment can be drawn down to the success achieved through medical services, specifically the sustained income from the “all island pharmacy project” and the high sales of medical equipments. Driving sales through customer experience Share of trading revenue One of the main underlying factors that contribute to Regional Sales sustaining high volume of sales in all sectors of the 2016 18% trading segment is the priority given by the company in strategically placing customers in positions that incite memorable experiences. Such measures have been Construction Materials put in place by the company in the form of marketing 2016 13% and promotional activities to ensure repeat purchases. This can be evidenced by the amount imbursed by the company in the form of selling and marketing expenses, Home Improvement which accounted to MVR 345 million. Some of these 2016 11% events include involvement in national trade fairs and exhibitions, sales trips, and promotions. Employing such people-oriented methods have resulted in the company Food & Beverage successfully meeting the demands and needs of the public and enhance the quality of life for the population of the 2016 24% country. Medical Services 2016 34% #woodshop #handcrafted #powertools #makita #stohomeimprovement C-less Drill Increased motor power for higher application speed and max tightening torque. Construction Materials As a leading supplier of construction materials in the country, the construction materials segment of the company was able to take full advantage of the increase in investment into the construction and real estate industry of the country. The market position of the company was well-enhanced throughout the year by maintaining the reputation of providing dependable and loyal services which include importing bulk shipments for projects, ready-mixed concrete and logistical solutions in delivering materials to construction sites. The company majorly dealt with supplying materials for resort projects, a residential and industrial construction which includes deliveries for public and private contractors. Product and Project Portfolio In order to diversify the range of roofing sheets supplied by STO, Salike Roofing Sheets was introduced which aimed to provide a more luxurious and elegant roofing experience with colors that include Autumn Red and Cottage Green. Sampling and the distribution of product information were used as a medium to market the new product. Also, C-Purlins were introduced, which are horizontal structures that are used to support the load from the roof deck or the sheathing. C-Purlins came as a simple yet innovative tool perfect for simple span construction. As far as projects go, a timber warehouse was planned to be developed after confirmation of land being allocated to the company from the newly developed industrial village. Business for the group’s roofing material manufacturing subsidiary company, Maldives Structural Products appears to behave statically throughout the year due to a resurgence of competitor activity and difficulty obtaining raw materials due to lengthy ordering procedures. However, the company is believed to be in a good position to take full advantage of the market situation as the demand for roofing sheets is predicted to increase throughout the following years. Power-mix Concrete With the introduction of specially designed mixing vehicles to deliver readily mixed concrete to construction sites, the company initiated several campaigns to market the product and inject knowledge about the product into the construction industry. A batching plant specially designed for this operation was established in Male’ City where REVENUE 303 the mixing vehicles could load and deliver readily mixed concrete from the plant to the construction site. The mixing operation which includes concrete pumps, testing (IN MILLIONS) MVR mechanism and chemicals as part of the whole solution would expand market segments and contribute to positive Share of revenue 13% sales growth in the coming years ahead. The product was introduced to the market by the president of the country at the “MACI Build and Home Expo” held at Dharubaaruge in early 2016. This was followed by marketing campaigns for the product which included a roadshow with batching vehicles used as demonstrations to propel the brand image within consumers as well as a promotion which featured a lucky draw coupon for every cubic meter of ready-mix purchased. #savetime #durableconcrete #quality #powermix #stoconstructionmaterials The revolutionary Powermix concrete ensures customers premium quality & durability of their concrete. It also saves time & labor costs compared to the conventional method. Home Improvement Continuing as the market leader for home and electrical appliances in the Maldives, the company maintained its strong position within the market, offering a range of products to household, professional and business users. The Home Improvement and Service Center generated a revenue of MVR 268 million, with an impressive product portfolio that contains worldwide leading brands such as Hitachi, Phillips, Makita, Nippon and Samsung. All available products at STO under these brands can now be easily viewed from the company website, which features a detailed description of each product accompanied by its reviews. After-sales Services After achieving the highest market share growth of Hitachi air conditioners during recent years, the after-sales services offered by the service center was integral in the commitment made to customers in maintaining the product performance following its purchase. The company employs well-trained and skilled technicians in providing this service with centers located both in Male’ and the southern region of the country. These centers have the responsibility of servicing products, providing technical support as well as service delivery and follow-up as per the warranties issued with the product. The door to door delivery service was also expanded upon with washing machines and other project related items now being brought to the customer’s doorstep. Expansion and Promotion of Products STO was newly appointed as the authorized distributor of Phillips Lights to the Maldives, amassing validity to an already prestigious portfolio of brands that include the leading home and electrical appliance products of the world. Philips Lighting is a global market leader with REVENUE recognized expertise in the development, manufacturing & application of innovative (LED) lighting solutions. Some 268 of the marketing activities held to promote these brands (IN MILLIONS) MVR include the Makita Heyya promotion, STO Ramazaan Bazaar and Europhoria. Furthermore, marketing trips were Share of revenue 11% conducted by the sales staff to places such as K.Guraidhoo, K.Thoddoo and Meeru Island Resort. In anticipation to the opening of the new showroom in the Umar Shopping Arcade Building, brands such as Dell, Kone and SMAG have been confirmed as additions to the brand portfolio. The new showroom will be a three-storey building with electronic items such as TVs, laptops, mobile phones, cables and AVM products. With the commencement of this showroom, sales are expected to increase significantly for the electronics category. #diyproject #odourlessfun #coloryourhome #nipponpaint #stohomeimprovement Nippon Paint Odorless Almost no paint odour during and after painting. Medical Services The medical segment of the STO group is a recognized national leader in the supply of essential drugs as well as healthcare equipment. Moreover, the medical sector of the country is supported and benefitted by the company’s consistent provision of quality products and services which include medically prescribed healthcare specialist supplies for hospital treatments and patients suffering from chronic illnesses. The medical services segment provided the highest share of revenue from the trading segment. The objective of keeping our pharmacies at each and every island of the country adequately supplied is achieved by engaging on constant optimization of operations and enhanced process integration. Contribution to the national health sector The exponential growth of the company’s medical segment is one of the reasons how the health and well-being of the country’s population has been taken care of. In addition to the primary objective of supplying health organizations and hospitals, the company has always taken initiative in being one of the first to respond to nationwide pandemics, providing assistance when it is most required. This is a statement of how the company genuinely cares for the well-being of each and every citizen, as these services are not provided with only the intention of maximizing profit but rather as a contribution to the nation. Similarly, the ‘all island pharmacy’ project initiated in 2014 and successfully executed within 2015 is evident to the company’s dedication in broadening the provision of better healthcare to all corners of the country. The project simultaneously continues to increase sales volume and strengthening the geographic presence of the company. New products and services It has always been the company’s objective to broaden the product portfolio and increase market share by offering new and innovative products and services by liaising with major international players in the healthcare REVENUE industry. As such, the company came to an agreement with HEMAS Pharmaceuticals to acquire quality products 793 (IN MILLIONS) MVR at a lower cost. The healthcare professionals of IGMH was provided with specialist training from experts sourced by the company from Nihon Kohden. Also, health screening Share of revenue 34% activities were held on the occasion of the World Health Day at Dhamanaveshi. One of the landmark events for the medical segment of the company was the commencement of services from the STO Henveiru Pharmacy, making it a total of 187 active pharmacies under the company’s management. #newbeginning #parenthood #delight #gerathermpregnancytest #stomedicalservices Pregnancy Test Geratherm Early Detect is a Safe and accurate early detects kit which is easy and suitable for home use. Food & Beverages The STO Supermart is the largest single storey supermart in the country and is known throughout the country for providing a premium service and quality and diverse range of products at affordable prices. During the year, we were able to increase the number of customers in both the wholesale and retail sectors by 50% and create a favorable image with regard to the quality of the products offered, services provided and the overall shopping experience of the customer. A stable and good relationship was created with the loyal customer base of the STO supermart where a stance was reached that we were always reachable in hearing out the customer’s feedbacks and input. The ever-growing product mix of the supermart was also complimented with the addition of new brands such as Ponimo Healthcare, Fine Tissues, Nabati Cheese Wafers, Rhodes Quality Juices, Al Noor Milk Powder and a rebranded B&W tea brand. Improved Service and Technology The Supermart express counter was introduced for customers who are on-the-go and require a quick service. These counters would only serve customers who purchase five items or less. The concept of the express counter is slowly being grasped by the retail customers, making the overall shopping experience a pleasant one. Adding to the overall convenience of the customer, a catalog of every individual supermart product exclusively imported by the company is listed in the company website, where the customer can easily browse through and view articles which are updated as they are introduced. To provide convenience for the wholesale customer, a one-stop shopping center is now established at an ideal location close to the local market where regional wholesalers are actively busy at trade. The establishment of this center has proven successful as evident from the increased number of walk-in customers and sales generated. Furthermore, the newly installed cold storage provides the capacity to store frozen items to accommodate the increase in demand for frozen food items. Similarly, the warehouse cooling project was carried out to ensure that products that are required to be stored at a specific temperature to maintain quality standards can be done so. Promotional and Marketing Activities Several promotional and marketing activities were conducted throughout the year to create awareness regarding the many brands that have come under the REVENUE 559 umbrella of STO Supermart. These include the Chocolate Week which is an annual festival where new range of chocolate products are brought and offered grand prizes. (IN MILLIONS) MVR The Ramazan Bazaar was conducted from May 1st and included a weekly voucher prize to a lucky customer who Share of revenue 24% purchased goods worth a certain limit. The Super Hunt promotion was carried out at a large scale with events simultaneously conducted at Male’, Villimale’, Hulhumale’ and Addu City. The 25th anniversary of the STO Supermart was celebrated by awarding a gift for every 25th customer for 25 days. #healthylifestyle #joyful #motherhood #devondale #stosupermart Devondale UHT Powder Full Cream 100% Pure milk from Australia, made without any preservatives or chemicals. Regional Sales Regional outlets are established by STO in all major areas of the country for the purposes of providing wide variety of goods available to the population in the capital city, to the many people living across the atolls at a reasonable price range. Supermart, construction, home improvement and staple food items are provided at 13 different outlets out of which seven outlets offer Maldives Gas cylinders as well. Despite the challenges, one of the biggest achievements of the regional sales sector was generating MVR 421 million in revenue. This is an increase of 19% compared to the sales generated in the previous year of 2015. Among the sales, the construction materials sector was the highest contributing factor, generating over MVR 143 million. One of the main reasons of achieving such sales volume was the direct transport of construction materials to the Hulhumale’, South and North regions. This lead for attaining sustainability in a competitive market by offering goods at a lower price range. Staples food were also directly shipped to regional outlets which in turn reduced the damaged stock and decreased the scrapped perishables amount by 11%. Market Position The market position is different when it comes to each regional store and it also differs based upon the product. However, based on the figures of imports to the Male’ distribution center compared to the goods transferred to the regional outlets, it can be determined that cement, refrigerators and Kruger brand products are most popular in the construction materials, home improvement and REVENUE supermart sectors respectively. Free tasting events and demo sessions are conducted with scheduled visits made every week to restaurants, shops and other related 421 (IN MILLIONS) MVR areas to maintain customer relationships and increase awareness among customers regarding our products. Share of revenue 18% Some of these marketing and promotional activities were held in collaboration with the Male’ outlets. These include the Makitta Heyyaa, Ramazaan Bazaar, Super Hunt and Warehouse Sales. To increase brand awareness, sales trip were conducted to nearby islands such as Ga.Villingili, Ha.Hoarafushi and Hdh.Kulhudhuffushi where products were sold to customers in order to generate turnover and increase sales. #runforlife #healthylife #support #muellerkinesiologytape #stomedicalservices Kinesiology Tape Mueller Kinesiology Tape features a revolutionary wave pattern adhesive that moves with your skin and muscles as you heal. FUEL AND LUBRICANTS STO is the leader in the sale, distribution and marketing of petroleum products in the country. As such, the market position of the company is set to heighten even further with the expansion of the storage and infrastructural capabilities as well as the distribution network at an international scale. The company has captured a large percentage of the domestic market which includes the consistent supply to governmental entities such as the Maldives Airports Company Limited and the State Electric Company Limited as well as numerous private organizations. Distribution Network Performance Even with the presence of stiff competition from other In 2016 the STO Group achieved increased sales in the direct importers of fuel, the Fuel Supply Maldives (FSM) quantity of fuel sold, yet experienced a reduction in managed to strike an increment of 19% in sales of both revenue due to the revisions made to its price. Unlike diesel and petrol. Sales quantity was sustained throughout the behavior of other segments, the fuel and lubricants the year by slashing prices appointed to the more segment experienced a dip of 19.2% in revenue premium markets. This led to an increase in the number of performance. However, the Group was able to pull through resort customers and renewal of contracts ensuring the and produce a satisfactory sales figure of MVR 3.9 billion. continuance of sales in the long run. The global economy experienced a stunning decrease in the price of fuel, from reaching its peak price of $115 per barrel in 2014 to descending down to under $35 per barrel within the past year. The price decline appears to be a combination of two main reasons which is a collapse in demand and increase in oil production due to higher drilling. Infrastructure Development One of the primary sources of growth for the segment is its continuous investments in infrastructure, which effectively serves the purposes of achieving a better market position and also for the ease and improvement of customer service. The oil terminal expansion project that was initiated in 2015 is continuing strong. Above 15% of the project is reported to be completed at the end of financial year and it is expected to be concluded around July 2017. The project is designed in order to expand the current storage capacity by 28,000 tons and would also provide ancillary infrastructure to accommodate bigger tankers. The largest vessel yet to be constructed by the FSM boatyard, the Handhi barge was added to the fleet in addition to two other barges, Meemas and Maatholhi which resulted in an increase of 670 Metric Tons to the 20 vessel strong fleet managed by the company. The boatyard was also opened as a revenue generating segment for the company, by providing dry-docking and other services to the public with the capacity to load 3 vessels of 200MT at once. Net revenue Share of fuel and lubricants 12000 2016 56.5% 10000 Net Revenue (in millions) 8000 6000 MVR 4000 2000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year #whenever #whereever #themosttrustedsource #countrywide #fuelsuppliesmaldives Whenever, Whereever The most trusted source of fuel and related products in the country. Whenever, whereever FSM makes sure that you’re in the light GAS Established 18 years ago as a joint venture between STO Plc and Champa Gas & Oil Pvt Ltd, Maldives Gas Pvt Ltd operates as STO’s segment supplying Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), Industrial Oxygen, Nitrous Oxide and many other similar products. Over the years, the company has captured over 70% of the domestic and household market and 40% of market share in the tourism industry. The company ensures that all inhabitants of the country is adequately supplied with LPG via 250 agents strategically located around the nation. In addition to the supply of gas products, the company is also involved in the sale of appliances such as gas stoves, regulators and camping cylinders. Business Performance Strategic Growth Inclusive of both sales and deposits retained for new Sustainable results for the company through trade can be cylinder sales, an overall increase of 6.3% was observed attributed to the employment of a strategic agenda that compared to the previous year with the company totaling targets long-term value creation. Continuous investment an annual sales figure of over MVR 215 million. December in customer value creation, service and outlets as well as a 2016 was specifically registered as a record-breaking sales more diverse product range including new products such month for any given period within the previous years. as the FREON refrigerant and helium balloon gas is set to With both the sales of medical and industrial oxygen as deliver long-term growth and returns. In order to achieve well as LPGs increasing, the company successfully met this, the organizational infrastructure was reorganized and exceeded the sales target for 2016 despite the offset to streamline the operations and create an engaged and caused by the reduction in the sales price of LPGs on two productive workforce. occasions. Milestones The opening of a new sales outlet in Thilafushi led to 90% of resort sales being diverted from Male’ which incited a favorable response from customers whose turnaround time decreased to less than an hour. A newly purchased delivery vessel is now operational in transporting cylinders from the Thilafushi plant to outlets in Male’ and Hulhumale’. A buffer zone was also established in the area to enforce security measures. Regional delivery services were initiated for operations in Fuvahmulah and Addu City which increased the company’s presence further within the country. As a contribution to the development of the health industry of the country, medical oxygen plants were installed at both IGMH and Hulhumale’ Hospital. As evidence to the company’s success, Maldives Gas was awarded the Governance Excellency Award among all subsidiary companies of STO. Net revenue Share of gas segment 300 2016 2.5% 250 200 MVR (in millions) 150 100 50 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year #medicalgas #industrialgas #greener #cleaner #economical #maldivegas Greener, Cleaner & Economical Industry leader in gas supply solutions including medical & industrial gas INSURANCE Ranging from fish boat owners to resort operators, the Group’s Insurance segment, Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives (Allied) caters for a diverse market with a product portfolio categorized into General, Life and Takaful insurance plans. Even though the insurance industry fluctuated with the addition of new service providers, Allied managed to maintain maximum market share with 100% local management. Business Performance Despite the increasingly competitive market, the company managed to maintain a steady growth in sales throughout the year, achieving over 100% from the turnover of operations compared to the budgeted figures. A substantial increase was observed in the ‘accidents’ class with 162% of the budgeted figure being achieved in 2016. However, the highest turnover was observed from the MVR 11.4 million received from the ‘fire & loss of profits’ class. A flurry of activities In order to achieve the corporate vision of becoming “the was introduced for customers to acquire Takaful services preferred market – responsive insurer, providing diversified such as the Family Takaful package in a convenient manner. services in the Maldives and beyond”, the company took A nationwide hull insurance project was initiated with initiative in investing in various business opportunities and the collaboration of the Transport Authority to insure all introducing many new products in 2016. One such product vessels registered in the country. Extending their reach to that the company underscored in was the Ayady Takaful all corners of the country, a specialized insurance package window, which underwent many business and marketing for guesthouses was introduced which offered protection activities such as introducing the Family Takaful package against manmade and natural disasters similar to the which was agreed to be provided to customs and police Kaarisaa Takaful introduced to owners and tenants of officers and their respective families. A unique online portal buildings that are used for commercial and domestic use. Net revenue Share of insurance 300 2016 3.3% 250 Net Revenue (in millions) MVR in milions 200 150 MVR 100 50 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year #maldiveskamana #unbeatable #women #girlpower #alliedinsurancecompanyofthemaldives Kamana Insurance plan for unbeatable women FISHERIES The main activities of the Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company (MIFCO) are centered around the purchase, process and value addition of tuna and the subsequent sale and exportation of tuna, tuna products, reef fish and other fishery products. MIFCO’s products are in increasing demand by discerning customers, especially in Europe due to its high quality as a result of exclusive pole-and-line skipjack fishery of the country complemented with the pristine waters of the Maldives. Business performance Despite the decline in the growth of the company, the production quantity and the export capacity has increased over the years. The fleet of vessels and the facilities at the respective sites has almost reached its maximum capacity. MIFCO continues to develop and promote value-added products to gain a higher price and a steeper foothold in the market which has led to an increase in the product range throughout the years. The local market has always been positive for the value added services provided by MIFCO. The sales of the MIFCO Masfihaara has been escalating over the years due to the improvements brought to the value added products and also the renovations and upgrade of the store itself. However, fish purchases for MIFCO during the past year has been dramatically inconsistent and significantly below the expected target levels. Similar trends follow in production and export quantities as well. Sales and Marketing In 2016, the main marketing activities were based on sponsorship of events, community welfare and promoting a healthy lifestyle. Ramadan was the main sales highlight of the year. During the year, new products were introduced and promoted in-store, as weekend promotions. A special recipe book sponsored by MIFCO featuring a recipe of products was launched by a renowned local chef. A special REVENUE promotional offer for canned tuna was announced to all private and government organizations through which 261 (IN MILLIONS) MVR several organizations purchased Felivaru canned tuna to offer to their staffs as a Ramadan complimentary gift. Among the new products launched and promoted in 2016 Share of fisheries segment 3.8% the Maaniya Mas cans, tuna sausages and flavored range of smoked tuna were deemed as successful product launches. In-store promotions and a family day event was held to promote these products. The final event of the year was the Fisherman’s day celebrations, which was sponsored by the company in cooperation with the Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture and was fruitful in building public relations with fishermen of Kooddoo Area. Furthermore, international fairs such as the North American Sea Food Expo at Boston, OPIC Fair at Saudi Arabia and INFOFISH Conference at Bangkok was attended by the company to promote their products. *Share of 3 months consolidated revenue since acquisition #fish #healthy #readyforanyfunction #tasty #fasmeeru #mifco Fasmeeru Proudly serving the oldest and finest canned tuna brand in the Maldives FINANCIAL REVIEW Revenue Gross Profit and Operating Profit STO Group revenue declined by 5% in 2016 as revenue The decline in fuel prices had a significantly adverse impact decreased from MVR 7,313 million to MVR 6,939. The on the Gross Profit. In 2016, the Group generated a lower adverse impact on revenue was due to lower fuel prices. gross profit of MVR 1,375 million compared to MVR 1,505 However, Trading and Insurance had a positive impact on million in 2015. The lower selling and marketing expenses the Revenue. and increase in other income had a positive effect on the operating profit. However, corresponding to lower gross Fuel and Lubricants being Group’s main business, it had profit and salary restructuring and increase in number of shown a continued decline in revenue since 2015 due to staff, the Group’s Operating Profit decreased to MVR 580 the tumbling fuel prices. While Fuel revenue declined by million (2015: MVR 678). Profit before tax had a significantly 19%, revenue from other businesses as a whole reported a adverse impact from Fuel, Gas and Fisheries while trading, steady growth of 12%. This growth is primarily due to the insurance and other services had a favourable impact. introduction of new products and services and enhanced marketing. Of the other businesses, a notable increase comes from insurance which was escalated by 24% and trading improved by 13% year on year. Group Key Figures Revenue 2015 2016 7000 MVR in millions 6000 REVENUE 7,313 6,939 5000 MVR million GROSS PROFIT 1,505 1,375 4000 OPERATING PROFIT 678 580 3000 2000 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 520 492 1000 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 435 431 2015 2016 Year EARNINGS PER SHARE, MVR 382 378 Profit for the Year NET ASSET PER SHARE, MVR 1,962 2,167 NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 381 619 500 RETURN ON EQUITY, % 21.4 18.5 400 MVR million 300 NET DEBT/EQUITY RATIO 1.3 1.6 200 DIVIDEND PER SHARE, MVR 57 51 100 INTEREST COVER RATIO 4.5 5.1 2015 2016 Year 37 Profit for the Year and Earnings per Share Profit for the year amounted to MVR 431 million (2015: MVR 435 million), while Earnings per Share in 2016 was 378 (2015: MVR 382). Net Finance Cost Net finance cost in 2016 amounted to MVR 99 million (2015: MVR 166 million). The improvement is mainly due to lower interest rate on borrowing and restructuring of bank overdraft facilities and loans held by the Group and reduction in exchange loss for the year. Taxes Financial Position Total income tax expense for 2016 amounted to MVR In 2016, Group’s equity increased to MVR 2,442 million 61.2 million (2015: MVR 84.6 million), corresponding to compared to MVR 2,211 million in 2015, which corresponds an effective tax rate of 12.4% (2015: 16.3%). As per the to Earning Per Share of MVR 378 (2015: MVR 382). While statutory laws and regulations, the Group also paid Goods Return on Equity declined to 18.5% (2015: MVR 21.4%), Net and Service Tax (GST), Withholding Tax, Royalties, lease Debt increased by 37% to MVR 3,842 million (2015: MVR rent and other taxes and levies required by the law. 2,804), representing a gearing of 61.1% (2015: 55.9%). This was due to the increase in net debt of the Group as a Cash Flow result of the acquisition of MIFCO as a subsidiary, which had Net cash generated from operating activities in 2016 liabilities exceeding the assets at the date of acquisition. increased by MVR 238 million to MVR 619 million (2015: During the year, loans and borrowings amounting to MVR MVR 381 million). The strong cash flows were generated 906 million were repaid and new loans and borrowings due to increase in trade payables and lower interest and worth of MVR 814 million were raised. taxes paid. The increases in construction of Investment properties including Radisson Hotel Project, Umar Shopping Acquisition Arcade Project and Funadhoo expansion project resulted in investing activities in net cash outflow to MVR 446 In September 2016, the Board has approved the million. (2015: MVR 281 million). Further, financing activities Government’s decision to transfer its 100% shares of generated net cash outflow of MVR 229 million (2015: Net Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) to cash inflow MVR 169 million), primarily due to repayment of STO Group, for nil consideration. The Government also loans and payment of dividend to government in order to agreed to inject MVR 333.6 million in cash to MIFCO’ s collect long outstanding receivables from the government past loss compensation. The acquisition enhances STO (i.e. Southern Utilities and Male’ Health Services Corporation position as a diversified company, offering an unparalleled in 2016). opportunity to invest in fishing industry in the Maldives, which will benefit customers, employees and shareholders. The scale and efficiencies from combining the businesses Net Operating Cash Flow reduces the burden of dollar purchase requirement to the Group. In addition, the Group is expected to increase its presence in both local and international market of fish and 800 related products. The STO group will further strengthen MVR million 600 its operating performance and expected to generate cost synergies of assets and management. 400 200 2015 2016 Year SHARE PERFORMANCE Ownership structure Trading volume The share capital structure of the The STO share is listed on Maldives The level of dividend reflects, the Company remained unchanged. Stock Exchange (MSE). During 2016, Board’s confidence in the Groups The majority of the share capital a total 479 shares were traded business and is consistent with policy as of December 2016 is owned by compared to 550 during 2015. The to have disciplined balance between Government of Maldives amounting highest price quoted was MVR availability of capital to invest and to 81.6%. The remaining 18.4% share is 500, the lowest MVR 400, and the return to shareholders. owned by general public. weighted average of MVR 500 The market capitalization at year-end No single party other than the 2016 was MVR 563.5 million. Government directly or indirectly, owned more than 5% of the shares of Dividend the Company. The nominal value of the share is MVR 50 and each share During the year, the Board has entitles the holder to one vote at the declared and paid dividend for 2015 Dividend per Share Annual General Meeting. All shares of MVR 57 per share, MVR 64.2 entitle holders to an equal dividend. million (2014: 76 per share, 85.6 million), and the same was approved 100 18.4% Public by the shareholders in the Annual MVR million General Meeting held on 4th June 75 2016. 50 The Board of Directors proposes 25 a divided for 2016 of MVR 51 per share, equivalent to a total dividend 2015 2016 81.6% Government payment of MVR 57.5 million. Year Share trading data: 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 In MVR HIGHEST 500 980 550 510 450 LOWEST 400 400 360 360 350 WEIGHTED AVERAGE 500 472 411 411 387 NO. OF TRADES 24 61 9 41 17 NO. OF SHARES TRADED 479 550 292 520 346 LAST TRADING PRICE 500 500 400 380 400 NO. OF SHARES ISSUED 1126910 1126910 1126910 1126910 1126910 MARKET CAPITALIZATION (MILLION) 563.5 563.5 450.8 428.2 450.8 #daddynson #qualitytime #chocolateygoodness #krugerpastanussa #stosupermart Pasta Nussa The German Hazelnut chocolate spread. With the perfect combination of roasted hazelnuts and chocolates STO FAMILY Investment in people STO Group of Companies aims to provide its employees an enjoyable work environment and the support to develop their careers. The Group believes that investing in human resource is important in staying competent in the modern business environment. As such, STO Group aims to build a workforce that is capable of making informed decisions, providing quality services to the customers and supporting the Group on its business endeavours. Training and Development Employee well-being Short term courses; a total of 39 staff participated in short In hopes of promoting a healthy lifestyle amongst the staff term local courses from both the operational and the of the Group the managing director personally highlighted managerial level of the company. These trainings served its his commitment to promote a healthy lifestyle for the purpose in enhancing the customer service provided and purpose of building a workforce both physically and increasing the efficiency of the staff. mentally fit for any challenge. Long term courses; Among a total of 26 locally held Health screening for employees; The health screening courses, 42 operational staff were given the opportunity conducted for the staff was one of the first steps taken in develop their careers and gain valuable knowledge promoting a healthy lifesyle within the workforce. As such via courses conducted in various fields. This included the staffs were screened on the basis of several health Bachelor’s Degree courses in fields such as Business factors. Administation, Marketing and Human Resource Management. Leadership Enhancement Program; The program was aimed at both the managerial and operational level staff. Short term overseas trainings; A total of 45 staff from The 2 day camp held and Girifushi served its purpose to operational and managerial level participated in 33 promote fitness whilst teaching leadership skills for the trainings held across different countries. Trainings vary existing and future managers of the company. The camp from specialist professional workshops to operational which was held with the coordination of MNDF, with a total skills needed on day to day basis such as effective time of 52 participants. management. Biggest Loser; This program offered rewards to the team In-house trainings; As any other year, several in-house who lost the most amount of weight in the given time trainings were conducted for the staff. Trainings consisted frame. It acted as a source of motivation for those staff of programs that were conducted by locals and as well who needed a little push towards their personal fitness. The as professionals brought from abroad. 471 staff from the program received a huge support from the staff, and the operational, managerial and the executive level participated exhilarating rewards offered further boosted the hype. in 13 in-house trainings held within the company. Systems to raise concern STO has establisehd systems to raise concerns for its staff through intranet and other means. As such staff are provided with facilities such as whistleblower facility and raise your concern facilities to top management. The whistleblower facility messages are directed to Chairman of Audit Committee while the raise your concern facility is directed straight to Managaing Directors Bureau. The Company has in place a Disciplinary and Grievence Committee and a Sexual Harrassment Prevention Committee to report staff grievances. During the year, the committees have looked into the concerns received and has taken the necessary actions in accordance with the policies of the Company. 41 Promoting Unity, Leadership and Discipline amongst the staff, the recreation of club of STO (STORC) has marked yet another successful year. The year 2016 was another remarkable year for STORC with various activities and programs conducted, which played a significant role in creating team work and unity amongst the staff while promoting a healthy lifestyle. The major highlights of the year include; STO GROUP COMPANIES FUTSAL TOURNAMENT IDEAS CUP CLUB MALDIVES CUP STO GROUP VOLLEY TOURNAMENT MAS REYS INTER OFFICE HANDBALL TOURNAMENT INTER DEPARTMENT VOLLEY TOURNAMENT STO INTER DEPARTMENT & GROUP COMPANIES FUTSAL TOURNAMENT RE-ELECTION OF STORC POSTS & THE CLUB POSTS REEF CLEANING CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROFILE Hussain Salim Mohamed Hussain Salim Mohamed was appointed to the Board as the Chairman of the Company on 6th December 2016 by the majority shareholder (Government). Hussain Salim Mohamed held the Chairmanship of Maldives Transport and Contracting Company Plc from 2015 to 2016. He also served in the Maldives National Defense Force from 1994 till 1996. Salim has over 20 years of immense experience in the tourism and construction industry. He joined Sun Siyam Mohamed Farshath Group in 1996, where he has held various positions such as Mohamed Farshath was appointed to the Board the Base Leader of Sun Diving, Operations Manager of Vilu at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, as the only Reef Beach and Spa, Project Manager of re-development Director elected by the public shareholders. He is an Project at Olhuveli Beach and Spa Resort, Deputy General Independent, Non-Executive Director in the Company. Manager of Olhuveli Beach and Spa Resort and Project Farshath currently holds the post of Secretary General Director of Sun Constructions, where he undertook projects of Maldives Media Council. He has also provided such as re-development of Ha. Manafaru and N. Irufushi. his services to the Civil Service Commission as the Financial Controller, Director, and the acting-in-charge Currently, as Director of Sun Constructions and Engineering, of several Divisions. he is the head of all construction projects and redevelopment projects for whole of the Sun Siyam Group. He also serves MTDC as a Board Director, and is a Member of Clique College Board. Farshath worked as At the moment, Salim is pursuing a Master’s in Business a Certificate Panel Member for the former Maldives from the Anglia Ruskin University of United Kingdom. Qualifications Authority, and is a Member in various Committees of different Organizations. Farshath has also attained experience in various fields working at Ahmed Shaheer different departments of former Ministry of Tourism, Ahmed Shaheer was appointed to the Board on 25th Civil Aviation, Arts and Culture, and former Foreign December 2013. He was appointed as the Managing Investment Services Bureau and also at former Clique Director of the Company on 09th March 2015. Training Center. Shaheer was initially appointed as a Manager in the Assets Department of the Company and has since risen through Farshath has an educational background in Board the ranks to be designated as the Managing Director. With Directorship, Management, Tourism, Business over 20 years of experience in the Company, Shaheer Administration, and Information Technology. currently also serves as the Chairman of the Board of He holds a Master of Arts in Tourism Management from Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd, Maldives University of Westminster, London; a Bachelor of Arts National Oil Company Ltd. (MNOC) and STO Maldives (Hons) in Business Administration from Northumbria (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. University, United Kingdom; a Diploma of Higher Education (area of study on Business Information Shaheer holds a Master’s Degree of Business Systems and Business Studies) from Middlesex Administration (International Trade) from the University of University, United Kingdom; a Diploma in Information Adelaide, Australia and a Bachelors’ Degree in Business Technology from Wollongong University, Australia; Administration (Marketing and Management) from the and has the Executive Diploma in Directorship from University of Charles Stuart, Australia. Singapore Management University, Singapore. 45 Aishath Rafiyya at Asia Women Leadership Excellence Awards held at Aishath Rafiyya was appointed to the Board of Directors Pan Pacific, Marina Square, Singapore; ‘Young Women in as an Independent, Non-Executive Director by the majority Leadership Award’ at the South Asian partnership Summit shareholder (Government), in August 2014. & Business Awards, held in Sri Lanka and Junior Chamber International’s (JCI) ‘Ten Outstanding Young Persons Started her career as a young banker and later a young (TOYP)’ National Award 2016, and selected as JCI TOYP diplomat, Rafiyya is currently the Director of Chairman’s 2017 Maldives Honoree. Bureau at the Sun Siyam Group of Companies, a multinational company & a leading hospitality group over the last 26 years. As a National Youth Award winner for Volunteerism, Rafiyya is known for her selfless contribution to social and voluntary service and is the Founding President of the Regional Alliance for Fostering Youth (RAFY) – the first international NGO established in the Maldives. She is a Deputy Leader and a founding member of the political party Maldives Development Alliance (MDA), the coalition partner of the current Government. Rafiyya is a Doctorate Researcher focused on Women Empowerment through Tourism and holds a Master of Business Administration (Major in HRM) and BSC (Hons) in Business Information Systems from University of East London. She also holds a Graduate Diploma in Business Management and International Diploma in Computer Studies (NCC, UK). She is a personal mentor for Queen’s Young Leaders -Leading the Change program of University of Cambridge UK, the first Maldivian fellow and the first south Asian to be the Honorary President of the Royal Institute of Public Administrators of Royal Institution Singapore, IYC Ambassador of Maldives and holds professional memberships of Institute of Directors-UK, Institute of Directors-India and Board Director Training Institute of Japan. In addition to this, Rafiyya has completed the Director Development program from Hawkamah, Institute of Corporate Governance, UAE. Mohamed Mihad Mohamed Mihad joined STO in 2009 as an accountant, In recognition of her continuous efforts in women continuing onto gaining experience and knowledge in the empowerment, Rafiyya has received a number of local field of finance and audit, resulting in the designation of the & international accolades, such as ‘International Award post of Chief Financial Officer of the Company. of Distinction’ from Royal Institution Singapore for her paper titled ‘Challenges faced by women leadership in He was appointed to the Board of Directors as an Executive the Maldives’ during the 6th GCCC; The ‘Outstanding Director on 28th March 2016. Women Leadership Achievement Award’ at the World He also played a key role in the ERP implementation project Women Leadership Congress, Mumbai, India; ‘Young of the Company, acting as a core team lead of the SAP ERP Women Achiever Award’ for Outstanding Contributions, finance module and has also served as a Senior Auditor for Significant Achievements and Sustained Excellence in 4 years. Mihad is a member of the Chartered Institute of the field of Human Resource Management of the Women Management Accountants. Awards VIWA 2016, Chennai, India; ‘Golden Globe Tiger Outstanding Women Leadership Award’ at the Golden Currently Mihad sits in the Board of Fuel Supplies Maldives Globe Summit, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; “Women Super Pvt Ltd as the Chairman of the Board and as a Director at Achievers for Excellence In Corporate & Public Affairs” Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd. Amir Mansoor Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Amir Mansoor was appointed to the Board as an On 28th March 2016, Aishath Rayaheen Shareef was Independent, Non-Executive Director in May 2012 by the appointed as an Independent, Non-Executive Director majority shareholder (Government). to the Board of State Trading Organization (STO) by the Amir is a well-known business figure who has founded and majority shareholder. performed in various large companies. He is currently the Chairman of Carpediem Maldives Pvt. Ltd., the Managing Rayaheen has been working in the financial sector of the Director of Lily International Pvt. Ltd. and also the Managing Maldives for more than 15 years. She has ample knowledge Director (owner) of Grape Expectation Pvt. Ltd. and expertise in areas such as Commercial Banking, Accounting, Marketing, Corporate overnance and HR. She He has been in various business industries for over 25 currently works at Maldives Finance Leasing Company years and is well versed with the past and present business Pvt. Ltd. (MFLC), where she is involved in developing and norms. He is particularly interested in the Enterprise Risk expanding consumer finance unit. Rayaheen has worked in Management and is completing an international training to the past at the Central Bank, Maldives Monitory Authority become a Qualified Risk Director. He too holds an Executive and Hong Kong and Shanhai Banking Corporation. Diploma in Directorship from Singapore Management University, Singapore. Furthermore, at the Regional Alliance for Fostering Youth, Rayaheen holds the position of Secretary General, where she plays a key role in empowering youth by organizing youth leadership programs. Rayaheen has a Bachelors in Business Administration (Honors) from Open University Malaysia. She has also completed an Advanced Diploma in Applied Statistics, from Maldives College of Higher Education and is a senior member of Royal Institute Singapore since 2016. In addition to this, Rayaheen has also completed Director Development Program from Hawkamah, Institute of Corporate Governance (U.A.E). EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT PROFILE Ahmed Shaheer (Managing Director) refer page 44 Mohamed Mihad (Executive Directore/Chief Financial Officer) refer page 45 Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz (Chief Internal Auditor) Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz joined STO in 1996 and worked in Accounting and Finance until 1999. From then, he moved to Internal Audit and has been the Chief Internal Auditor of the company since July 2010. Dr. Mahfooz is a member Ahmed Shifan of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (CFE) (Senior General Manager – Administration and Human USA and a fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Resource) Accountants (FCCA) UK. From mid-2003 to mid-2004, he Ahmed Shifan joined STO in the year of 2003 and is worked at Ernst and Young where he worked at various currently the Head of Administration and Human Resource assignments at different companies in the Maldives and in Department. Prior to this he has served in many key Sri Lanka. Dr. Mahfooz obtained his Doctorate in Business positions of the Company such as the Head of Department Administration from the University of Newcastle, Australia, for Regional Sales, Home Improvement, Store Operations Master of Business Administration from the Charles Stuart and ICT. He was also involved in the key role of the SAP University, Australia and Bachelor of Arts with Honors HCM implementation project of the Company, as the Project in Accounting and Finance from the Oxford Brookes Manager. He currently serves as the Chairman of Maldive University, UK. Gas Pvt. Ltd. and was a member of the Board of Advisors for the SAP Asia Pacific Japan Regional Services Board, since January 2013. He also was the Chairman of the STO Fathimath Ashan Recreation Club (STORC) from 2014 to 2017. Shifan holds (Senior General Manager – Regional Sales, Food and a Master of Business Administration with Honors from Beverages) Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand and Fathimath Ashan joined STO in the year 1994 and has since a Bachelor of Science with Joint Honors (First Class) in served in many key positions of the Company during her Business Information Systems and Business Studies from 20 years of service. Ashan is now designated as the Head Middlesex University, UK. of Department for Regional Sales, Food and Beverages. She had previously served in positions of the Company such as the Head of Department for Human Resources Aishath Shaffana Rasheed and Administration and as the Company Secretary. She is (Company Secretary) currently a Board Director of Allied Insurance Company of Aishath Shaffana Rasheed joined STO in the year of 2004. the Maldives Pvt. Ltd and the Chairperson of STO Hotels She serves as the Company Secretary, since 2007. Shaffana and Resorts Pvt. Ltd. Ashan is also the Chairperson of is also the Head of Department of Company Secretariat. Lafarge Maldives Cement Pvt. Ltd. Ashan holds a Master’s Shaffana holds a Masters in Business from the Cardiff in Business Administration from University of Lincoln and a Metropolitan University, UK and a Bachelor of Business Bachelor of Arts with Honors (First Class) in Business and (Marketing and Management) from Edith Cowan University, Information Technology from University of Coventry. Australia. 49 Musthafa Azmy (Chief Information Officer – Information & Communications Technology) Musthafa Azmy joined STO in the year of 1994 and is currently the Chief Information Officer and the Head of Department for Information & Communications and Technology. Azmy served in the Board of Directors of Allied Insurance Abdul Wahid Moosa (General Manager – Construction, Transport) Company Pvt. Ltd. He is currently the Chairman of Maldives Abdul Wahid Moosa joined the Company in the year of Structural Products Pvt. Ltd and Board Director of Maldives 2009.He has a vast array of knowledge and experience Industrial Fisheries Company Limited. Azmy holds a BSc in the field of maritime studies, chartering and shipping from London Metropolitan University and is also a certified management. Wahid is the current Head of Department SAP ABAP and HCM Associate Consultant. for Transport. He also serves as a Board Director for Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Wahid holds a Bachelor’s Mariyam Nuzla Degree of Business (Management and Marketing) from the (General Manager – Corporate & Legal Affairs) Edith Cowan University, Australia. He has also completed Mariyam Nuzla joined STO in the year of 1999 and has since various maritime related courses such as the Certificate to served the Company in various positions including the conduct ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Audit role of a Personal Assistant to the Managing Director from from the Bureau VERITAS, French Classification Society in 2008 to 2013. She is currently the Head of Department Singapore. for Corporate & Legal Affairs and is also a Board Director for Allied Insurance of the Maldives Pvt Ltd. She served as a Board Member at Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd from 2013 to Ramzee Aboobakuru 2016. Nuzla holds a Masters in Business from the Cardiff (General Manager – Energy, Staple Foods) Metropolitan University, UK and a Bachelor of Business Mr. Ramzee Aboobakuru joined STO in the year of 2007 (Marketing and Management) from Edith Cowan University, and is now currently serving as the Head of Department for Australia Energy, Staple Foods. He previously served as a Manager in Medical and Marketing & Sales Department. Ramzee is also a Board Director of Fuel Supplies Maldives Muslih Maseeh Pvt. Ltd. and Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited. (General Manager Business Development & Public Ramzee holds a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Marketing from Relations) the University of Hertfordshire, UK. Muslih Maseeh joined the Company in the year of 2008 and is the current Head of Department for Business Development and Public Relations. Hussain Sobah He had previously served in the Ministry of Planning and (General Manager – Medical Services) National Development, Faunu Travels Pvt Ltd and Stern’ Hussain Sobaah joined STO in the year of 2003 and has Textiles Australia, gaining experience in the public sector, since excelled in many of the company’s projects involving tourism industry and operations management. He is also a the pharmaceutical and hospital supplies field such as Board Director of Maldives National Oil Company Ltd. and the takeover of IGMH stock management in the year of STO Maldives (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 2010 and the All Island Pharmacy Project in 2014. Sobah currently serves as the Head of Department for Medical Muslih holds a Master of Business Administration from Services and also as a Board Director for Lafarge Maldives University of Nottingham, UK and a Bachelor’s Degree Cement Pvt. Ltd. Sobah holds a Bachelor’s Degree in (Hons) in International Business (First Class) from the Business (Marketing and Management) from the Edith University of East London, UK. Cowan University, Australia. Mohamed Shujau Mohamed Murad (General Manager – Procurement) (General Manager – Home Improvement and Service Mohamed Shujau joined the Company in the year of 1998 Centre) and is the current Head of Department for Procurement. He Mohamed Murad joined STO in the year of 1998 and has had previously served in the Information & Communications hence acquired substantial knowledge and experience in Technology Department for 18 years. Shujau is currently strategic leadership and operational knowledge with over a Board Director of Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. He played a key 15 years of experience in the Company. He currently serves role in the successful migration from the legacy systems as the Head of Department for Home Improvement and to SAP ERP. Shujau is pursuing a Master of Technology Service Centre. Murad served as a Board Director for the Management from Staffordshire University, UK. He holds Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Pvt. Ltd and is a Post Graduate Diploma and a Post Graduate Degree in currently a Board Director of Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. Murad Technology Management from Staffordshire University, holds a BTEC Higher National Diploma in Spatial Design UK. Furthermore, he holds a Bachelor of Science (Honours) from the Academy of Design, Northumbria University, UK. Computer Systems Engineering (Networking) from Nottingham Trent University, UK. Mohamed Nizam (Chief Risk Officer) Mohamed Nizam joined the Company in the year of 2010 as Finance Manager and continued to excel in IT Department as Senior Information Systems Officer. He is currently in the post of Chief Risk Officer, the head of newly formed Risk Department. He also serves as a Board Director of Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives, Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd, Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited, Maldives Stock exchange and Maldives Securities Depository. He holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from University of Ballarat, Australia and Bachelors of Arts (Hons) Finance and Accounting from University of East London, UK. He is also a certified SAP Finance and Controlling Associate Consultant. 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT State Trading Organization plc. (STO) complies with the Companies Act of the Republic of Maldives 10/96, the Corporate Governance principles of the Company and the Corporate Governance Code (Code) of the Capital Market Development Authority (CMDA). Compliance with the rules and recommendations of the Securities Act 02/2006, the Listing Rules of Maldives Stock Exchange Pvt. Ltd. (MSE) and Securities (Continuing Obligation of Issuers) Regulation 2010 were also followed, where applicable. During the year, STO was committed to maintaining high standards in compliance with all legislations described above. Where there have been exceptions, it has been explained further in this report. Moreover, the Company paid immense attention to promote good governance principles across STO Group of Companies (Group) throughout the year. Corporate Governance Guidelines Over the years, Board has developed and reviewed the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles to help fulfill its corporate responsibility towards the stakeholders. These principles ensure that the Board has the necessary authority and processes to review and evaluate the operations when required. Furthermore, these guidelines allow Board to make decisions that are independent of the Management. STO first established its governance guideline in 2006. Thereon, the Company has reviewed and made changes to it, considering the various amendments brought to the relevant legislations and the international codes. The Company further established its first Code for the Group in 2014. In addition, STO awarded the “Excellence in Governance” award to Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. for achieving the highest in compliance to the Code in 2016. The Board The Board is the ultimate governing body of the Company. It is responsible for providing effective leadership and direction to enhance the long-term value of the Group to its shareholders and other stakeholders. Throughout the year, Board oversaw the business affairs and the economic, social and environment sustainability of the Group. Following table indicates the members of the Board and its committees, highlighting the chairperson. Corporate Nomination & Governance Audit Remuneration & Compliance Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Committee HUSSAIN SALIM MOHAMED AHMED NIYAZ AHMED SHAHEER MOHAMED MIHAD AMIR MANSOOR AISHATH RAFIYYA AISHATH RAYAHEEN SHAREEF MOHAMED FARSHATH Chairperson Former Chairperson Member Below include the major roles and responsibilities of the Board that have been delegated to the Management; Developing and agreeing with the Board, the corporate Establishing the technology direction for the Company; vision, mission and strategy of the Company; Ensuring that the Board and its various committees are Developing business plans, budgets and company provided with sufficient information on a timely basis strategies for consideration by the Board and, to the regarding the Company’s businesses, particularly in extent approved by the Board, implementing these respect with the Company’s performance, financial plans, budgets and strategies; condition, operating results and prospects, to Identifying and managing operational risks and, enable the Board and those committees to fulfil their where those risks could have a material impact on governance responsibilities; the Company’s businesses, formulating strategies for Implementing applicable recommendations identified managing these risks for consideration by Board; through internal audit reports; Managing the Company’s current financial and other Implementing the policies, processes, guidelines and reporting mechanisms as well as its control and codes of conducts approved by the Board; monitoring systems to ensure that these mechanisms Oversee recruitment and development of employee and systems capture all relevant material information and their performance; on a timely basis and are functioning effectively; To appoint, remove, determine and provide wages to Ensure the Company understands, owns and works employees of the Company on a structure approved towards the profit and cash plan for the year; by the Board. 53 Profile The Directors’ academic and professional qualifications are presented on pages 43 to 46 of this report. Board Composition In Accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association (AOA), the Board is comprised of 7 ordinary members appointed by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) for a term of one year. Of these 7 members, 5 are Non-Executive members and 2 are Executive Officers of the Company, which include the Managing Director. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee reviewed the size and composition of the Board and its’ committees and the skills and core competencies of its members to ensure an appropriate balance of skills, experience and gender within the Board. The Committee concluded that the Directors had the necessary competencies and knowledge to lead and govern the Group effectively, while the current Independence size and composition of the Board also provided sufficient diversity for efficient decision making. The AOA further indicates that majority of the Board shall be independent of the Company. The independence of these members are determined upon the criteria’s Diversity described in the Code of CMDA, where neither a Director The merits for directorship of the Company include nor his/her immediate family members during the past knowledge of the business, its markets and the industry, year has held a key position in the Company and none of ability to read and understand financials and sustainability, their immediate family members have had any substantial business background, skills, experience, expertise, personal financial transactions with the Company. Considering these quality and integrity. The merits for an effective Board factors, all Non-Executive members of the Board were further includes age and gender diversity. considered to be independent. STO Board comprised a mix of all such merits, in terms of Other Directorships held age, gender, experience and knowledge. The Board had 6 male directors and 2 female directors, as required by the No Director has held Directorship in more than three public Code of CMDA. listed companies, over the year. However, some of the Directors do practice membership on the Boards of group companies, private companies and non-profit organizations. 30% Female Despite this, all Directors devoted sufficient time and effort to their duties as Board members of the Company. Tenure None of the directors have served on Board for a period exceeding six years from the date of their appointment, as recommended in the Code of CMDA. Furthermore, the Board acknowledges that at least one-third of the Board had retired or changed in every 2 years during the course of past 5 years. 70% Male Committees The Boards work is supported through its Committees – the Audit Committee, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee and the Risk Committee. The chairman and members of the committees are appointed and their performance is reviewed by the Board, annually. The membership, responsibilities and activities of each of these committees are described further in this report through the individual committee reports. Each committee has a set of guidelines in the form of charters, approved by the Board and signed by the members. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is combined for the purpose of expediency, since majority of same Directors are entrusted with the functions of both committees. The committee Chairman and the Company Secretary determine the frequency and duration of the committee meetings. Normally all committees are required to meet four times a year. Recommendations of the committees are then submitted to the entire Board for approval before the management is assigned the work for implementation. Conflict of interest and materially significant related party transactions The Company has a Board approved Conflict of Interest Policy for the Directors. As part of this process, the Directors must disclose any company, association or other affiliation where he/she and his/ her immediate family members hold a significant interest. This information is reviewed and tallied by the Registrar of Companies to confirm the information provided. There were no known substantial or material third party transactions, monetary transactions or relationships between the Company and its Directors, the Management, subsidiaries or relatives, except for those disclosed in the note 43 of audited financials. Chairman and Managing Director The Chairman and Managing Director’s functions in the Company are assumed by different individuals. The Chairman, Mr. Ahmed Niyaz, was replaced by the majority shareholder with Mr. Hussain Salim Mohamed on 6th December 2016. The Managing Director of the Company Mr. Ahmed Shaheer remains in the post till date. 55 Responsibilities of Chairman and Managing Director There is a clear division of responsibilities between the The Managing Director is the highest ranking executive Chairman and the Managing Director, which ensures a officer of the Group. The Managing Director is responsible balance of power and authority at the top of the Company. for: The Chairman: Running the day-to-day business of the Group, within Is responsible for leadership of the Board and is pivotal the authorities delegated to him by the Board. in creating the conditions for overall effectiveness of Ensuring implementation of policies and strategy the Board, board committee and individual director. across the Group as set by the Board. Takes a leading role in the Company’s drive to achieve Day-to-day management of the executive and senior and maintain a high standard of corporate governance management team. with the full support of the directors, Company Leading the development of senior management Secretary and management. within the Group with the aim of assisting the training Approves the agenda for the Board meeting and and development of suitable individuals for future ensures sufficient allocation of time for thorough directorship roles. discussion of agenda items. Ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a Promotes an open environment for debates and timely manner of issues faced by the Group and of any ensures Non-Executive Directors are able to speak important events and developments. freely and contribute effectively. Leading the development of the Group’s future Exercise control over the quality, quantity and strategies including identifying and assessing risks timeliness of information flow between the Board and and opportunities for the growth of its businesses and management. reviewing the performance of its existing businesses. Provides close oversight, guidance, advice and leadership to the Managing Director and management. Plays a pivotal role in fostering constructive dialogue between shareholders, the Board and management at AGMs and other shareholder meetings. Role of the Non-Executive Directors The Board and management fully appreciate that an effective and robust Board whose members engage in open and constructive debate, and challenge management on its assumptions and proposals is fundamental to good corporate governance. For this to happen, the Board and Non-Executive Directors, in particular, must be kept well informed of the Group’s businesses and be knowledgeable about the industries the Group operate in. To ensure that Non-Executive Directors are well supported by accurate, complete and timely information, non-executive directors have access to management. The Board has also adopted processes to ensure that non-executive directors have sufficient time and resources to perform their functions effectively. Process of re-election and appointment of new Directors The Board, in particular, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee has put in place a formal process for the selection of new directors to increase the transparency of the nomination process in identifying and evaluating nominees for directors. The process is summarized as below: Both the majority shareholder (the Government) and the minority shareholders are given 21 days of notice to submit their candidates. The nominees for public share representatives are then evaluated according to the Board Profile and Candidacy Guideline. The prime purpose of this evaluation is to identify the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and to see how it would strengthen the existing Board. Nomination and Remuneration Committee also meets with the shortlisted candidates to assess and to further evaluate the candidates. Nomination and Remuneration Committee recommends the candidates who meets the required criteria to the Board. The majority shareholder makes appointments to the Board through Privatization and Corporatization Board. In 2016, 2 candidates from the public shareholders submitted their name for directorship. Both candidates were decided by Nomination and Remuneration Committee to have met the required criteria and during the AGM a vote was taken on these candidates to elect the member for the seat of a public shareholder in the Board. As such, Mr. Mohamed Farshath was reelected by shareholders vote to represent the minority shareholders of the Company, for yet another term. Board Evaluation Board continuously monitors and reviews the board evaluation framework. Board has laid down a set of evaluation criteria for the performance review of chairman, executive / non-executive / independent directors through a peer evaluation, evaluation of the performance of the company, board, its committees and the company secretary. This evaluation is carried out through an online questionnaire. This process enables to review the functioning and effectiveness of the Company and the Board while also identifying possible paths for improvement. The questionnaire assesses on board dynamics and relationship with stakeholders, company performance and strategy, information flow, decision-making of the directors, and the effectiveness of the whole board and its various committees. The evaluation for the year 2016 was completed in March 2017 and areas for improvement were identified. Director Remuneration Details on director remuneration are provided in the remuneration report of Nomination and Remuneration Committee. Refer to page 68 for this information. 57 Board Meetings The Board of Directors held 25 Board meetings during the year. In addition to this, the Committees’ altogether, held 30 meetings. The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each meeting through consultation with the Chairman and MD. The Directors are given notice as per the Articles of Association and are authorized to suggest the inclusion of additional items on the agenda, where necessary. The illustration below indicates the attendance of Directors to the Board Meetings. Hussain Salim Mohamed Ahmed Niyaz Attended meetings 1/1 Attended meetings 24/24 Ahmed Shaheer Ibrahim Ziyath Attended meetings 25/25 Attended meetings 6/6 Mohamed Mihad Amir Mansoor Attended meetings 17/19 Attended meetings 24/25 Aishath Rafiyya Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu Attended meetings 22/25 Attended meetings 6/6 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Mohamed Farshath Attended meetings 19/19 Attended meetings 25/25 The Board is confident that the directors made adequate time available to give sufficient attention to the Board meetings. Board Proceeds and Major Decisions The Board has access to all company related information, including that of the employees. At Board meetings, executive team members and managers who can provide additional insights into the items being discussed, are invited. To allow sufficient time to prepare for the meetings, all board and board committee papers are distributed to directors well in advance of the meeting via email. Any additional material or information requested by the directors are promptly furnished. Management’s proposals to the Board for approval provide background and explanatory information such as facts, resources needed, risk analysis and mitigation strategies, financial impact, regulatory implications, expected outcomes, conclusions and recommendations. In order to keep Directors abreast on Company’s performance, management also shares management reports with the Board. These reports include budgets, forecasts, quarterly financial reports and monthly management accounts. In addition, the Head of internal Audit department also provides the Audit Committee and where necessary to the Board with audit reports. These reports include, annual audit plans, fraud risk assessment and other findings from such audits. The management continuously strives to improve the information flow to the Directors. As such a web based portal has recently been developed and used as trial among the directors to facilitate an easy mechanism to share and access information in a secure environment. Some of the major decisions taken during the year include; Developed a staff recreation policy. Approved dividend for 2015. Approved and launched WILL campaign – an internal Approved policy hierarchy for new policy and campaign to review the internal processes in terms of procedure development project for the whole reducing costs and improving efficiency. Company. Approved to take on the project to develop a food Reviewed the policies and procedures of the Company court in Male’ south harbor in collaboration with including the Remuneration Policy. Ministry of Housing and Infrastructure. Appointed a Chief Risk Officer and formed a Risk Approved to award hajj trips to 4 staff, at company’s Management Department. expense. Approved to take on the project to set up Automatic Reviewed Board performance results for 2015 and Car Parking Systems in Male’ City in collaboration with identified areas for improvement. Ministry of Housing and Infrastructure. Approved to form Allied Thakaful. Decided to take on Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company (MIFCO) Ltd., following the decision by the President’s Office on 29th September 2016. Non-Executive Directors meeting As per the Corporate Governance Policy of STO and the Code of CMDA, the Non-Executive Directors held one meeting in the absence of executive members of the Board. The purpose of this meeting was to review the performance of the executive members, the management team and the Board as a whole while assessing the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the management and the Board. 59 Board Development The Company has a comprehensive orientation program designed for newly appointed directors to familiarize themselves with business and governance policies. The orientation program arranged by the Company Secretariat gives directors an understanding of the Group’s business to enable them to assimilate into their new roles. The program also allows the new director to get acquainted with senior management, thereby facilitating Board interaction and independent access to senior management. As part of the Company’s continuing education for Directors, Directors attended a total of 14 different training programs conducted abroad. These training focused on areas such as corporate risk management, corporate governance, Business Continuity, strategic planning, leadership and corporate finance. The effectiveness of control activity levels are monitored by the Internal Audit at Group level, business area levels, functional levels and process levels, which is reported to the Audit Committee and the Management. Controls that have failed are remediated, by establishing and implementing actions to correct the weaknesses. The Board is confident that the system of risk management and internal controls in place within the Group is adequate and effective in addressing the material risks in the Groups in its current business environment including financial, operational, compliance and information technology risks. Management Review and Responsibility The Company’s vision is to enrich the lives of the STO Group has its businesses established in fields such customers, employees and shareholders through expansion as insurance, fuel distribution, commodity trade, gas of its services while being accessible to all. distribution, fish canning and production of fish products and manufacture of roofing sheets. These businesses are Through a sustainable growth, innovative products under administered as subsidiary companies of STO while it is strong brands, operational excellence and dedicated governed by STO. employees, STO creates the condition to reach its vision. The objective is to develop smarter, more accessible, STO has over 4000 staff in its Group, serving the resource-efficient solutions that meet people’s needs and community and the country. improve their everyday lives. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee reviews The operations of the Company is divided into Energy, and recommends to the Board, the compensation and Supermart, Home Improvement, Staple Foods, Construction benefits to all executives Board members. The Managing Materials and Medicals. These businesses are catered Director reviews, evaluates and promotes the members throughout Male’ and many of the Atolls of the Country of the executive team and in accordance with the salary while the Company has its presence though it’s Pharmacies and benefits structure approved by the Board and the in every inhabited island. These six business areas are executive team does the same for other employees of the supported by a Finance, Information and Communication Company. Technology, Corporate and Legal, Human Resources and The Managing Director, the Chief Financial Officer and Administration, Business Development and PR Media, the Head of Business Development and Public Relations Procurement and Transport Department. Apart from these, Media Department represent the Company in interactions STO has in place an Internal Audit, Risk Management and with investors, the media and the Government. The Secretariat Department. individual Executives and Head of Human Resources and Administration interact with employees while individual Executives deal with their clients. The shareholders re-elected KPMG as the external auditors for 2016. The Auditors provide an audit opinion regarding STO and the consolidated financial statements of STO Group. The Audit was conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. These standards ensure that the auditors comply with relevant ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain Group Management reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated The Board of Directors have entrusted the Managing and separate financial statements are free from material Director of STO with the function of overseeing its’ Group misstatement. of Companies. As many such measures have been taken to establish good governance practices within the Group. Internal Controls In September 2016, the Government decided to transfer it’s 100% shares of Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd The process of internal control and risk management (MIFCO) to STO. STO Board accepted to acquire MIFCO in framework provides reasonable assurance that the Group’s October 2016. The Board of Directors of the Company was goals are met in terms of efficient operations, compliance reformed according to the Subsidiaries and Commercial with relevant laws and regulations and reliable financial Activities Policy of the Company. reporting. As such, currently there are altogether 7 subsidiaries of STO’s control environment determines the individual and STO; where STO holds more than 90% of shares. STO also collective behavior. It is defined by policies and procedures, has 1 Joint Venture Company and holds associate shares in manuals and codes, IT generated controls and is enforced 4 other Companies. by the organizational structure with clear responsibility and authority based on collective values. Details of STO Shares held in these Companies as required by the CDOI Regulations 2010 is provided on page 89. The Board of Directors have the overall responsibility for establishing an effective system of internal control. The responsibility of maintaining internal controls are delegated to the Managing Director. Internal Audit The internal audit function is responsible for independent, The Audit Committee assists the Board in overseeing objective assurance, in order to systematically evaluate and relevant manuals, policies and ensure that important propose improvements for more effective management, accounting principles are applied. governance and internal control processes. The limits of authorities and responsibilities are given in The company has a well-established in-house audit instructions for delegation of authority, manuals, policies function as an independent function. The Head of Internal and procedures and code, including the Code of Conduct, Audit (Chief Internal Auditor) reports directly to the Audit Employee Handbook and various policies and procedures. Committee functionally and to the Managing Director Together with laws and external regulations, these internal administratively. guideline form the control environment. All entities within STO Group are required to maintain External Audit adequate controls. The current appointment of External Auditor is reviewed every year by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee Monitor and test of control activities is performed advises the Board on the results of this assessment which periodically to ensure the adequacy of these controls and is then submitted to the AGM for shareholders’ approval. to ensure that the risks are properly mitigated. The Board of Directors welcome the impartial opinion and The effectiveness of control activity levels are monitored recommendations of the appointed independent auditors by the Internal Audit at Group level, business areas level, and will strive to improve the findings pointed out in the functional level and process level, which is reported to the auditor’s report. Audit Committee and the Management. Controls that have 61 failed are remediated, by establishing and implementing Furthermore, Board members hold and facilitate meetings actions to correct the weaknesses. with the shareholders as required. The Board is confident that the system of risk management and internal controls in place within the Group are adequate and effective in addressing the material risks in the Group in its current business environment including material financial, operational, compliance and information technology risks. Risk Management The Company has an integrated approach to managing risks inherent in various aspects of the business. The Risk Management Report forms part of this Annual Report on Certification of Financials page 77. The Board has reviewed and approved the financials results of the Company. In presenting these results, the Board has Shares and Shareholders aimed to provide shareholders with a balanced and clear STO’s shares are listed on the Maldives Stock Exchange assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. (MSE). At year-end 2016, STO had 4016 active shareholders AS required by the Corporate Governance Code of in the shareholder register and of the total share capital, CMDA, the MD and CFO certifications on the financials 83.6% was owned by the Government of Maldives while the are provided with this report. The Board, to the best of rest of the 18.3% was owned by the General Public. their knowledge confirms that the financial statements for None of the individual shareholders (other than the the period from 1st January to 31st December 2016 has Government) hold shares more than 5% within the been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting Company. standards and gives a true and fair view of the Group and the Company’s consolidated and separate assets, liabilities, financial position and results of operations. Voting rights The share capital of STO consists of ordinary shares. Each Prevention of Insider Trading share entitles holders to the same proportion of assets and earnings and carry equal rights in terms of dividends. The Company has recently developed and adopted a According to the Articles of Association, each share guideline on trading in company’s securities, to regulate, accounts to one vote each. Voting is based on show of monitor and report trading by insiders. This guideline also hands where vote is counted as 1 vote per member, unless includes practices and procedures for disclosure of price10% shareholders present or their proxy, request for poll sensitive information and continual disclosure. where voting will be counted on shares represented. System for raising concern Communication with Shareholders Appropriate mechanisms are in place to enable employees, The quarterly report, along with additional information management or other stakeholders to raise any concerns, and official news releases, are posted on the Company’s whether on a confidential basis or otherwise of any nonwebsite www.sto.mv. The proceedings of the AGM and the compliance, fraud or other misdemeanor within or to the voting rights are also stated on the Company’s website. Company. STO has implemented a Fraud Response Policy In addition to this, the Company has set up a and a Whistleblower Policy. The Company has established communication facility for the shareholders through a whistleblower facility for the employees through the the website http://sto.mv/Investor_Relations.aspx. All intranet and a ‘Raise your concern’ facility for other complaints or messages received through this facility stakeholders through our website. In addition, the Company are delivered directly to the Chairman and the Company has also implemented a Disciplinary and Grievance Secretary. The Chairman then submits to and recommends Committee and a Sexual Harassment Prevention Committee for actions at the earliest Board meeting. that looks into concerns and grievances raised by the staff. Annual General Meeting Dividend The decision-making rights of shareholders are exercised STO target is for the dividend to correspond to at least 10% at the General Meetings. The AGM of STO is held during the of profit for the period. However, for a number of years, the first half of the year. level of dividend has been considerably higher. Extraordinary General Meetings (EGM) may be held at the In accordance with the dividend policy of the Company, discretion of the Board or, if requested by the auditors or the Board has declared MVR 51 per share for shareholder’s by shareholders owning at least 10% of all shares in the approval in the upcoming Annual General meeting 2016. Company. Going Concern Declaration and Future Participation in decision-making requires the shareholders Outlook presence either personally or through a proxy. In addition, the shareholder must be registered in the share register by The Board is confident that it has the right mix to provide a stipulated date prior to the meeting and must register for the necessary support to the management to implement the meeting in the manner prescribed. the strategic and business objectives of the Company. Hence the Board is highly optimistic on what the future Decisions at the meeting are usually taken on the basis of holds for this valuable company. There is no doubt that simple majority. the Board will continue to strive to pursue the long term vision of the Company. Thereby, we hereby confirm that The 2015 AGM was held at Kurumba Maldives on 4th June the Company is able to carry on its activities, implement 2016. 392 shareholders presenting a total of 85% of the its proposed plans and achieve its forecasted results, share capital were represented at the AGM. satisfactorily. Major decisions made at the Annual General Meeting 2016 On behalf of the Board of Directors: include; Dividend payment of MVR 57 per share. Election of Directors to the Board Approval of Annual Report and Balance Sheet Appointment of KPMG as External Auditors for a fee Hussain Salim Mohamed of USD 39,000. Chairman Ahmed Shaheer Managing Director 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT The Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee consisted of 4 members until the changes made to the Board on 28th March 2016. On 12th April 2016, the Committee was reformed with 3 Non–Executive members, Chaired by Ms. Aishath Rayaheen Shareef. With this reformation, the other two members of the Committee are Mr. Mohamed Farshath and Ms. Aishath Rafiyya. All the members of the Committee are deemed to be independent. The Committee held 6 meetings in 2016. The attendance record of the members is shown below. Mohamed Farshath Former Chairman Attended meetings 6/6 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Chairperson Attended meetings 4/4 Aishath Rafiyya Attended meetings 6/6 Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu Attended meetings 2/2 Amir Mansoor Attended meetings 2/2 The Committee has the authority to take independent professional advice on matters covered by its terms of reference at the Company’s expense. The Committee charter is annually reviewed and signed by the members. The Committee Chairman reports the outcomes of the meeting to the Board, regularly. The Committee’s effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board’s performance evaluation process. Key Duties Main activities of 2016 Develop and monitor the Company’s overall approach Discussed the outcome of Corporate Governance to corporate governance issues and implement, Audit Report compliance, from time to time administer, and continue to develop a system of Discussed on the compliance to Committee Charter corporate governance within the Company. Reviewed subsidiaries compliance to Code of Conduct Undertake an annual review of corporate governance Reviewed the sub reports of Director’s Report 2015 issues and practices for the Company and make Attended the queries submitted by the subsidiaries on recommendations for improvements where necessary. the Code of conduct Advise the Board or any of its committees on The Corporate Governance Committee focused on corporate governance issues. further strengthening the governance aspects of the Develop and implement an orientation and educational Group. Like previous year high importance was given program for new recruits to the Board. to pass down the same good governance practices of Develop a process for assessing the effectiveness of the parent company to its subsidiary companies the Company, Board, Committees and its individual Reviewed and evaluated the subsidiary Board’s, Directors and ensure that the Board conducts these its Chairmen, MD’s, individual directors, Company evaluations annually. Secretary, Committees and the Company’s financial Ensure that Board and its’ committees annually review performance. Results were submitted to Board and its Charters. further discussed. Recommendations were given Develop and ensure implementation of a conflict to subsidiaries, considering the findings and some of interest disclosure policy for the Directors and changes were also brought to the members of the employees of the Company. Boards Ensure that an appropriate business code of ethics Reviewed the Board Charter and Corporate is established and reviewed necessarily for the Governance Guidelines Company. Reviewed the Training and Induction policy Ensure that appropriate methods are being established for the stakeholders to submit their recommendations and inquiries to the necessary established regulatory bodies in the Company Conclusion The Committee is satisfied with the activities carried out during the year. On behalf of the Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee; Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Chairperson 65 NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination and Remuneration Committee consisted of 4 members until the changes made to the Board on 28th March 2016. On 12th April 2016, the Committee was reformed with 3 Non–Executive members, Chaired by Ms. Aishath Rafiyya. With this reformation, the other two members in the Committee are Mr. Amir Mansoor and Ms. Aishath Rayaheen Shareef. All the members of the Committee are deemed to be independent. The Committee held 7 meetings in 2016. The attendance record of the members is shown below. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is combined for the purpose of expediency, since majority of same Directors are entrusted with the functions of both committees. Amir Mansoor Former Chairman Attended meetings 7/7 Aishath Rafiyya Chairperson Attended meetings 7/7 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Attended meetings 5/5 Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu Attended meetings 2/2 The Committee has the authority to take independent professional advice on matters covered by its terms of reference at the Company’s expense. The Committee charter is reviewed annually. The Committee Chairman regularly reports the outcomes of the meeting to the Board. The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board’s performance evaluation process. Key Duties Major Activities of 2015 Develop a policy on employee remuneration and Reviewed Committee Charter. fixing the structure and the amount of remuneration Approved changes to Remuneration Policy – produced packages of individual directors and general a separate policy for Board Members and the Staff. employees of the Company. When setting this policy Reviewed the adequacy of the composition of the and structure, no director or manager is involved Board in terms of number of members, qualification, in any decisions as to their own remuneration. In diversity and experience. The Committee found the determining such policy, the committee shall take composition of the Board, adequate for functioning. into account all factors which it deems necessary Evaluated, interviewed and made recommendations on including relevant legal and regulatory requirement, public directorship candidates to the Board. the provisions and recommendations of the CMDA CG Discussed on appointing a suitable candidate for the Code and associated guidelines. post of Chief Risk Officer. Review the appropriateness and relevance of the Reviewed and made recommendation on changes to current remuneration policy. Company structure. Approve the design of and determine targets for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes. Determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for the Company as required by law Ensure that contractual terms of termination and any payments made are fair to the individuals and the Company. Oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company. Regularly review the structure, size and composition (including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity) of the board and make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes. Give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and expertise needed on the Board and management in the future. Be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise. Ensure that all directors disclose any business interests that may result in a conflict of interest with the Company. Review the Board performance evaluation process from time to time. 67 Appointment of Directors to the Board According to article 48 of Articles of Association of the Company, the Board consists of 6 members appointed by the Majority Shareholder and 1 member appointed by the Minority Shareholders, based on the percentage of ownership held in the Company. Members to the Board are appointed from one General Meeting to the other. Shareholders, both majority and minority, are given a 21 day period of written notice to allow them to make their nominations. In case of Majority Shareholder, their representatives are appointed to the Board by the Privatization and Corporatization Board. In accordance with article 66 and 69 of the Articles of Association, the Chairman and the Managing Director are included in this appointment. In case of Minority Shareholders, nominations made by the shareholders are vetted and interviewed by the Nominations and Remuneration Committee. Committee then makes their recommendations to the Board, before submitting for shareholder voting at the Annual General Meeting. Information on the Major Shareholder appointments and nominees of Minority Shareholders are made available to the public at least 5 days prior to the Annual General Meeting. Diversity The merits for directorship of the Company include knowledge of the business, its markets and the industry, ability to read and understand financials and sustainability, business background, skills, experience, expertise, personal quality and integrity. The merits for an effective Board further includes age and gender diversity. STO Board comprised a mix of all such merits, in terms of age, gender, experience and knowledge. The Board had 6 male directors and 2 female directors, as required by the Code of CMDA. STO Board has further established a Board Profile and Candidacy Guideline for the Company. Conclusion The Committee is satisfied with the activities carried out during the year. On behalf of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee Aishath Rafiyya Chairperson REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Policy of the Company, which was initially developed in 2011 was reviewed in 2016. The Remuneration Policy is now divided into two separate policies; one for Board Directors, stipulating remuneration matters of the Board and the other indicating the remuneration matters for the Staff. These policies have been established in line with the regulatory requirements of STO. The remuneration provided to the Board Directors for serving on the Board are determined and approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, while the executive members of the Board are paid additional remuneration for their position in the Company. This information is further disclosed below. The remuneration of the Executive Directors is set in accordance with the salary structure inspected by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Summary of the Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy contains the following guidelines: At least half the Board should comprise of Non-Executive Directors with majority of such Directors being independent. Non-Executive Directors shall be remunerated by way of fees paid, including fees paid in recognition of their memberships on the Board and its sub-committees. The Executive Directors should be paid the same fee as that received by the Non-Executive Directors, for their board membership. Executive Directors shall also receive variable salaries in addition to the Board membership fees. This salary must be a market median of companies comparable in, market segment, business complexity and international scope. The Executive’s personal performance is also considered where performance is related to the fulfillment of various improvement targets and attainment of certain financial objective. The Company’s Remuneration Policy is formulated to attract and retain high caliber executives and to motivate them to develop and implement the Company’s business strategies in order to optimize long term shareholder value creation. All employee remuneration comprises of 2 basic principles fixed and performance based components. The Company has a systematic evaluation methodology to evaluate each employees performance annually, which assesses the degree to which each employee is satisfying the requirement of their role and performance objectives. 69 Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Remuneration Summary 2016 Remuneration Summary 2016 Salary – No changes were made to the remuneration of Salary – No increase was granted in 2016. The last Non-Executive Directors. The current remuneration includes increment was made in 2013, as previously reported a monthly fee of MVR10, 000.00 and a sitting fee of Service contract – the Managing Director was appointed MVR500.00 per meeting attended. A further remuneration for yet another term (one year) on 5th June 2016. The of MVR10, 000.00 is provided to the Chairman. No further Chief Financial Officer was appointed to the Board as an remuneration is provided to any Committee members or its Executive Director on 28th March 2016. Both are permanent Chairpersons. employees in the Company, yet their term on the Board is Service contract – All Directors are appointed for a term confirmed by the Majority Shareholder. of one year (i.e. from one Annual General Meeting to the Other benefits – Executive Directors are provided next). The Non-Executive Directors in the Board were last additional benefits such as travel and medical insurance and appointed to the Board on 6th June 2016. All Directors have discount benefits as per the “benefits list” approved by the signed the Board Directors Charter, which indicates the Board of Directors. term and their roles and responsibilities in the Board. Annual bonus – received annual bonus as per the staff Other benefits – Non-Executive Directors are provided bonus policy. additional benefits such as travel and medical insurance Deferred bonus no deferred bonus is provided in the and discount benefits as per the “benefits list” approved by Company. the Board of Directors. Share / stock options – no share options were provided to Annual bonus – Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to the Directors. receive annual bonuses. Pension – the Executive Directors received pension as per Deferred bonus no deferred bonus is provided in the the Company policies. Company. Notice period – Director Mr. Ibrahim Ziyath was given Share / stock options – no share options were provided to notice of termination by the Majority Shareholder, on 28th the Directors. March 2016. He was transferred to the Maldives Transport Pension – Non-Executive Directors do not receive pension and Contracting Company Plc. (MTCC) as the Chief as per the Company Policies. Executive Officer. Notice period – Director Mr. Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu was Severance fee – no severance fee was provided to any given notice of termination by Majority Shareholder on 28th Executive Director during the year. March 2016. Severance fee – no severance fee was provided to any Executive Director during the year. Paid Remuneration In 2016, a sum of MVR 1,103,677 was paid to the Board of Directors as remuneration in the Board, while MVR 2,237,355 was paid to Executive Directors as remuneration for their executive position in the Company. A total of MVR 7,071,208.59 was paid to the top management, excluding the Executive Directors, as basic salary and allowances. Due to salary disparities in the employment market, the Board of Directors have chosen not to disclose the individual remuneration and package of top management and Executive Directors. The following table indicates the remuneration paid to Board of Directors for the year 2016. Total remuneration Position on the Board paid in MVR AHMED NIYAZ Former Chairman 247,565 HUSSAIN SALIM MOHAMED Chairman 18,113 AHMED SHAHEER Managing Director 132,500 IBRAHIM ZIYATH Former Executive Director 31,710 MOHAMED MIHAD Executive Director / CFO 99,790 AMIR MANSOOR Non-Executive Director 145,000 ABDUL HADI HUSSAIN FULHU Former Non-Executive Director 36,210 AISHATH RAYAHEEN SHAREEF Non-Executive Director 109,790 AISHATH RAFIYYA Non-Executive Director 139,000 MOHAMED FARSHATH Non-Executive Director 144,000 Letter of Appointment All Non-Executive Directors were re-elected to the Board at the Annual General Meeting 2015. All members of top management are permanent employees of the Company. Below table indicates the date of initial appointment and the date of the last appointment in case of Board Directors and the employment date and the date of appointment to top management, in the case of top management team. No notice periods, severance fees or stock options were provided to the members of top management. 71 Board of Directors Date of Initial Date of Last Position on the Board Appointment Appointment AHMED NIYAZ Former Chairman 07.05.2012 28.03.2016 HUSSAIN SALIM MOHAMED Chairman 06.12.2016 06.12.2016 AHMED SHAHEER Managing Director 25.12.2013 28.03.2016 IBRAHIM ZIYATH Former Executive Director 20.04.2015 20.04.2015 MOHAMED MIHAD Executive Director / CFO 28.03.2016 28.03.2016 AMIR MANSOOR Non-Executive Director 07.05.2012 28.03.2016 ABDUL HADI HUSSAIN FULHU Former Non-Executive Director 07.05.2012 17.02.2015 AISHATH RAYAHEEN SHAREEF Non-Executive Director 28.03.2016 28.03.2016 AISHATH RAFIYYA Non-Executive Director 21.08.2014 28.03.2016 MOHAMED FARSHATH Non-Executive Director 14.06.2012 04.06.2016 Top Management Date of Appointment Designation Date of Employment to top management FATHIMATH ASHAN Senior General Manager 20.12.1994 23.03.2004 ( from Manager to Assistant Director) AHMED SHIFAN Senior General Manager 31.12.2004 27.05.2007 ( from Manager to Assistant Director) DR. IBRAHIM MAHFOOZ Chief Internal Auditor 01.02.1996 01.07.2004 ( from Assisant Accountant to Assistant Director) AISHATH Company Secretary 15.11.2004 12.03.2009 ( from Assistant SHAFFANA RASHEED Manager to GM) MUSTHAFA AZMY Chief Information Officer 19.07.1994 01.05.2013 (from Senior IS Manager to GM) MARIYAM NUZLA General Manager 13.05.1999 03.12.2013 (from Personal Assistant to Assistant GM) MOHAMED MURAD General Manager 21.10.1998 03.12.2013 ( from Manager to Assistant GM) HUSSAIN SOBAH General Manager 12.10.2003 03.12.2013 ( from Manager to Assistant GM) RAMZEE ABOOBAKURU General Manager 11.07.2007 03.12.2013 ( from Manager to Assistant GM) ABDUL WAHID MOOSA General Manager 12.03.2009 03.12.2013 ( from Manager to Assistant GM) MUSLIH MASEEH General Manager 12.08.2008 (re-hired 22.03.2015 ( from S. Manager to on 14.04.2014) Assistant GM) MOHAMED SHUJAU General Manager 01.12.1998 15.11.2015 ( from Senior IT Manager to Assistant GM) MOHAMED NIZAM Chief Risk Officer 07.03.2010 01.07.2016 ( from Senior IS Manager to CRO) Directors Shareholding The Directors have the right to subscribe for securities in the Company. However, they do not have the right to subscribe for securities of the subsidiaries. Director’s shareholding in the Company as at 31st December 2016 is as follows: Position on the Board Direct Indirect AHMED NIYAZ Former Chairman 1 0 HUSSAIN SALIM MOHAMED Chairman 0 0 AHMED SHAHEER Managing Director 50 125 IBRAHIM ZIYATH Former Executive Director 0 0 MOHAMED MIHAD Executive Director / CFO 0 0 AMIR MANSOOR Non-Executive Director 0 0 ABDUL HADI HUSSAIN FULHU Former Non-Executive Director 0 0 AISHATH RAYAHEEN SHAREEF Non-Executive Director 60 220 AISHATH RAFIYYA Non-Executive Director 0 0 MOHAMED FARSHATH Non-Executive Director 50 0 73 Membership on other boards According to the Subsidiaries and Major Commercial Activities Policy of the Company, the Executive Directors along with the senior management staff are allowed to sit on the Boards of subsidiary companies. According to the Code of CMDA, no Director is permitted to sit in the Board of 3 or more public listed companies. As such, below table includes the Board Members who hold directorships in other companies as at 31st December 2016, and it further stipulates any additional remuneration received from the said Boards. Position on the Board Other directorships held Remuneration received AHMED SHAHEER Managing Director Chairman of Maldives National Monthly MVR2500 and Oil Company Ltd. MVR300 sitting fee for MNOC and STO Singapore Chairman of STO Maldives (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Monthly MVR5000 and MVR500 per sitting at MIFCO Chairman of Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Monthly MVR2500 from AIA Ltd. Board Director of Addu International Airport MOHAMED MIHAD Executive Director / Chairman at Fuel Supplies MVR5000 monthly from both Chief Financial Officer Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Companies and MVR300 per sitting Board Director of Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd. MOHAMED FARSHATH Non-Executive Director Board Director at Maldives Monthly MVR5000 and representing General Tourism Development MVR500 per sitting Corporation Plc Public shares Payment to past Directors There were no payments made to past Directors. Declaration This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairperson of Nominations and Remuneration Committee. Aishath Rafiyya. AUDIT COMMITTEE Following the changes made to Board on 28th March 2016, and the reformation of Committee on 12th April 2016, the Audit Committee now consists of 3 Non-Executive members and is Chaired by Mr. Amir Mansoor. With this reformation, the other two members in the Committee are Ms. Aishath Rayaheen Shareef and Mr. Mohamed Farshath. All the members of the Committee are deemed to be independent and are believed to have adequate expertise and experience in the financial field. The Committee held 13 meetings in 2016 and the attendance record of the members to the meetings is as shown below. Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu Former Chairman Attended meetings 5/5 Amir Mansoor Chairman Attended meetings 13/13 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Attended meetings 8/8 Mohamed Farshath Attended meetings 13/13 The Audit Committee assists the Board in overseeing the quality and integrity of the accounting, reporting, information dissemination and internal control practices of the Company. The Committee also ensures compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the qualifications, performance and independence of the external auditor and the performance of the internal audit function. The Committee has the authority to take independent professional advice on matters covered by its terms of reference at the Company’s expense. The Committee charter is reviewed biennial. The Committee Chairman reports the outcomes of the meeting to the Board, regularly. The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board’s performance evaluation process. 75 Key Duties Major Activities of 2016 Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim Reviewed Internal audit reports and made financial statements, accompanying reports to recommendations where required. shareholders and corporate governance statements. Reviewed special audit reports and enforced Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the implementation of the audit recommendations. Company’s internal control to ensure that adequate Reviewed and endorsed Audit Committee Charter. measures are taken to safeguard Company’s assets. Reviewed and endorsed Internal Audit Department Overseeing the Company’s relations with the external Charter. auditors. Reviewed Chief Internal Auditors’ performance. Making recommendation to board on the appointment, Discussed on the quarterly audit reviews presented retention and removal of the external auditors. by Internal Audit. Ensure the independence and credentials of Attended to the whistleblower messages received independent auditors. Reviewed the Internal Audit Department Manual. Review performance of the internal audit function and Discussed on the proposals received by Audit firms independent auditors. for the conduct of 2016 Audit. Approving the terms of reference and plans of the Reviewed and discussed on the financial performance internal audit function. of Company and Group in 2015. Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing Reviewed and made recommendations on the regular reports from the head of internal audit on supplementary budget 2016. effectiveness of the internal control system. Periodically reviewed internal audit progress. Ensuring compliance to statutory requirements and Reviewed the issues identified in the management ethical standards. letter and made recommendations, giving deadlines for completion. Reviewed and made recommendations to Board with regard to Budget 2017. Approved Internal Audit Plan 2016-2017. Conclusion The Committee is satisfied with the activities carried out during the year. On behalf of the Audit Committee; Amir Mansoor Chairman RISK COMMITTEE Following the changes made to Board on 28th March 2016, and the reformation of Committee on 12th April 2016, the Risk Committee consist of 3 Non-Executive members and is Chaired by Mr. Mohamed Farshath. With this reformation, the other two members in the Committee are Ms. Aishath Rafiyya and Mr. Amir Mansoor. The Committee held 03 meetings in 2016 and the attendance record of the members to the meetings is as shown below. Amir Mansoor Mohamed Farshath Former Chairman Chairman Attended meetings 3/3 Attended meetings 3/3 Aishath Rafiyya Attended meetings 3/3 The Risk Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the management of key risks as well as the frameworks, guidelines, policies and processes for identifying, monitoring and mitigating such risks. The Committee has the authority to take independent professional advice on matters covered by its terms of reference at the Company’s expense. The Committee charter is reviewed annually. The Committee Chairman reports the outcomes of the meeting to the Board, regularly. The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board’s performance evaluation process. Key Duties Major Activities of 2016 Review and discuss with management the Company’s Reviewed Risk Committee Charter. risk governance structure, risk assessment and risk Established a Risk Management Department. management practices and the frameworks, guidelines, Appointed a Chief Risk Officer. policies and processes for risk assessment and risk Worked with the Risk Consultant in formulating a Risk management. Policy for the Company. Monitor risk management policy implementation in the Identified and discussed on major business risks to Group. Company. Receive and review reports from management concerning risk management in the Group. Conclusion Consider individual significant risks, risk issues, risk strategies and emerging risks as presented to the The Committee is satisfied with the activities carried out Committee by management. during the year. Provide a formal forum for communication between On behalf of the Risk Committee; the Board and senior management in relation to risk management. Approve the appointment and, when and if appropriate, replacement of the Company’s chief risk officer. Mohamed Farshath Review disclosure regarding risk contained in the Chairman Company’s Annual Report. Review reports on selected risk topics as the committee deems appropriate from time to time. 77 RISK REPORT STO Group faces varied risks which could affect its ability to meet objectives, create value, preserve assets, business reputation and goodwill. The Board is committed to effective risk management and recognizes that management of business risk is crucial to continued growth and success. Risk and its identification, assessment, management and mitigation are fundamental to the Group’s business. All aspects of the risk management process underpin the execution of Boards strategy and planning for the future. Risk management is viewed by the Board as both a set of vital policies and procedures to protect the Group from existing risks and also as a mean of ensuring the future risks and uncertainties are properly prepared for, as far as practical. Overall Board policy for risk management is communicated to the Management of the Group for implementation, through a formal Risk Management Policy of the Board. Risk Governance and Oversight The Group maintain strong risk governance and oversight at departments and functional level takes place through practices, with responsibility for identification of material appointed focal staff (risk champions) from each risks to the business and implementation of appropriate department to RMD, executive committee and the various systems and processes to identify, monitor and manage boards of the subsidiaries. Responsibility and accountability risks. The Board oversees the Group risk management for group risk management process resides with Chief Risk process at STO. Officer. The Group continued to review its approach to risk During 2016, RMC reviewed and endorsed the Group Risk management to ensure that the focus is aligned to the Management Policy and Framework, which is based on the changing needs of the business and that processes and International Standard ISO (International Organization for standards follow good international practices. The newly Standardization) 31000:2009 Risk Management Principles established Risk Management Committee of the Board and Guidelines. The Policy and Framework outline the appointed a Chief Risk Officer (CRO) for the head of the principles, governance, roles and responsibilities, and Risk Management Department. The RMC and the CRO work approach within a coherent risk management framework closely to ensure that risk management complies with the that addresses and prioritizes risks that are material and relevant standards and that it is working effectively. relevant to the Group’s corporate goals. The head of business units and departments are responsible and accountable for the management of risks in their area and may delegate specific responsibilities appropriately. Oversight and reporting of risk management Focus on Major Risks The Group risk management process underpins the successful execution of the strategy and planning for the future. STO has identified major risks in eight categories that would threaten the business model, sustainability, future performance, solvency or liquidity of the Group. These major risks are related to, strategy, financial, operational, market and physical security, cyber security, political challenges, and compliance and control risks. Many of the risks described could have positive or negative impacts on the Group. Strategic and Investment Risks Market and Supply Risks A rapidly changing external environment demands greater As a diverse trading company, STO’s business is focus on strategic and investment risks to enhance increasingly concerned about the impact of volatility, the ability to anticipate risks and respond with agility intensified competition and international market and confidence. In line with this, the Board must make developments. STO Group is exposed to fluctuations in appropriate strategic decisions and adjustments throughout the price of commodities and products including fuel, gas the year. However, the Board is very much aware that and consumables and related risks such as interest rates, each business strategy has a unique set of risks which currency rates, insurance costs and freight rates. could prevent the benefits of the strategy being achieved. For this reason, all significant strategic risks are evaluated The Company minimizes these risks by monitoring by the Executive Committee of Management and by the fluctuations and where appropriate, by entering into long Board before embarking on a new or changed strategy. term supply arrangements. The ownership of an own Where investments are strategic or above a certain value fuel tanker, provides a partial cushion against increases of internal review thresholds, the investments and the in fuel freight costs. The Company continually evaluates associated risks are assessed by the Board. its supplier base, logistics and supply chain while implementing improvements on service development, system, team members, and process improvements. Financial Risks Core to our management of financial risks is our Political Challenges comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and management reporting for both capital expenditure and The diverse locations of Group operations around the annual operations. The Group’s financial risks are regulated Country and the international nature of its supply chain by the number of policies and procedures including credit exposes STO Group to a wide range of geopolitical policy, bad debt policy and cash handling policy etc. that developments and consequent changes to the economic has been adopted by the Board of Directors. The Group and operating environment. The Group seek to manage this also have policies and processes in place to manage risk actively through the development and maintenance of and monitor its exposure to liquidity risk in both Rufiyaa relationships with key stakeholders both in the Country and and foreign currencies and capital management risks. in each region. Management of these risks are centralized to STO finance department. Physical Security In common with all other establishments, the business is Operational Risks and Management systems open to physical calamities such as natural disasters, fire, In the normal course of business, the Group is subject storm and accidents. It is also at risk from hostile acts such to many diverse risks relating to its activities such as as terrorism or piracy which could harm our employees, the products it deals in, counter-party relationships, disrupt our operations and destroy our assets. Hence, the and possible shortcomings or failures in the systems Company monitors for emerging threats and vulnerabilities or employees. These operational risks that the Group to manage its physical security. is exposed to are managed through a number of management frameworks and processes, within the Physical security threats tend to vary geographically and Group. The Company’s management systems, structures, by type of business. The Emergency, Health and Safety processes, standards and codes of conduct together, Committee together with Regional Sales team of STO form a system of internal control that governs how it provides guidance and support for conduct assurance conduct the business and manages associated risks. with respect to the management of security risks These processes and controls are contained in standard affecting the people and operations. The Company also operating procedures and wherever possible, appropriate maintains disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity risk management techniques are embedded into internal management plans in the subsidiaries. control systems and standard operating procedures. 79 Cyber Security The threats to the security of the Group’s digital infrastructure continue to evolve and, like many other global organizations, its reliance on computers and network technology is increasing. Cyber risk appears in many forms, all of which can represent major threats to the business. A cyber security breach could have a significant impact on business operation. STO seeks to manage this risk through adhering to cyber security’s best standards, ongoing monitoring of threats, close co-operation with authorities and employee awareness initiatives throughout the Group. The Company also maintains ICT disaster recovery management plans. Compliance and Control Risks Ethical misconduct and legal or regulatory non-compliance, or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could damage the reputation, adversely affect operational results and shareholder value. Compliance is assured by an effective team of legal and compliance in the Company. The Company keeps abreast of new regulations and legislation and plans adequate responses to them. A special attention is paid to risks within Corporate Governance. Various policies and procedures have been adopted with defined authority for effective compliance and controls such as Fraud Response Policy, Whistleblower Policy and Group Companies Code of Conduct. Further, employees are provided with a range of compliance training and monitoring programmes. STO Group is open to feedback and listens to its employees, contractors and other stakeholders closely. SUSTAINABILITY 81 A RESPONSIBLE PERFORMANCE STO Group of Companies achieved a solid performance in 2016. This performance is inseparable from the responsible approach the group employed towards attaining a sustainable future. This is clearly demonstrated from the company’s endorsement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Prior to this, STO was also part of the Millennium Development Goals and UN Global Compact as well. Each of the 17 goals set by the UN has a specific target to be achieved in the next 15 years. This report highlights on 8 of these 17 goals and how STO as a Group contributes to responsible performance. GENDER EQUALITY AND REDUCED INEQUALITIES STO is a proud advocate for gender equality and in particularly female empowerment. This is evident from the top of the hierarchy, the Board of Directors; to the bottom of the management structure. STO is one of the very first public listed companies in the country to meet the corporate governance guideline of appointing two female directors to represent the Board. At the operational level, the female representation is higher (643 females) than the male (542 males) representation. STO firmly stands against gender based discrimination. There is no differentiation in employee benefits such as salary, training, work environment or even in decision making based on the gender. STO believes that gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. Reducing inequality is the greatest single cause for a sustainable future. The root cause for much of the goals of the UN sustainable development program is down to inequality in the society. Reducing the difference between the top tier and the lower tiers of a country could ultimately determine its economic growth, well-being and even eliminate poverty. This approach is reflected winthin both STO and its contribution to the society. Within the organization, the management has setup measures in terms of a salary structure to reduce the income inequality between the top and lower tiers. Furthermore, STO has helped people with disabilities to attain a normal life as any other. As such, STO has employed 6 staff (PWD-People With Disabilities) at various posts in the organization. Likewise, STO has contributed to the Fiyavathi – children’s orphanage to improve their life and to provide equal education and social privileges to them. Photo: The opening of Childern’s Playgroung at Fiyavathi. STO Managing Director “STO believes that every child here should get the same opportunity as any other child in the society in terms of education, health and even in lifestyle. Children here should have access to playgrounds like any other child in the society”. FOOD SECURITY AND HEALTHY WELL-BEING The uninterrupted provision and affordability of essential goods is part of STO’s mission statement. Over the years STO has proudly taken this crucial responsibility and fulfilled this mission to the public. STO’s business strategies are also aligned primarily to provide affordable products to the citizens. As such STO plays the role of a regulator (both price and quality) in some commodities such as staple foods and medical / pharmaceutical items. Ensuring the nation’s food security is more than just a mission for STO. Rather it is seen as a national obligation that cannot fail. STO’s contribution to the nation’s health is well known to each and every citizen. In recent years STO’s medical sector has grown exponentially with the primary focus on improving the health and wellbeing of every single citizen in the nation. In addition to supporting health organizations and hospitals, STO is always amongst the first to respond and provide assistance in nationwide pandemics. While most of the time these services are provided not with the intention of profit making but rather just to ensure good health and well-being of citizens. Photo: Foods Security and Healthy well-being for citizens is more than just a mission of STO. Rather it is seen as national obligation that we cannot fail. 83 CLIMATE ACTION AND LIFE BELOW WATER Climate action and life below water are two related goals of the UN sustainable development goals. Being a low laying island nation, these two targets are of particular importance to the Country. STO has always been a strong advocate for environmental issues. In 2016, STO signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Waste Management Corporation Limited to integrate the best practices in waste management in all business operations. The MOU also agrees to create awareness among the staff and the public on the best practices in waste management. In this regard STO is the first public listed organization in the country to manage recycle waste and general waste separately according to industry best practices. In addition to this, STO also started an initiative to use bio-degradable bags which is crucial for a country that is heavily dependent on healthy well-being of its marine reefs. Without healthy reefs, the two main industries; Fisheries and Tourism sector would collapse. Hence sustaining life underwater is of utmost importance to STO and thus this is reflected in all the organization’s business strategies. The newly joined subsidiary – Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd. (MIFCO) is a prime example to this business approach. MIFCO is a MSC certified fisheries company. This means that MIFCO would use sustainable fishing methods so that they play their part to ensure that the world’s oceans remain teething with life – today, tomorrow and for generations to come. Photo: MIFCO a MSC certified Company which opts sustainable fishing methods in order to ensure that the oceans remain teething with life for future generations. SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND ECONOMIC GROWTH With the rapid growth in the Country’s development, the greater Male’ area and even some larger islands are seeing the trend of urbanization. As cities develop more and more, people are moving in to these areas in order to upgrade their standard of living. STO being a leader in the construction industry plays an active role in the urbanization of cities. Though at no point does STO consider the development of the cities at the expense of sustainability and community wellbeing. Over the years STO has contributed to the community with the development of green public spaces, parks, pharmacies and playgrounds. The Company also provides flexible assistance for other companies in improving urban planning and management. With the urbanization of the cities, it is important that new jobs are created in order to gain economic growth. STO leads as an example and provide new jobs with every new project. In 2016 alone STO hired 330 new employees for various positions in the organization. As such STO plays a key role in economic growth by providing decent work opportunities to the public. Photo: Construction of Fishing Pier at Male’ West Coast – a project by State Trading Organization Plc 85 SUMMARY Though this report focuses on 8 areas of UNDP sustainable development goals, it does not mean by any chance that they are the only areas that STO contributed. In 2016, STO spent almost 54% of the marketing budget towards developing a sustainable future. These included contributions to education, community, health, environment, sports, children, women and even special needs. Hence this means that STO has directly or indirectly contributed to attain the targets of all 17 UNDP sustainable development goals. Furthermore, this report mostly focuses on how STO as an individual company contributed towards the sustainable development goals. However, it is important to emphasize that such contributions are made by each and every subsidiary company of the Group. Hence it would not be an understatement to state that STO as a Group is the largest contributor to the sustainable development of the Country. GENERAL INFORMATION GENERAL INFORMATION Name of Company Audit Committee Bankers State Trading Organization plc. Amir Mansoor (Chairman) Bank of Ceylon, Male’ Mohamed Farshath Bank of Maldives plc, Male’ Company Registration Aishath Rayaheen Shareef BNP Paribas, Singapore Number Habib Bank Limited, Male’ C186/2001 Risk Committee HSBC, Hong Kong Mohamed Farshath (Chairman) Maldives Islamic Bank, Male’ Legal Form Amir Mansoor Nations Trust Bank, Colombo A Public Listed Company with limited Aishath Rafiyya Seylan Bank, Colombo liability. Commercial Bank of Maldives Initially incorporated as a Government Corporate Governance State Bank of India, Male’ Company, Athireemaafannu Trading and Compliance Committee Rabobank, Singapore Account (ATA), on 20th December Aishath Rayaheen Shareef The Mauritius Commercial Bank 1964. Renamed as State Trading (Chairperson) (Maldives) Pvt. Ltd. Organization on 9th June 1979. Mohamed Farshath Changed to a public listed company Aishath Rafiyya Registered Address on 14th August 2001. State Trading Organization plc. Nomination and Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Stock Exchange Listing Remuneration Committee Maafannu, Male’ 20345 Ordinary shares of the Company are Aishath Rafiyya (Chairperson) Republic of Maldives listed at the Maldives Stock Exchange Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Call Centre: +960334333 Fax: Pvt. Ltd. Amir Mansoor +9603344511 Email: info@stomaldives.net Board of Directors Auditors Website: www.sto.mv Hussain Salim Mohamed KPMG, Ahmed Shaheer Mialani, 2nd Floor, Henveiru Mohamed Mihad Sosun Magu, Male’ Amir Mansoor Republic of Maldives Aishath Rafiyya Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Mohamed Farshath SHARE DETAILS No. of Shares @MVR.50/Percentage GOVERNMENT 919,869 45,993,450 81.63 PUBLIC 207,041 10,352,050 18.37 TOTAL SHARES 1,126,910 56,345,500 100 UNAUTHORIZED CAPITAL 100,000,000 PAID-UP CAPITAL 56,345,500 PREMIUM 27,814,500 #proudmom #gentleskin #hypoallergenic #cetaphilbabylotion #stomedicalservices Baby Daily Lotion All products contain calming organic calendula, derived from the marigold flower. This extract has been used for centuries to soothe sensitive and irritated skin GROUP COMPANIES 1984 1993 1st November 1st November ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY MALDIVES INDUSTRIAL FISHERIES OF THE MALDIVES PVT. LTD. COMPANY LTD. Insurance Company Processing, exporting tuna and related products Incorporated & operated Incorporated & operated in Maldives in Maldives 0.01% MGPL 0.01% Allied 99.99% STO 99.99% STO 1997 1999 30th November 3rd October STO MALDIVES (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. MALDIVE GAS PVT. LTD. Trading Company Gas Distributor Incorporated & operated Incorporated & operated in Singapore in Maldives 10% Champa Oil & Gas 100% STO 90% STO 2000 2000 23rd October 18th December MALDIVES STRUCTURAL PRODUCTS FUEL SUPPLIES MALDIVES PVT. LTD. * PVT. LTD. Roofing Material Manufacturer Fuel Distributor Incorporated & operated Incorporated & operated in Maldives in Maldives 50% Rainbow Investment 0.01% MNOC 50% STO 99.99% STO 2002 2003 7th January 6th October LAFARGE MALDIVES CEMENT MALDIVES NATIONAL OIL PVT. LTD. ** COMPANY LTD. Cement Distributor Fuel Trader Incorporated & operated Incorporated in Maldives in Maldives & operated in Singapore 75% Lafarge (Zurich) 0.01% Allied 25% STO 99.99% STO Joint Venture * Associate Company ** Investments available for sale not included 2012 7th February STO HOTELS & RESORTS PVT. LTD. Tourism Sector Incorporated & operated in Maldives 0.01% FSM 99.99% STO STO DIRECTORY +960 3344333 info@stomaldives.net www.sto.mv STO PLC Risk Management STO Sh.Maaungoodhoo Pharmacy Administration and Human Resources Medical Services STO Sh. Lhaimagu Pharmacy Business Development and Public Medical Service Male’ STO Th. Omadhoo Pharmacy Relations Medical Store STO Sh.Komandoo Pharmacy Company Secretariat Medical Warehouse STO Aa.Bodufulhadhoo Pharmacy Construction Materials and Transport STO IGMH Pharmacy STO Sh. Feevah Pharmacy Department STO IGMH – Warehouse STO F. Feeali Pharmacy Construction Office STO Hdh. Nellaidhoo Pharmacy STO B.Dharavandhoo Phamacy STO Construction Materials, K. STO Th.Madifushi Pharmacy STO Aa. Himandhoo Pharmacy Thilafushi Warehouse STO R.Maakurathu Pharmacy STO M. Mulah Pharmacy Construction Materials 158 Shop STO Lh. Kurendhoo Pharmacy STO Adh.Omadhoo Pharmacy STO Construction Materials STO L. Maamendhoo Pharmacy STO N.Miladhoo Pharmacy Warehouse STO Ga.Dhevvadhoo Pharmacy STO Ha. Thuraakunu Pharmacy Corporate and Legal Affairs STO Sh.Feydhoo Pharmacy STO Th. Vandhoo Pharmacy Energy and Staple Foods STO N. Kendhikolhudhoo Pharmacy STO Th.Kandoodhoo Pharmacy Fuel & Lubricants STO N. Maafaru Pharmacy STO Aa.Ukulhas Pharmacy Staple Warehouse STO L.Maabaidhoo Pharmacy STO Th. Burunee Pharmacy Finance Department STO Gdh.Nadella Pharmacy STO B. Kudarikilu Pharmacy Food and Beverages STO Hdh. Vaikaradhoo Pharmacy STO N.Landhoo Pharmacy STO Supermart STO Ga. Nilandhoo Pharmacy STO R.Kinolhas Pharmacy STO Supermart Warehouse STO Ha.Maarandhoo Pharmacy STO Dh. Bandidhoo Pharmacy Home Improvement and Service STO L.Dhanbidhoo Pharmacy STO Dh. Hulhudheli Pharmacy Centre STO Sh. Maroshi Pharmacy STO N.Maalhendhoo Pharmacy Internal Audit STO R. Rasgetheemu Pharmacy STO Adh.Fenfushi Pharmacy Information and Communication STO Ha.Thakandhoo Pharmacy STO Hdh. Finey Pharmacy Technology STO Hdh.Makunudhoo Pharmacy STO N. Lhohi Pharmacy Procurement – Essential Goods STO N. Velidhoo Pharmacy STO Ga.Kondey Pharmacy Procurement – General Goods Ga. Kanduhulhudhoo Pharmacy STO B.Maalhos Pharmacy Regional Sales STO Ha.Utheemu Pharmacy STO Dh. Rinbudhoo Phamacy Ha. Hoarafushi Store STO K.Gulhi Pharmacy STO R. Vaadhoo Pharmacy Hdh. Kulhudhuhfushi Store STO B. Kendhoo Pharmacy STO Hdh.Hirimaradhoo Pharmacy B. Eydhafushi Store STO K. Huraa Pharmacy STO B.Dhonfaru Pharmacy K. Hulhumale’ Store STO Th.Dhiyamingili Pharmacy STO F. Magoodhoo Pharmacy K. Villimale’ Store STO Ha.Muraidhoo Pharmacy STO R. Angolhitheemu Pharmacy L. Fonadhoo Store STO R. Rasmaadhoo Pharmacy STO V.Keyodhoo Pharmacy Ga. Villingili Store STO L. Kunahandhoo Pharmacy STO M.Naalaafushi Pharmacy Gdh. Thinadhoo Store STO F.Bileddhoo Pharmacy STO B. Kamadhoo Pharmacy Gn. Fuvamulah Store STO Hdh.Naivaadhoo Pharmacy STO Hdh. Nolhivaranfaru Pharmacy S. Hithadhoo Store STO R. Innamaadhoo Pharmacy STO Ha.Vashafaru Pharmacy S. Feydhoo Store STO M. Kolhufushi Pharmacy STO Aa.Mathiveri Pharmacy S. Maradhoo Feydhoo Store STO Sh.Bileffahi Pharmacy STO B. Kihaadhoo Pharmacy S. Hulhumeedhoo Store STO Adh. Haggnaameedhoo STO Dh. Maaenboodhoo Pharmacy STO Dh. Meedhoo Pharmacy Pharmacy STO R. Meedhoo Pharmacy STO Th. Gaadhiffushi Pharmacy STO N. Foddhoo Pharmacy STO Th. Thimarafushi Pharmacy STO F. Dharanboodhoo Pharmacy STO Sh. Milandhoo Pharmacy STO L.Fonadhoo Pharmacy STO V Fulidhoo Pharmacy STO Sh. Narudhoo Pharmacy STO Aa.Rasdhoo Pharmacy STO Aa.Feridhoo Pharmacy STO R. Fainu Pharmacy STO M. Muli Pharmacy STO R. Maduvvaree Pharmacy STO Adh. Dhigurah Pharmacy STO R. Ungoofaaru Pharmacy STO Gdh. Fiyoaree Pharmacy STO Sh. Goidhoo Pharmacy STO A.Dh.Mahibadhoo Pharmacy STO N.Holhudhoo Pharmacy STO Sh. Noomaraa Pharmacy STO. Ha. Dhihdhoo Pharmacy STO R.Hulhudhuffaaru Pharmacy STO M. Maduvvaree Pharmacy STO F.Nilandhoo Pharmacy STO Sh. Kanditheemu Pharmacy STO N.Henbandhoo Pharmacy STO V.Felidhoo Pharmacy STO Ga. Maamendhoo Pharmacy STO N. Kudafaree Pharmacy STO N. Manadhoo Pharmacy STO G.Dh.Madaveli Pharmacy STO V. Rakeedhoo Pharmacy STO Lh. Naifaru Pharmacy STO Hdh.Neykurendhoo Pharmacy STO Ha. Molhadhoo Pharmacy STO Gn.Fuvahmulah Pharmacy STO Hdh. Kumundhoo Pharmacy STO N.Magoodhoo Pharmacy STO Dh. Kudahuvadhoo Pharmacy STO Th. Kinbidhoo Pharmacy STO L. Mundoo Pharmacy Sh. Funadhoo Pharmacy STO A.A Thoddoo Pharmacy STO B. Fulhadhoo Pharmacy STO R.Dhuvaafaru Pharmacy STO K.Gaafaru Pharmacy STO Sh. Foakaidhoo Pharmacy STO Th. Guraidhoo Pharmacy STO L. Isdhoo Pharmacy STO Adh. Kunburudhoo Pharmacy STO Ha. Ulhigamu Pharmacy STO M. Veyvah Pharmacy STO Hdh.Nolhivaram Pharmacy STO Lh. Olhuvelifushi Pharmacy STO Adh. Maamingili Pharmacy STO Adh.Mandhoo Pharmacy STO B.Thulhaadhoo Pharmacy STO Ga.Gemanafushi Pharmacy STO K. Thulusdhoo Pharmacy STO B. Fehendhoo Pharmacy STO Gdh. Gaddhoo Pharmacy STO Aa. Maalhos Pharmacy STO K. Dhiffushi Pharmacy STO V.Thinadhoo Pharmacy STO Adh. Dhangethi Pharmacy STO M.Raimmandhoo Pharmacy STO L. Hithadhoo Pharmacy STO Adh. Dhiddhoo Pharmacy STO Th.Hirilandhoo Pharmacy STO Hdh.Kurinbi Pharmacy Gdh. Hoandeddhoo Pharmacy STO S. Maradhoo Pharmacy STO Ha.Ihavandhoo Pharmacy STO Peoples Choice Medical STO Lh.Hinnavaru Pharmacy Pharmacy STO K.Kaashidhoo Pharmacy STO Henveyru Pharmacy STO Th.Vilufushi Pharmacy STO Medical Store Hulhumale’ STO Hdh. Hanimaadhoo Pharmacy STO Hdh. Kulhudhufushee STO K. Maafushi Pharmacy Pharmacy STO R. Alifushi Pharmacy STO G.Dh. Thinadhoo Pharmacy STO Ga. Dhaandhoo Pharmacy STO S. Hithadhoo Pharmacy STO Ha. Baarah Pharmacy STO Hulhumeedhoo Pharmacy STO K.Guraidhoo Pharmacy STO L.Gan Pharmacy STO R.Inguraidhoo Pharmacy STO B.Eydhafushi Pharmacy STO Ha.Filladhoo Pharmacy STO K.Vilimale Pharmacy STO B.Hithaadhoo Pharmacy STO Ga.Viillingili Pharmacy STO Gdh.Fares-Maathodaa STO Th.Veymandoo Pharmacy Pharmacy STO Ga. Kolamaafushi Pharmacy STO B.Goidhoo Pharmacy STO K. Himmafushi Pharmacy STO S.Feydhoo Pharmacy STO L.Maavah Pharmacy STO Gdh.Vaadhoo Pharmacy STO Ha. Hoarafushi Pharmacy STO Gdh. Rathafandhoo Pharmacy STO Ha. Kelaa Pharmacy STO M. Dhiggaru Pharmacy STO GROUP OF COMPANIES Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Umar Shopping Arcade Building, 3rd Floor Chaandhanee Magu, Male’ 20156 Maldives Structural Products Pvt Ltd Maldives G. Marline Spike Building, 2/10 T: +960 334 1001, Hotline: 1600 F: +960 332 5035 Alikilegefaanu Magu, Male’ 20117 E: info@alliedmaldives.net Maldives Website: www.allied.mv T: +960 3337720 F: +960 3337721 E: msroof@dhivehinet.net.mv Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd, STO Aifaanu Building, Block A, 4th Floor, Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Male’ 20-05, MIFCO Head Office Building Maldives Hilaalee Magu, Male’ 389 T: +960 3336655, F: +960 3313881 Maldives E: info@fuelmaldives.com T: +960 3323932 +960 3323955 E: info@mifco.com.mv Website: www.fuelmaldives.com Website: www.mifco.mv Maldive Gas Pvt Ltd, STO Hotels and Resorts Pvt Ltd #02-21 STO Trade Centre, 2nd Floor, STO Head Office Building, 6th Floor, Orchid Magu, Male’ 20188 Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Male’ 20345 Maldives Maldives T: +960 333 5614 F: +960 3335615 T: +960 3344388 +960 3344374 F: +960 3344599 E: E: info@maldivegas.com Website: hotels@stomaldives.net Website: www.maldivegas.com STO Maldives (Singapore) Pte Ltd Maldives National Oil Company Ltd #39-10 International Plaza, STO Head Office Building, 7th Floor 10 Anson Road 079903, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Male’ 20345, Singapore Maldives T: (65) 6324 4668 T: +960 3344333 F: +960 3344533 E: stosing@stomaldives.com.sg E: info@mnoc.com.sg Website: www.mnoc.com.mv INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 CONTENTS Page Independent auditors' report to the shareholders 1-5 Financial Statements Consolidated and separate statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 6 Consolidated and separate statement of financial position 7 Consolidated and separate statement of changes in equity 8-9 Consolidated and separate statement of cash flows IO Notes to the consolidated and separate financial statements I 1-59 . KPMG Tel + 960 3310 420 (Chartered Accountants) + 960 3310 421 2 nd Floor, H. Mialani + 960 3310 422 Sosun Magu , + 960 3323 393 Male ', Fa x + 960 3323 175 Republic of Maldives. E-mail : kpmgmv@kpmg.com Independent Auditors' Report To the Shareholders of State Trading Organization PLC We have audited the accompanying consolidated and separate fin ancial statements of State Trading organization PLC (the Company ) and its subsidiaries (together with th e Group ), which comprise the consolidated and separate statements of financial position as at 3 !51 December 2016 and the consolidated and separate statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information set out in pages 11 to 59 . Opinion Group In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 3 pt December 2016 and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). Opinion Company In our opinion, the separate financial statements give a true and fair view of the unconsolidated financial position of the Company as at 31 st December 2016 and of its unconsolidated financial performance and its unconsolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants' Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the IESBA Code ) and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. KPMG in the Maldives is a partnership registered in the M .A. Mihular FCA P.Y.S . Perera FCA C.P. Jayatilake FCA Republic of Maldives, a foreign branch of KPMG , T.J .S. Rajakarier FCA W.W.J .C. Perera FCA Ms. S. Joseph FCA the Sri Lankan member firm of the KPMG network Ms. S.M.B. Jayasekara ACA W.K.O .C Abeyrathne FCA S.T.D.L. Perera FCA of independent member firms affiliated with S.R.I. Perera FCMA(UK) G.A .U. Karunaratne FCA R.M.D.B. Rajapakse FCA KPM G International Cooperative M .N.M . Shameel ACA Ms. B.K.O .T.N. Rodrigo FCA ( KPMG International ), a Swiss entity. Independent Auditors' Report To the Shareholders of State Trading Organization PLC (Continued) Key Audit Matters (Continued) • Revenue recognition of retail, wholesale and insurance sectors (Refer to the significant accounting policies in note 3.14 and Note 7 of the consolidated and separate financial statements). Description How the matter was addressed in our audit Revenue is an important measure used to evaluate In this area, our audit procedures included, among the performance of the Group and the Company. others; Given the significance of the total value, the number of transactions, geographical locations and Testing the key IT controls and manual the dependence on IT systems over recognition of controls over recognition of revenue. revenue from retail and wholesale sector of the Testing the assumptions made by the Group in Company and the significance of the estimations the computation of revenue to be recognized involved in the revenue from the subsidiary during the year. engaged in insurance services, revenue from these segments was considered as a key audit matter that Performing procedures in order to establish the required our significant attention. completeness of the revenue recognized in the appropriate period. Performing substantive analytical procedures . . over insurance premmm revenue. Re computing the unearned premium revenue relating to the insurance segment. '---------------------~---~~-• Transfer of the ownership of Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited ( MIFCO ) (Refer to the notes 17.1 of the consolidated and separate financial statements). .Description How the matter was addressed in our audit Pursuant to the decision made by the cabinet of the In this area, our audit procedures included, among Government of Maldives, in October 2016, the others; entire stake in Maldives Industrial Fisheries Evaluating the substance of the transaction to Company Limited ( MIFCO ) owned by the test whether it satisfies the common control Government of Maldives was transferred to the classification. Group without any consideration. Due to the unusual nature and the complexity of the transfer, Checking the accuracy of the values recorded we considered this as a key audit matter that in the financial statements of the Group at the required our significant attention. date of acquisition. Evaluating the date on which the transaction is completed based on the agreements and other supporting evidences. Evaluating the compliance with the relevant accounting Standards and the accounting policy di sclosed in Note 2.5 (vi) selected by the Grou for the consolidation of MIFCO. 2 Indep endent Auditors' Report To the Shareholders of State Trading Organization PLC (Continued) • Recognition of Insurance Claim Liabilities and reinsurance claim receivable (Refer to the significant accounting policies in note 3.13 and Note 32 of the consolidated and separate financial statements). Description How the matter was addressed in our audit The provision for claims outstanding comprises the In this area, our audit procedures included, among estimated costs of settling all claims incurred but others; unpaid at the reporting date of the subsidiary Allied Testing the key controls over claim process and Insurance Company Private Limited, whether performed substantive analysis over the trends reported or not. This was considered as a in claims frequency and amounts. significant are of estimation given the uncertainty of estimation claims not reported, future costs of Assessing the basis of estimation by reviewing settling claims, discount rates. the history of estimation against the actual claims made. The valuation of reinsurance claim receivable is Evaluating the assumptions used m the dependent on the valuation of underlying insurance actuarial valuation performed by the external claim liabilities as a result the same will be subject expert over the Life insurance liabilities and to estimation uncertainties. incurred but not reported provisions as at the reporting date. As a result, recognition of insurance claim liabilities and reinsurance claim receivable was Verifying provision for pending claims with considered as a matter that require our significant surveyor reports and recalculating the claim attention. recoverable from reinsurers. Other Information The Board of Directors (the Board ) is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, but does not include the consolidated and separate financial statements and our auditors' report thereon. The annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors ' report. Our opinion on the consolidated and separate financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated and separate financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to the Board. Responsibilities of the Board of directors for the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The Board of directors ( the Board ) is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated and separate financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and for such internal control as the Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated and separate financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 3 Indep endent Auditors' Report To the Shareholders of State Trading Organization PLC (Continued) Responsibilities of the Board of directors for the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Continued) In preparing these consolidated and separate financial statements, the Board is responsible for assessin g the Group ' s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether these consolidated and separate financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor' s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated and separate financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also : • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of these consolidated and separate financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion . The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board ' s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group's ability to continue as a going concern . If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor' s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated and separate financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a gomg concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated and separate financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated and separate financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the Company or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated and separate financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 4 Independent Auditors' Report To the Shareholders of State Trading Organization PLC (Continued) Responsibilities of the Board of directors for the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Continued) We communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings , including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors' report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors' report is Mohamed Shameel. For and on behalf of KPMG 25th April 2017 Male' 5 STAT E TRADI NG ORGANIZAT ION PLC (I NCORPOIU T ED IN T HE REPlJBLIC OF MALDI VES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEM ENTS O F PROFIT OR LOSS AN D OTH ER COMPREII ENSIVE INCOME Group Comp2ny FOR TH E V EAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 201 6 2016 201 S 201 6 201S . Reve nue Note 7 MVR 6,939,049,552 MVR 7,3 13,248,2 18 MVR 6,384,904,397 MVR 7, 132,380,488 Cost of sales (5,564,274,710) (5,807,900,492) (5,41 1,762,992) (5,850,728,837) Gross profit 1,374 ,774,842 1,505,347,726 973,141 ,405 1,28 1,65 1,65 1 Other income 8 76,247,438 66,507,428 39,976,006 48,540,886 Administrative expenses (497,684,003) (482,265,623) (3 I 8,8 I 2,593) (286,850,006) Selling and marketing expenses (344,957,878) (403,02 1,876) (346,563,972) (432,288,492) Other operating expenses (28,206,135) (8,609,535) (7,544,337) (6,092,4 14) Operating profit 580,174,264 677,958,120 340,196,509 604,96 1,625 Finance income 9 26,193,084 29,550,03 1 11 1,997, 103 66,547,082 Finance costs 9 (1 24,899,646) (1 96,03 1,435) (1 14,468,354) (187,9 14,93 1) Net finance costs 9 (98,706,562) (166,481,404) (2,471 ,25 1) (121,367,849) Share of profit of equity accounted investees net of tax 10,307,449 8,468,11 9 P rofit before tax 10 49 1,775,151 519,944,835 337,725,258 483,593,776 Income tax expense 11 (6 1,181,288) (84,595,598) (49,480,624) (53,255,922) Profit for the year 430,593,863 435,349,237 288,244,634 430,337,854 Other comprehensive income Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale financial assets net change in fair valu, 19 ( 125,000) 1,500,000 Total other comprehensive income net of tax (1 25,000) 1,500,000 Total comprehensive income for the year 430,468,863 436,849,237 288,244,634 430,337,854 Profit attributable to: Owners of the Company 426,197,749 430,484,964 288,244,634 430,337,854 Non controlling interest 4,396,11 4 4,864,273 430,593,863 435,349,237 288,244,634 430,337,854 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Company 426,072,749 43 1,984,964 288,244,634 430,337,854 Non controlling interest 4,396, 114 4,864,273 Total comprehensive income for the year 430,468,863 436,849,237 288,244,634 430,337,854 Basic and diluted earnings per share 12 378 382 256 382 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 11 to 59. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages I to S. 6 STATE TRADING ORGANIZA'flON PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLI C OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Con1p.any AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2016 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note MVR MVR MVR MVR ASSETS Non-current assds Property, plant and equipment 13 I ,649,795,308 I ,2 13 ,093,827 1,095,464,998 1,059,7 15, 178 Investment property 14 686,187,345 581,444,662 686,187,345 581,444 ,662 Intangible assets 15 14 ,474,093 18,456,818 3,988,683 8,588,191 Prepaid lease rent 16 33,753,738 36,068,280 33,753,738 36,068,280 Investment in subsidiaries 17 I 17,249,835 I 17,249,835 Interest in equity acc.ounted investees 18 34,718,709 37,411,260 15,267,267 15,267,267 Investments available for sale 19 22,865,800 22,990,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 Amounts due from related panics 22 1,665, 151 7,727,213 1,665,15 1 7,727,213 Deferred tax assets 11 52,332,708 65,157,731 47,86 1,097 61,165,267 Total non-<:urrent assets 2,495,792,852 I ,982,350,59 1 2,014,178,914 1,899,%6,693 Current assets Inventories 20 I ,033,988,273 706,376,537 771,797,441 664,568,753 Trade and other receivables 21 648,190,054 568,547,262 223,418,415 207,577,938 Prepaid lease rent 16 2,3 I 4,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,3 J 4,542 Amounts due from related parties 22 1,738,484 ,959 1,370,060,364 I ,870,785,283 1,558,36 1,0 16 Reinsurance contracts 23 210,6 I 9,258 283,962,492 Investments held to maturity 24 154,359,639 101,096,852 Cash and cash equivalents 25 765,761 ,706 697,711,840 547,503,243 479,943,117 Total current assets 4,553 ,718,431 3,730,069,889 3,415,818,924 2,912,765,366 Total assets 7,049,511,283 5,712,420,480 5,429,997,838 4 ,8 12,732,059 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 26 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 Share premium 26 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 Claim equalization reserve 26 33,212,779 33,212,779 / Currency translation reserve 26 334,41 I 334,411 General reserve 26 646,301,585 588,652,658 637,019,775 579,370,848 Fair value reserve 26 125,000 250,000 Retained earnings 1,661 ,937,730 1,489,660,990 1,399,690,637 1,233,328,800 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Company 2,426,071,505 2, I 96,270,838 2,120,870,412 1,896,859,648 Non-controlling interest 27 15,548,263 14,374,37 1 Total equity 2,441,619,768 2,210,645,209 2, 120,870,412 I ,896,859,648 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Loans and borrowings 28 873 ,544, 160 8 I 1,480,567 778,315,651 811,480,567 -Deferred income 30 14,509,955 10,959,625 Deferred tax liability 11 1,934,903 2,736,724 Total non-<:urrent liabilities 889,989,018 825,176,916 778,315,65 I 811,480,567 Current liabilities Loans and borrowings 28 809,002,957 490,729,03 1 434,439,454 450,709,996 Trade and other payables 29 2,188,460,599 1,585, 144,945 1,788,587,755 1,410,890,696 Deferred income 30 6,427,81 I 4,543,816 Derivative financial instruments 31 2,633,377 2,633,377 Insurance contracts 32 364,694,640 368,919,466 Current tax liabilities 33 15,685,739 47,902,844 7,925,936 27,850,170 Amounts due to related parties 34 128,721,517 96,080,340 232,714,607 152,923,937 Bank overdrafts 25 204,909,234 80,644,536 67,144,023 59,383 ,668 Total current liabilities 3,717,902,497 2,676,598,355 2,530,811,775 2,104,391,844 Total liabilities 4,607,891 ,5 15 3,501,775,271 3,309,127,426 2,915,872,41 J Total equity and liabilities 7,049,511,283 5,712,420,480 5,429,997,838 4,8 12,732,059 The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral pan of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 11 to 59. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages I to 5. These consolidated and separate financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by; Name of the Director . M.P.h.~_Vl1e.4. M_;_h._tt4/t.=-:f.Q. __ f.rh r\1ed _~~_h.-eev/ Mf} _t.\ iA~5itt\~ ~AhM Ho~v1~e.A./ __ Cni1rVv1AV\ ... . 2 5 APR 2017 1 7 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 GROUP Attributable to owners of the Coml!anl NonTotal Share Share Claim Currency General Fair va1ue Retained Total controlling equity capital premium equalization translation reserve reserve earnings interest reserve reserve MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR As at 1st January 2015 56,345,500 27,814,500 29,028,054 334,411 498,978,237 ( 1,250,000) 1,238,680,332 1,849,931 ,034 10,071, 163 1.860,00 2.197 Profit for the year 430,484,964 430,484,964 4,864,273 435,349,237 Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (Note 19) 1,500,000 1,500,000 1.500.000 Foreign operations foreign currency translation differences Total comprehensive income for the year 1,500,000 430,484,964 431 ,984,964 4,864,273 436.849.23 7 Transfer to / (from) during the year general reserve 89,674,421 (89,674,421) • claim equalization reserve 4,184,725 (4,184,725) Transactions with owners of the Company • Dividends (85,645,160) (85,645 , 160) (561 ,065) (86,206. 22 5) Total transaction with owners of the Company (85,645,160) (85,645 ,160) (561 ,065) (86.206,225 ) As at 31st December 2015 56,345,500 27,814,500 33,212,779 334,41 1 588,652,658 250,000 1,489,660,990 2, 196,270,838 14,374,371 2,210,64 5,209 As at 1st January 2016 56,345,500 27,814,500 33,212,779 334,411 588,652,658 250,000 1,489,660,990 2,196,270,838 14 ,374,37 1 2.210.645.209 Profit for the year 426,1 97,749 426, 197,749 4,396, 114 430,593.863 Loss from acquisition of MIFCO (Note 17) ( 132,038,212) ( 132,038,212) ( 132.038.212 ) Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (Note 19) (125,000) (125,000) (125,000) Total comprehensive income for the year ( 125,000) 294, 159,537 294,034,537 4,396,114 298.430,651 Transfer to I (from) during the year • general reserve 57,648,927 (57,648,927) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (64,233,870) (64,233,870) {3,222,222) (67,456,092 ) Total transaction with owners of the Company (64,233,870) (64,233,870) (3,222,222 ) (67,456,092 ) As at 31st December 2016 56,345,500 27,8 14,500 33,2 12,779 334,411 646,301,585 125,000 1,661 ,937,730 2,426,071 ,505 15,548,263 ,.,144 1,619, 768 Figures in bracke)S indicate deductions. The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 11 to 59. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages I to 5. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 COMPANY Share Share General Retained Total capital premium reserve earnings equity MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR As at 1st January 2015 56,345,500 27,814,500 493,303,277 974,703,677 1,552, 166,954 Profit for the year 430,337,854 430,337,854 Total comprehensive income for the year 430,337,854 430,33 7,854 Transfer to I (from) during the year general reserve 86,067,571 (86,067,571) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (85,645,160) (85,645, 160) Total transaction with owners of the Company (85,645,160) (85,645, 160) As at 31st December 2015 56,345,500 27,814,500 579,370,848 1,233,328,800 1,896,859,648 As at 1st January 2016 56,345,500 27,814,500 579,370,848 1,233,328,800 1,896,859,648 Profit for the year 288,244,634 288,244,634 Total comprehensive income for the year 288,244,634 288,244,634 Transfer to I (from) during the year general reserve 57,648,927 (57,648,927) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (64,233,870) (64,233,870) Total transaction with owners of the Company (64,233,870) (64,233,870) As at 31st December 2016 56,345,500 27,814,500 637,019,775 1,399,690,637 2,120,870,412 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 11 to 59. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages I to 5. 9 STATE TRADI NG ORGANIZATION PLC ( INCORPORATED IN TH E REPUBLIC OF MALDI VES) CONSOLIDAT ED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF C ASI! FLOWS FOR TH E VEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 201 6 Group Compa ny 20 16 20 15 2016 201 5 Note MVR MVR MVR MVR Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 49 1,775, 151 5 I 9,944,835 337,725,258 483,593,776 Adjustments f or: Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 13 94,513,195 67,779,9 19 59,836,644 44,004,593 Depreciation on investment properties 14 1,280,742 1,276,529 1,280,742 1,276,529 Amortization of intangible assets 15 6,887,913 14,04 7, 175 4,599,508 12,143,396 Capital working progress written off 13 3,570,327 2,795,560 Investment property CWIP written off 16 1,926,669 1,926,669 Reversal of accrued fine on rent 8 (17,798,753) Reversal of accrued lease rent 8 (9,492,84 1) Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 (72,503) (87 1,608) (72,503) (87 1,608) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 8 (1,600,000) Loss on disposal of intangible assets 67 1,293 Loss on disposal of airport operations 10 27,097, 105 Provision for impairment of receivables 10 16,019,369 10,328,575 inventories 20 11,299,567 (17, 175,098) 6,852,764 (10,184,633) Receivable written off 1,42 1,611 1,421 ,148 Share of profit of equity accounted investees, net of tax (10,307,449) (8,468,11 9) Interest expense 9 11 3, 135, 102 I 50,06 I ,709 102,827,737 141 ,945,205 Interest income 9 (9,620,752) (10,763,743) (9,0 I 0,069) ( I 0,763,743) Dividend income 9 (2,0 18,522) (1,195,000) (102,987,034) (53,949,343) Operating profit before working capital changes 676,499,457 756,824,366 407,196,424 6 17,522,747 Working capital changes Change in inventories ( 163,234,964) 17,150,836 (11 4,08 1,451) (18,297,469) Change in trade and other receivables (57,182,769) (19,884,405) (22,421 ,233) 23,901,216 Change in amount due from related parties (28,294,775) 32,698,828 (301,202,597) 94,111 ,729 Changes in reinsurance contracts 73,343,234 (54,798,964) Changes in deferred revenue 1,789,015 2,674,455 Change in amount due to related parties ( 117,346,956) (2 1,694, 11 7) 79,790,670 ( I 0 1,344,459) Change in trade and other payables 432,104,29 1 (1 18,124,3 14) 447,984,676 (205,062,249) Changes in insurance contracts (4,224,826) 49,857,375 Cash generated from operating activities 813,451,707 644,704,060 497,266,489 4 10,831 ,5 15 Interest paid ( 11 3,135,102) ( 150,061,709) (102,827,737) (141 ,945,205) Income tax paid 33 (8 1,375, 19 1) (I 13,950,509) (56, 100,688) (89,537,708) Net cash generated from operating activities 618,94 1,4 14 380,69 1,842 338,338,064 179,348,602 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment 13 (208,11 4,153) (299,873,954) (96,281 ,482) (248,022,560) Purchase and construction of investment properties 14 (107,950,094) (6,922,841) (I 07,950,094) (6,922,841) Purchase of intangible assets 15 (2,83 1,564) (1 ,592,292) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 1,545,662 6,530,053 286,502 2,337,44 1 Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale investments 7,600,000 Purchase of held to maturity financial assets 24 (499,04 1,823) (58 1,207,636) (320,456,280) Proceeds from sale of held to maturity financial assets 24 445,779,036 570,795,385 320,456,280 Interest received 9,620,752 10,763,743 9,0 10,069 10,763,743 Cash and cash equivalents of MIFCO at the date of acquisition 17 (100,32 1,062) Dividend received 15,0 18,522 13,195,000 I 02,987,034 53,949,343 Net cash used in investing activities (446,294,724) (280,712,542) (91 ,947,971) (187,894,874) Cash flows from financing activities Loans and borrowings obtained 28 814,380,563 1,255,625,784 814,380,562 1,245,447,848 Repayments of borrowings 28 (905,514,999) (1,063,173,765) (863,816,020) (1 ,0 10,196, 144) Net payment made for currency swap 31 (2,633,377) (7,378,200) (2,633,377) (7,378,200) Dividend paid (135,093,709) (1 6,091,123) (134,52 1,487) (I 5,530,058) Net cash (Used in) / generated from financing activities (228,861,522) 168,982,6% ( I 86,590,322) 2 12,343,446 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (56,2 14,832) 268,% 1,996 59,799,771 203,797,174 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 617,067,304 348, I 05,308 420,559,449 2 16,762,275 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 25 560,852,472 617,067,304 480,359,220 420,559,449 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conj unction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 11 to 59. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 1 to 5. 10 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. REPORTING ENTITY 1.1 Parent company State Trading Organization PLC (the Company ) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the Republic of Maldives as a public limited liability company since 2001 and presently governed under the Companies' Act No . JO of 1996 with its registered office at Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Maafannu, Male' 20345, Republic of Maldives. The main business of the Company is importing and trading of fuel and various types of consumable and industrial goods. 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION 2.1 Statement of compliance The consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). 2.2 Basis of measurement The consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following items, which are measured on an alternative basis on each reporting date. Items Measurement basis Derivative financial instruments at fair value Fair value throu h rofit or loss Nonderivative financial instruments at fair Fair Value value throu h rofit or loss Available for sale financial Assets Fair Value 2.3 Functional and presentation currency These consolidated and separate financial statements are presented in Maldivian Rufiyaa, which is the Group 's functional currency. All financial information presented in Maldivian Rufiyaa has been rounded to the nearest Rufiyaa. 2.4 Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated and separate financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. Information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated and separate financial statements are included in the respective notes. 11 r STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) 2.5 Basis of consolidation (i) Business combinations The Group accounts for business combination is prepared using the acquisition method when control is transferred to the Group. The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment. Any gain on a bargain purchase is recognized in profit or loss immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre existing relationship. Such amounts are generally recognized in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in profit or Joss. (ii) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated and separate financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. (iii) Interests in equity accounted investees The Group's interest in equity accounted investees comprise interests in associates and joint venture. Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. Interest in the associates and the joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. It is recognized initially at cost, which include transaction costs. Subsequently to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statement include the Group's share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income (OCI) of equity accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint venture ceases. (iv) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealized income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealized gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group's interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 12 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) 2.5 Basis of consolidation (continued) (v) Non-controlling interest Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets not held by the Group and are presented separately in the consolidated income statement and within equity in the consolidated statement of financial position, separately from parent shareholders' equity. Changes in the Group's interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transaction. (vi) Common control transactions A business combination involving entities or business under Common Control is a business combination in which all the combining entities or businesses ultimately are controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the combination and control is not transitionary. Acquisitions under common control transactions in the Group are accounted applying book value accounting on the basis that the investment simply has been moved from one party of the Group to another. (vii) Loss of control When the Group losses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any related non-controlling interest (NCI) and other components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost. 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated and separate financial statements, and have been applied consistently by the Group / the Company. 3.1 Foreign currency (i) Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Rufiyaa at the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Rufiyaa at the exchange rate ruling at the reporting date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognized in the profit or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities, which are measured at historical cost, denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Rufiyaa at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of transactions. Non monetary assets and liabilities, which are stated at fair value, denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Rufiyaa at the exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were determined. However, foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the following items are recognised on other comprehensive income (OCI). 13 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.1 Foreign currency (continued) (i) Transactions in foreign currencies (continued) Availableforsale equity investments (except on impairment, in which case foreign currency differences that have been recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI) are reclassified to profit or loss) (ii) Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into Maldivian Rufiyaa at the exchange rate ruling at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into Maldivian Rufiyaa at the average exchange rate. Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI) and accumulated in the translation reserve, except to the extent that the translation differences is allocated to non-controlling income (NCI). When a foreign operation is disposed of in it's entirely or partially such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation reserve related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. If the Group I Company disposes of part of its interest in a subsidiary but retain control, then the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to NCI. When the Group I Company disposes of only part of an associate or joint venture while retaining significant influence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss. If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned not likely to occur in the foreseeable future, then foreign currency differences arising from such item from part of the net investment in the foreign operation. Accordingly, such differences are recognised in OCI and accumulated in the translation reserve. 3.2 Financial instruments (i) Financial assets (non-derivative) The Group and the Company initially recognizes trade and other receivables and deposits on the date that they are originated. All other financial assets are recognized initially on the trade date at which the Group and the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The Group and Company derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group and Company is recognized as a separate asset or liability. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the Group and Company has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 14 STA TE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.2 Financial instruments (continued) (i) Financial assets (non-derivative) (continued) The Group and Company has the following financial assets (non-derivative): • Available for sale financial assets • Loans and receivables • Cash and cash equivalents • Held to maturity financial assets Available for sale financial assets The Group's investment in equity securities are classified as available for sale financial assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at cost less impairment Joss since the fair value cannot be ascertained using the appropriate valuation techniques. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Such assets are recognized initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. Receivables comprise trade and other receivables, re-insurance contracts and amounts due from related parties. Trade and other receivables, re-insurance contracts and amounts due from related parties are initially recognized at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate method. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and cash in hand. For the purpose of cash flows, the cash and cash equivalent is shown net of bank overdraft. Held to maturity financial assets These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. (ii) Financial liabilities (non-derivative) The Group and the Company initially recognizes debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated. All other financial liabilities are recognized initially on the trade date at which the Group I Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The Group / Company derecognizes a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled or expired. 15 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (IN CORPORATEO IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANO SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.2 Financial instruments (continued) (ii) Financial liabilities (non-derivative) ( continued) Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the Group / Company has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The Group / Company has non-derivative financial liabilities such as loans and borrowings, amounts due to related parties, insurance contracts, derivative financial instruments, trade and other payables and bank overdraft. These financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 3.3 Share capital Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognized as a deduction from equity. 3.4 Property, plant and equipment (i) Recognition and measurement Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the assets to a working condition for their intended use, the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located and capitalized borrowing costs. Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalized as part of that equipment. When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are recognized net within other income in profit or loss. (ii) Subsequent Costs Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, including major inspection and overhaul expenditure, is capitalized. Other subsequent expenditure is capitalized only if it's probable that the future economic benefits embodied with the item will flow to the Group/ Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other costs are recognized in the income statement as an expense as incurred. 16 ,. , STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.4 Property, plant and equipment (continued) (iii) Depreciation Depreciation is calculated over the depreciable amount, which is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual value. Depreciation is recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment, since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group/ Company will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. The estimated useful Jives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: Leasehold buildings Over the lease period or 20 years, whichever is lower. All the assets except leasehold buildings are depreciated over the following estimated useful Jives. Freehold buildings 5 20 Years Vessels and fleet 5 15 Years Motor vehicles 4-5 Years Plant and machinery 3 -20 Years Air conditioners 3-4 Years Office equipment 3-5 Years Furniture and fixtures 3-5 Years Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year-end and adjusted if appropriate. The charge for the depreciation commences from the month in which the property, plant and equipment is commissioned for commercial operation. (iv) Capital workin -progress Capital workinprogress is stated at cost and includes all development expenditure and other direct costs attributable to such projects including borrowing costs capitalized. Capital work in progress is not depreciated until its completion of construction, and the asset is put into use upon which the cost of completed construction works is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment. 3.5 Investment properties Investment properties are properties held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Investment properties are measured at cost on initial recognition and subsequently cost less accumulated depreciation. However, if there is an impairment in value, other than of a temporary nature, the carrying amount is reduced to recognize the decline. Depreciation on investment properties is recognized on a straight line basis over the following estimated useful lives. 17 . STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.5 Investment properties (continued) Leasehold buildings and structures 20 to 25 years On the disposal of an investment property, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is charged or credited to the profit or Joss. Capital workinprogress is stated at cost and includes all development expenditure and other direct costs attributable to such projects including borrowing costs capitalized. Capital work in progress is not depreciated until its completion of construction and the asset is put into use upon which the cost of completed construction works is transferred to the appropriate category of investment properties. 3.6 Intangible assets (i) Recognition and measurement Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group / Company, which have finite useful lives, are measured at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group / Company are recognized as intangible assets. Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software program beyond their original specifications and lives are recognized as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software. (ii) Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is only capitalized if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group / Company has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset. (iii) Amortization Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, from the date that they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: Computer software 3 to 10 Years (iv) Capital work in progress Capital workinprogress is stated at cost and includes all development expenditure and other direct costs attributable to such projects including borrowing costs capitalized. Capital work in progress is not amortized until its completion of development and the asset is put into use upon which the cost of completed construction works is transferred to intangible assets. 18 . ST ATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.7 Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The cost of inventory item is based on the weighted average method except in Maldives Gas Private Limited, which is on a firstin-first-out method. Cost of inventories includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. 3.8 Impairment (i) Financial assets (including receivables) A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss, including an interest in an equity accounted investee are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the Joss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. The Group / Company considers evidence of impairment for receivables at both a specific asset and collective level. All individually significant receivables are assessed for specific impairment. All individually significant receivables found not to be specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identified. Receivables that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together receivables with similar risk characteristics. An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortized cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate. Losses are recognized in profit or loss and reflected in an allowance account against receivables. Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognized through the unwinding of the discount. When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss. The carrying amounts of the Group's / Company' s non-financial assets and inventories are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset's recoverable amount is estimated. For intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time. The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the cash-generating unit, or CGU ). For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment is tested reflects the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. 19 . STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.8 Impairment (continued) (i) Financial assets (including receivables) (continued) An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognized in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognized in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized. 3.9 Insurance and investment contracts IFRS 4 Insurance contracts, require contracts written by insurer to be classified as either Insurance or Investment depending on the level of insurance risk transferred. Product classification Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are contracts under which the Group (the Insurer) accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. Significant insurance risk exists if an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant additional benefits. Insurance contracts can also transfer financial risk. The classification of contracts identifies both the insurance contracts that the Group issues and reinsurance contracts that the Group holds. Insurance contracts can also transfer financial risk. Subsequent classification Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished or expired. Investment contracts can, however, be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk becomes significant. Product portfolio of the Group All product sold by the Group are insurance contracts and therefore, classified as insurance contracts thus the Group does not have any investment contract within its portfolio as at the reporting date. 3.10 Employee benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profitsharing plans if the Group/ the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 20 ,. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.11 Events occurring after the reporting date The materiality of the events occurring after the reporting date has been considered and provisions have been made in the separate financial statements where necessary. 3.12 Liabilities and provision A provision is recognized in the reporting date when the Group / Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 3.13 Insurance contract liabilities (i) Insurance contract liabilities life insurance Measurement/ de recognition Life insurance liabilities are recognized when contracts are entered into and premiums are charged. The liability is determined as the sum of the discounted value of the expected future benefits, less the discounted value of the expected future premiums that would be required to meet the future cash outflows based on the valuation assumptions used. The minimum mandated amounts, which are to be paid to policyholders plus any declared/ undeclared additional benefits, are recorded in liabilities. The liability is derecognized when the contract expires, is discharged or is cancelled. Liability adequacy test (LAT) At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the recognized life insurance liabilities are adequate by using an existing liability adequacy test as laid out under IFRS 4. The liability value is adjusted to the extent that it is insufficient to meet future benefits and expenses. In performing the adequacy test, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, including related cash flows such as claims handling and policy administration expenses, policyholder options and guarantees, as well as investment income from assets backing such liabilities, are used. A number of valuation methods are applied, including discounted cash flows to the extent that the test involves discounting of cash flows, the interest rate applied based on management's prudent expectation of current market interest rates. (ii) Insurance contract liabilities Non life insurance Measurement Non-life insurance contract liabilities include the outstanding claims provision (reserve for gross outstanding and incurred but not reported, and incurred but not enough reported IBNR / IBNER) and the provision for unearned premium and the provision for premium deficiency. The outstanding claims provision is based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the reporting date, whether reported or not, together with related claims handling costs and reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Delays can be experienced in the notification and settlement of certain types of claims, therefore, the ultimate cost of these cannot be known with certainty at the reporting date. 21 · STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.13 Insurance contact liabilities (continued) (ii) Insurance contract liabilities Non life insurance (continued) Measurement (continued) The liability is calculated at the reporting date using a range of standard actuarial claim projection techniques, based on empirical data and current assumptions that may include a margin for adverse deviation. The liability is not discounted for the time value of money. No provision for equalization or catastrophe reserves is recognized. At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired ri sk and a liability adequacy test is performed in accordance with IFRS. (iii) Reserve for unearned premiums (UPR) The reserve for unearned premiums represents that portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have not yet expired at the reporting date. The provision is recognized when contracts are entered and is brought to account as premium income over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service provided under the contract. Provision for unearned premium is calculated on a I /24 basis except for marine / cargo class which is subject to 1/6 basis. 3.14 Revenue 3.14.1 Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized in the profit or loss when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer. No revenue is recognized if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or the possible return of goods. 3.14.2 Revenue from service rendered Revenue from services rendered is recognized by reference to the time of services rendered. 3.14.3 Gross written premium (GWP) (i) Non life insurance GWP Gross written premiums comprise the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into during the accounting period. They are recognized on the date on which the policy commences. Rebates that form part of the premium rate, such as no-claim rebates, are deducted from the gross written premium. 22 , STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.14 Revenue (continued) 3.14.3 Gross written premium (GWP) (Continued) (ii) Unearned premium reserve (UPR) Unearned premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date. UPR represents the portion of the premium written in the year but relating to the unexpired term of coverage. Unearned premiums are calculated on the 1/24 basis except for the marine and title policies which are computed on a 1/6 basis. The proportion attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums. The proportion attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums which is included under Insurance contract liabilities Non life. (iii) Life insurance GWP Gross recurring premiums on life are recognized as revenue when receivable from the policyholder. For single premium business, revenue is recognised on the date on which the policy is effective. (iv) Reinsurance premiums Gross reinsurance premiums on life are recognized as an expense on the earlier of the date when premiums are payable or when the policy becomes effective. Gross reinsurance premiums written for non-life comprise the total premiums payable for the whole cover provided by contracts entered into the period and are recognized on the date on which the policy incepts. Premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting period in respect of reinsurance contracts incepting in prior accounting periods. (v) Unearned reinsurance premium Unearned reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date. Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of the underlying direct insurance policies for risks-attaching contracts and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses occurring contracts. Unearned reinsurance premiums are calculated on the l/24 basis except for the marine policies which are computed on a 1/6 basis. The proportion attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums which is included under Insurance contract liabilities Non life. (vi) Fees and commission income Reinsurance commission income on outwards reinsurance contracts are recognized as revenue when receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, reinsurance commission income on outwards reinsurance contracts are deferred and amortized on the 1/24 basis except for the marine policies which are computed on a I /6 basis. 23 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.14 Revenue (continued) 3.14.3 Gross written premium (GWP) (Continued) (vii) Investment income Interest income is recognized in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the effective interest rate method. Fees and commissions that are an integral part of the effective yield of the financial asset or liability are recognized as an adjustment to the effective interest rate of the instrument. 3.15 Benefits, claims and expenses recognition 3.15.l Gross benefits and claims (a) Non life insurance Gross claims expense include all claims occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related internal and external claims handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims, a reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years. Claims outstanding are assessed by review of individual claim files and estimating changes in the ultimate cost of settling claims. Gross claims expense includes gross claims expense reported but not yet paid, incurred but not reported claims (IBNR). The provision in respect of IBNR is actuarially valued to ensure a more realistic estimation of the future liability based on past experience and trends. Actuarial valuations are performed on an annual basis. While the Directors consider that the provision for claims is fairly stated on the basis of information currently available, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events. This may result in adjustment to the amounts provided. Such amounts are reflected in the financial statements for that period. The methods used and the estimates made are reviewed regularly. (b) Life insurance Gross benefits and claims for life insurance contracts include the cost of all claims arising during the year including internal and external claims handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims. Death claims and surrenders are recorded on the basis of notifications received. Maturities and surrenders payments are recorded when due. 3.15.2 Reinsurance claims Reinsurance claims are recognized when the related gross insurance claim is recognized according to the terms of the relevant contract. 3.16 Acquisition cost Commission on acquisition of insurance contracts are recognized as an expense when incurred. 24 . STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3. I 7 Operating expenses All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the capital assets in a state of efficiency has been charged to the revenue in arriving at profit or Joss for the year. Expenditure incurred for tl1e purpose of acquiring, expanding or improving assets of a perrnanent nature by means of which to carry on the business or for the purpose of increasing the earning capacity of the business has been treated as capital expenditure. 3.18 Finance income and finance costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested. Interest income is recognized as it accrues in profit or loss. Finance cost comprises interest expense on borrowings and foreign exchange losses. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis. 3.19 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, except to the extent where borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the construction of an asset that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, are capitalized as part of that asset. 3.20 Tax expense Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax is recognized in profit or loss. Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or Joss for the year, using tax rates enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognized in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the tax rate enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realized simultaneously. 25 .. . ST ATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.20 Tax expense (continued) Tax loss A deferred tax assets is recognized for unused tax losses, tax credits deductible temporary difference to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilized. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it no longer probable that the related tax benefits will be provided. Transfers of tax losses between group companies for no payments are eliminated in the Consolidated and separate financial statements. 3.21 Lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognized as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. At inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether such an arrangement is or contains lease. An arrangement conveys the right to use the asset if the arrangement conveys to the Group the right to control the use of the underlying asset. At inception or upon reassessment of the arrangement, the Group separates payments and other consideration required by such an arrangement into those for the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative fair values. 3.22 Derivative financial instruments The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency risk exposure. Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contact and accounted for separately if certain criteria are met. Derivatives are recognized initially at fair value. Any directly attributable transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss as they are incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are generally recognized in profit or loss. 3.23 Deferred expenses (i) Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) Deferred acquisition costs comprise commissions and other variable costs directly connected with acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts, are deferred to the extent that these costs are recoverable out of future premiums. All other acquisition costs are recognized as an expense when incurred. DAC is amortized over the period in which the related revenues are earned. The re-insurers share of deferred acquisition costs is amortized in the same manner as the unearned premium reserve is amortized. 26 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.23 Deferred expenses (continued) Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortization period and are treated as a change in an accounting estimate. An impairment review is performed at each reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises. DAC is reviewed for recoverability based on the profitability of the underlying insurance contracts and when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized in the statement of income. DAC are derecognized when the related contracts are either settled or disposed. (ii) Reinsurance commissions unearned commission Reserve (UCR) Commissions receivable on outwards reinsurance contracts are deferred and amortized on a straight line basis over the term of the expected premiums payable. 3.24 Reinsurance receivables Reinsurance assets represent balances due from reinsurers. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims associated with the reinsurer's policies and are in accordance with the related reinsurance contract. Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date, or more frequently, when an indication of impairment arises during the reporting year. The impairment loss is recorded in the income statement. Gains or losses on buying reinsurance are recognized in the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and are not amortized. Reinsurance liabilities represent balances due to reinsurance companies. Amounts payable are estimated in a manner consistent with the related reinsurance contract. Premiums and claims are presented on a gross basis for both ceded and assumed reinsurance. Reinsurance assets or liabilities are derecognized when the contractual rights are extinguished or expire. 3.25 Premium receivables Premium receivables are recognized when due and measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate method. The carrying value of premium receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Any loss is recorded in the income statement. Premium receivables are derecognized when the de-recognition criteria for financial assets have been met. 27 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (IN CORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES A number of the Group's accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined for measurement and / or disclosure purposes based on the following methods. When applicable, further information about the assumptions made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability. (i) Trade and other receivables The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. This fair value is determined for disclosure purposes. (ii) Financial liabilities (non-derivative) Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. 5. NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 5.1 New standards and interpretations not yet adopted by the Group and Company A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1st January 20 I 7. The Group / Company is currently in the process of evaluating the potential impact these standards and interpretation may have on the Group's and Company's consolidated and separate financial statements. • IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers. • IFRS 16 Leases. • IFRS 9 Financial instruments. • Disclosure initiative (amendments to IAS 1) 28 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN TIIE REPlJBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 6 OPERATING SEGMENTS FOR THE \'EAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2016 A.Basis of segmentation The Group has the following four strategic divisions, which are its reportable segments. These divisions offer different products and services, and are managed separately because they are subject to risk and returns that are different from those of other business segments. The following summary describe the operations of each reportable segment. Reportable segments operations Trading Buying and selling of consumable goods, construction material, home improvement, electronic goods and medical related supplies Gas Buying and selling of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and medical and industrial oxygen production Insurance service Providing general & life insurance services Fuel, lubricant & crude oil Importing & selling of petroleum products Fishery Buying & selling of fish and fish related products The Group's managing director reviews the internal management reports of each division at least quarterly. Other operations include the development and operation of a tourist resort, airport operation, tourism related and other services. This segments does not meet the quantitative thresholds for a reportable segment in 2016 and 2015. There are varying level of integration between insurance service, fuel and lubricant & gas segment. This integration include providing insurance and other interconnected services. Inter segment pricing is determined on an arm's length basis. B. Information about reportable segments Information related to each reportable segment is set out below. A segment's profit before tax is used to measure performance because management believe that this information is the most relevant in evaluating the result of the respective segments relative to other entities that operate in the same industries. FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 Reportable segments Trading Gas Insurance Fuel, lubricant Fishery Total Other Total service & crude Oil reportable segments MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Gross revenue 2,350,168,405 I 98,599,698 261 ,997,607 6,169,258,81 9 270,737,709 9,250,762,238 20,135,450 9,270,897,688 Inter-segment revenue (5,767,345) (27,567,010) (30,301 ,979) (2,248,299,929) (10,227,203) (2,322,163,466) (9,684,670) (2,331 ,848,136) Segment revenue 2,344,401 ,060 171 ,032,688 231,695,628 3,920,958,890 260,510,506 6,928,598,772 10,4 50,780 6,939,049,552 Segment profit before tax 41 ,875,636 50,819,389 62,234,410 326,356,756 (1 5,741,988) 465,544,203 26,230,948 491 ,775,1 51 Interest income 9,011 ,997 7,409,610 16,421 ,607 16,421 ,607 Interest expense (2,097,714) (2,656,054) (100,730,023) (8,974,604) (l l 4,458,395) (114,458,395) Depreciation & amortization (56,606,007) (11 ,978,336) (5,500,660) (20,330,857) (8,265,990) (l 02,681 ,850) (l 02,681 ,850) Share of loss of associate (I 16,919) (116,919) (116,91 9) Share of profit of joint ventur 10,424,368 10,424,368 10,424,368 Segment assets 885,539,237 220,844,937 592,048,071 3,625,681 ,455 893,542, 119 6,217,655,819 797,136,755 7,014,792,574 Equity accounted investees 34,718,709 34,718,709 34,71 8,709 Capital expenditure 19,289,423 55,439,008 11 ,571 ,141 41 ,282,803 3,539,720 l31 ,122,095 79,306,600 210,428,695 Segment liabilities (634,917,569) (72,768,203) (447,723,858) (2,367,348,018) (829,996,796) (4,352,754,444) (255,137,07 1) (4,607,891 ,515) 29 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO TIIE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 6 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED) B. Information about reportable segments (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2015 Rep-0rtable s~ments Trading Gas Insurance Fuel, lubricant Total reportable Other ~ments Total service & crude Oil segments MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Gross revenue 2,099,576,904 193,915,428 21 1,656,503 7,317,183,304 9,822,332, 139 13,859, 183 9,836,191,322 Inter-segment revenue (19,256,982) (17,588,376) (24,121,086) (2,461 ,976,660) (2,522,943,104) (2,522,943, I 04) Segment revenue 2,080,319,922 176,327,052 187,535,4 17 4,855,206,644 7,299,389,035 13,859, 183 7,313,248,218 Se~ment erofit / (loss) before tax 3,935,419 58,888,999 58,410,004 448,157,241 569,391,663 (49,446,828) 519,944,835 Interest income 12,593,104 9,446,995 22,040,099 4,635 22,044,734 Interest ex~nse (5,717,758) (1,538,600) (144,477,589) (151 ,733,947) (15 1,733,947) Deereciation & amortization (48,617,156) (10,115,994) (4,8 I 9,989) (I 5,715,638) (79,268,777) (3,834,847) (83,103,624) Share of erofit ofassociate (1,774,763) (1 ,774,763) (1,774,763) Share of erofit ofjoint venture 10,242,882 10,242,882 10,242,882 Se~ment assets 933, 163,852 210,107,269 669,343,791 3,131 ,064,689 4,943,679,601 73 I ,329,619 5,675,009,220 Equity accounted investees 37,411,260 37,411,260 37,411 ,260 Caeital ex~nditure 11 2,013,529 25,664,595 7,736,523 36,634,451 182,049,098 126,344,986 308,394,084 Se~ment liabilities (278,482,61 OJ (65,519,325) (465,583,558) (2,314,643,488) (3,124,228,981) (377,546,290) (3,501,775,27 I) C. Reconciliations of information on reportable segment to IFRS measures 2016 2015 MVR MVR i Revenue Total revenue for reportable segments 9,250,762,238 9,822,332,139 Revenue for other segments 20,135,450 13,859,183 Elimination of inter segment revenue (2,331,848,136) (2,522,943,104) Consolidated revenue 6,939,049,552 7,313,248,218 ii Profit before tax Total profit before tax for reportable segments 465,544,203 569,391 ,663 Profit I (loss) before tax for other segments 26,230,948 (49,446,828) Elimination of inter-segment profit 2,692,55 1 3,53 1,881 Dividend received from joint venture (13,000,000) (12,000,000) Share of profit of equity accounted investees 10,307,449 8,468,119 Consolidated profit before tax from continuing operations 491 ,775,151 519,944,835 iii Assets Total assets for reportable segment 6,2 17,655,8 I 9 4,943,679,601 Assets for other segments 797,136,755 731 ,329,6 19 Equity -accounted investees 34,718,709 37,411,260 Consolidated total assets 7,049,511,283 5,7 12,420,480 iv Liabilities Total liabilities for reportable segment 4,352,754,444 3, 124,228,981 Liabilities for other segments 255,137,071 377,546,290 Consolidated total liabilities 4,607,891,5 15 3,501,775,271 30 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANO SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 6 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED) C. Reconciliations of information on reportable segment to IFRS measures (Continued) v. Other material items FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2016 Reportable Adjustment Consolidated segment totals totals MVR MVR MVR Interest income 16,42 1,607 (1,323,293) 15,098,3 14 Interest expense (114,458,395) 1,323,293 (113,135,102) Capital expenditure 131,122,095 131 ,122,095 Depreciation and amortization (102,681,850) (102,681,850) Impairment losses on non financial assets (11,299,567) (11,299,567) (80,896,110) (80,896, 11 0) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2015 Interest income 22,040,099 (1,672,238) 20,367,861 Interest expense (151,733,947) 1,672,238 (150,061,709) Capital expenditure 182,049,098 182,049,098 Depreciation and amortization (79,268,777) (79,268,777) Impairment losses on non financial assets 17,175,098 17,175,098 -----(9,738,429) (9,738,429) -----D. Geographic information The trading, gas, insurance segments are operated in Male & other Islands of Maldives. Fuel, lubricant and crude oil segment is operated in Male, other islands of Maldives and Singapore. The geographic information below analyzes the Group's revenue and non-current assets by the Group's different operating geographical areas. In presenting the following information, segment revenue has been based on the geographic location of customers and segment assets were based on the geographic location of the assets. 2016 2015 MVR MVR i. Revenue Male 6,433,992,506 7,605,782,316 Thilafushi 195,667,150 162,971,925 Hulhumale' 197,504,936 101,654,748 Other Islands 2,313,034,687 1,725,703,996 Singapore 130,698,409 240,078,339 Less : Inter-company transactions (2,331,848,136) (2,522,943,106) 6,939,049,552 7,3 13,248,218 2016 2015 MVR MVR ii. Non current assets Male 1,354,494,347 1,306,592,730 Thilafushi 110,648, 187 30,579,454 Hulhumale' 701,536,952 613,465,605 Other Islands 329,105,363 31,667,143 Singapore 8,003 45,659 2,495,792,852 1,982,350,591 E. Major customer Revenue from one customer of the Fuel, lubricant and crude oil segment represented approximately MVR 993,534,688 (2015: MVR 1,222,600,000) of the Group's tot<G revenues. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 7 REVENUE Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Retail and wholesale 2,344,401,060 2,080,3 I 9,922 2,344,480,675 2,095,626,608 Insurance 231,695,628 187,535,417 Gas 171,032,688 176,327,052 Fuel and lubricants 3,920,958,890 4,855,206,644 4,029, I 05,254 5,023,398,496 Fishery 260,510,506 Other services 10,450,780 13,859,183 11 ,318,468 13,355,384 6,939,049,552 7,313,248,218 6,384,904,397 7,132,380,488 8 OTHER INCOME Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 72,503 871 ,608 72,503 871,608 Profit on disposal of investments 1,600,000 Income from vessels and fleets 7,766,859 2,050,005 5,021 ,074 2,050,005 Fines and claims received 8,652,067 14,321 ,421 6,996,926 14,004,347 Rent income 15,910,036 14,282,523 21,154,907 17,791,837 Discounts received 568,782 1,157,613 568,782 622,543 Administration fee income from Aasandha 8,250,000 Reversal of provision for impairment of inventoriei 17,175,098 10,184,633 Reversal of accrued fine on rent 17,798,753 Reversal of accrued lease rent 9,492,841 Agency fee 2,206,293 409,806 744,246 409,806 Miscellaneous income 13,779,304 6,389,354 5,417,568 2,606, 107 76,247,438 66,507,428 39,976,006 48,540,886 Pursuant to the settlement agreement dated on I 0th January 2017 between STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited and Ministry of Tourism, the lease rent and penalty relating to Muthaafushi island has been waved off. The process for signing the agreement has started before the year end 3 l st December 20 I 6 and accordingly the lease rent and penalty payable has been reversed in the financial statements for the year, on the basis that this is an adjusting event. 9 NET FINANCE COSTS Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Finance income Interest income on loans granted 608,755 Interest income on Government credit scheme 8,981,965 10,716,843 8,981,965 10,716,843 Interest income on fixed deposits 30,032 46,900 28, 104 46,900 Foreign exchange gain 698,276 76,303 Dividend income 2,018,522 1,195,000 102,987,034 53,949,343 Discounts on treasury bills 5,477,562 9,608,753 1,833,996 Other Finance income 8,377,972 7,906,232 26,193,084 29,550,031 l l l,997,103 66,547,082 Finance costs Interest on bank borrowings (36,043,200) (49,634,646) (31, 163,635) (49,634,646) Interest on bank overdrafts (12,425,191) (18,059,660) (5,674,098) (16,521,060) Interest on other borrowings (64,666,711) (82,367,403) (65,990,004) (75,789,499) Net exchange loss (11,764,544) (45,969,726) ( 11,640,6 I 7) (45,969,726) (124,899,646) (196,031 ,435) (114,468,354) (187,914,931) Net finance costs (98, 72f,562) (166,481 ,404) (2,471 ,251) (121 ,367,849) STATE TRADING ORG ANIZATION PLC ( INCORPORATED IN THE REPU BLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO TH E CONSOLIDATED A N D SEPARATE FIN ANCIAL STATEM ENT S (CO NTINUED) FOR TH E VEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 201 6 10 PROFIT BEFORE TAX G rour> Company 2016 2015 2016 201 5 MVR MVR MVR MVR Profit before tax is stated after charging all the expenses including the following; Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 94,513,195 67,779,9 19 59,836,644 44,004,593 Depreciation on investment properties 1,280,742 I ,276,529 1,280,742 1,276,529 Amortization of intangible assets 6,887,9 13 14,047,175 4,599,508 12,143,3% Rental expenses 22, 11 3,719 17,490,5% 10,645,997 9,274,873 Directors' remuneration 4,807,606 3,899,300 1,19 1,177 1,145,447 Transportation I 7,345,300 16,433,0 13 23,834,954 2 1,3 14,922 Audit fees 1,481,875 786,74 I 630,678 366,225 Receivable write off 1,42 1,61 I 1,42 1,148 Provision for impainnent of trade, other and related party receivable 16,01 9,369 10,328,575 Provision for slow and non-moving inventories 11 ,299,567 6,852,764 Loss on disposal of airport operations (Note JO. I) 27,097,105 Bank charges 8,926,077 12,6 15,164 7,009,313 11,831,71 4 Repair and maintenance 67,051,010 68,359,556 37,654,905 46,207,546 Advertisement and sales promotion expenses 50,832,254 41 ,780,452 35,716,050 3 I ,599,204 Utilities 35,716,660 30,225,022 27,172,4 1I 22,045,029 Personnel costs (Note 10.2) 506,189,609 399,558,482 330,674,826 288,389,749 JO.I Loss on disposal of airport operations The leasehold right and the operations of the Fuvahmulah Airport has been transferred to Regional Airport with effect from 28th February 2015. The Ministry of Tourism has confinned that they will provide the lease hold right of Ekulhivaru island in Noonu Atoll as the consideration for the transfer oflease hold right of the Fuvahmulah Airport and the operations of the Airport. Accordignly the disposal proceed has been recognized up to the value of the lease hold right which amounts to USS 7,630,000 as at the reporting date. 10.2 Personnel costs Salaries and wages I 99,053,589 149,473,500 I I2,099,802 103,831,777 Staff welfare 29,093,093 18,773,5 19 15,042,307 13,613,976 Employer's contribution to goverrunent pension fund I 1,420,680 9,871,088 7,135,730 6,589,81I Bonus, overtime and allowances 242,822,227 201,051,556 I 81,883,003 149,501,234 Employee redundancy expenses 2,238,83 1 947,169 2,152,918 906,926 Staff training expenses 12,609,174 12,147,238 5,013,509 7,255,008 Other staff related expenses 8,952,015 7,294,41 2 7,347,556 6,691,017 506 189 609 399,558,482 330 674 826 288 389 749 II INCOME TAX EXPENSE G roue Comeany 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR ILi Current tax expense Current tax expense (Note 11.2) 49,043,666 90,129,871 36,176,454 58,11 7,222 Under / (over) provision in respect of prior years 11 4,420 ( 1,270,802) (1,270,802) 49,158,086 88,859,069 36,176,454 56,846,420 Deferred tax expense Deferred tax asset reversed / (recognized) (Note 11.3) 12,825,023 (4 ,007,558) 13,304,170 (3,590,498) Deferred tax liability reversed (Note 11 .4) (801 ,821) (255,9 13) Income tax expense 6 1 181 288 84 595 598 49 480 624 53 255 922 11.2 Reconciliation between accounting profit and taxable income: Groue Comeanr 2016 2015 201 6 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Profit before tax 491,775,151 5 19,944,835 337,725,258 483,593,776 Loss of subsidiary which is not subject to tax 2 1,864,956 59,489,160 Results of associate reported net of tax 11 6,919 1,774,763 Results ofjoint venture reported net of tax ( 10,424,368) (I 0,242,882) Aggregate disallowable items 279,957,333 337,637,256 209,785,698 23 1,737,841 Aggregate allowable items (455,963,169) (307,451 ,608) (306,205,948) (284,468,952) Loss of subsidiary claimed during the year (57,2 19) (43,343,091) Tax free allowance (369,049) (285,71 6) (71,429) (7 1,429) Total taxable income 326,957,773 600,865,808 24 1,176,360 387,448,145 lncome Tax @ 15% 49,043,666 90,129,871 36,176,454 58,11 7,222 In accordance with the provisions of the Business Profit Tax Act No. 5 of 201 I and subsequent amendments and regulations thereto, the Group / the Company is liable for income tax on its taxable profits at the rate of 15%. 11.3 Deferred tax asset Groue Com~ny 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MV R MVR Opening balance 65,157,73 1 61,150,173 61,165,267 57,574,769 Deferred tax asset recognized / (reversed) during the year ( 12,825,023) 4,007,558 ( 13,304,170) 3,590,498 Closing balance 52 332 708 65 157 73 1 47 861 097 6 1 165 267 33 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLI DA TED AND SEP ARA TE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 11 TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED) 11.4 Deferred tax liability Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 2,736,724 2,992,637 Deferred tax liability reversed during the year (801 ,821 ) __(.,_2_ 55...:..,9_1_3,_)-Closing balance 1,934,903 2,736,724 ========== 11.5 Deferred tax asset is attributable to the following; Group 2016 2015 Temporary Tax effect Temporary Tax effect difference difference MVR MVR MVR MVR Property, plant and equipment 261 ,335,708 39,200,356 248,266,202 37,239,930 Intangible assets (6,904,798) (1,035,720) (5,030,971) (754,646) Specific provisions on trade, other and related party receivable 94,453,813 14,168,072 191 ,149,643 28,672,446 348,884,723 52,332,708 434,384,874 65,157,730 11.6 Deferred tax asset is attributable to the following; Company 2016 2015 Temporary Tax effect Temporary Tax effect difference difference MVR MVR MVR MVR Property, plant and equipment 228,608,849 34,291 ,327 221,146,833 33,172,025 Intangible assets (3,988,683) (598,302) (4,528,025) (679,204) Specific provisions on trade, other and related party receivable 94,453,813 14,168,072 191,149,643 28,672,446 319,073,979 47,861 ,097 407,768,451 61 ,165,267 11.7 Deferred tax liability is attributable to the following; Group 2016 2015 Temporary Tax effect Temporary Tax effect difference difference MVR MVR MVR MVR Property, plant and equipment 12,899,354 1,934,903 18,244,824 2,736,724 12 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on profit for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders and weighted number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year and calculated as follows. Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Profit for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders MVR 426,197,749 430,484,964 288,244,634 430,337,854 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 Basic and diluted earnings per share MVR 378 382 256 382 34 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 13. 1 Group Freehold Freehold Leasehold Plant and Vessels Motor Air Office Furniture Other Total Tota l land buildings buildings machinery and fleet vehicle conditioners equipment and fixtures assets 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 767,354,400 372,066,224 49,485,627 140,291,059 206,691,398 115,117,475 8,299,552 88,294,053 13,552,900 71,902,369 1,833 ,055,057 1,940,017,399 Acquisition date balance of MIFCO 309,258,130 357,384,228 348,782,930 30,124,232 33,351,845 1,078,901,365 Additions during the year 3,364,389 5,130,823 9,912,419 7,0 15,800 1,530,874 7,737,047 1,444,539 19,541,127 55,677,0 I 8 91 ,585 , 142 Disposal during the year (2,195,980) (5 10,863) (1,115,634) (85 ,056) (11,326,348) ( 15,233,881 l (226,808,176) Transferred from capital work in progres, 15,883 ,675 10,620,704 10,267,176 81,169,554 897,790 4,020,895 1,441,14 1 1,592,945 125,893,880 28,260,692 Closing balance 767,354,400 700,572j1_8 60,_1_06)31 510,877,306 646,556,301 152,257,507 10,217,353 _ 132,28_8_,206 16,353,524 8 I ,710,093 3,078,293,439 1,833,055,057 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance 260,142,144 27,729,217 100,378,377 176,831,105 52,567,735 4,007, 118 61,525,319 8,645,175 38,965,68 1 730,79 I ,87 1 739,409,983 Acquisition date balance ofMIFCO 260,348,544 248,605,853 322,498,679 28,672,1 59 3 1,002,408 891 , 127,643 Charge for the year 19,582,465 3,353,201 13,383,230 16,093,063 16,108,299 1,983,243 14,066,768 1,821,504 8,121,422 94,513 ,195 67.779.919 Disposals during the year (2,195,980) (404,878) (778,595) (80,633) ( I 0,300,636) ( 13,760,722 ) ( 76,398,03 I) Closing balance 540,073,153 31,082,418 360,171,480 515,422,847 97,348,193 5,585,483 105,815,900 10,386,046 36,786,467 1,702,671,987 730,791 ,87 I Net carrying value As at 31st December 2016 767,354,400 160,499,265 29,023,9 13 150,705,826 131 ,133,454 54,909,314 4,631 ,870 26,472,306 5,967,478 44,923,626 1,375,621,452 As at 31st December 2015 767,354,400 111 ,924,080 2 1,756,410 39,912,682 29,860,293 62,549,740 4,292,434 26,768,734 4,907,725 32,936,688 I, I 02,263, 186 Capital work in progress (Note 13.1.1) 274,1 73,856 110,830,64 I Total I,1i41J,?1J3,:'.l o8 1.rn,o~J.m 13.1.1 Capital work In progress Opening balance 110,830,64 I 492 ,465,642 Acquisition date balance ofMIFCO I 38,055,745 Additions during the year 154,75 I ,677 2 I 0,603,354 Transferred to property, plant and equipment ( 125,893,880) (28,260,692 ) Write-off during the Year (3,570,327) Transferred to Investment Property (CWIP) (563,977,663) Closing balance 2'4,1'3,856 I I0,830,641 13,1.2 Borrowings from Nations Trust Bank Pie, Bank of Maldives Pie and Bank of Ceylon are secured on STO Trade Center building, super market warehouse and staple food warehouse of the Company, respectively. 13.1.3 During the year, the group has capitalised borrowing costs amounting to MVR 15,300,048 (2015 : MVR 18,282, I 79) on qualifying assets. Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 7.5%. 35 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) 13.2 Company Freehold Buildings Plant and Vessels Motor Air Office Furniture Other T otal Total land machinery and fleet vehicles conditioners equipment and fixtures assets 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 767,354,400 368,207,050 65,1 82,023 138,728,026 99,514, 197 7, 164,343 64,831 ,81 2 4,988,122 10,578, 134 1,526,548,107 1,491,512 ,902 Additions during the year 3,364,389 2,549, 192 8,836,397 1,293,1 65 3,406,606 382,696 865,059 20,697,503 63, 112,228 Disposal during the year (2,195,980) (498,908) (468,599) (58,611 ) (1 39,493) (3,36 1,590) (42,958,60 1) Transferred from capital work in progress 13,177,267 40,643,301 897,790 3,349,896 1,441, 14 1 280,624 59,790,01 8 14,881 ,578 Closing balance 767,354,400 384,748,706 _ 65,535,235 __ I 88,207,724 99,514,197 8,856,390 7 1,119,714 6,753,347 11 ,5 84,324__ 1_,603,6Z4,o38 1,526,548,107 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance 259,008,876 57,308,457 134,765,778 41,748,709 3,359,561 42,479,006 3,802,987 I0,578, 134 553,05 1,508 550,539,683 Charge for the year 17,874,198 3,841 ,026 9,453,371 14,344,983 1,726,244 10,399,456 1,051 ,683 1, 145,683 59,836,644 44 ,004,593 Disposals during the year (2,195,980) (392,923) (36 1,592) (57,603) ( 139,493) (3,1 47,591) (41 ,492,768) Closing balance 276,883,074 58,953,503 144,2 19,149 56,093,692 4,692,882 52,5 16,870 4,797,067 11,584,3 24 609,740,56 1 553,051 ,508 Net carrying value As at 3 1st December 2016 767,354,400 107,865,632 6,58 1,732 43,988,575 43,420,505 4,163,508 18,602,844 1,956,280 993,933,477 As at 3 I st December 2015 767,354,400 109, 198, 174 7,873,566 3,962,248 57,765,488 3,804,782 22,352,806 1,185,135 973,496,599 Capital work in progress (Note 13.2.1) 101,53 1,521 86,218,579 Total 1,095,464,998 1,059,71 5, 178 13.2.1 Capital work in progress Opening balance 86,21 8,579 477,852 ,946 Additions during the year 77,898,521 187,224,874 Transferred to property, plant and equipment (59,790,019) ( 14,881 ,578) Write-off during the Year (2,795,560) Transferred to Investment Property (CWIP) (563,977,663) Closing balance 10 1,531,52 1 86,2 18,579 13.2.2 Borrowings from Nations Trust Bank Pie, Bank of Maldives Pie, Habib Bank Limited and Bank of Ceylon are secured on STO Trade Center building, super market warehouse, home improvement land & bui lding and staple food warehouse of the Company, respectively. 13.l.3 During the year, the company has capitalised borrowing costs amounting to MVR 15,300,048 (2015: MVR 18,282,179) on qualifying assets. Borrowing costs were capital ised at the rate of 7.5%. 36 STAT E TRADI NG ORGANIZATION PLC (I NCORPORATED IN TII E REPUBLIC O F MALDI VES) NfffES TO TH E CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE F INANC IAL STATEM ENTS (CONTI NUED) FOR T HE YEA R EN DED 31ST DECEMB ER 201 6 14 INVESTM ENT PROPERTY G roue Comeany 2016 201 5 20 16 201 5 MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 56,228,69 1 56,165,49 1 56,228,69 1 56, 165,491 Transferred from capital work in progress 63,200 63,200 Closing balance 56,228,69 1 56,228,691 56,228,69 1 56,228,691 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance 53,637,714 52,36 1,185 53,637,714 52,361,185 Depreciation for the year 1,280,742 l ,276,529 1,280,742 1,276,529 Closing balance 54,91 8,456 53,637,7 14 54,918,456 53,637,7 14 Net carrying value 1,3 10,235 2,590,977 1,31 0,235 2,590,977 Capital work in progress (Note 14.l) 684,877,11 0 578,853,685 684,877,1 I 0 578,853,685 Total 686, 187,345 58 1,444,662 686,187,345 58 J,444,662 14.l Capital work in progress (Note 14.4) Opening balance 578,853,685 8,0 16,38 1 578,853,685 8,0 16,381 Additions during the year J07 ,950,094 6,922,84 1 107,950,094 6,922,841 Transferred from property, plant and equipment (CWIP) 563,977,663 563,977,663 Write-off/ transfers to Investment Property (1,926,669) (63,200) ( J ,926,669) (63,200) Closing balance 684,877, J J0 578,853,685 684,877,110 578,853,685 14.2 Investment property comprises a number of commercial properties that are leased to third parties and proportion under the construction with the purpose ofleasing to third parties. 14.3 The fair value of the Investment Properties are derived based on the recent market data available and is estimated at M V R 47,783,520 as at 31st December 2016 (20 15: MVR 53,092,800). The fair value of the investment properties which are classified under capital work in progress is a reasonable approximation to their carrying amounts. 14.4 Capital work in progress includes the construction of a shopping and office complex in Male' as well as a tourist hotel in Hulhumale Island which is secured for the loan from Thai Exim Bank. 14.5 Income earned from Investment Properties The rental income from and direct expenses in relation to investment properties are as follows; Groue Comeauy 2016 2015 2016 201 5 MVR MVR MVR MVR Rent income J 5,9 10,036 14,282,523 21 ,154,907 17,791,837 Direct expenses ( J2,952,928) (7,057,2 14) ( J2,952,928) (7,057,2 I4) 15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 15.1 GROUP Goodwill Compute r Total Total Consolidation software 201 6 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 3,155,2 17 78,657,302 81 ,812,5 19 82,655,661 Acquisition date balance of MIFCO 9,906,360 9,906,360 Additions during the year 866,308 Transferred from capital work In progress (Note 15.3) 3,227,25 1 3,227,251 676,162 Disposals during the year (2,385,6 I 2) Closing balance 3,155,217 9 I,790,9 13 94,946,130 81,8I2,51 9 Accumulated amortization Opening balance 63,895,060 63,895,060 SI,562,204 Acquisition date balance of MIFCO 9,832,736 9,832,736 Amortization during the year 6,887,913 6,887,9 13 14,047, I75 Disposals during the year {I ,714,3I9) Closing balance 80,6 15,709 80,6 I 5,709 63,895,060 Net carrying value 3,I 55,2 17 11 ,175,204 14,330,42 I 17,917,459 Capital work in progress (Note 15.3) I43,672 539,359 Total I4,474,093 18,456,818 37 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED) 15.2 Company Computer software 2016 2015 MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 63,847,243 63,847,243 Closing balance 63,847,243 63,847,243 Accumulated amortization Opening balance 55,259,052 43,115,656 Amortization for the year 4,599,508 12,143,3 96 Closing balance 59,858,560 55,259,052 Net carrying value 3,988,683 8,588,191 15.3 Capital working progress Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 539,359 489,537 Additions during the year 2,831,564 725,984 Transferred to intangible assets (3,227,251) (676,162) Closing balance 143,672 539,359 15.4 Impairment test of goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on the value in -use calculation. The key assumptions used given below. 2016 2015 Business growth 18.95% 17.80% Inflation 0.80% 1.00% Discount rate 10.00% 10.00% Margin 5.78% 2.87% 16 PREPAID LEASE RENT Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 38,382,822 40,697,364 38,382,822 40,697,364 Amortization during the year (2,314,542) (2,314,542) (2,314,542) (2,314,542) Closing balance 36,068,280 38,382,822 3<>,068,280 38,382,822 Analysis of lease rent Current 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 Non-current 33,753,738 36,068,280 33,753,738 36,068,280 3<>,068,280 38,382,822 3<>,068,280 38,382,822 The Group / the Company has entered in to an agreement on 31 July, 2007 with Hulhumale Development Corporation Ltd, to lease a land located at Hulhumale to construct a five hundred bed five star hotel. The Group / the Company has paid MVR 57,863,550 as advance lease rent as per the agreement which allows the advance payment to be deducted from each of the quarterly installments of lease payments due for the first ten years. However, as per the second amendment to the initial agreement made on 27 June 2011 , the above advance lease rent had been considered as an acquisition fee and agreed that the amount should not be deducted from future lease payments. Accordingly, the above advanced lease payment has been amortized over the lease period. 38 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANO SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE VEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 17 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Company 2016 2015 MVR MVR Maldive Gas Private Limited 61 ,200,000 61 ,200,000 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited 807,000 807,000 STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 1,459,750 1,459,750 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 42,783,185 42,783,185 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 10,000,000 I0,000,000 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited 999,900 999,900 Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) (Note 17.J ) 117,249,835 117,249,835 17.1 During the year, the group has acquired I 00% control of MALDIVES INDUSTRIAL FISHERIES COMPANY LIMITED (MIFCO), a Company incorporated in the Republic of Maldives under the Act No.25/82 on I November 1993. The main objectives of MIFCO to engage in the business of procurement, treating, freezing, packaging, marketing, selling, and exporting of tuna and other fish products. Pursuant to the decision made by the cabinet, the Government of Maldives transferred the control of assets and management ofMIFCO to STO group on 30th September 2016 at no consideration with a commitment from the Government of Maldives to inject a capital ofMVR 333,632,560 in cash to MIFCO. The following table summarize the book value of assets and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition, and the consideration receivable from government to STO group due to the acquisition of MIFCO. Recognized amount of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 30/09/2016 MVR Property, plant and equipment 325,829,468 Intangible asset 73,624 Total non-current assets 325,903,092 Inventories 175,676,338 Trade and other receivables 23,881 ,634 Amounts due from related parties 435,198 Cash and cash equivalents 13,279,223 Total current assets 21 3,272,393 Total assets 539,175,485 Borrowings 100,079,057 Deferred revenue 3,645,3 10 Total non-current liabilities I 03, 724,367 Trade and other payables 266,140,574 Amounts due to related parties 149,988,133 Borrowings 371 ,392,898 Bank overdrafts 113,600,285 Total current liabilities 901 , 121,890 Total liabilities 1,004,846,257 Total net assets (465,670,772) Capital injection by the Government of Maldives 333,632,560 Net loss to the group as a result of acquisition (132,038,212) 39 STA TE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN nm REPllBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED/ SEP ARA T E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE VEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 18 EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Interest in associates (Note JS. I) 6,517,617 6,634,536 10,567,267 10,567,267 Interest in joint venture (Note 18.3) 28,201,092 30,776,724 4,700,000 4,700,000 34 718 709 37 411 260 15 267267 15 267 267 18.J Investment in Associates Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 6,634,536 8,409,299 10,567,267 I 0,567,267 Share of loss for the year (11 6,9 I9) (1 ,774,763) Closing balance 6,517,617 6,634,536 10,567,267 10 567,267 Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited State Trading Organization PLC has acquired 10,567,267 shares, at the price of MVR 1/each on 8 of January 2002 in Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited which represents 25% of the shareholding of that company. The principal activity of the company is trading of cement. 18.2 The summarized financial information of the associate, which is incorporated in the Republic of Maldives and unlisted, is as follows. Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 2016 2015 MVR MVR Percentage of ownership 25% 25% Non current assets 23,036,500 29,202,135 Current assets I 03,909,530 56,091,582 Current liabilities (100,875,563) (58,755,574) Net assets (100%) 26,070,467 26,538,143 Group's share of net assets 6,517,61 7 6,634,536 Carrying amount of interest in associates 6,517,617 6,634,536 Revenue 78,461 ,803 105,464,697 (Loss) I Profit and other comprehensive income (467,676) (7,099,052) Group's share of loss and other comprehensive income (I J6,9I9) ( I,774,763) 18.3 Investment in joint venture Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 30,776,724 32,533,842 4,700,000 4,700,000 Share of profit 10,424,368 10,242,882 Dividend received (13,000,000) (12,000,000) . . , = ~ Closing balance 28,201,092 30,776,724 4,700,000 4,700,000 Maldives Structural Products Private Limited State Trading Organization PLC has acquired 47,000 shares at the price of MVR 100/each on 31 December 2001 in Maldives Structural Products Private Limited which represents 50% of the shareholding of the company. Maldives Structural Products Private Limited is engaged in the business of manufacturing and trading of structural products. The summarized financial information of the joint venture, which is incorporated in Republic of Maldives and unlisted, is as follows. 40 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION l'LC (INCORl'ORATED IN THE REPUIILIC Of MALDIVES) NOTES TO TIIE CONSOLIDATED AND SEl'ARA'llo FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE VEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMIIER 2016 18 EQUITI' ACCOUNTED INVESTEES (CONTINUED) 2016 2015 18.3 INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURE MVR MVR Percentage of ownership 50% 50 /4 Non cun-ent assets 12,338,502 26,988,687 Current assets 53,527,843 47,910,973 Current liabilities (9,464 , 162) ( 13,34~.212) Net assets (100%) ~,-402,183 61,553,448 Group•s share of net assets 28,201 ,092 30,776,724 Canying amount of interest in joint venture 28,201,692 30,776,724 Revenue 83,031,630 84,273,308 Depreciation and amortization (231 ,585) (216,417) lntercst expense (2,480,176) (1 ,499,270) Income tax expense (3,594,723) (3,552,234) Profit and other comprehensive income 20,848,735 20,485,764 Group's share of profit and other comprehensive income 10,424,368 10,242,882 I9 INVESTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE Group Compan~ 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 22,990,800 27,490,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 Net change in fair value transferred to equity (125,000) 1,500,000 Disposal of investments available-for-sale (6,000,000) Closing balance 22 865 800 22,990,800 12 740 800 12 740 800 Marketable equity securities are measured at fair value annually at the c1ose of business on 3 1 December. For invcsbnents traded in active markets, fair value is determined by reference to Stoclc exchange quoted bid prices. Other investments (unlisted securities) are measured at fair value based on the adjusted net assets of the investee company. Available-for-sale financial assets arc classified as noncurrent assets, unless they are expected to be realized within twelve months of the reporting date or unless they are intended to be sold to raise operating capital. During the year 2015, the Group has disposed the investments in Aasandha Private Limited amounting to MVR 6,000,000. Groue Compan~ 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR G .Dh Atoll Rayyithunge Cooperative Society 4,500,000 4,500,000 4,500,000 4,500,000 Maldives Stock Exchange Company Private Limited 3,840,800 3,840,800 3,840,800 3,840,800 Madivaru Holdings Private Limited 709, 148 709,148 709,148 709, 148 Maldives Security Depository 500,000 500,000 500,000 500,000 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC (Dhiraagu) 10,125,000 10,250,000 Addu International Airport Private Limited 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 Less: Provision for impairment (6,809, 148) (6,809,148) (6,809,148) (6,809,148) 22,865,800 22,990,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 20 INVENTORIES Group Comean;r 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Food stock 79,3 19,532 52, 178,896 79,319,532 52,178,896 Fuel and lubricants 213,428,458 117,743,752 153,8 12,045 86,970,213 Home improvement and electronics 65,295,913 58,045,158 63,308,044 56,701 , 179 Construction materials 40,225,790 64,056,943 40,225,790 64,056,943 Phannaceuticals 204,782,000 282,327,487 204,782,000 282,327,487 Fish & processed fish products 171 ,57 1,432 Spare parts 80,461,612 26,696,255 19,772,380 16,701,904 Retail shops 72,388,528 78,264,286 69, 127,640 78,264,286 Others 21 ,758,667 20,039,775 21,534,140 19,698,384 Goods in transit 166,150,377 44,550,482 163,649,655 44,550,482 Less: provision for slow and non moving inventories (Note 20.1) (81,394,036) (37,526,497) (43,733,785) (36,881 ,021) 1,033,988,273 706,376,537 771,797,441 664,568,753 20.1 Provision for slow moving and 110n moving inventories Opening balance 37,526,497 54,701,595 36,881,021 47,065,654 Acquisition date balance of MIFCO 32,567,972 Provision made/ (reversal) during the year 11 ,299,567 (17,175,098) 6,852,764 (10,184,633) Closing balance 81,394,036 37,526,497 43,733,785 36,881 ,021 In 2016, inventories of MYR 5,404,665,282 (2015: MVR 5,835,267,544) were recognized as an expense during the period and included in 'cost of sales' of the Company. In 2016, inventories of MYR 5,421,025,537 (2015 : MVR 5,706,214,837) were recognized as an expense during the period and included in 'cost of sales' of the Group. The Company reversed MVR 10,184,633 of a previous inventory provision in December 2015. The Company has sold all the goods that were considered for the provision to independent retailers in Maldives. The amount reversed has been included in 'other income' in the statement of profit or loss . The inventories of the Group and the Company are partly secured against to the loans obtained from Nations Trust Bank PLC and the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Maldives branch. 41 STA n : TRADING ORGANIZATION rLC (INCORPORATED IN TIIE RErllBUC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO TIIE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STA l 'EMENTS (CONTINllED) FOR TIIE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 21 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 31112no16 31/12n01S J1112no16 31/l2n01S MVR MVR MVR MVR Trade receivables 662,024,757 463,263 ,08 I 179,346,180 I 67,283, 184 Due from policyholders 71,499,246 61 ,455,783 Less : provision for impairmen1 loss (Note 2 LI) (284,395,990) (1 60,386,728) (86,751 ,950) (96,357,002) 449,128,013 364,332,136 92,594,230 70,926, 182 Advances, prepayments and deposits 1 I 3,355,598 119,727,360 73,110,786 63,844,690 Government employee credit scheme 55,419,341 68,019,443 55,419,341 68,019,443 Staff advances and other loans 6,714,298 6,172,474 6,714,298 6,172,474 Advances paid for custom duty 7,531,534 10,676,238 7,53 I ,534 10,676,238 Miscellaneous receivable 65,526,765 49,890,771 33,450,885 34,3 15,921 Less: unmatured interest (2,881,449) (4 ,049,972) (2,881,449) (4,049,972) Less : provision for impairment loss (Note 2L2) (46,604,046) (46,221 , 188) (42,521,210) (42,327,038) 199,062,041 204,215,126 130,824,185 136,651,756 Total trade and other receivable 648,190,054 568,547,262 223,418,4 l 5 207,577,938 2LI Provision for Impairment of trade receivables Opening balance 160,386,728 128,491 ,538 96,357,002 69,478,783 Acquisition date balance of MIFCO 114,594,950 Provision made/ (reversed) during the year 9,414,312 31 ,895,190 (9,605,052) 26,878,219 Closing balance 284,395,990 160,386,728 86,751 ,950 96,357,002 2L2 Provision for impairment of other receivables Opening balance 46,221,1 88 36,633,526 42,327,038 33,413,199 Provision made during the year 382,858 9,587,662 194,172 8,913,839 Closing balance 46,604,046 46,22 1,188 42,52 1,210 42,327,038 22 AMOUNTS DUE FROM RELATED PARTIES Groue Comeany J1112no16 3I/l2n015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 16,828,625 15,460,010 Maldive Gas Private Limited 9,000,302 194,637 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 678,924,428 455,923,416 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited I 0,668,458 413,163 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 343,6 10 297,027 Maldives Industrials Fisheries Company Limited 142,191,921 64,467,738 32,160,374 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited 201 ,102,686 201,057,736 Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 32,165 9,645 920 Ministry of Health I 16,377,448 140,856,593 11 6,377,448 140,856,593 Ministry of Finance and Treasury 349,651 ,249 71 ,300,199 66,018,689 71 ,300,199 State Electric Company (STELCO) 95,471,238 109,4 14,682 95,085,332 109,414,682 Feneka Corporation 340,278,251 345,037,172 88,369,900 Indira Gahandi Memorial Hospital 143,110,912 l 13,309,272 143,11 0,912 113,309,272 National Social Protection Agency 926,986 926,986 Addu International Airport Private Limited 170,369,021 158,867,035 168,686,02 I 157,184,035 Aasandha Private Limited 96,404,835 116,244,056 96,404,835 l 16,244,056 Maldives Airport Company Limited 80,502,616 475,403 80,502,616 475,403 Ministry of Housing and Infrastructure 74,964,159 45,054,896 74,964, 159 45,054,896 Ministry of Tourism 117,654,599 117,654,599 G.Dh Atoll Rayyithunge Cooperative Society 831 ,492 831,492 831 ,492 831 ,492 Rainbow Enterprises Private Limited 692,323 530,522 692,323 530,522 Champa Oil and Gas Company Private Limited 93,638 Marine Maldives Products Private Limited 44,034 Ukulas Private Limited 1,056,179 E-Biz Maldives Private Limited 4,447 4,447 4,447 4,447 Rasheed Carpentry Private Limited 369,495 369,495 Other Government entities 169,174,598 121 ,923,389 146,023,610 121 ,923,613 1,757,546,552 1,484,168,456 1,970,964,717 1,671 ,375,888 Less : provision for impairment loss (Note 22.1) (16,920,508) (104,291,177) (98,038,349) (103,197,957) Less : unmatured interest (475,934) (2,089,702) (475,934) (2,089,702) Total amount due from related parties 1,740,150,110 1,377,787,577 1,872,450,434 1,566,088,229 Non current 1,665,151 7,727,213 1,665,151 7,727,213 Current I, 738,484,959 1,370,060,364 1,870,785,283 1,558,361 ,0 I 6 1,740,150,110 1,377,787,577 1,872,450,434 1,566,088,229 42 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION l'LC (INCORPORATED IN TIIE REPllHLIC OF MAU>IVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE VEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMIJER 2016 Group C ompany 31/12/2016 31/12/201S 31/12/2016 31/12/201S 22 AMOUNTS DUE FROM RELATED PARTIES (CONTINl JI MVR MVR 1\1\IR MVR 22.1 Provision for impairment of amounts due from related parties Opening balance 104 ,291 ,177 129,754,660 103 ,197,957 128,661 ,440 Acquisition date balance of MIFCO 1,056,179 Provision (reversed) / made during the year (88,426,848) (25,463,483) (5,159,608) (25,463,483) Closing balance 16,920,508 104,291 ,177 98,038,349 103,197,957 23 REINSURANCE CONTRACTS Group Company 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Reinsurers' share of insurance liabilities 89,003 ,577 101 ,114,112 Reinsurance share of paid claim and prepaid reinsurance 30,678,893 92,242,837 Reinsurance share of incurred but not reported claims 4,669,173 7,601 ,005 Unearned premium 92,285,068 83,086,643 Gross receivables from reinsurance 216,636,71 I 284,044,597 Less : Provision for Re-insurance Receivables (Note 23.1) (6,017,453) _ _(.,_8-'2,_10_5-'--) Net receivables from reinsurance 210,619,258 283,962,492 23.l Provision for Re-insurance Receivables Opening balance 82,105 82,105 l'rovsion made during the year 5,935,348 Closing balance 6 017 453 82 105 24 INVESTMENTS HELD TO MA TURITV Group Company 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Investment in treasury bills 124,327,38 I 80,676,852 Corporate bonds 30,000,000 Investment in term deposit 32,258 20,420,000 154,359,639 101,096,852 Opening balance 101,096,852 90,684,601 Purchased during the year 499,041,823 581 ,207,636 320,456,280 Matured during the year (445,779,036) (570,795,385) (320,456,280) Closing balance 154,359,639 101,096,852 The Group has invested MVR 124,327,381 (2015: MVR 80,676,852) in treasury bills issued by the Maldives Monetary Authority for a maturity value ofMVR 126,340,000 (2015: MVR 85,000,000) at the rate of interest ranging from 3.5% to 4.6% per annum (2015 : 3.5% to 9% per annum) with the maturity period of91 days to 364 days (2015 : 91 days to 364 days) . During the year, the Group has made an investment of MVR 30,000,000 (2015: Nil) in the corporate bonds issued by Housing development finance corporation PLC at the interest rate of 6.25% per annum. The Group has also made an investment of MVR 32,258 (2015 : MVR 20,420,000) in term deposit at a rate of interest ranging from 2.2% to 2.9% (2015: 3% to 5%) with a maturity period of91 days to one year. 25 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Company 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 Favorable balances MVR MVR MVR MVR Cash in hand 69,918,290 40,468,955 38,388,672 38,858,446 Balances at banks 695,843,416 649,125,221 509,114,571 433 ,352,507 Fixed deposits 8,117,664 7,732,164 765,761 ,706 697,711 ,840 547,503,243 479,943,117 Unfavorable balances Bank overdrafts (204,909,234) (80,644,536) (67,144,023) (59,383,668) Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of cash flow statement 560 852 472 617 067 304 480,359,220 420 559 449 43 STATE TRADIN<; ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO TIIE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST OECEMllER 2016 26 SHARE CAPITAL ANO RESERVES A. SHARE CAPITAL ANO SHARE PREMIUM 26.1 Authorized The authorized share capital comprises 2,000,000 ( 201 5: 2,000,000) ordinary shares of par value ofMVR 50 per share. Issued and fully paid The issued and fully paid share capital comprises 1,126,910 (201 5: 1, 126,9 I 0) ordinary shares at a par value of MVR 50 per share. (201 5: MVR 50 per share) The above mentioned 1,126,910 shares include 26,040 shares issued at a premium ofMVR 250 per share in year 2001 and 60,870 shares issued at a premium ofMVR 350 in year 2003 . 26.2 Dividends and voting rights The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the Shareholders' meetings of the Company. 26.3 Dividends per share At the Annual General Meeting held on 4th June 2016, a dividend in respect of201 5 ofMVR 57 per share (201 5: declared dividend MVR 76 per share in respect of 2014) amounting to a total of MVR 64,233,870 (2015 : declared MVR 85,64 5, 160) was declared and approved by the shareholders and accounted for in shareholders' equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 December 2016. B. RESERVES 26.4 Genera I reserve General reserve balance will be utilized for any purpose decided by the Board of Directors. 26.5 Fair va lue reserve The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of avai lable-for-sale financial assets until the assets are derecognized or impaired 26.6 C laim eq ualization reserve Reserve for claim equalization represents 12% of the operating profit of Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited before taking into account other operating income of the current year . The reserve was created to meet abnorrnally high claims in future by the Group. 26.7 Currency translation reserve The currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries. 27 NON CONTROLLING INTEREST Group 2016 2015 MVR MVR Opening balance 14,374,371 10,071 ,163 Share of profit of subsidiary 4,396,114 4,864,273 Dividend paid to non controlling interest (3,222,222) (561,065) Closing balance 15,548,263 14,374,371 28 LOANS AND BORROWINGS Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 1,302,209,598 I , I 09,757,579 1,262,190,563 1,026,938,859 Acquisition date balance ofMJFCO 471,471 ,955 Loans obtained during the Year 814,380,563 1,255,625,784 814,380,562 1,245,447,848 Repayments during the year (905,514,999) (I ,063 , 173,765) (863,816,020) (1 ,010,196,144) Closing balance 1,682,547,117 1,302,209,598 1,212,755,105 1,262,190,563 28.1 Sources of Finance Secured loans 856,602,452 522,490,563 473,055,105 522,490,563 Unsecured loans 286,244,665 240,019,035 200,000,000 200,000,000 Corporate bond (Note 28.8) 539,700,000 539,700,000 539,700,000 539,700,000 1,682,547,117 1,302,209,598 1,212,755,105 1,262,190,563 28.2 Non Current Bank borrowings 3 16,589,488 271 ,780,567 257,893,056 271,780,567 Other borrowings 36,532,077 Corporate bond 520,422,595 539,700,000 520,422,595 539,700,000 873,544,160 811 ,480,567 778,3I5,651 811 ,480,567 28.3 C urrent Bank borrowings 240,538,642 250,709,996 215,162,049 250,709,996 Other borrowings 549,186,910 240,019,035 200,000,000 200,000,000 Corporate bond 19,277,405 19,277,405 809,002,957 490,729,031 434,439,454 450,709,996 44 STA TE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN Tl! E REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR TIIE \ ' EAR ENDED 31ST DECl':MBER 201<, 28 LOANS AND BORROWINGS 28.4 l 'ums and repayment scheduk Group Company Sourc~ of finance Nominal Vear of S«urity C2rriRg , ,21uc earring valu~ inter~( maturity 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 rate MVR MVR MVR MVR Nation Trust Bank PLC 7.50% Revolving Trade center building 10,714,653 19,778,457 10,714,653 19,778 ,457 Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation 9.25% Revolving Government guarantee 92 ,520,000 92 ,520,000 Staple food godown Bank of Ceylon 7.25% 2016 land 79,926,104 79,926,104 Bank of Maldives PLC 7.50% 2023 Backed by STO's assets 14,598,633 14,689,709 14,598,633 14,689,709 Thai Exim Bank 7.50% 2023 Backed by STO's assets 131,387,693 132,207,379 131,387,693 I 32,207,379 Backed by Government guarantee, MVR & Habib Bank Limited 8.50% Revolving STO's assets 21 ,917,317 30,839,980 21,917,317 30,839,980 Habib Bank Limited 600% 2018 Backed by MVR 39,397,514 39,397,514 Profit Ministry of Finance and Share treasury 70 : 30 2017 Un-secured . 150,000,000 150,000,000 I 50,000,000 150,000,000 Profit Ministry of Finance and Share treasury 30 : 70 2017 Un-secured. 50,000,000 50,000,000 50,000,000 50,000,000 Bank of Maldives PLC 10.00% 2019 Backed by STO's assets 106,38 1,213 135,399,856 106,38 1,213 I 35,399,856 Bank of Maldives PLC 6.50% 2017 Backed by MVR 21,615,787 109,649,078 21,615 ,787 109,649,078 8.5% Assignement of mark-up receivables from a Maldives Islamic Bank on cost 2019 customer 34,522,296 34,522 ,296 Profit Share Maldives Hajj Corporation 60 : 40 2016 Un-secured. 40,019,035 Listed corporate bond 5.25% 2023 Government guarantee 539,700,000 539,700,000 539,700,000 539,700,000 Ministry of Finance and treasury (IDB Tsunami) 8.00% 2017 Government guarantee 60,302,997 Ministry of Finance and treasury 6.00% 2017 Government guarantee 226,775,616 Ministry of Finance and Interest treasury free Revolving Un-secured . 55,298,603 Ministry of Fisheries and Interest agriculture free Revolving Un-secured . 7,035,411 Ministry of Fisheries and Interest agriculture free 2017 Government guarantee 12,395,709 Leasehold rights of commercial plots & Bank of Maldives PLC 8.00% 2018 MIFCO assets 2,444,521 USD lien, leasehold rights of commercial Bank of Maldives PLC 8.50% 2020 plots & MIFCO assets 50,108,732 Leasehold rights of commercial plots & Bank of Maldives PLC 8.00% 2023 MIFCO assets 14,307,832 Bank of Maldives PLC 9.75% 2021 MIFCO assets 17,211,940 Green World Private Limit, 5.00% 2018 Un-secured . 23 ,9 10,65 1 1,682,547,117 1,302,209,598 1,212,755,105 1,499,849,86 1 28.5 Bank borrowings of the Group/ Company will mature by August 2023 and bear an average interest rate of6.44% annually (2015 : 7.93% 28.6 Bank borrowings of the Group / Company are secured by deposits in Maldivian Rufiyaa, inventories, receivables, vessels, buildings, leasehold rights of commercial plots and guarantee from the Government of Maldives. 28.7 As at the reporting date the Group/ Company has pledged MVR 64,953,052 (2015: MVR 275,888,935) as collateral for the US$ loans taken from banks. 28.8 During the year 2015, the Company issued listed corporate bonds amounting to MVR 539,700,000 with a maturity period of 8 years, carrying interest of5.25% per annum . 45 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVl~S ) NOTES TO Tit E CONSOLIDATED AND SEP ARA TE HNAN CIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR TIIE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 29 TRADE AND OTHER PA\' ABLES Group Company 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31 /12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Trade payables 1,580,668,297 1,077,864 , 129 1,429,687,446 1,015 ,379,054 Accrued expenses 132,055 ,218 63,24 5,53 1 44,035,632 28,063 ,918 Lease rent accrual 22,954 ,900 44 ,355,967 22,954 ,900 34,863,126 Dividend payable 200,306,892 267,944 ,509 197,656,892 267,944,509 Other payable 252,475,292 I 31,734 ,809 94 ,252,885 ~~64-=',~64~0,',0~8~9 -2, 188,460,599 1,585, 144,945 1,788,587,755 1,410,890,6% 30 DEFERRED INCOME Group Company 31/12/2016 31 / 12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 15,503 ,441 12,828,986 Acquisition date balance ofMJFCO 3,645 ,3 10 Received during the year 7,585, l 09 6,744,821 Recognized during the year (5 ,796,094) (4,070,366) 20,937,766 15,503 ,441 ====== Analysis of deferred income Realization within one year 6,427,811 4,543,816 Realization After one year 14,509,955 10,959,625 20,931.766 -~1s ', s=o=3 ' ',4~4~1 30. l Deferred revenues relate to the registration fees received from customers for the initial purchase of gas cylinders. On receipt of the registration fees, they are included in liabilities as deferred revenue and are credited to profit or loss as revenue on a straight line basis over 5 years. 31 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Group Company 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 2,633,377 10,011 ,5 77 2,633,377 10,011 ,577 Fair value realized during the year (2,633,377) (7,378,200) (2,633 ,377) (7,378,200) Closing balance 2,633,377 2,633 ,377 The fair value of the currency SWAP is determined by multiplying the Maldivian Rufiyaa (MVR) exchange rate as at 31 December 2016 with the outstanding US Dollar (US$) commitment to Housing Development Finance Corporation Pi e with regard to the Currency SWAP agreements signed on 10 February 2009, 3 1 July 2011, 15 October 2011, 12 February 2012 and 22 September 2014. 32 INSURANCE CONTRACTS Group Company 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Claims reported and loss adjustment 145,020,3 19 164,072,402 Claim incurred but not reported (IBNR) 5,664,535 9,774,298 Provision for unearned premiums 173,897,988 168, 164,887 Unappropriated policyholders fund 12,2 18,766 1,408,968 Provision for unearned reinsurance commission 27,893,032 25,498,911 Total insurance liabilities, gross 364,694,640 368,919,466 33 CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 47,902,844 72,994,284 27,850,170 60,541,458 Tax provision for the year 49,043,666 90,129,871 36,176,454 58,ll 7,222 Tax paid during the year (81 ,375, 191) (113,950,509) (56,100,688) (89,537,708) Adjustment in respect of prior years 114,420 (1 ,270,802) (1,270,802) Closing balance 15,685,739 47,902,844 7,925,936 27,850,170 ====== 46 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN TIIE REPIJBLI C OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO l'lfE CONSOLIDATED AND SEP ARA TE FINANC IAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE \'EAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 34 AMOUNTS DUE TO RELATED PARTIES Group Comp:,rny 31/12/2016 31 /12/2015 31/12/2016 31 / 12/201S MVR MVR MVR MVR STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 4,279,63 I Maldive Gas Private Limited 13,61 1, 11 5 10,065 ,902 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 246,998 168 ,200 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldi ves Private Limited 8 1,544,124 54,597,474 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 365,172 365,172 Maldives Industrials Fisheries Company Limited 1,62 1,500 5,675,000 1,621 ,500 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited 180,846 180,846 Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 29,432,457 16,8 10,350 29,432,457 16,810,350 Maldives Structural Product Private Limited 21 ,738,231 13,670,523 2 1,738,23 1 13,670,523 National Social Protection Agency 8,533,997 Addu International Airport Private Limited 290,289 49,807 290,289 49,807 Ministry ofl-lousing and Infrastructure 302,932 299,932 302,932 299,932 Maldives Pension Administration Office 25,183,943 25, 150,198 25 ,183,943 25,150,198 Fenaka Corporation Limited 527,795 4,757 527,795 4,757 Housing Development Corporation Limited 39,761 ,5 19 21 ,257,519 39,76 1,519 2 1,257 ,519 Rainbow Enterprises Private Limited 12,868 9,270 12,868 9,270 Champa Oil and Gas Company Private Limited 958,576 Other Government entities 10,512,907 -~8~,6~7~2~ ,4_8_7 ~9,561,687 ~8,672,4 87 128,721 ,517 96,080,340 232,7 14,607 152,923,93 7 ====== The amount due to related parties are unsecured, interest free, and have no fi xed repayment period. Accordingly, these amounts have been determined to be payable on demand and classified as a current liabilities. 35 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group's ability to continue as a goi ng concern in order to provide return for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of In order to maintain or adj ust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio . Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including borrowings, trade and other payables and current tax liabilities as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position) less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as 'equity' as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position plus net debt. Group Company 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Total liabilities 4,607,89 1,515 3,501,775,271 3,309,127,426 2,915 ,872,411 Less: Cash and cash equivalent (765,761,706) (697,711,840) (547,503,243) (479,943 ,117) Net debt 3,842,129,809 2,804,063,431 2,761,624,183 2,435,929,294 Total equity 2,441 ,6 19,768 2,210,645,209 2,120,8 70,412 1,896,859,648 Total capital employed 6,283,749,577 5,014,708,640 4,882,494,595 4,332,788,942 G~ring 61.14% 55.92% 56.56% 56.22% The increase in gearing ratio of the Group during the 2016 is primarily due to increase in net debt of the group as a result of the acquisition of the subsidiary, MIFCO, which had liabilities exceeding the assets at the date of acquisition . 36 COMMITMENTS Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR 36.1 Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted as of the reporting date but 344,178,191 336,866,868 324,606,257 336,866,868 not yet incurred Shares subscribed as of the reporting date but not yet paid 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 354,178,191 346,866,868 334,606,257 346,866,868 There were no other material capital commitments outstanding at the reporting date which require disclosure in the financial statements. 47 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION l'LC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO nm CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMEJlffS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 36 COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED) 36.2 Operating Leases Leases as lessee The Group I Company has entered into an agreement with Housing Development Corporation Limited on 31st July 2007 for developing, operating and managing a five star tourist hotel in Hulhumale. The lease rental commitment of the said project has been included in operating lease commitments. The Group leases various retail outlets, offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The lease terms are between 5 and 25 years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at mari<et rate. Future minimum lease payment Group Company 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Non-cancellable operating lease rentals payable for future years are as follows; Less than one year 27,976,191 20,192,261 24,867,434 16,239,757 I to 5 years I 08,808,879 I 02,898,221 I 02,821,823 102,641 ,907 More than 5 years 58,905,072 88,560,674 57,653,249 91 ,184,630 195,630,142 211,651,156 185,342,506 210,066,294 Amount recognized in profit or loss Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Lease expense 22 113 719 17 490 596 10 645 997 ====9=2=7=4'=8=73= Leases as lessor The Group / Company leases out some properties which have been obtained under operating leases. Future minimum lease rent receivable Group Compuy 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Non-cancellable operating lease rentals receivable for future years are as follows; Less than one year 16,387,696 12,959,023 22,223,458 17,954,514 I to 5 years 55,407,507 38,877,069 66,670,374 71,818,057 71,795,203 51,836,092 88,893,832 89,772,571 Amount recognized in profit or loss Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Rent income 15,910,036 14,282,523 21 ,154,907 17,791,837 37 CONTINGENT LIABILITY (i) State Trading Organization PLC has issued corporate guarantees to Bank of Maldives for the facilities obtained by Maldives Structural Products Private Limited. 2016 2015 Type of facilities MVR MVR overdraft 3,855,000 3,855,000 letter of credit 15,420,000 15,420,000 19,275,000 19,275,000 (ii) State Trading Organization PLC has also issued a corporate guarantee to Maldives Hajj Corporation Limited for the facility of MVR 50,000,000 obtained by Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited. (iii) Two customers hava filed suit in Civil Court claiming compensation amounting to MVR 1,530,032 which was not accepted by State Trading Organization PLC. This case is in progress. In the event the Court holds in favor of the customers, the Group and the Company will need to recognize a liability in respect of this claim. (iv) Yacht Tours Maldives Private Limited is claiming an amount of US$ 22,784,838/59 under the Insurance policy N0.1000/60/602/2010/4693 from the Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited. Before addressing the actual claim the Company took a procedural objection, citing the time limitation clause for legal action which provides that a claim to a court of law cannot be submitted if not submitted within 1 year from the incident. The court annulled the case and decided that since the parties had agreed on the time limitation then the court's jurisdiction to decide the case is lost. This point was objected and submitted for appeal by yacht tours, they requested the court to annul the civil court decision and to release a verdict in their favor stating that the court has jurisdiction to decide the case. The high court decided the case in their favor and ordered the civil court to conduct hearings and make a decision on the case. The Company filed for appeal of the High Court decision at the Supreme Court and requested an injunction to halt any proceedings in the civil court until a decision is made at the high court. The Civil court has made a ruling on the case on 23rd January 2017 stating that the case cannot be conducted for the time being, as the Supreme court on 15th January 2017 had instructed to withhold all hearings of the case in the Civil court until further instructions from the Supreme Court. There were no other material contingent liabilities which require disclosure in the consolidated and separate financial statements as at the reporting date other than those disclosed above. 48 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATE D AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT A. Accounting Cla'5ifications and fair values The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their level in the fair value hierarchy. AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2016 Group Car~inG amount Fair va lue Financial assets measured at fair value Designated Held to Available for Loans and Other financial Total Level I Level 2 Level 3 at fair value maturity sale receivables liabilities MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Investments available for sale 22,865,800 22,865,800 10,1 25,000 12,740,800 22,865,800 22,865,800 10,125,000 I 2,740,800 Financial assets not measured at fair value Investments held to maturity 154,359,639 154,359,639 Trade and other receivables 648,190,054 648,190,054 Amounts due from related parties 1,740,150,110 1,740, 150,110 Reinsurance contracts 210,619,258 210,619,258 Cash and cash equivalents 765,761,706 765,761,706 154,359,639 3,364,72 1,128 3,519,080,767 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank overdraft 204,909,234 204,909,234 Loans and borrowings 1,682,547, 117 1,682,547,11 7 Amounts due to related Parties 128,72 1,517 128,721,5 17 Insurance contracts 364,694,640 364,694,640 Trade and other payables 2,1 88,460,599 2,188,460,599 4,569,333, 107 4,569,333, l 07 AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2015 Group Car~ing amount Fa ir v, lue Financial assets measured at fair va lue Designated Held to Available for Loans and Other financial Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value maturity sale receivables liabilities MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Investments available for sale 22,990,800 22,990,800 10,250,000 12,740,800 22,990,800 22,990,800 10,250,000 12,740,800 Financial usets not measured at fair value Investments held to maturity 101,096,852 101,096,852 Trade and other receivable 568,547,262 568,547,262 Amounts due from related parties 1,377,787,577 1,377,787,577 Reinsurance contracts 283,962,492 283,962,492 Cash and cash equivalents 697,711,840 697,711,840 101,096,852 __ 2,928,009, 171 3,029,106,023 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivative financial instruments 2,633,377 2,633,377 2,633,377 ~377 -·-----2,633,377 ---· ---_ 2_,63_3_,377 Financial llabllltles not measu red at fair value Bank overdraft 80,644,536 80,644,536 Loans and borrowings 1,302,209,598 1,302,209,598 Amounts due to related parties 96,080,340 96,080,340 Insurance contracts 368,9 19,466 368,919,466 Trade and other payables 1,585,144,945 1,585,144,945 3,432,998,885 3,432,998,885 The Group has not disclosed the fair values for financial instruments when their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of fair value. 49 STA TE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) A. Accounting Classifications and fair values (continued) The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their level in the fair value hierarchy. AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2016 Company Car!)'.ing amount Fair value Financial assets measured at fair value Designated Available for Loans and Other financial Total Level I Level 2 Level 3 at fair value sale receivables liabilities MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Investments available for sale 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 Financial assets not measured at fair value Trade and other receivables 223 ,418,415 223,418,415 Amounts due from related parties 1,872,450,434 1,872,450,434 Cash and cash equivalents 547,503,243 547,503,243 2,643 ,372,092 2,643,372 ,092 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank overdraft 67,144,023 67,144,023 Loans and borrowings 1,212,755,105 1,212,755 , 105 Amounts due to related parties 232,714 ,607 232,714 ,607 Trade and other payables 1,788,587,755 1,788,587,755 3,301,201,490 3,30 1,20 1,490 AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2015 Company Car!)'.ing amount Fair value Financial assets measured at fair value Designated Available for Loans and Other financial Total Level I Level 2 Level 3 at fair value sale receivables liabilities MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Investments available for sale 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 Financial assets not measured at fair value Trade and other receivables 207,577,938 207,577,938 Amounts due from related parties 1,566,088,229 1,566,088,229 Cash and cash equivalents 479,943,117 479,943,117 2,253,609,284 2,253,609,284 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivative financial instruments 2,633,377 2,633,377 2,633 ,377 2,633,377 2,633,377 2,633,377 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank overdraft 59 ,3 83 ,668 59,3 83,668 Loans and borrowings 1,262 ,190,563 1,262 , I 90,563 Amounts due to related parties 152,923,937 152,923 ,937 Trade and other payables 1,410,890,696 1,410,890,696 2,885 ,388 ,864 2,885,388,864 The Company has not disclosed the fair values for financial instruments when their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of fair value. 50 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN nrn REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANO SEP A RA TE FINANC IAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) b. Measurement of fair value i. Valuation techniques and significant unobservable input The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measurin g level 2 and level 3 fair values, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used. Financial Instruments measured at fair value Type Valuation Significant Inter Techniques unobservable relationship input between significant unobservable Unquoted equity securities Adjusted net Investees N/A asset method financial data Forward exchange contracts Market Present value of N/A approach expected C. Financial Risk Management (i) Overview The Group / the Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: • Credit risk • Liquidity risk • Market risk This note presents information about the Group ' s exposure to each of the above ri sks, the Group's/ the Company's objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group's I the Company's management of capital. Further, quantitative disclosures are included throughout these group's / the Company's financial statements. (ii) Risk management framework The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group's I the Company's risk management framework. (iii) Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group / the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instruments fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group's / the Company's receivables from customers, investment in debt securities and deposits with banks. The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Group Company Carrying amount Carrying amount 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Trade and other receivables 648,190,054 568,547,262 223,418,4 I 5 207,577,938 Amounts due from related party 1,740,150,110 1,3 77,787,577 1,872,450,434 1,566,088,229 Held to maturity investment 154,359,639 101 ,096,852 Balances with banks and short term deposits 695,843,416 657,242,885 509,114,571 441 ,084,671 3,238,543,2 I 9 2,704,674,576 2,604,983 ,420 2,214,750,838 51 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVCS) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE VEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (iii) Credit risk (Continued) Trade and other receivables The Group's exposure to credit ri sk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. There is no concentration of credit risk geographically. The management has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analyzed individually for creditworthiness before the Group's / Company's standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered . The Group / Company establishes a provision for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The provision for impairment represents the specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures. Impairment losses 31/)2/2016 31/12/2015 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment Group MVR MVR MVR MVR The aging of trade, other receivables and related party receivables at the reporting date was: Not Past Due 776,349,885 161 ,422 840, 169,597 46,534 Past Due 31-90 days 229,380,305 731 ,647 208,467,415 629,008 Past Due 91-180 days 444,810,268 2,569,820 115,534,374 1,444,366 Past Due 181-365 days 430,329,536 6,524,102 33,326,240 4,438,539 Past Due more than 365 days 858,748,097 337,933,553 1,065,875 ,980 304,340,646 2,739,618,091 347,920,544 2,263 ,373,606 310,899,093 Impairment losses 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment Company MVR MVR MVR MVR The aging of trade, other receivables and related party receivables at the reporting date was: Not Past Due 933 ,605,009 161 ,422 887,067,046 46,534 Past Due 31-90 days 383,787,951 731,647 66,753 ,720 629,008 Past Due 91-180 days 60,648,750 455,540 14,430,3 17 948,497 Past Due 181-365 days 162,405,483 3,926,915 181 ,440,994 2,370,350 Past Due more than 365 days 786,090,548 222,035,985 871 ,995,76 1 237,887,608 2,326,537,741 227,311,509 2,021 ,687,838 241,881 ,997 Provision for impairment in respect of trade, other receivables and related party receivables is given in Note 21 and 22 to the consolidated / separate financial statements. The Group / the Company believes that the unimpaired amounts that are outstanding are still collectible, based on historic payment behavior. Based on historic default rates, the group believes that, apart from the above, no provision for impairment is necessary. Held to maturity investment The Group / the Company limits its exposure to credit risk by investing only in liquid debt securities and only with counterparties that have a good credit rating. Guarantees The Group / the Company policy is to provide financial guarantees only to subsidiaries, joint venture and associates. As at 31 December 2016, the Company has issued corporate guarantees to Bank of Maldives PLC for the facilities obtained by Maldives Structural Products Private Limited. The details of corporate guarantees are disclosed in note 37. 52 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANC IAL STA 'rEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE \'EAR ENDED 3IST DECE MBER 2016 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALlJE AND RI SK MANAG EMENT (CONTINUED) (iv) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group / the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group's / the Company's approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabil ities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group's/ the Company's reputation . The followings are the contractual maturiti es of financi al liabilities as at the reporting date. 31st December 2016 Carrying 0-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount months years years 5 years Group MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Financial liabilities (Nonderivative) Trade and other payables 2,188,460,599 2, 188,460,599 Loans and borrowings 1,682,547,117 809,002,957 202,4 12,030 421 ,604 ,254 249,527,876 Amounts due to related parties 128,72 1,5 17 128,721,5 17 Insurance contracts 364,694 ,640 364,694,640 Bank overdrafts 204,909,234 204,909,234 Total 4,569,333 ,107 3,695,788,947 202,4 12,030 421 ,604,254 249,527,876 31st December 2015 Carrying 0-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount months years years 5 years Group MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Financial liabilities (Nonderivative) Trade and other payables 1,585,144,945 1,585, 144,945 Loans and borrowings 1,302,209,598 490,729,031 80,619,066 462,484,685 268,376,816 Amounts due to related parties 96,080,340 96,080,340 Insurance contracts 368,919,466 368,9 19,466 Bank overdrafts 80,644,536 80,644,536 3,432,998,885 2,62 1,5 18,3 18 80,619,066 462,484,685 268,376,8 16 Financial liabilities (Derivative) Forward exchange contract 2,633,377 2,633,3 77 Total 3,435,632,262 2,624,15 1,695 80,619,066 462,484,685 268,376,8 I 6 It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at significantly different amounts. 31st December 2016 Carrying 0-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount months years years 5 years Company MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Financial liabilities (Nonderivative) Trade and other payables 1,788,587,755 1,788,587,755 Loans and borrowings 1,212,755, 105 434,439,454 160,705,638 374,505,773 243 ,104,240 Amounts due to related parties 232,714,607 232,714,607 Bank overdrafts 67,144,023 67, 144,023 Total 3,301 ,201 ,490 2,522,885,839 160,705,638 374,505,773 243 ,104,240 31st December 2015 Carrying 0-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount months years years 5 years Company MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Financial liabilities (NonDerivative) Trade and other payables 1,410,890,696 1,410,890,696 Loans and borrowings 1,262, 190,563 450,709,996 80,619,066 462,484,685 268,376,816 Amounts due to related parties 152,923,937 152,923,937 Bank overdrafts 59,383,668 59,383,668 2,885,388,864 2,073,908,297 80,619,066 462,484,685 268,376,816 Financial liabilities ( Derivative) Forward exchange contract 2,633,377 2,633,377 Total 2,888,022,241 2,076,541 ,674 80,619,066 462,484,685 268,376,8 I 6 53 STATE TRADING ORGANI Z ATION rLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMB ER 2016 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (v) Market risk Market risk is the risk of changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates that affect the Group's I the Company's income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing the return . (a) Interest rate risk Profile At the reporting date, the interest rate profile of the Group' s/ the Company's interest-bearing financial instruments we Group Company Carrying amount Carrying amount 2016 2015 2016 2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Variable rate instruments Financial liabilities (537,905 ,256) (489,410,000) (537,905,256) (449,390,965) Fixed rate instruments Financial assets 206,897,531 172,798,487 52,537,892 71 ,701 ,63 5 Financial liabilities (2,197,434,488) (1,584,899,948) (1,712,726,698) (1 ,611 ,758,790) ( I ,990,536,957) (1,361,732,359) (1,660,188,806) (1,530,119,337) Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased / (decreased) equity and profit or loss by the amount shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant. GROUP Profit or loss Equity net of tax 100 hp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 31st December 2016 increase decrease increase decrease Variable rate instruments (5,379,053) 5,379,053 (4,572,195) 4,572,195 31st December 2015 Variable rate instruments (8,394,188) 8,394, 188 (7, 135,060) 7,135,060 COMPANY Profit or loss Equity net of tax 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 hp 31st December 2016 increase decrease increase decrease Variable rate instruments (5,379,053) 5,379,053 (4,572,195) 4 572 195 31 st December 2015 Variable rate instruments (7,389,270) 7 389 270 (6,280,880) 6,280,880 (b) Currency Risk Exposure to currency risk Group The Group's exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: 31/12/2016 US$ Euro SGD Cash and cash equivalents 22,775,205 3,980 22,290 Trade, amount due from related parties and other receivables 24,193,520 Reinsurance contracts 14,049,073 Trade, amount due to related parties and other payables (105,655,269) (175,009) (773,871) Loans and borrowings (68,239,442) Bank overdrafts (8,411 ,517) Net currency exposure (121,288,430) (171,029) (751,581) 54 STA TE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN HIE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (v) Markct risk (Con(iaucd) Exposure (o currMCy risk (Con(inued) Group 31/12/2015 The Group's exposure to foreign currency ri sk was as follows based on notional amour US$ Euro SGD Cash and cash equivalents 15,602,814 9,444 Trade, amount due from related parties and other receivabl es 17,831 ,390 2,000 Rein surance contracts 18,420,532 Trade, amount due to related parties and other payables (6 I ,935,050) (33 ,123) (887,260 ) Loans and borrowings (60,310,194) Derivative financial instruments (170,777) Bank overdrafts (4 ,997 ,192) Net currency exposure (75 ,558,478) ===(2=3'= ,6=79=) (885,260) Company 31/12/2016 US$ Euro SGD The Company's exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts : Cash and cash equivalents 17,869,175 3,980 Trade, amount due from related parties and other receivabl es 19,047,437 182,431 Trade, amount due to related parties and other payables (98,656,327) (175 ,009) (763,532) Loans and borrowings (63 ,439,222) Derivative financial instruments Bank overdrafts (4,354,346) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Net currency exposure (129,533,284) 11,402 (763,532) Company 31/12/2015 US$ Euro SGD The Company' s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts : Cash and cash equivalents l 3,388,3 J 1 3,727 Trade, amount due from related parties and other receivables 11 ,382,389 218,299 2,000 Trade, amount due to related parties and other payables (61 ,929,034) (33 ,123) (887,260) Loans and borrowings (60,310,194) Derivative financial instruments (J 70,777) Bank overdrafts (3,851 ,081) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ Net currency exposure (I OJ ,490,386) l 88,903 (885 ,260) ====== Average Rate Reporting date spot rate The following significant exchange rate were applied during the year: 2016 2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 l US$ : MVR 15.42 15.42 15.42 15.42 J Euro : MVR 16.49 16 .84 16.14 16.84 J SGD : MVR 10.77 10.89 10.64 10.89 ====== Sensitivity analysis A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the USD, EURO, SGD against all other currencies at 31 December would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and affected profit or loss by the amount shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecasted sales and purchases. GROUP Profit or Loss 31 st December 2016 Strengthening Weakening USD 5% movement (93 ,513,379) 93 ,513,379 EURO 5% movement (J 37,990) 137,990 SGD 5% movement (399,937) 399,937 (94,051,307) 94,051 ,307 31st December 2015 USD 5% movement (58 ,255,586) 58,255,586 EURO 5% movement (19,933) 19,933 SGD 5% movement (482,078) _ _4_8_2~ ,0_7_8 (58,757,598) 58,757,598 COMPANY 31st December 2016 USD 5% movement (99,870,162) 99,870,162 EURO 5% movement 9,199 (9,199) SGD 5% movement (406,297) _ _4_06~ ,2_9_7 (100,267,259) 100,267,259 55 STA TE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (I NCORPORATED IN TH E REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO TIIE CONSOLIDATED AND S EPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE \'EAR ENDED 31 ST DEC EMBER 2016 38 FINANC IAL INSTRUM ENTS FAIR VALUE ANO RI SK MANAG EMENT (CONTINUED) (v) Market risk (Continued) Profit or Loss Sensitivity analysis (Continued) COMPAN\' Strengthening Weake ning 31st December 2015 USD 5% movement (78,249,087) 78,249,087 EURO 5% movement 159,019 (159,0 19) SGD 5% movement (482,078) 482,078 -(78,572, 147) 78,572,147 39 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed a final dividend ofM VR 5 1 per share (total: MVR 57,472,41 0) which is to be approved at the meeting of the shareholders. Except for the above no circumstances have arisen since the reporting date which require adj ustments to or disclosure in the consolidated / separate financial statements. 40 DIRECTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors of the Group / the Company is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated and separate financial statements. 41 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES The Company is the parent company for the following subsidiary companies Country of incorporation No of shares Shareholding 2016 2015 2016 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited (Note 41.1) Republic of Maldives 6 1,200 61,200 90.00% 90.00% Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited ( 41.2) Republic of Maldives 299,998 299,998 99.99% 99.99% STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited (Note 41.3) Singapore 200,000 200,000 100.00% 100.00% Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited (Note 41.4) Republic of Maldives 15,299 15,299 99.99% 99.99% Maldives National Oil Company Limited (Note 41.5) Republic of Maldives 99,999 99,999 99.99% 99.99% STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited (Note 41.6) Republic of Maldives 9,999 9,999 99.99% 99.99% Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) (Note 41.7) Republic of Maldives 1,439,725 99.99% 99.99% 41.1 Maldive Gas Private Limited The main business activity of the company is distributing Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) ,Medical and Industrial oxygen production. 41.2 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited The company's main business activity is providing the general & Life insurance service. 41.3 STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited The main business activity of the company is trading Oil & Gas. 41.4 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited The main business activity of the company is distributing Oil products which are imported by STO. 41.5 Maldives National Oil Company Limited The main business activity of the company is developing of Oil and Gas exploration processes and trading Oil related products. 41.6 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited The company was engaged in the operation of an airport. 41.7 Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) The principal activities are export of frozen fish, Canned tuna, Katsubishi, fish meal, retail sales in the local market by the name Fasmeeru products. 42 COMPARATIVE FIGURES Comparative figures of the consolidated / the separate financial statements have been reclassified wherever appropriate to confirm with current year's presentation. 56 STA TE TRADI NG ORG ANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN l'llEREPUBU C O F MALDI VES) NOTES TO TUE CO NSO LIDATED ANO SEPARAl'E FI NANCIAL STATEM E NTS (C ONTI NIIEOi FOR TH E YEAR ENDED JI ST DECEMBE R 201 6 43 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 43. 1 G ROUP Na~oftM' Rdationship N11cur~ of cf~ A,.._, Bal.an«: ou<st...0.c rdat<:d party transadion ~ frOtR / (to~ 201 6 201S 31 /12/2016 JI /IU201 S MVR MVR MVR MVR Maldives Struaur.al Joint vc.., iture S.lc of goods 34.355 (21 ,73K,2l l) (1 3,670,523) Product Private Purchase of goods (56, 146,4 18 ) (55,597,360) Limitod Dividend rccoiw.xt 13,000,000 12,000,000 Payment rocc.ivOO ( 13,02 I ,587) ( 12,072,244) Payment made 48,100,297 48,809,()97 Lafarge Maldives Associate Purchase of goods (69,696,166) (72,044 ,6 I 3) (29,400,292) (16.800,705) Cement Private Payment made 57,073, 139 67,73l,5 12 Limited Sales of goods 23,440 3,434 Pa)mcnt rcc.civcd (2 12,626) (190,664) Rmt rocci\/00 2 12,626 187,080 Maldives Industrial Affil iate Sale of goods 127,lll,257 142,191 ,92 1 Fisheries Company company lnlcrcsl 2 1,976 Limited Purchase of goods (1 3,690,892) Pa)TI'ICOI made 111,66 1,835 Payment roccivcd (79,588,070) Purchase of foreign currency (97,762,800) Ministry of Finance Majority Food subsidy income 291 ,908,809 3 12,392,782 349,65 1,249 71 ,300, 199 and Treasury shareholder Sale of goods 76,903 649,801 Compensation given for MIFCO acquisition ll3,632.560 Payment roccived (347,267,222) (309,637,9 17) Ministry of Health A ffiliate S.lc of goods 169, 152,943 256,434,843 116,377,448 140,856,593 oompany Payment received ( 193,632,088) ( 154,053,876) Services obtained ( 100,000) Payment made 100,000 State Eloctric Affiliate Service obtained (2 1,275,407) (12,049,577) 95,47 1,23 8 109,414,682 Company ( STELCO) oompany Payment made 22,407,3% 13, 194,572 Payment roccivod (925,099,473) (1 , 17 1,569,43 1) Sale of goods and services 906, 169,040 I, 158,623,075 Sale of foreign currency 3,855,000 Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital Affi liate Sale of goods 354,415, 130 255,666,887 143,110,9 12 113,309,272 company Payment received (324,566,702) (367,222,572) Service obtainod (utility bills) (342,752) (360,573) Payment Made 295,964 340,206 Rainbow Enterprises Affihate Purchase of goods (513,924) (487,092) 679,455 52 1,252 Private Llmitcd company Sale of goods 3,021,646 2, 159, 143 Payment made 395,205 483,907 Interest 879 Payment received (2,744,724) (1 ,629,50 1) Rasheed Ca,pen(ry Common directorship Sale of goods 1,529, 153 369,495 Private Limited ofa director Purchase of goods ( 17,808) Service obtained Rent paid (64,000) Interest 203 Payment made 739,432 Payment roc.cived (369,495) ( 1,287,943) Ministry of Housing Affiliate Sale of goods 54,044,868 48,208,028 74,66 1,227 44,754,964 and Infrastructure company Service obtained (90,820) (444,056) Payment made 87,820 170,000 Payment received (24, 135,605) (3 1, 170,43 1) Fcnaka Corporation Limited Affiliate Sale of goods 262,0 10,396 305,0 15,782 339,750,456 345,032,415 company Sale of foreign currency 1,542,000 Se,-v;cc ob<ained (8,204,144) (5,689,057) Payment made 7,68 1, 106 5,894,249 Payment roccived (268,3 11,3 17) (504,445,527) Addu International Affiliate Sale of goods 9,770,003 35,055,839 170,369,02 1 158,867,035 Airport Private Limited company Transferred from Gan Airport 2,990, 140 Paymcnt received (1 ,258, 157) (1 ,482,357) Aasandha Private Limited Affiliate Sale of goods 2 19,767, 128 174,706,326 96,404,835 116,244,056 company Services provtdcd 101,927 8,250,000 Payment received (239,708,276) (146,450,000) 43.1.1 Transactions with Key Maaac,ement Personnel 1bc Board of Diroctors and Managing Director of the Group are the members of the key management pcrsormcl. Key management pcrsonnc1 oompcnsattoO comprised the following. 2016 2615 MVR MVR S hort 1erm anploycc benefits 7,636,425 7,394,029 43.1.2 Coll«tivcly, but not tndividuaUy, si:niftcant transactions. 1bc Govcnvnent of Makfivcs is the major shareholder of the parent Company. 1lle Group has transactions with entities directly or indirectly controlled by the Govcmmcnt of Maldives through its authorities, agencies, affiliations and other organizations, collectively referred to as government entities. lbc Group has transactions with other government related entities including but not limited to sales, purchases, rendering of services, lease of assets and use of public utilities. 57 STATE TRADING ORGAN IZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REl'UBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANO SEl'ARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENrs (CONrlNIJED) FOR THE VEAR ENDED 31ST OECEMllt:R 2016 43 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED) 43.3 COMPANY Nam~ of 1h~ Rdationsl1ip N11tur<' of the Amount Baba« 04ilCSUittdHlg reb11~ pany fr-ansa<'tion d.c fr•• I i•o) 2016 2015 31 /12/20J' 31/12/2815 MVR MVR MVR MVR Allied Insurance Subsidiary Sale of goods 206,236 2,869,858 (70,875,666) (54,184.3 I I ) Company of the Service obtained (27,195,271) (23,2]],2]2) Maldives Private Advance received (28, I 80,209) Limited Jntcrest paid (I .]2],29]) (1,323,292) Payment made 26,904,510 19,543,669 Claims roccivcd 210,889 1,174,830 Payment received (18,909,478) (40,994,767) Rent received 1,895,459 1,067,066 Dividend received 29,699,802 36,899,754 Maldive National Subsidiary Expense Reimbursement 46,58] 55,767 (2 1,562) (68,145) Oil Company Limited Payment made 283,658 Service obtained (141,829) Maldive Gas Subsidiary Sale of goods 1,258,029 468,846 (4,6 10,8 13) (9,871.265) Private Limited Purchase of goods (27,088,758) (16,604,694) Dividend received 20,000,000 5,049,589 Rent received 1,324,317 1,023,913 Payment made 19,267,175 8,848,121 Payment received (9,500,311) (6,368,783) Fuel Supplies Maldives Subsidiary Sale of fuel 1,891,010,109 2,195,614,782 678,677,430 455,755,2 16 Private Limited Purchases of fuel (275,65 I ,853) (241,830,097) Payment made 291.482,2 18 343,852,289 Dividend received 21 ,237,299 Rent received 2,321,691 1,669,235 Rebate paid on fuel sales (6.401,685) (91,611 ,843) Payment received (1 ,691,646.885) (2,348,048,276) Transportation charges paid (9,428,680) (8,532,036) STO Maldives Subsidiary Purchases of fuel (38,525,051) ( I OJ,369,625) 12,548,994 15,460,010 ( Singapore ) Purchases of goods (3,571,025) (5,620,635) Private Limited Service obtained (5,440,248) (844,415) Payment made 46,464,3 I 0 107,691,910 Payments received (1,839,002) Maldives Structural Joint venture Sale of goods ]4,]55 (21 ,738,23 1) (13,670,523) Product Private Purchase of goods (56, 146,418) (55,597,360) Limited Dividend received 13,000,000 12,000,000 Payment received (13,021,587) (12,033,419) Payment made 48, 100,297 48,809,097 Lafarge Maldives Associate Purchase of goods (69,696, I 66) (72,044.613) (29,432,457) (16,809,430) Cement Private Limited Payment made 57,073,139 67,733,287 Sales of goods l,434 Payment received (212,626) (190,664) Rent received 212,626 187,080 Maldives Industrial Affiliate Sale of goods 732,055 1,258,042 64,467,738 32,160,374 Fisheries Company company Interest received 21,976 Limited Purchase of goods (14,367,500) (13,690,892) Payment made 180,954,629 111 ,661,835 Payment received (472,320) (1,257,134) Purchase of foreign currency (134,539,500) (97,762,800) Ministry of Finance Majority Food subsidy income 291,908,809 l I 2,392,782 66,0 18,689 7 1,300, 199 and Treasury Shareholder Sale of goods 76,903 649,801 Payment received (297,267,222) (309,637,917) Ministry of Health Affiliate Sale of goods 169,152,943 256,434,843 116,377,448 140,856,593 company Payment received ( I 93,632,088) (154,053,876) Services obtained (100,000) Payment made 100,000 State Electric Affiliate Service obtained (14,911,102) (12,049,577) 95,085,]32 109,414,682 Company ( STELCO) company Payment made I 5,680,235 13, 194,572 Payment received (913,628,394) (I, 171,569,431) Sale of fuels 898,529,911 I , 158,623,075 58 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN Tit[ REl'UIILIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO TltE CONSOLIDATED ANO SEPARAT£ FINANOAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR TIIE \'£AR ENDED 31ST 0£C £Mll£R 2016 43 RELATED PARn' TRANSACTIONS (CONTIN UED) 43.3 COMPANY (CONTINUED) Name of the Relationship Nature of th~ Amount Ba lane~ outstanding related pany transaction du<, frOffl / (to) 2016 2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 MVR MVR MVR MVR Indira Gandhi Memorial Affiliate Sak of goods 354,41 5, 130 255,666,887 143, 110,912 11 3,309,272 Hospital company Payment received (324,566,702) (367,222,572) Scivice obtained (utility bills) (342,752) (360,573) Payment made 295,%4 340,206 Rainbow Enterprises Affiliate Purchase of goods (513,924) (487,092) 679,455 52 1,252 Private Limited company Sale of goods 3,021,646 2, 159, 143 Payment made 395,205 483,907 Interest 879 Payment received (2,744,724) ( 1,629,501) Rasheed Carpentry Common directorship Sak of goods 1,529, 153 369,495 Private Limited of a director Purchase of goods (17,808) Service obtained Renl paid (64,000) Interest 203 Payment made 739,432 Payment received (369,495) (1 ,287,943) Fenaka Corporation Alliliale Sale of foreit:,1J1 currency 1,542,000 (527,795) 88,365, 143 Limited company Service obtained (8,204,144) (5,689,057) Payment made 7,681 , 106 5,894,249 Payment received (89,911,900) Addu lnlemational Affiliate Sale of goods 9,481,945 35,055,839 168,686,02 1 157, 184,035 Airport Private Limited company Transferred from Gan Airport 2,990, 140 Payment received (970,099) (1,482,357) Ministry of Housing Affiliate Sale of goods 54,044,868 48,208,028 74,661 ,227 44,754,964 and Infrastructure company Scivice obtained (90,820) (469,932) Payment made 87,820 170,000 Payment received (24, 135,605) (31 , 170,431) Aasandha Private Limited Affiliate Sale of goods 2 19,767,128 193,9 13,254 96,404,835 I 16,244,056 company Payment received (239,606,349) (138,200,000) 43.2.1 Transactions with key management personnel The Board of Directors and Managing Director of the Company are the members of the key management personnel. Key management personnel compensation comprised the following. 2016 2015 MVR MVR Short term employee benefits 2,996,583 3,330,254 43.2.2 Collectively, but not individually, significant transactions. The Government of Maldives is the major shareholder of the parent company. The Company has transactions with entities directly or indirectly controlled by the Government of Maldives through its authorities, agencies, affiliations and other organizations, collectively referred to as government entities. The Company has transactions with other government related entities including but not limited to sales, purchases, rendering of services, lease of assets and use of public utilities. 59 State Trading Orgamization Plc. STO Head Office Building, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Maafannu, Malé 20345, Republic of Maldives (960) 3344 333, (960) 3344 511 | info@stomaldives.net | www.sto.mv
