Monday, January 9th, 2017 The Company Now in our 42nd year, Dowlis Inspired Branding is proud of our achievements at the forefront of the promotional product industry. As well as being named “Distributor of the Year 2016” by Sourcing City for the third year in a row, Dowlis also achieved the same honors from both the PPE and the British Promotional Merchandise Association. The last twelve months have also stood out as a significant year for us because we are now transferring our successful business model across the Atlantic, opening our first US office in New York over the summer. The United Nations principals have a global reach and we are glad to be in a position to help carry their important message and standards forward. Statement of support from Mr. David Lynn, CEO: I am pleased to confirm that Dowlis Inspired Branding Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our third annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are committed to sharing this information throughout the business and with both our customers and suppliers using our primary channels of communication. The Principles of the United Nations Global Compact:Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses  Our corporate social responsibility code published on our website is based upon the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code and specifically declares our respect of human rights. For anyone to become a supplier to Dowlis, they must first sign this code agreeing to comply with these principles.  A new Employee Handbook was revised and published in 2016 in which the rights of our employees were set out clearly and this remains available for reference as and when required.  In 2016 we implemented an anonymous Equal Opportunities Survey for our staff to fill out in complete confidence.  Dowlis fully recognizes the importance of the UK Modern Day Slavery Act and, although the obligations within the legislation are not directly applicable to our company, we have already adjusted our internal procedures to monitor our supply chain in accordance with the law.  Target: With further training, Dowlis intends to carry out our own spot checks to actively identify any potential breaches of human rights or indicators of Modern Day Slavery amongst our operations and supply base. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. They should aim to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour and strive for the effective abolition of child labour. Discrimination will not be tolerated.  We are an equal opportunities employer and have a published policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and without favour or prejudice. Our Operations Manager has successfully implemented new interview assessment criteria to reflect these principles.  Our company handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. We assess labour related risks and conduct third party audits on those factories we work with to drive transparency through our supply chains and ensure our labour principles are being followed. Should an audit discover any deviation from our CSR code, we work with the supplier to correct the non-conformance or, for major breeches, terminate our business with the factory concerned.  No violations were reported in 2016. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Certified since January 2010 to ISO 14001 regarding Environmental Management Systems.  Certified since January 2010 to ISO 9001 regarding Quality Management Systems.  Dowlis also has had an Environmental Purchasing Policy in place since 2009 which identifies key objectives as part of our procurement process. This policy is communicated to all employees.  Our company has had a Quality and Environmental Management Policy since 2009, which is constantly monitored to ensure we maintain our ISO accreditation.  Company is “paperless” and our usage is monitored as part of our ISO certification.  Environmental targets including fuel use and utility consumption are also regularly monitored and they continue to show a year on year downward trend.  Company has a long term environmental objective to “Reduce, reuse and recycle whenever possible.” Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  Dowlis has a zero-tolerance policy on corruption and bribery, which is outlined in our CSR code and communicated in our Employee handbook.  We use an independent market research company to obtain feedback from our customer base and internally amongst our staff. All surveys are anonymous so that the answers can be freely obtained.  We also thoroughly record and investigate any negative feedback in relation to our supply base.  Any poor feedback is followed up and a resolution reached where possible. Our procedures for action closure are shown to be effective.  We only use internationally accredited and recognized auditing partners to carry out checks on our supply chain, whose impartiality can be relied upon.  Our own company books and accounts are subject to an annual external audit by an independent company.  No violations were reported in 2016. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Dowlis Inspired Branding:Fiona Andrews Purchasing and CSR Manager Dowlis Inspired Branding Ltd +44 (0) 1483 545400 fiona.andrews@dowlis.com
