CEO’s statement 07 A sustainable business concept should keep its promises I have been summing up each year as the best ever for several years now – and I am pleased to be able to do so once again. Daily work at our core Last year, I wrote that we would surpass the one billion Swedish The idea that satisfied customers comprise a growing asset is krona mark in terms of income from property management in hardly new. 2016. And we did. Income from property management increased In fact, it is simple mathematics. Our customers represent 11 percent to SEK 1,030 million. Rental income rose six percent to 100 percent of our income, and that just about says it all. SEK 2,030 million while the operating surplus improved eight perImproving our quality and our customer relationships is a nevercent to SEK 1,513 million. ending journey that continues each and every day. The belief that we have the right approach is rooted firmly among It is through our daily work that we are able to show that we can all of us at Wihlborgs. We have had a clear business strategy since meet the needs and expectations set by our customers. We do not 2004 and it has proved to be more than sustainable – we continualways follow the beaten track – instead we are driven by our cuously develop and refine it in line with new challenges. Despite now riosity and responsiveness to what could be round the corner. Our being three to four times larger than when we started, our direct dialogues with customers are a vital ingredient as they provide us environmental impact is in fact smaller – a result of having clear each day with new insights and understanding of the business comgoals and taking responsibility for our shared future. Being part of munity’s conditions. For us, it is a daily injection of new inspiration. creating sustainable communities that work for those who work and live in them is a major driver for us. It also provides us with continued stable growth and healthy profitability. Year after year. 08 CEO’s statement New initiatives lead to new sider sustainability in everything we do. Every day, we see examples of how the future cannot simply be a continuation of the here and opportunities now – that we cannot merely continue doing what we have always done. New initiatives, new positive examples and a desire to find Our belief in the Öresund region is unshakable and represents an solutions for a more sustainable society are all required. If we can important part of our strategy – to be the dominant commercial produce solutions that are better adapted to the environment, property company in the region. The region accounts for 26 percent either alone or together with our suppliers, then we will. Wihlborgs’ of Denmark and Sweden’s collective GDP and, pleasingly, Denmark environmental initiatives are a natural and integral part of all our has begun to recover after a number of years of economic stagnabusiness activities – and our own daily lives. tion. For this reason, we expanded our presence in Copenhagen One sign of just how integral is that, this year, we are reporting during the year by purchasing 15 properties with a total area of our sustainability initiatives for the first time in the Annual Report, 100,000 m2, and Wihlborgs now manages 400,000 m2 in the to thereby provide an overview of Wihlborgs as a whole. Copenhagen area with a value of SEK 4 billion. As part of our sustainability initiatives, we adopted the principles Malmö remains a powerful growth driver and is definitively on the of the UN Global Compact in 2010 and will continue to support way to becoming a major city. Our ambition here is to be a driving these principles moving forward. force in the new development area of Nyhamnen. Its proximity to the city centre and Malmö Central Station makes the Nyhamnen “Over the years, we have amassed extensive knowledge about business conditions in the region, which has given us the courage and imagination to take initiatives that benefit the region’s development.” area Malmö’s hottest and most expansive area. We have already started constructing the Sirius office building here, which will have Can job satisfaction be certified? space for around 350 people – and the hope is that we will be able Wihlborgs is now certified by Great Place to Work, which helps to expand our presence and contribute to the entire area’s develcompanies evaluate and develop their workplace culture. Truly opment, in the same way as we did in Dockan. On the outskirts of strong workplaces are characterised by positive relationships, pride Malmö, Hyllie remains an attractive location for many companies and trust. who want to be near Copenhagen airport and the wider world, and We usually use “Where job satisfaction matters” to express our here we are building the Dungen office building with occupancy ambition in relation to our tenants – that we do all we can to ensure expected in early 2019. they work in premises that promote their job satisfaction. To a high Lund continues to reinforce its position as a centre of knowledge degree, this also applies to us, however. I cannot adequately exand research, with many world-leading companies looking to relopress my pride and satisfaction when it comes to all of our fantastic cate there to be near the major research facilities MAX IV and ESS. employees who trust one another and enjoy working together. They During the year, Volvo Cars, Continental and Bosch all signed leases deserve the greatest praise for our excellent results. with us to establish operations in Ideon. We are also contributing We all have the same ambition to continue playing an active role to the development of the central areas of Lund by way of the conin the market and believing in both our mission and ourselves. struction of the Posthornet office building. That much I can promise. In Helsingborg, all tenants have now moved into the Knutpunkten extension and we have begun planning a new property in the new development area of Oceanhamnen. Over the years, we have amassed extensive knowledge about business conditions in the region, which has given us the courage and imagination to take initiatives that benefit the region’s development. Instead of waiting for something to happen, we want to be part of making things happen. Malmö, March 2017 Anders Jarl, Chief Executive Officer If it can be done better, we will do it better Our commitment to the region and our shared community help us to think long term. We want to create vibrant urban environments that work for everyone who lives and works there. We also have a responsibility to future generations, which means we actively con-
