CSR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 ABOUT KOMPAN GROUP KOMPAN is the world’s No. 1 playground supplier. We develop, produce and market an extensive range of playground equipment that covers all age groups. All our playgrounds are designed from the ground up to improve childhood health and learning. And all our products offer compelling design, high play value, uncompromising safety, unique innovation and long-lasting quality. For more than 40 years our goal has been to share our knowledge for the benefit of children and young people as well as the adults who work in this field – and it still is. Our unique knowledge centre the KOMPAN Play Institute is a valuable repository of insight into children’s play, health and learning e.g. through research. It’s the perfect complement to our decades of hands-on experience making playgrounds that promote child development. We use this valuable knowledge in our product design to ensure they address key areas of child development great playgrounds are built on knowledge. We aim to operate in a way that not only respects, but also contributes to positive development for people, planet and profit. Contents KOMPAN Communication on Progress for 2016 to United Nations Global Compact.............................................................................3 Human Rights...............................................................................................................4 Labour Standards ........................................................................................................6 Environment..................................................................................................................8 Gender Diversity...........................................................................................................9 Anti-corruption.............................................................................................................11 Efforts For Suppliers ....................................................................................................11 2 WWW.KOMPAN.COM KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2016 TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Statement of continued support by the CEO TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: Furthermore, in 2016 KOMPAN has maintained its environmental profile as reported in earlier COPs. New initiaI am pleased to confirm that KOMPAN reaffirms its suptives are being planned and will be taken in the coming port of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global years. Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In 2016, KOMPAN has maintained its female representation in its Supervisory Board. KOMPAN will also in the In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe future strive to increase the percentage of the underour actions to improve the integration of the Global Comrepresented gender on the supervisory board in accordpact and its principles into our business strategy continuance with the Danish Act on Public and Private Limited ously, culture and daily operations. We also commit to Companies. share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, The focus in 2016 has been the continued implementation of our business ethics policy, including the anti-bribery policy for the entire KOMPAN group of companies. Connie Astrup-Larsen Chief Executive Officer WWW.KOMPAN.COM 3 HUMAN RIGHTS At KOMPAN, we are committed to support and respect Through our business activity, KOMPAN is supporting the internationally declared human rights, and not to be UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child. On a daily complicit in any human rights abuses. Our largest chalbasis, our products encourage and enable children to lenges and risks in terms of human rights are found in play and be active, and this has beneficial impact on our global value chain. We have suppliers located in their development in terms of motor coordination, inAsia, which usually implies higher risks of human rights tellect, and social skills. Our playgrounds also play an violations occurring e.g. in terms of working hours or laimportant role in the efforts against physical inactivity, bour rights. In order to manage these risks KOMPAN has overweight and obesity among children and teenagers. developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, which all suppliKOMPAN wishes to develop playgrounds, which will help ers have to commit to and sign. Our work with the code improve the physique of the children in a safe and fun of conduct and suppliers is elaborated further below. surrounding. Article 31 (Leisure, play and culture): Children have KOMPAN continuously develops and advances our conthe right to relax and play, and to join in a wide range cepts and products. We do this based on the knowledge of cultural, artistic and other recreational activities. (UN we gather in KOMPAN Play Institute where we among Convention on the Rights of the Child). other things do studies on children’s play. In 2016, KOMPAN expanded its outdoor fitness concept further, which will have multiple positive effects on both children and adults. USER -CE NT RIC DE SI USER-CEN GN & PH TRIC YS T MEN IC RES LOP LEA RN ITY EA IN TIV VE AC DE G RC AL H HAPPIER & HEALTHIER SOCIETIES SO CIA L I N TE R A C TI O N PLAY-VALUE 4 WWW.KOMPAN.COM MOMENTS MINI PRESCHOOL Brno, Czech Republic WWW.KOMPAN.COM 5 LABOUR STANDARDS As with human rights, KOMPAN’s primary risks regarding the operating practices are up to date and in compliance the fundamental labour standards are at our suppliers. with health and safety requirements. It further enables We strive to make sure that none of our cooperating our organization to control and gain knowledge of all parties are complicit in using e.g. child labour, forced relevant risks and hazards, and consequently improves labour or prohibiting the right to association and colour performance. The first surveillance audit for our lective bargaining. You can read more about our work Safety Management System was performed by Bureau with ensuring our suppliers comply with our guidelines Veritas in 2016. This audit was passed without any nonfurther below. conformity findings. For KOMPAN’s own activities, we aim to make sure that The amount of lost hours related to accidents (LTA: Lost we provide our employees with a safe working environTime Accidents) has increased to 2480 hours (1560 hours ment, be that in the headquarters in Odense, Denmark, in 2015), corresponding to only 0.7% of the total producor in the factories in Sweden, Germany, the Czech tion time. No serious injuries happened in the company Republic and Poland as well as in our sales companies in 2016. We will continue a structured and managed around the world. Occupational health and safety is an approach to work actively for a safe and healthy workequivalent and integral part of all activities of KOMPAN ing environment for our employees in 2017. We will focus and one of our permanent top priorities. Our Occupaespecially on work safety in wood processing where the tional Health and Safety policy focuses on preventing exposure to injuries is extremely high. In 2017, we are injuries and illness, ensuring that we comply with all going to implement 6S standards (the sixth “S” means legal regulations and that we efficiently and actively SAFETY) in the newly extended wood plant. The sustaininvolve our employees in the matter. As an important ability of 6S standards will be ensured through regular step in this direction, our factory in Czech Republic is audits to identify possible risks. Our aim is to prevent certified according to OHSAS 18001 an occupational accidents and production time loss in the entire plant. health and safety management system. This implies that CROSS SYSTEMS Sundby Sports park, Copenhagen, Denmark 6 WWW.KOMPAN.COM MOMENTS MINI Brno, Czech Republic WWW.KOMPAN.COM 7 ENVIRONMENT As a manufacturer of outdoor playground equipment, KOMPAN’s production plants in Czech Republic and KOMPAN has an integrated approach to environmental Sweden are ISO 14001 certified, which implies a specific considerations. KOMPAN aims to produce sustainable and structured management approach to environmental products with a long lifespan, which require a low level issues. The plants in Czech Republic and Germany have of maintenance. We aim to use materials and technolofurthermore implemented control systems that work for gies, which have minimal impact on the environment, compliance with requirements on active substances in and whenever possible we aim to use FSC-certified accessible components, and independent third party sources. tests are run. In the years to come, KOMPAN will focus even more on how we can minimize the waste of resources and reduce environmental hazards. MOMENTS TODDLER DAISY DESK WITH SEATS, Egeskov, Denmark 8 WWW.KOMPAN.COM MOMENTS TODDLER PONY SEESAW Regnbuen, Denmark GENDER DIVERSITY In accordance with the Danish Act on Public and Private The global gender distribution by the end of 2016 was Limited Companies the Supervisory Board has set a approximately 68% men (2015: 66%) and 32% women target for increasing the percentage of the underrepre(2015: 34%). The proportion of women in global managesented gender on the supervisory board and outlined ment constituted approximately 25% (2015: 25%). The a policy to increase the level of the underrepresented Group will continually strive to increase the number of gender in other managerial functions. The definition of women in the global management and in the Managemanagers is “managers with staff responsibility or manment of KOMPAN A/S by 2025, by having this as a focus agers with special strategic responsibilities in corporate point in the selection process as well as abilities, ambifunctions”. tions and talent. The Management has decided to report on target numWith one woman appointed as member of the superbers and policies for the underrepresented gender in visory board of KOMPAN Holding A/S, the goal of 25% the companies of the Group comprised by the rules, i.e. representation of women on the supervisory board KOMPAN Holding A/S and its subsidiary KOMPAN A/S. within 2020 is met. Excluding the employee-elected Other subsidiaries are not comprised by said rules. board members the boards of both KOMPAN Holding A/S and KOMPAN A/S have an equal representation of women and men (2 men and 1 woman) in both of the companies. WWW.KOMPAN.COM 9 COROCORD München Riem, Germany 10 WWW.KOMPAN.COM ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to In 2016, KOMPAN has continued the implementation sustainable development and free trade. At KOMPAN, of our business ethics policy, including an anti-bribery we do not accept these practices and therefore do not policy. The policy concerns bribery, facilitation payments, accept any kind of undue payment in any of our busigifts/entertainment, political contributions and charity ness transactions. It is our policy that all elements of our contributions. Furthermore, the policy concerns conflicts supply chain and sale must be completely transparent to of interest, treatment of confidential information and everyone interested in knowing more. Principles to work competition law compliance. against anti-corruption are integrated in the supplier code of conduct (read more below). All white-collar employees of the KOMPAN group of companies have participated in and completed a further Anti-corruption is still a relatively new area for KOMPAN e-learning training course in 2016. in terms of working actively with the issue in our own activities. KOMPAN will continue to develop its focus on compliance issues through the coming years. EFFORTS FOR SUPPLIERS As a global manufacturer of outdoor playground equipKOMPAN takes a risk-based approach to our suppliers. ment KOMPAN has to comply with a number of standThis means that our suppliers are grouped according ards in terms of product safety and environment, it is to the risks associated with the characteristics of their therefore central to us, that our suppliers adhere to the geographical location. We have some suppliers from same standards as we do. Our supplier code of conAsia, which we associate with higher risks than e.g. duct describes the requirements KOMPAN expects all suppliers located in Europe. To manage this, we work to our suppliers to adhere to and comply with. The code audit the high-risk suppliers at least once a year. At the of conduct is based on the principles of the UN Global supplier audits, which either are carried out by KOMPAN Compact, and covers the following areas: employees or by third party auditors, a standardised questionnaire is developed, which supports the auditor Child labour, discrimination, forced labour, working enviin including all aspects of our code of conduct are disronment, working hours and salary, the right to organize cussed during the visit. and collective bargaining, right to privacy, environment (pollution prevention and resource reduction, chemicals Also in 2016 more than 99% of our suppliers of raw mateand hazardous materials, air emissions, waste water rials or components have signed the code of conduct. and solid waste, recycling and reuse of materials and products), and corruption. When making new contracts the supplier has to confirm and commit to complying with the code of conduct. If the supplier cannot or will not sign the code of conduct, the engagement will not be made, or the existing agreement will be terminated. WWW.KOMPAN.COM 11 Visit KOMPAN’s website for more financial information Use your QR scanner or download a free application to your mobile: http://reader.kaywa.com www.KOMPAN.com KOMPAN A/S C.F. Tietgens Boulevard 32C DK-5220 Odense SØ Denmark Tel.: +45 63 62 12 50 E-mail: info@KOMPAN.com CVR. nr. 40 55 98 17
