Green UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PT TRAKINDO UTAMA 2016 Document Confidentiality Level: Green The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Statement of Continuous Support PT Trakindo Utama (Trakindo) fully commits to implement the principles of Good Corporate Governance (GCG) as GCG develops vision, process and structure of our company to be sustainable in a long term. The principles of United Nations Global Compact is in line with our commitment and implementation through the ten principles of the global compact that covers the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. As the signatory of the UNGC, we provide disclosures of select activities and program in relation with UNGC principles over the last twelve months. Advancing Indonesian human resources quality to fulfill the needs for qualified human resources in heavy equipment industry, being a good corporate citizen through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program and implementation of Code of Conduct are some highlighted programs among others. Trakindo continually advances ourselves forward, expanding our capabilities, adapting to the ever changing times so we can participate and be part of the endeavor in advancing our nation forward. Jakarta, 17 July 2017 Bari Hamami President Director of PT Trakindo Utama Vision To be the world-class provider of Caterpillar equipment solutions Mission To set up an entity that creates worthwhile and challenging job opportunities to as many Indonesians as possible, while incorporating the following values: • Continuous development of employees • Consistent capital growth (financial, intellectual, brand identity) and reinvestment of capital into the business, and • Maintaining highly ethical business practices Core Values Integrity Proactive We enforce the highest ethical and moral standards, We pursue and adopt new techniques and approaches demonstrating honesty and fairness in all activities. to improve our business quality. Continuous Development Accountability We are committed to continuously developing both We assume responsibility to stakeholders for all the our companies and employees. decisions and actions taken. Excellence Teamwork We continuously strive to achieve the highest We promote and support a multicultural workforce standard of result. based on trust and respect, achieving goals by communicating appropriately. Corporate Citizenship Helping Prepare a Better Future for the Indonesian People Compassionate Education Environment Health Relief • Focus on people development • Commitment to energy • Consistently maintain the • Community empowerment for through education and good conservation & pollution workplace safety and health of disaster survivors character building control, water conservation and our people • Program: in Aceh tsunami and • Collaboration of Trakindo’s waste management • Program: HIV/AIDS prevention earth quake, Mentawai employees and their families, • Program: save water, save in workplace, blood donation, tsunami, Wasior flash flood, students and their parents and energy, save paper campaign zero accident, one million workMerapi eruption and Sinabung the local communities. hour without LTI earthquake. • Program: Coop Program and 40 SDN Area 1: Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Trakindo has been actively takes part in skilled human resources development. We provide training programs for technicians such as Technician Development Program to develop skills and competencies as well as enhance services to our customers. Learning and development play an important role in the effectiveness of organizations and to the experiences of people in work.One of key element of an organization’s learning strategy is to target the long-term development of those identified as exceptionally high-performing or high-potential individuals (known as ‘talent’), who are critical to long-term business. L&D helps business goals through various learning & development solutions including designing curriculum, defining appropriate delivery methods and evaluating the implementation of the program. The key elements includes business academies, leadership, talent management, and learning infrastructure & support. The implementation of L&D spread across the 11 Trakindo’s Training and Satellite training Centers. Corporate Citizenship Program To support the human rights of Trakindo’s stakeholders, Trakindo committed to support the National Government improving the quality of education. Trakindo has been assisting 40 State Elementary School Schools as well as nine Vocational Schools and six Polytechnics in Heavy equipment under COOP Program. The program are sustainable and started from 1996. Policies In 2016, MOU with Directorate General for Teachers and Educational Staff, Ministry of Education and Culture, Republic of Indonesia was signed to recognize Trakindo’s contribution in developing Teachers skills and competencies in state elementary schools and vocational schools Implementation Under COOP program, nearly 50 teachers and lecturers were trained in Trakindo’s training Centers with various technical heavy equipment trainings Trakindo managed to provide three-year scholarship for 24 students to continue their education from vocational school level to Polytechnic level under heavy equipment studies. This is the third year of COOP scholarships with more than 80 students awarded scholarships since 2014. More than 300 students were selected under COOP program and Trakindo supported the schools with curriculum, competencies sets, on the job trainings for students, teacher trainings, competency certification and annual competition. Under 40 State Elementary School Program, Trakindo assisted the schools to be the model schools in Character Building Education through School Assistance and Teachers Training Program Area 2 : Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Trakindo committed to continuously developing their employees and put the employees as valuable assets for the Company, by then Trakindo continuously strive to maintain good relations with its employees. Several programs have been conducted by unit Employee Engagement under the Human Capital Division to maintain the relations, through: Industrial relations Employee relations Corporate culture and Employee Value Preposition The implementation of managing employer-employee relationships includes provide advice and resolve industrial complaints/ disputes, Labor law services & government relations, updating all policies and procedures related to , labor law implementation, employee engagements, employee care and employee surveys amongst others. Area 3: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. POLICY AND ISO SHE policy was revised in 2014. One point was adopted from the latest environmental laws No 32 Year 2009. It stated about “environmental protection”, which means that Trakindo show more supports to protect the environment. The Policy stated that PT Trakindo Utama committed to: 1. Comply all government regulations and other applicable requirements. 2. Create and increase SHE awareness. 3. Implement, maintain and prioritize a high quality SHE System at all work areas. 4. Identify all hazards and effectively manage the associated risks. 5. Encourage all employees to take full responsibility for all SHE aspects within their work areas. 6. Commit to prevent work-related injury and illness. 7. Ensure occupational health of all employees, including but not limited to HIV/AIDS prevention and management and abuse of narcotics and dangerous substances. 8. Effectively manage all environmental aspects and impacts throughout the work areas. 9. Ensure environmental protection and management at all work areas. 10. Provide coaching and training to all employees to make them support SHE system implementation as stated by the policy. 11. Ensure that the objectives of this policy are socialized to all employees, customers suppliers, visitors and other stakeholders. Area 3: Environment Environment Campaign 2016 Area 4: Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals The commitment of Good Corporate Governance (GCG) for Trakindo is clear as one tool for enhancing long term and sustainable value and growth in the company, not only for our shareholders but also for our stakeholders For that reason, Good Corporate Governance is clearly stipulated in the adoption and application of Code of Conduct. The code of conduct is based on our Core Values Corporate Values to regulate behavior in order to achieve consistent results in shaping the culture of the company Implementation The Code of Conduct applies in all individuals that come within the company including BOCs, BODs, supporting organs of BOCs and employees. The code of Conduct describes the core values in day-to-day basis. The details explained in the form of SOP. All the members of Trakindo are required to sign a personal commitment on an annual basis. Internalization and familiarization campaign are done in all area of company’s operations.
