Development GRI Performance Responsibility Compliance ISO 14001 Support Carbon Audit Emissions Impact COP 21 Ethics Customer Climate Change NGO SDGs Value Added Green Bond Target Respect Climate Protection Diversity Development Support Emissions Responsibility NGO Value Added Compliance ISO 14001 Carbon Impact COP 21 Ethics Customer Climate Change SDGs Claim Green Bond Target Performance Respect SDGs GRI Climate Protection Diversity Compliance Performance Responsibility Audit Emissions Compliance ISO 14001 Carbon Impact COP 21 Ethics Customer Climate Change SDGs Claim NGO Green Bond Target Respect GRI Climate Protection Ethics Diversity Customer Impact Deka Group Sustainability Report 2016 Deka Group – Key Figures 2016 BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 Balance sheet total €m 107,981 85,955 Total assets €m 240,045 256,805 thereof retail customers €m 123,058 128,650 thereof institutional customers €m 116,987 128,155 Number of securities accounts (thousand) 4,054 4,289 2015 2016 Net sales 1 €m 19,505 16,914 thereof retail customers €m 10,196 7,710 thereof institutional customers €m 9,308 9,204 SUSTAINABILITY RATING 2 oekom research Prime C Prime C+ MSCI AA AA imug Positive Positive Sustainalytics points 73 73 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Volume of sustainable retail funds € bn 1.9 2.1 Managed capital in sustainable products (securities) € bn 6.6 10.1 Share of certified buildings in property funds 3 % 60 62 Sustainable investment volume of Depot A proprietary investments € bn 15.2 18.2 SUSTAINABLE HR MANAGEMENT Number of employees group-wide 4,277 4,406 4 Germany 3,858 3,993 Proportion of women in Germany % 39.5 39.1 Proportion of women in leadership positions in Germany % 17.8 18.8 Part-time ratio in Germany % 16.7 16.8 Turnover rate in Germany % 3.9 3.1 Financial cost of further training in Germany € / employee 1.001 973 SUSTAINABLE BANKING 5 Power consumption kWh 11,638,888 11,531,527 Energy consumption kWh 19,511,111 19,553,131 Paper consumption 6 t 559 530 Drinking water consumption m 3 36.330 34.954 Volume of waste generated t 326 302 Business trips (group-wide) km 21,466,250 23,449,772 GHG direct kg 1,859,778 2,087,588 GHG indirect kg 7,183,277 4,937,619 GHG other indirect kg 3,364,716 3,567,898 GHG 7 emissions (total) kg 12,407,771 10,593,106 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Expenditure for foundations, donations and sponsoring €m 1.92 1.36 1 From 1.1. – 31.12. (includes business divisions of securities and real estate). 5 Figures (excluding service travel and paper consumption) refer to the four buildings 2 Last updated: imug: 23.12.2016 (uncovered bonds neutral CC, public-sector bonds in Frankfurt am Main. positive B, mortgage bonds positive BB); MSCI: 27.04.2016; oekom research: 6 Comprises: Letterhead, pre-printed documents, envelopes, forms, copier paper 07.09.2016; Sustainalytics: 19.06.2015; see also section “Sustainable Corporate (general office paper), promotional printed materials / publications. Governance”. 7 The GHG Protocol covers five other greenhouse gases in addition to CO2: Methane, 3 See section “Sustainable products”. nitrous oxide, sulphur hexafluoride and two groups of fluorinated hydrocarbons. 4 The newly-arrived 150 employees of S broker are not included and are listed separately in the Section “Sustainable HR management”. Contents 1. Preface: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2 2. Sustainable corporate governance 4 2.1 Profile 4 2.2 Strategic anchoring of sustainability 4 2.3 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis 4 2.4 Regulations and standards 5 2.5 Compliance 6 2.6 Data protection 7 2.7 Complaint management and customer satisfaction 8 2.8 Ideas management 9 2.9 Sustainability rating 9 3. Sustainable products 11 3.1 Responsible investment 11 3.2 Sustainability in asset management real estate 14 3.3 Sustainability in lending business 16 4. Sustainable HR management 18 4.1 HR strategy 18 4.2 HR management 19 4.3 Training and further professional development 20 4.4 Equality 21 4.5 Workplace safety and health management 24 5. Sustainable banking 27 5.1 Environmental management system 27 5.2 Procurement 27 5.3 Climate protection 28 5.4 Waste and consumption of resources 28 6. Corporate citizenship 30 6.1 Social engagement 30 6.2 Education and science 30 6.3 Art and architecture 31 6.4 Sport 32 6.5 Donations 32 Independent environmental assurance statement 33 This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Version G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The sector-specific provisions for financial services providers (Financial Services Sector Supplement) were also taken into consideration. As a rule, all the information provided in the report relates to the calendar year 2016, any exceptions to this have been indicated accordingly. 2 Global Compact Communication on Progress 1. Preface: Global Compact Communication on Progress Ladies and Gentlemen, This forum will be used even more in the future to help us deal with the business model and the company “Deka wants to give voice to four management goals constructively, critically and with a million investors” – was the headline long-term perspective. In addition to strategy, yield and in the Frankfurter Allgemeine on 11th finances, questions of good corporate governance and social and environmental issues will also play a role. October of last year. The reason for Also, we will continue to actively address these issues the headline was the announcement in our direct contacts with the companies whose shares and bonds we purchase for the customers and for our of Deka Investment GmbH to take a own investments. In the past year, there were about more active part in the annual general 1,600 instances of such direct business contact. meetings of the companies which their We also continue with the development of the sustainable customers hold shares in, even more so Corporate Governance of the Deka Group with the same than in the past. In 2016, analysts and conviction with which we demand that businesses comply with social and environmental standards and standards of portfolio managers of Deka investment good corporate governance. An important step in this GmbH visited nearly 230 annual genprocess was the integration of our sustainability strategy eral meetings and voted on around into the business strategy in 2014. For the five key areas of action outlined in this report, we have defined the cen2,930 agenda items. tral focal points and desired objectives in the approved business strategy for 2016. As a result of the decisions of the Paris Conference on Climate Change in December 2015 and the agreement on limiting the global temperature increase to a maximum of two degrees Celsius, we attribute particular importance to the issue of climate change in the current business strategy. The critical remarks on climate change and climate policy which we are currently hearing from various corners have no effect on our resolve to commit to protecting the climate. However, these remarks may have an effect on the international framework conditions and schedules. We will Global Compact Communication on Progress 3 observe these developments and analyse the possible With the 2016 Sustainability Report, we make it clear for impact on our business activity. our stakeholders customers and employees, shareholders and business partners what we have achieved in the field The volume of sustainable investments managed by Deka of sustainability management and where we want to be has increased. At the end of 2016, we had invested even better. The report also provides information about around 28.4 billion euros with consideration of social and how we are progressing in the implementation of the ten environmental criteria and criteria aimed at encouraging principles of the UN Global Compact, which we committed good corporate governance. This included more than ten to in 2011. These concern the areas of human rights, billion euros from our private and institutional customers, labour standards, environmental protection and fighting for which we have continually expanded our offering of corruption. As in the previous year, the report is based on sustainable investment solutions in recent years. The the guidelines of the recognised Global Reporting Initiative sustainability filter introduced in 2014 for our proprietary (GRI), Version G4 including industry-specific supplements investments has proven itself in practice. The filter excludes for financial service providers. The GRI Content Index can companies with controversial business activities from be found on our website www.deka.de. capital investment. We are convinced that we act both in the interests of In 2016, we were positively assessed by sustainability our stakeholders as well as society with the consistent analysts for this special commitment in the field of implementation and continuous further development sustainable investments and also for our comprehensive of our sustainability management. services in other fields of activity of our sustainability management. In 2017, we will continue to speak out on issues of economically, ecologically and socially sustainable We are particularly pleased that the renowned sustainadevelopment. bility rating agency oekom research has again awarded us the coveted “oekom prime” status. It is only awarded With best wishes to companies that meet the stringent requirements of the agency for comprehensive sustainability management. In the evaluation, we were able to improve further and achieve the overall grade C+ for the first time. Of the total of 82 companies in the comparison group, only four other companies achieved at least this rating. Also, we were able to maintain the significantly above-average ratings from the rating agencies specialised in sustainabilMichael Rüdiger ity aspects, imug and MSCI ESG, in the year under review. CEO WE SUPPORT 4 Sustainable corporate governance 2. Sustainable corporate governance With the “Düsseldorf Declaration” of the 25th German Savings Banks Conference, the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe further developed strategic guidelines for sustainable development in April 2016. The implementation for Deka Group, the Wertpapierhaus for the saving banks, took place in the autumn of 2016 with the adoption of the 2017 business strategy. 2.1 further optimise and extend its range of products for Profile private customers and institutional customers. The DekaBank is in the legal form of an institution under public law with headquarters in Frankfurt am Main and 2.3 Berlin and acts as the Wertpapierhaus of its owners, the Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis savings banks. “DekaBank already held a wide consultation with imug on the key issues of sustainability in 2015. Different groups of DekaBank has divided its activities from the beginning of stakeholders expressed the importance of 25 individual 2017 into five business divisions: Asset Management Secuissues in five areas of activity. rities, Asset Management Real Estate, Asset Management Services, Capital Markets and Trading. These work with DekaBank used the results to place a stronger focus on one another and very closely with the Savings Bank Sales & sustainability management and the product range. To take Marketing Department and the central areas. the expectations of DekaBank customers even better into account, we evaluated a representative survey of the The Sustainability Management department is part of the savings banks on the issues in 2016, in which the products Corporate Office & Communications in the department of of DekaBank were the main focus. Here, we were able to the Chairman of the Board of Management and coordianalyse the wishes of the customer stakeholder group in nates all appropriate activities in the Deka Group on behalf relation to the sustainability activities of DekaBank in detail. of the Board of Management. It is the internal contact for The results confirm the focus from the 2015 survey on the all organisation units and also assumes this function with issues of corporate governance and the products as closely respect to all external stakeholders – in particular to comas possible, but also provide additional findings. We have panies and institutions in the savings bank financial group, the opportunity to bring together our experience in the sustainability rating agencies and non-governmental market for sustainable financial investments with our organisations. in-house market research. This meant we could create an exact materiality analysis for DekaBank, which both corre2.2 sponds to the requirements of the Global Reporting InitiaStrategic anchoring of sustainability tive as well as statistical and market research standards.” 1 At the end of 2014, the Board of Management of DekaBank decided to forego a separate sustainability strategy The Sustainability Report is based on the guidelines of the from the 2015 financial year and to establish these specifiGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI), Version G4 as well as the cations as part of the business strategy. This made sustainspecific supplements relevant for the financial services ability a core part of the business policy orientation, industry (financial services sector supplement). It corretransparent to the Administrative Board and supervision. sponds to the “core” report level and was examined by an independent expert. Strategic Transformation Programme D18 The Strategic Transformation Programme D18 was The Deutscher Sparkassenund Giroverband (DSGV) and adopted by the Board of Management at the end of the German Council for Sustainable Development (Rat für 2012. The aim of the program is the further development Nachhaltige Entwicklung – RNE) concluded a cooperation to the Wertpapierhaus of the savings banks to the year agreement for the German Sustainability Code (DNK) at 2018, in which Deka enters its 100th year. At the end the end of 2013. of 2015, sustainability projects were integrated into the transformation program. In particular, Deka intends to 1 Quote by Dr. Annika Schudak, Manager for Stakeholder and Materiality Analyses, imug Beratungsgesellschaft für sozial-ökologische Innovationen mbH. Sustainable corporate governance 5 THE “DÜSSELDORFER ERKLÄRUNG” FROM THE 2016 GERMAN SAVINGS BANKS CONFERENCE Basis for the continued development of the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe Business strategy Philosophy Code of ethics incl. sustainability Deka Group strategy Deka Group Deka Group Deka Group SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES managed as 5 different areas of activity SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE HR SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE CORPORATE PRODUCTS MANAGEMENT BANKING CITIZENSHIP GOVERNANCE REPORTING AND COMMUNICATION ON SUSTAINABILITY foundation for Deka Group sustainability ratings Together with Sparkasse Hanover, DekaBank was among relevant manager evaluates compliance with the code in the first signatories and has recognised the German Susthe framework of the annual appraisal meeting. Violations tainability Code. Since 2013, it has provided an annual may lead to employment measures, civil and criminal prodeclaration of conformity which is published on the pages cedures up to and including termination of contract. The of the RNE. With the observance of these standards – GRI code can be viewed in its current version of 1 June 2014 and DNK – the Deka Group has already laid the basis for on the Deka Group website (only German version). the fulfilment of the European CSR Directive, applied in Germany in March 2017 for the financial year 2017. Sustainability issues are an integral part of the communicaQUOTE FROM THE CODE OF ETHICS tion strategy of the Deka Group and a regular part of communications with all relevant stakeholder groups. Deka “As the Wertpapierhaus of the promptly informs stakeholders, whether shareholders, savings banks, we have committed customers, employees or the general public, about sustainourselves in terms of our owners to ability-related events and developments. Deka uses the conducting sustainable business for entire spectrum of available communication channels, from employee media about press dates to customer events. customers, employees, the environment and society. We are committed 2.4 to sustainable corporate governance, Regulations and standards the hallmarks of which are liability Internal regulations and standards The code of ethics is a binding framework for all internal and transparency.” employees, managers and the Board of Management of Deka as well as for third parties operating on behalf of the Deka Group. It is the basis for a legally-compliant, open, transparent and added-value oriented corporate culture of External regulations and standards the Deka Group and among other things, contains a clear In addition to internal guidelines of behaviour, the commitcommitment to sustainability. ment of the Deka Group to sustainable development is also emphasised by the recognition of national and international Compliance with the requirements of the code of ethics standards. This includes the accession to UN Global Comhas been verified uniformly for all employees of the Deka pact in 2011 and the consequent obligation to implement Group since the 2016 financial year. In this verification, the the ten principles of responsible corporate governance. 6 Sustainable corporate governance RELEVANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AT Deka Results of the 2016 stakeholder survey RELEVANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS FURTHER HIGH INFORMATION Fairness towards customers S ustainable corporate governance (see p. 4 et seq). S ustainable products (see p. 11 et seq). Serious and reliable business management S ustainable human resources management (see p. 18 et seq). S ustainable banking (see p. 27 et seq). Promotion of economic C  orporate citizenship Fair and Proprietary investments: development in the region (see p. 30 et seq). attractive Consideration of social and employer ecological aspects Promotion of social and cultural projects Energy conservation MEDIUM and climate protection Financing: Consideration of social and environmental aspects Sustainable savings and investment products LOW MEDIUM HIGH RELEVANCE FOR Deka (Basis: self-assessment) They relate to human and employment rights, environactivities at general meetings described in the section mental protection and the fight against corruption. ”Sustainable products”, Deka Investment further strengthens its commitment in this area. It reports annually on DekaBank has also committed to complying with the these and other measures in the framework of an RI TransEquator Principles (EP). The focus of these principles is parency Report, which is available on the PRI website. the consideration of social and environmental standards in international project financing. DekaBank reports 2.5 annually on the implementation of the principles in the Compliance relevant financing, the corresponding report is published The Compliance corporate centre plays a major role in on the EP website. ensuring that DekaBank always acts in line with the applicable statutory and regulatory arrangements as well as its In order to abide by the values of responsible investment, own – sometimes even stricter – guidelines. It covers all the signatories commit to observe the Principles for issues relating to capital-market and real-estate compliResponsible Investment (PRI), which Deka Investment ance, MaRisk compliance, tax compliance and information GmbH has observed since 2012. The principles provide security management. It is also responsible for combating for the integration of social and environmental criteria money laundering, terrorism financing, implementing EU and criteria related to good corporate governance (ESG sanctions and embargoes and preventing fraud and other criteria) in the analysis and decision-making processes criminal activities. in capital investment. The corporate centre develops Group-wide standards and Also, the signatory commits to address the businesses guidelines on relevant issues and provides corresponding in whose shares or bonds they are invested on the training programmes and advice on their implementation. observance of ESG standards. Through the expansion of It is also heavily involved in projects and processes geared Sustainable corporate governance 7 towards ensuring that the Deka Group meets regulatory datenschutzgesetz – BDSG) and the corresponding state requirements and that potential conflicts of interest are data protection laws. The purpose of BDSG, as set out in identified at an early stage and avoided as far as possible. Section 1 of the Act, is to protect individuals from any The corporate centre carries out monitoring and control infringement of their (constitutionally protected) personal tasks at all levels of banking operations and is dedicated to rights caused by the handling of their personal data. the systematic management of potential compliance risks. DekaBank’s Data Protection unit works to ensure that the Consulting and Training BDSG and other data protection regulations are observed The regulations and processes to comply with the statutory within the Deka Group in Germany. The Data Protection and regulatory requirements often apply to individual Officer reports directly to the Board of Management or, in employees. To inform employees on the aspects relevant his capacity as an external Data Protection Officer, to the for them, Compliance provides mandatory training in the management of subsidiaries. To avoid conflicts of interest, entire Deka Group, there is additional training for selected the Data Protection Officer is independent of the Compliemployees. If necessary, additional ad hoc training is ance corporate centre and is based in a separate unit in provided. The training concept is based on presence trainthe Legal corporate centre. ing in combination with web-based training courses and training letters. In order to ensure that the requirements of data protection law are complied with, DekaBank’s Data Protection unit Fighting corruption has set up a data protection management system. It has In the fight against corruption, the Deka Group has reguestablished processes to ensure that statutory requirements lated under which strict framework conditions gifts and concerning data protection are implemented during the invitations as well as any other benefits from and to third planning, commissioning and operation data processing parties may be accepted or given. The approval process is systems and after those data systems are withdrawn from set in writing and is the same for all employees including use. The processes are also documented in a comprehenthe organs of management, and its content is generally sive data protection concept. This describes, among other made known by corresponding publications. things, which aspects must be taken into consideration during the processing of the personal data. In principle, employees may not accept or give gifts or invitations in connection with their work either for themInter alia, the Data Protection unit uses the following selves or on behalf of third parties, insofar as this could measures to ensure that data protection processes are affect the interests of DekaBank or its customers. The implemented: granting of gifts and invitations, provided that they comply with the applicable laws and other standards, is compatible Development of internal procedures and guidelines with common market practice to a certain degree. Howfor the practical implementation of the data protection ever, because the professional independence of all parties provisions, may be in question, the employees are encouraged to Monitoring and coordination of the technical avoid the mere emergence of conflicts of interest. and organisational measures required to ensure the protection of personal data, The experts of the Compliance team are available to all Checking processes etc. for compliance with data employees for assistance with questions regarding integrity. protection regulations. Their contact details are communicated to employees when they join the company and are accessible on the Prevention of money laundering and intranet and in training documents. Procedures and controls whistleblowing system in the specialist units, but also within the Compliance unit With the “Minimum Standards for the Prevention of Money itself serve the purpose of preventing and detecting irreguLaundering”, DekaBank, as a parent company, ensures larities and are an integral part of the compliance managecompliance with the duty of care in terms of the Money ment system of the Deka Group. Laundering Act (MLA) and of the German Banking Act (KWG) so that there is transparency regarding customers 2.6 and the underlying shareholder structure in Germany as Data protection well as in subsidiary companies. Data protection management In the Federal Republic of Germany, data protection is All employees are obligated to comply with banking regulated by the German Data Protection Act (Bundessecrecy and data protection by way of a corresponding 8 Sustainable corporate governance declaration in the context of their contract of employment protection with employees at their own PC workstation. at the beginning of the employment relationship. This is After successful completion of the training, a participation according to the respective country-specific laws (Germany, certificate is automatically generated as proof of the trainLuxembourg). ing. The data protection unit documents participations and evidence. All new employees are requested in writing to A whistleblowing system ensures that reports can be made making themselves familiar with the principles of data proconfidentially regarding illegal or dishonest acts to the tection using this e-learning programme. Localised learning DekaBank Ombudsman by employees, but also by third at the workplace is supplemented by classroom training. parties. The Ombudsman examines the facts of the case and passes the relevant information in respect of confidenAudits tiality to DekaBank. As a lawyer, the Ombudsman is subject Pursuant to Section 4g of the BDSG, the Data Protection to the legal obligation of discretion. The whistleblowing Officer works to ensure compliance with the requirements system ensures the anonymity and protection of whistleof data protection law. This also involves data protection blowers. audits carried out in the specialist units. Each data protection audit follows an audit plan and usually also involves Raising awareness and knowledge of employees spot checks; the results are documented and brought to The tasks of the data protection officer include providing the attention to the specialist unit. employees with relevant information on the subject of data protection. This includes, for example, the explanation of Reporting system the most important requirements of data protection legisA reporting system has been established to inform the lation and data security measures to avoid hazardous activBoard of Management and the management of subsidiary ities of employees. The information is provided via different companies of any compliance deficiencies or risks that are communication channels, including the intranet and the identified. employee magazine. In addition, employees must complete regular online tests on questions of data protection. The The Board of Management and the relevant management data protection legal newsletter has also become an inteteams at subsidiary companies are also regularly informed gral part of employee information material. of the findings of the data protection audits and made aware of any data protection risks. A reporting system has In accordance with Section 4g Para. 1 Sentence 4 No. 2 also been implemented for local money laundering and BDSG, data protection officers must familiarise all employfraud officers to report to the Group money laundering or ees involved in the processing of personal data with the fraud officer. aim and content of the data protection legislation. In addition, each employee is obliged to ensure that personal data 2.7 does not come into unauthorised hands or is made accessiComplaint Management and ble, and therefore, as required in Section 5 of the BDSG, Customer Satisfaction must also be committed to confidentiality. Complaint Management The Bank has implemented a comprehensive complaints A central concern is teaching individual employees about procedure for customers, which ensures an effective the high significance of data protection for DekaBank. and transparent procedure for dealing with complaints. Employees must be particularly informed about their rights For years, regulatory audits have confirmed proper and and obligations as a person acting in data protection and adequate complaint processing. The number of customer the risks for the company and the employees themselves complaints within the Deka Group has been declining for connected with a violation of the applicable provisions. years. In the reporting year, there were 3,515 complaints This also includes providing information on possible sancfrom approximately four million customers, about 16 per tions as a result of violations of the measures to ensure cent less than in the previous year (4,203). This marks the compliance with the data protection and data security. lowest number since documentation began in the year 2004. Training measures The e-learning programme has proven to be particularly Incoming customer complaints are immediately forwarded efficient in recent years in conducting training on data to the responsible specialist unit and processed 2. Customers 2 The European Commission has set up a European online dispute settlement platform. Consumers can use the online dispute settlement platform for the out-of-court settlement of disputes arising from purchase or service agreements concluded online. Sustainable corporate governance 9 are also free to contact the ombudsman services of the The results of the surveys are an important basis for the Bundesverband Öffentlicher Banken Deutschlands (VÖB) strategic further development of products and services as and Bundesverband Investment und Asset Management well as the sales alignment. e.V. (BVI), the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) or the regulator in Luxembourg – the Commis2.8 sion de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). In the year Ideas management under review, DekaBank received 21 (2015: 22) complaints Since October 2015, employees have been able to via this route. contribute their ideas for the improvement of processes or for new products and services on a DekaBank webDuring the reporting period, no complaints were received based platform. The crowdsourcing approach of this platvia formal procedures in relation to the impact of our activform enables their participation in the further development ities on ecological matters or human rights, or on issues and evaluation of the published ideas. Comments can be associated with corruption. used to develop an idea jointly in ideal cases. Information on potential problems and risks are also helpful for the Complaint management makes an important contribution relevant specialist area, which decides whether or not an to the public image of the Deka Group. DekaBank won idea is implemented. second prize among fund companies at the 2016 German Fairness Awards. In the category of transparency, in which, In the year 2016, employees submitted a total of 137 among other things, the reaction of the fund companies in ideas, 88 of which were published on the platform. Four the event of a fault is evaluated, DekaBank is Number One. ideas were awarded with a cash prize amounting to a total DekaBank also claimed a very commendable 2nd Place in of 25,700 euros, 15 further employees received gifts. The the “Service Champion 2016” award of the newspaper proposals lead to more revenue or reduced expenditure DIE WELT. totalling over 110,000 euros. A customer satisfaction survey of Deka held among the 2.9 savings banks every two years, the last one at the end of Sustainability rating 2016, showed a significant increase in satisfaction with Due to the continuously increasing number of investors the complaint management of Deka in comparison to the taking EGS criteria into account in their investment deciprevious study. sions, dialogue with sustainability rating agencies has gained significantly in importance in the last few years. Customer Satisfaction On behalf of investors, the agencies regularly evaluate the The same study in which the savings banks were addressed quality of sustainability management at the Deka Group in their role as intermediaries, also showed a high overall and provide investors with these to form the basis for their satisfaction with the services of DekaBank. 60 per cent of investment decision. the participating 1,276 Board of Managements members, directors and advisors rated the services of DekaBank The sustainability ratings are relevant to the Deka Group as “excellent” or “very good”. This was an 11 percentage in several respects: as an issuer of public bonds, mortgage point increase compared to the previous year. A further 37 bonds and bearer bonds, it is important for Deka Group to per cent rated the performance of DekaBank as “good”, meet the requirements of sustainability-oriented investors only 3 per cent as “average” or “bad”. to place their bonds successfully in the market. At the same time the requirements of key stakeholders of the Also, a second survey of the savings banks as institutional Deka Group, such as environmental organizations, human business customers from the year 2016 showed a very high rights organizations and trade unions, are reflected in the level of satisfaction of the savings banks with the different criteria used by the agencies. Finally, the Deka Group also performance areas of DekaBank. Around 45 per cent of uses the sustainability ratings as the basis for a regular the total 262 contact partners from 216 savings banks analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of its sustainabilrated their cooperation with DekaBank in institutional busiity management in comparison to other banks. ness as “excellent” or “very good”. Therefore, the rating of 40 per cent from the previous survey of 2014, which was The current sustainability ratings demonstrate the abovealready commendable, could be exceeded once again. The average commitment of the Deka Group in the area of savings banks rated the advice and support as well as the sustainability: information supplied by the DekaBank particularly highly. 10 Sustainable corporate governance RATING AGENCIES 1 confirm the sustainability of our business management Rating: AA Rating: C+ (Prime) Rating: 73 out of 100 points Rating uncovered bonds: Ranking: #10 of 133 Ranking: #2 of 82 Outperformer (Top 10 % worldwide) neutral (CC) Ranking: #27 of 407 Rating public bonds: positive (B) MSCI ESG, the sustainability secoekom research AG again tion of MSCI, assesses the quality awarded Deka Group 2016 with From Sustainalytics, the Deka Rating mortgage bonds: of sustainability management with the coveted oekom Prime Status. Group received 73 out of a possipositive (BB) a very good AA rating. With this, In the rating, the Deka Group ble 100 points in its current rating Deka Group reached 10th place in was able to improve further and and is classified by the agency as the total of 133 analysed banks. achieve the overall grade of C+. In its assessment imug rating an “outperformer”. Being ranked Of the total of 82 companies in assesses the three categories of 27th out of 407 rated banks in the comparison group, only three uncovered bonds, public bonds the world is a very good result. other companies have achieved and mortgage bonds. In all three this rating, one has achieved a B-. categories, the Deka Group achieves aboveaverage ratings compared with the industry sector. 1 Version: MSCI: 27.04.2016; sustainalytics: 19.6.2015; oekom: 07.09.2016; imug: 23.12.2016. Sustainable products 11 3. Sustainable products Taking sustainability criteria into account in capital investment and in the lending business is not only an expression of our corporate citizenship. Moreover, independent analyses show that the inclusion of criteria related to social and environmental issues and good corporate governance mean that risks are better assessed and thus reduced in investment and financing decisions. In addition to our corporate citizenship, a fiduciary responsibility toward our customers also comes into this. We satisfy this through the use of the exclusion criteria for investment and financing, the comprehensive assessment of the social and environmental quality of issuers, borrowers and real estate as well as the active use of our influence in the companies whose shares or bonds we hold. 3.1 fund DekaSelect: Nachhaltigkeit as well as the equity fund Responsible investment Deka-UmweltInvest which exclusively invests in companies Proprietary investments from the fields of climate and environmental protection, As a pioneer among system-relevant banks in Europe and water management and renewable energy investments. Germany, DekaBank has implemented a sustainability filter for all new investments across all proprietary investments At the end of 2015, DekaBank, in cooperation with the which was developed in cooperation with the sustainability sustainability rating agency oekom research, created the rating agency imug. Since 2016, DekaBank has also used index fund Deka Oekom Euro Nachhaltigkeit UCITS ETF the corresponding sustainability ratings of MSCI ESG in for institutional investors. The two funds Deka-Stiftungen addition to the sustainability ratings for companies and Balance and Deka-Kirchen Balance, the last-mentioned countries compiled by imug and their international partner, created in December 2015, are also open to institutional Vigeo Eiris. investors. In the current foundation fund ranking of the fund advisor Fonds Consult, Deka-Stiftungen Balance has At the core of the filter is a catalogue of exclusion criteria in climbed to 3rd place of the overall rankings with an overall the fields of environment, armour, human and labour rights rating of “very good”. Detailed profiles of all funds can be as well as corruption. Issuers of securities who violate one found on the Deka website. In addition to the funds, Dekaor more of these exclusion criteria are excluded from investBank offers institutional investors individual investment ment. As at 31 Dec 2016, approximately 18.2 billion euros solutions, in which the respective sustainability-related of proprietary investments in securities were managed requirements and criteria are fully taken into account. under application of the proprietary investment filter. Awards for the fund Deka-Nachhaltigkeit Renten demonstCapital market-based investment products rate once again that sustainability criteria and good perforSustainability criteria are also used in the management of mance are not exclusive. At the end of 2016, the fund was public funds. This is why funds managed by Deka Investawarded as the best fund in Germany and Austria at the ment GmbH, as a matter of principle, do not invest in comFERI Awards 2017 in the category “European Pensions” and panies which produce anti-personnel landmines and cluster was also able to come ahead of conventional pension funds. munitions (“cluster bombs”). Also, DekaBank issues no products which track the price of basic foodstuffs. The fund was also awarded a prize at the Austrian Lipper Fund Awards in 2016. In the explanatory statement, Lipper For private and institutional investors who particularly wish noted that the fund shows that sustainable investments to consider ESG criteria, Deka Investment GmbH has laundoes not rule out excellent investment results. ched a number of appropriate investment products in the last few years. The “Deka-Nachhaltigkeit” fund family Sustainable investments in securities in the DekaBank currently comprises these three funds: Deka-Nachhaltigkeit Depot are available from 25 euros. The fund Deka-NachAktien, Deka-Nachhaltigkeit Renten and Deka-Nachhaltighaltigkeit Aktien is also particularly suitable for investing keit Balance. The offer also includes the asset management capital-forming benefits. From January 2017, it will be 12 Sustainable products possible for customers, upon conclusion of the DekaExercising the right to vote and dialogue Zukunftsplan to choose a Riester fund savings plan in the with business Select version as a block of shares in the Deka-NachhaltigIn addition to the application of exclusion and positive keit Aktien and as a pension unit in the Deka-Nachhaltigcriteria, the exercise of voting rights at annual general keit Renten fund and thus to invest in sustainable funds in meetings and the direct dialogue with the companies the savings phase. whose shares and bonds an investor holds are other important instruments of sustainable investment. In the retail customers area, Deka Investment GmbH managed a total of approximately 2.1 billion euro in sustainable In the reporting period, analysts and fund managers of products at the end of 2016, 8.9 per cent more than at the Deka Investment GmbH had about 1,600 contacts with same time in the previous year. For institutional customers, companies. In these discussions, depending on the industry the volume of sustainable investments at 31 Dec 2016 was and business model of the company, social and environaround 8 billion euros. In total, the volume of sustainable mental aspects of business activity are regularly addressed investment products in Deka Investment GmbH is about in addition to corporate governance issues. 10.1 billion euros. The proportion of sustainable investment funds in the total assets under management in secuDeka Investment GmbH wishes to make the voice of its 4 rities was around 3 per cent at the end of the year 2016. million fund investors heard at annual general meetings in the future. In 2016, Deka Investment took part in 229 If one also considers the approximately 18.2 billion euros annual general meetings, in a total of 2,930 agenda of proprietary investments in securities managed using the points, it voted against management proposals 559 times proprietary investment filter, the total volume of sustainaand abstained 83 times on agenda points. Experts from bly-managed investments of the Deka Group is approxiDeka Investment spoke at 5 annual general meetings. mately 28.3 billion euros. This corresponds to a share of over 20 per cent in the total of sustainably managed In 2017, the number of annual general meetings attended money in Germany according to the calculations of the and verbal contributions will increase significantly. The Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlage (FNG) (136.6 billion euro, intention here is that questions of good corporate govermarket report 2016). nance are actively addressed in addition to issues of DEVELOPMENT OF THE VOLUME OF SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT PRODUCTS at Deka (in billions of euros) Public funds as well as specialised funds and mandates 10.1 6.6 5.3 4.2 2 1.2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sustainable products 13 strategy and yield, such as basing the remuneration strucActivities to promote sustainable investment ture of the Board of Management on sustainable corporate DekaBank supports various charitable initiatives and development. institutions which aim to promote sustainable investment through information and implementation assistance for Deka Investment has defined the central focal points for its investors and providers. voting behaviour in the “Principles of Voting Policy in Annual General Meetings”. These are based on the extenNational initiatives sive experience of Deka as one of the largest fund proviAt national level, for example, these are the Forum Nachders and shareholder representatives. They take into haltige Geldanlagen e.V. (FNG) and the Corporate Responaccount the applicable laws, the current analysis guidelines sibility Interface Center e.V. (CRIC), a charitable association for general meetings of the BVI, the German Corporate for the promotion of ethics and sustainability in investGovernance Code, the DVFA Score Card for Corporate ment. With over 100 members, CRIC e.v. encourages the Governance, international codes as well as the relevant constructive dialogue between companies, politicians and environmental and social standards. financial market towards a general awareness of ethical and sustainable investments. DekaBank supported the The principles and an overview of annual general meetings creation of a further full-time position at the association at which Deka Investment GmbH has voted in 2016 can be in 2016. found on the DekaBank website. Deka also supports the dissemination of knowledge about sustainability in the BVI, the association for capital management companies and funds in Germany. In the context “Social and ecological developments are of its membership, Deka Investment GmbH commits to influencing the environment of the company complying with the voluntary conduct guidelines of BVI, more and more. Deka believes that social updated on 1 January 2017. It states the following on the meaning of the ESG criteria: “The fund company assumes and ecological standards in the framework Corporate Responsibility for environmental (and) social of a sustainable business policy is not only of matters as well as for good corporate governance”. social interest, but is also in the interest of shareholders, as this can result in a longInternational initiatives term, above-average performance of the On an international level, the aforementioned signing company. (...) If Deka has a critical view of of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) by Deka the social and ecological responsibility, it will Investment GmbH should be emphasised. Further informaexpress this in its voting behaviour at annual tion can be found in the section “Sustainable corporate governance” in “Regulations and standards”. general meetings.” (PRINCIPLES OF VOTING POLICY On the other hand, since November 2016, DekaBank has IN ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS) been a member of the Green Bond Principles, an internationally-recognised standard for the issuing process of “green securities”. Green Bonds are debt securities whose proceeds are specifically used to finance environmental and Promotion of securities culture climate protection projects. The principles were developed The Deutsche Aktieninstitut e.V. published the scientific under the ICMA (International Capital Market Association), study “Securing living standards in old age – closing the of which DekaBank is a member, in the framework of the pensions gap with shares” in December 2016. As a result cooperation of issuers, banks, investors and environmental of this study, which was given financial support by Dekaorganisations. They define guidelines for the use and Bank, among others, it has been found that a long-term management of the issue proceeds as well as reporting. sustainable pension concept for all citizens may only be They also include a list of relevant topics for green bonds, achieved with capital cover and the use of shares, meaning for example, renewable energies, energy efficiency and that shares and equity funds should be used on a much sustainable agriculture and forestry. larger scale in pensions. Therefore, as with the DAI, state support of all forms of investment would be desirable. Compliance with the Green Bond Principles is examined More information and the study itself can be downloaded and confirmed in many green bond issues upon independat www.dai.de. ent advice, so-called Second Party Opinions (SPO’s). Green 14 Sustainable products Bond Principles and SPO’s both provide for a high level activity through which a specific unterstanding of sustainaof transparency regarding the quality of green bonds and bility was developed for the business field. thus promote the sustainable development of this key market segment from the perspective of sustainability. Important results of the development process and thus cornerstones for operational action are the general reducDekaBank has been an arranger of green bonds on the tion of CO2 emissions, increasing the inclusion of “green” market for some years to meet the increased demand for contractual clauses in property, facility and rental agreegreen securities on the part of investors in the savings bank ments, the reduction of costs through sustainable managesector. As one of four lead managers, it supported the ment and energetic renovation as well as the embedding federal state of North Rhine Westphalia in the structuring of ESG components in the processes surrounding real and market positioning of its first sustainability bond in estate and fund management. The accompanying commu2015. In January 2017, DekaBank also acted as a lead nication of activities as well as its representation in internal manager for the first time in the issue of a climate awareand external media is a further important component. ness bond by the EIB (European Investment Bank), currently the most active green bond issuer on the market. The business field has also shown good progress in the reporting year. The set aim has been achieved and the Investor information and promotion of planned sustainability project has been concluded accordthe dissemination of financial knowledge ing to plan. Important successes here were: Even though private customers are not directly advised by DekaBank, rather by the savings banks, DekaBank has Contracts for building management of Germanyformulated strict principles for all documents made accessiwide portfolio re-tendered ble to private customers. The “Guidelines for the creation The property management of 190 domestic properties of advertising and investor information” among other has been reassigned within the framework of an invitathings, forbid aggressive marketing and exploitation of tion to tender. From 2017, the three contract partners customer groups requiring particular protection, such as TectReal Property Management GmbH, STRABAG Propthe elderly. Customers from the municipal sector are also erty and Facility Services GmbH and BNP Paribas Real regarded as private customers. Estate Property Management GmbH will manage the properties. The product seals used by DekaBank for its sustainability funds are for investor information. Therefore, all funds Ecological action, energy management and reporting mentioned above bear the transparency logo of the Euroare an important part of the contractual relationship pean industry association Eurosif. In this context, DekaBank here. All contract partners have signed the sustainability has voluntarily committed to publishing accurate, adequate declaration of DekaBank (see section Sustainable bankand up-to-date information, in particular in order to enable ing, Procurement section). The contracts and service investors to understand the ESG-strategy of a fund and descriptions were supplemented with support services its implementation. The index fund Deka Oekom Euro and evaluations of sustainability-related certifications or Sustainability UCITS ETF was awarded the Austrian re-certifications and the derivation of optimisation Ecolabel for the first time in 2015. potentials as well as the provision of sustainability data as a component of the contract. 3.2 Sustainability in Asset Management Inclusion of sustainability aspects Real Estate 3 in the purchase process The Real Estate Asset Management business field (AMI) has In the assessment phase prior to the purchase of a proptranslated the principles for sustainable corporate governerty, sustainability aspects are examined with the necesance of DekaBank into its own business-related sustainasary care and summarised in an internal audit report bility strategy. Here, the current requirements of climate according to a standardised structure. Risks may arise, change and climate protection policy played a central for example, in connection with outdated building techrole in real estate business, particularly the 2050 climate nology, the use of forbidden coolants and non-separaprotection plan of the federal government. The central tion of drinking water and sewage lines. The costs for focus was on 19 measures implemented before the end the measures of removing such risks are shown in the of 2016. In content, these concerned important areas of profitability calculation and include a risk assessment. 3 The reporting is performed according to the business divisions defined from 1.1.2017. Sustainable products 15 In the event of a positive buying decision, the real estate The certification is carried out by an independent evaluamanagement gradually implements the necessary meastion body. It enables investors and tenants to take social ures in order to remedy the identified shortcomings. and ecological criteria into consideration in the selection of real estate objects in addition to economic aspects. For Communication many commercial tenants, in particular for large enterIn the reporting year, the AMI business field has extenprises, the certification of the object is now an important sively refreshed its internet pages. A separate heading condition for the conclusion of a rental contract. One has been provided for ethics. The aim was to provide reason for this is that a sustainability certification helps even better information on sustainability activities and the tenant company achieve their own sustainability goals. to enable direct access to the object descriptions of the public fund (object factsheets) and the energy certificaAt the end of the reporting year, a total of 196 properties tion of the domestic portfolios. in the value of approximately 18.6 billion euros were certified, 90 properties alone with a volume of around 6.3 In the context of internal training courses, the employbillion euros in Germany. In relation to the entire real ees have the opportunity to learn about sustainability estate assets of Deka funds, a certification rate of about issues on a regular basis. The focus of content in the 62 per cent was achieved by the end of 2016. reporting year was the organisation of sustainability at the various levels of the Deka Group (bank, business In the Deka-Immobilien Europa mutual fund, it was possifield, funds and real estate). A monthly exchange meetble to increase the number of certified objects by ten to 92 ing of the specialist departments, in which relevant per cent at the end of 2016. This leads to a certification sustainability issues are discussed, was established. rate of around 75 per cent. Among the successful certifications, special attention should be paid to the property Recognition of the BVI guidelines for sustainable “Fleet-Hof” in the city centre of Hamburg, which achieved portfolio management and of the ZIA industry Code the level of “very good” in the context of the awarding of In the associations relevant to the real estate fund the “BREEAM DE Bestand” seal of sustainability. In the industry, the BVI and ZIA (Zentraler Immobilienausassessment, the high user comfort in the place of work schuss), voluntary commitments have been published and good accessibility by public transport were highfor the consideration of sustainability aspects in the real lighted. Both of these points document the sustainability of estate sector and in real estate portfolio management. the object as well as the location and put the value for the The key objectives are increasing transparency as well as tenant in the centre. For this property, as for the whole of assessing the sustainability of real estate and real estate the BREEAM certification inventory, building plaques were portfolios. The commitments are publicly accessible on manufactured to make the sustainability impact assessthe respective homepages of the associations. ment directly visible in the respective property. The companies in the business field AMI explicitly The property “19 West 44th Street” in New York from the recognise the guidelines and the code of conduct of mutual fund Deka-Immobilien Global was certified with the associations and are committed to sustainability as the LEED® seal of sustainability and achieved the “Silver” an ongoing optimisation process. level. Here, the assessment method for inventory buildings was used (LEED® EBOM). The certification authority, the Certifications U.S. Green Building Council, certifies that the property has A central element in the sustainability understanding of the a sustainable design. The object has a high recognition business field AMI is the certification of fund objects. The factor with its brick facade, typical of the architecture of focus is on the comprehensive evaluation of a property New York in the early 20th Century. The special feature from social, ecological and economic points of view over here is that Deka funds can also operate historical buildthe entire life cycle. Here, sustainability certificates provide ings so sustainably that a comparatively good rating can the opportunity to measure and compare sustainability be achieved. criteria in accordance with established and recognised measures. The recognised certificates include the Building The real estate fund WestInvest InterSelect could just Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method increase the certification rating to almost 70 per cent in (BREEAM), the Leadership in Energy and Environmental the reporting year. This was based on the certification of Design (LEED®) and the German Sustainable Building seven inventory objects as well as the sale of five non-certiCouncil (DGNB – Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges fied objects. The new office building “1 St Peters Square, Bauen e.V.). Manchester”, which received the assessment level 16 Sustainable products “excellent” in the framework of the new BREEAM New dollar-denominated open real estate fund Deka-ImmobilienConstruction certification, is worth mentioning here. Nordamerika. The high rental services and the consistent sustainability focus also convinced the jury. The high certifiFor the special assets WestInvest ImmoValue, the property cation rate in the inventory portfolio, in comparison to the “Windows” in Stuttgart received the assessment level industry, is a value-preserving measure which ensures the “very good” in the framework of the BREEAM In-Use marketability of the real estate. It was rated as “very inventory certification. Amongst other things, the maintegood” by Scope. nance strategy, the safety concept and the very flexible floorplan design and development situation were decisive 3.3 for this evaluation. This enables the widest range of space Sustainability in lending business 4 use, both in current use and for new rentals. For Deka Group, ESG aspects stand on an equal footing with economic aspects in lending decisions in the sense of Outlook a holistic and risk-optimised portfolio management and are The AMI business field will primarily focus on the following therefore fully examined before the financing decision. issues and develop concrete measures in the coming years. Currently, the credit business of the DekaBank comprises They directly incorporate knowledge and results from the trade and capital market operations, real estate financing, sustainability project completed in 2016. as well as transport and infrastructure finance. An integral part of the credit process is formed by the specifications of Creation of an internal infrastructure for the implementhe business strategy in relation to the “sustainable corpotation of the regulatory provisions of the Climate rate governance”. Protection Plan 2050. Establishment of sustainability criteria as a building block Lending Principles for yield optimisation by striving for further reduction in The credit risk strategy forms the foundation for lending costs, increasing the market value of the property as business. On the basis of the business objectives and crash well as increasing the net rent. barrier supporting the business strategy, the framework of Implementation of sustainability criteria in tenant conduct for all financing activities. DekaBank excludes the management and increasing tenant satisfaction and following types of financing in principle: retention through better integration of energy and real estate management. Transactions which could have a lasting negative effect Development of an image as a sustainable fund provider on public trust in, or the public reputation of, DekaBank by the real estate economy recognising responsibility for by public reporting (among other things on the basis of ecological, economic and social issues. This should be socio-cultural, ethical aspects) on the financing itself, a made more visible in the business field of AMI to business partner, the business practice or the country improve the sustainability ratings. (location or risk country). Deeper anchoring of the social and societal responsibility Lending transactions of a speculative nature or very unuin day-to-day business through integration and further sual type of risk (such as highly-leveraged transactions) development of the sustainability criteria in existing Financing connected to the arms trade (financing of processes, setting standards and creating stronger links arms shipments or of weapon manufacturers or trading between sustainability issues with the strategic aligncompanies) ment of the business field. Financing in relation to activities that pose a significant threat to the environment, e.g. Uranium mining, External ratings confirm sustainable orientation nuclear / coal power plant financing and financing in In the reporting year 2016, the rating agency Scope connection with mountain top removal mining (OECD Analysis confirmed the current asset management rating environmental guidelines contain clues) of AA+AMR and thus the very high quality of the services Project financing that does not meet the requirements of Deka Immobilien GmbH. In addition, the business field of the Equator Principles (EP). The EP include social and won the Scope European Award in the category “Best environmentally-friendly standards and reference guideAsset Manager Retail Real Estate Global” for the second lines drawn up by the International Finance Corporation year running. The jury emphasised the high international (IFC) as well as the industry-specific environmental real estate management competence, and paid tribute to health and safety guidelines (EHS) the expansion of the global product spectrum by the US Financing of speculation on basic foodstuffs 4 The reporting is performed according to the business divisions defined from 1.1.2017. Sustainable products 17 Transactions with a country or lender in a country that credit transaction. These are explicitly analysed for each is included on the negative list of central governments new transaction and brought into the due diligence proVenture capital financing cess. Any sustainability certificates are also taken into Financing companies in the pornography sector account. Alongside energy efficient operation, sustainable or similar sectors (sex industry) real estate generally has better rentability and higher value Financing in direct relation with the manufacture stability. This is reflected in the safety position of the and sale of tobacco lender. Financing of companies that operate controversial forms of gambling (betting offices, game halls etc.) Transport and infrastructure financing Financing of companies that breach internationally The gross lending volume in the area of transport and recognised principles on human rights and labour rights infrastructure financing was 6.8 billion euros at the (ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights reporting date. Of this, 63 per cent was transport financing at Work) or and 37 per cent was infrastructure financing. The share Financing of enterprises without evidence of experience of loans for the financing of alternative energy production or in new markets (wind and solar) amounted to 0.36 billion euros, around 15 per cent of the gross lending volume of infrastructure Furthermore, DekaBank does not enter into financing financing. As a mandated lead arranger, for example, transactions if it suspects that in doing so it may be DekaBank structured a financing package for the construcsupporting companies that use forced, compulsory or tion and operation of the Norwegian onshore wind child labour. parks Tellenes in south-west Norway in cooperation with Rabobank. If a suspicion of an increased risk of sustainability is visible, the experts in DekaBank sustainability management are brought into the credit preparatory process. Their vote is included in the credit decision process. The experts examine whether a business partner, the business practice or the country (location or risk country) matches the internal values and objectives on the basis of social, environmental or ethical aspects. In addition, the question of to whether a business relationship or the financing could adversely affect public confidence in the Deka Group or its reputation is also considered. Real Estate Financing In commercial real estate financing, the Deka Group is focused on financing in transparent markets with existing market liquidity and secure legal environments, which, due to their size, transparency and liquidity, are of central importance for the whole of the business field. In the countries where this is possible, the ability of the loan to serve as collateral is sought in principle. In addition to classic investors and project developers, customers also include Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), real estate companies, pension funds and German open real estate funds. At the end of the reporting year, there was real estate financing in Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy, Ireland, Japan, Canada and the USA. The gross credit volume, including financing for open real estate funds and local construction projects, amounted to around 7.1 billion euros. Economic efficiency and environmental and social compatibility are the mandatory selection criteria for the real estate 18 Sustainable HR management 4. Sustainable HR management Deka’s mission is to provide all employees with a safe working environment that is based on trust. The intention is to develop the skills of employees as far as possible and to put it at the service of business strategy, as well as to create working conditions that ensure the lasting physical and mental wellbeing of our employees. Employees need access to the right environment at every stage of their professional lives to develop both personally and professionally. This also includes a fair remuneration system that offers incentives to contribute to the company’s long-term success. 4.1 4.2 HR strategy HR management The HR strategy is part of Deka Group’s business strategy Number of employees and structure and includes long-term principles of human resources As at 31 Dec 2016, a total of 4,556 employees were work. It builds on the approach of lifecycle-based HR employed at Deka Group, of which 150 at S Broker. At management and is geared towards having “the right the start of 2016, DekaBank agreed on the complete employee in the right place”. The HR strategy is developed acquisition of S Broker by DekaBank with the other partunder consideration of the market environment and the ners of S Broker AG & Co. KG. The staff figures of the relevant economic, social, political and regulatory trends. S Broker are not yet fully consolidated and are therefore listed separately where possible below. SEE TABLE 1+2 The responsibility for the formulation, further development and implementation of the personnel strategy lies with the Age structure corporate center Human Resources & Organisation of the The average age of all domestically-active employees of the Deka Group. HR management is divided into different Deka Group at the end of the year 2016 was 43.3 years areas of activity. The most important of these are the man(2015: 42.7 years). The most heavily-represented group was agement of human resources, training and further profesthe age group between 45 and 49 years. The increase in the sional development, the promotion of gender equality and average age of about two years since the year 2012 reflects the reconciliation of work and family life and work and the demographic development in Germany. SEE TABLE 3 care, workplace safety and health management as well as the structure of remuneration. Resource management and the employer brand Deka has committed itself to filling all vacancies internally For the implementation of the HR strategy and to measure where possible. This chimes with our efforts to rigorously the progress achieved, Deka draws up action and defines promote the continued development of the employees specific milestones for a short to medium-term period. All and a clear focus for the HR strategy – having “the right employees are informed promptly on the progress made. employee at the right place.” The job change rate 1 within the Deka Group in Germany in the reporting year was Open dialogue with employee representatives 56.5 per cent (previous year 52.8 per cent). For certain The employees are represented by staff and works councils target groups at the Bank, such as apprentices and junior (in Germany) and the Comité Mixte (in Luxembourg). They staff, special matching processes have been implemented. are informed of pending changes in advance in an ongoing dialogue and brought into the design of the actual process. Vacant management positions have been occupied in the The Deka Group HR & Organisation corporate centre mainframework of the “Deka Management Forum” since 2014. tains an open dialogue with staff representatives which is Here, all applicants have a standardised interview which is marked by respect. The disabled persons' representative conducted by mangers of the specialist area and interface and the equal opportunities officer are also available as areas and moderated by the corporate center Human internal contact partners for problems at work. Resources & Organisation. 1 Promotion and development of the internal job market; internal before external; includes all personnel measures (positional, functional and organisational change). Sustainable HR management 19 TRAINEESHIP PROGRAMME FOR PEOPLE ring a qualification and further certificates and thus increase the WITH RECOGNISED REFUGEE STATUS employability of the refugees. At the same time, direct professional contact should strengthen the intercultural competence of As a reaction to the influx of refugees, DekaBank decided to Deka employees. contribute to the integration of refugees at the end of 2015. Deka provided one million euros for a programme with up to 40 The Deka Group works closely with the Frankfurt Jobcenter in trainee places for 12 months’ length. The target group of the the implementation of the project. The trainees receive adeprogramme is recognised refugees with a degree or comparable quate support based on need for their career starts in an integcommercial experience and at least a B2 German language rated conveyor chain. level. At the end of 2016, 14 trainees were employed at Deka for The programme is intended to make a contribution to the lasvocational integration. The programme will be continued in the ting integration of refugees through the acquisition of their first coming years in accordance with the above framework. experiences of everyday life in Germany, a work certificate beaNUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (TABLE 1) Total employees 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 female male Domestic companies 3,552 3,583 3,743 3,858 3,993 1,560 2,433 Foreign companies 488 452 440 419 413 191 222 Deka Group 4,040 4,035 4,183 4,277 4,406 1,751 2,655 S-Broker AG & Co.KG / Management AG 150 57 93 NUMBER OF WOMEN AND MEN (TABLE 2) Headcount 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 Women 1,400 1,406 1,466 1,524 1,560 Men 2,152 2,177 2,277 2,334 2,433 Total* employees 3,552 3,583 3,743 3,858 3,993 Total* share of female employees (in %) 39.4 39.2 39.2 39.5 39.1 * Active employees + training + dormant employees + trainees. Headcount 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 Women 1,211 1,256 1,325 1,359 1,389 Men 2,030 2,066 2,165 2,212 2,312 Active** Employees 3,241 3,322 3,490 3,571 3,701 Total share of active** female employees (in %) 37.4 37.8 38.0 38.1 37.5 S-Broker AG & Co.KG / Management AG 147 total share of active** female employees (in %) 36.7 ** Board of Management + executive staff (division head / department head) + staff on permanent contracts + staff on fixed-term contracts + temporary staff. AGE STRUC TURE AC TIVE EMPLOYEES (TABLE 3) Deka Group in Germany (%) 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 female male % of under 20 year-olds 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 % of 20 – 24 year-olds 1.1 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.3 1.8 1.0 % of 25 – 29 year-olds 6.8 5.9 5.5 5.3 5.0 6.6 4.0 % of 30 – 34 year-olds 14.6 12.8 11.8 11.8 10.9 11.6 10.6 % of 35 – 39 year-olds 19.1 19.1 18.7 18.1 17.0 18.1 16.4 % of 40 – 44 year-olds 22.4 21.3 20.3 18.7 18.2 17.0 18.9 % of 45 – 49 year-olds 21.2 22.6 22.2 21.4 21.8 19.4 23.2 % of 50 – 54 year-olds 9.1 10.8 12.6 15.3 16.8 16.3 17.1 % of 55 – 59 year-olds 4.3 5.3 6.3 5.9 6.5 6.3 6.6 % share of 60-year-olds and older 1.3 1.3 1.3 2.0 2.5 2.8 2.4 Average age in years 41.2 yrs 42.0 yrs 42.4 yrs 42.7 yrs 43.3 yrs 42.6 yrs 43.6 yrs Active employees 3,241 3,322 3,490 3,571 3,701 1,389 2,312 S-Broker AG & Co.KG / Management AG 41.3 yrs 20 Sustainable HR management TURNOVER R ATE* (TABLE 4) Deka Group in Germany (%) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turnover rate** Women 3.0 % 3.6 % 3.8 % 3.7 % 3.4 % 64.6 % Age range 20 – 29 4.0 % 5.3 % 6.3 % 3.9 % 9.2 % 65.7 % 30 – 39 3.7 % 6.2 % 4.5 % 4.9 % 2.4 % 60.8 % 40 – 49 1.3 % 2.0 % 3.8 % 3.1 % 2.7 % 61.4 % 50 – 59 3.2 % 1.4 % 1.0 % 0.9 % 81.0 % > / = 60 10.8 % 2.2 % 5.7 % 12.1 % 18.5 % 100.0 % Men 3.6 % 4.2 % 4.3 % 4.1 % 3.0 % 50.4 % Age range 20 – 29 4.4 % 10.7 % 5.0 % 4.7 % 2.9 % 48.0 % 30 – 39 3.5 % 4.8 % 5.5 % 4.9 % 3.6 % 46.0 % 40 – 49 3.6 % 3.6 % 3.6 % 4.2 % 2.1 % 48.5 % 50 – 59 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.7 % 1.6 % 2.3 % 68.8 % > / = 60 6.6 % 7.5 % 14.0 % 13.1 % 13.0 % 100.0 % Total turnover rate 3.3 % 4.0 % 4.2 % 3.9 % 3.1 % 56.5 % S-Broker AG & Co.KG / Management AG 6.0 % * without the Board of Management, temporary workers, trainees, students, apprentices, trainees / diploma students, pensioners (start supply reference). ** Promotion and development of the internal job market; internal before external; includes all personnel measures (positional, functional and organisational change). JUNIOR STAFF (TABLE 5) Deka Group in Germany 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 female male Trainees 21 21 14 36 47 24 23 Funded Students 12 9 8 9 9 1 8 Apprentices 41 43 39 30 22 13 9 Junior staff 74 73 61 75 78 38 40 PROPORTION OF WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT LEVELS (TABLE 6) Deka Group in Germany (%) 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 female male Board of Management 20.0 % 20.0 % 1 4 1. Management level (Head of Division) 10.7 % 9.4 % 9.1 % 8.8 % 7.9 % 3 35 2. Management level (Head of Department management) 10.1 % 11.4 % 14.2 % 15.9 % 15.7 % 18 97 3. Management level (Group management) 20.3 % 21.0 % 18.9 % 19.9 % 22.0 % 53 188 Management levels (including Board of Management) 16.3 % 17.1 % 16.5 % 17.8 % 18.8 % 75 324 The internal tendering and appointment process is coordiwith other companies in the industry, this is an abovenated in the context of service / operating agreements with average value and speaks for the attractiveness of the the employees’ representatives. Members of the employee Deka as employers. SEE TABLE 4 representatives and the equal opportunities officer participate in specific selection procedures. The employee 4.3 representatives also have a say in the selection of external Training and further professional development candidates for the occupation of vacant positions. Training As at the reporting date, 31 December 2016, a total of 78 Turnover apprentices and trainees, including funded students, were An important quantitative indicator for the success of employed in Germany by the Deka Group. In order to be resource management and the maintenance of the able to make an offer of further employment to as many employer brand is the turnover rate. It was 3.1 per cent apprentices and trainees as possible after successful comin the year 2016 in Germany and thus significantly lower pletion of training, the number of apprentices and trainees than in the previous year (3.9 per cent). In the year 2015, is determined by requirements. As in previous years, all an average tenure of over ten years was achieved for the apprentices and trainees who had completed their apprenfirst time. On average, the employees had been employed ticeships and training programmes in the reporting year at Deka for 10.3 years at the end of 2016. In comparison were taken on as employees. SEE TABLE 5 Sustainable HR management 21 Deka sets a high value on the fair treatment as well as the Further professional development costs appropriate promotion of trainees. Therefore, Deka takes The financial costs of further training in Germany during part in the “Fair Company” initiative of the Handelsblatt the reporting year amounted to an average of 973 euros publishing group. Here, the companies commit to offering per active employee (2015: 1,001 euros). This figure does interesting activities and a fair chance of permanent employnot include the cost of further training that took place as ment to students in the framework of an internship. a part of projects. The reasons for the nominal decline are, on the one hand, cheaper offers of the same level of Further training quality by external providers, and the increased use of At least once a year, employees and management internal Deka trainers on the other. Also, professional determine individual development paths on the basis of sponsorship and mentoring were utilised more widely. the identified development requirements. There is a wide spectrum of potential measures available, which is continu4.4 ally developed on the basis of the Bank’s strategy and Equality requirements. It includes options to develop personal, The field of action of “equality” has different dimensions methodical and social skills. ranging from the equal opportunities of women and men, the highly important encouragement of the reconciliation The agreed training courses take place either within of work and family to dealing with diversity within the the framework of the professional activity, for example workforce. through the assumption of project tasks, or by “off-thejob” measures, such as seminars or longer-term further Equal opportunities for women and men training, completed with a certificate. Deka supports its To continue to improve the equal opportunities of women employees in internal or external training measures both and men, the Equal Opportunities Officer agreed a new financially and in terms of time. equality plan together with the Board of Management in the year under review. The 4th Deka Group Gender To prepare young people for the assumption of specialist, Equality Plan entered into force on 1 January 2017 and management or project responsibilities, the “Karriere@ commits management to give even greater importance to Deka” programme (Careers@Deka) was revised in 2015 the issue. Each area must set their own measures, whose and the new format started in 2016. Also, the internal implementation will be regularly monitored, for the followPotential Assessment Centre for employees who show the ing three gender equality objectives by 30.06.2017. potential for further responsibility within their current roles was revised in 2015 and successfully introduced in the new The first objective is to increase the proportion of women format in 2016. For university graduates, the Deka Group in management positions and to encourage the profeshas designed a trainee program which equips junior staff sional advancement of women. with broad, Group-wide knowledge. The programme was launched in 2016. Deka has set concrete targets for this purpose: Thus, the proportion of women in the 1st management level (Head of Evaluation of measures Division) should be increased to 12.0 per cent, the proportion The training courses and seminars offered are constantly of women in the 2nd management level (Head of Departevaluated on the basis of satisfaction, learning success, ment) should be increased to 18.0 per cent and the proportransfer success and benefit. The participants are asked for tion of women in the 3rd management level (Group mantheir first impressions shortly after the training. Four months agement) should be increased to 25.0 per cent. SEE TABLE 6 after participating, they are asked about the event again, with the focus on aspects of practical use and benefit. In order to achieve these objectives, the Deka Group is already implementing various measures. This includes for The respective managers are actively involved in the example the Women’s Mentoring Programme, which was evaluation. This approach helps to ensure that managers introduced in 2013. Every year, 8 female prospects start on and employees discuss learning objectives and transfer the employee level, who are supported by a department measures more intensively and thus also contribute to head for 24 months. A framework programme provides a the continuous improvement of the management culture. network between the year groups and offers a wide range In the reporting year, the participants have confirmed the of impulses for individual development. consistently high level of quality of the professional development on offer. Satisfaction in terms of practical The second aim of the equality plan is the lasting guarantee relevance and applicability was particularly high. of good framework conditions for the compatibility of 22 Sustainable HR management career and family or care of relatives. At the same time, results in a target agreement. Deka was last audited greater significance will be attached to the last years of successfully in 2015. employment and the transition to retirement. The first event on the topic of “good transition to retirement” The focus of the current target agreement includes topics took place in October 2016. such as the greater involvement of men in measures to reconcile work and family life and dealing with stress and The third equal opportunities objective, men should mental stress. In an initial interim report on the audit, it be encouraged to take advantage of Deka schemes to was clear that many of the objectives from the current reconcile work and family life. Here, some barriers which target agreement have already been implemented. The still exist, e.g. against the use of longer parental or care next audit is in 2018. periods, will have to be removed. Working time models Information and networking Flexible working hours are an important building block Since 2003, the Equal Opportunities Officers of the for the reconciliation of work and family or care. Deka Deka Group have held regular events to inform employees currently offers employees the opportunity to select from on current objectives, actions and developments in the around 70 different part-time models. The part-time promotion of equal opportunities for women and men. employment rate in the Deka Group in Germany at the In 2016, Manuela Better, member of the Board of Manageend of 2016 was 16.8 per cent, slightly above the previous ment, and the female managers of Deka discussed their year's figure (16.7 per cent). SEE TABLE 7 experiences in different management positions with the Equal Opportunities Officers. The employees also have the option to take unpaid leave or to finance paid leave from work using previously The Equal Opportunities Officers also organise an Annual accumulated balances in a working time account. The Women’s General Meeting, as provided for by the Federal possibility is provided for in collective agreements, under Gender Equality Law, for all female employees, in which certain conditions, to extend the duration of the period the Board of Management of the Deka Group also takes of parental leave in the framework of the family phase part. The aim of the events is the exchange of information for a maximum of six months. and experience on current topics relevant to gender equality on the one hand and the promotion of cross-border If the respective activity is appropriate and the relevant networking of women in the Deka Group on the other. manager agrees, Deka offers its employees the opportunity to work from home on the basis of a service / operating The compatibility of career and family agreement with the employee representatives. With the help of life-cycle oriented staff management, Deka aims to create conditions in which professional The proportion of employees of Deka in Germany which progress can be combined with the requirements and do not participate in time recording was 63.7 per cent in needs of private life as optimally as possible. This applies 2016 (previous year: 62.4 per cent). Employees who are in particular for employees with children or relatives who not assigned to any working time model on the basis of need nursing care. a temporary job or for other reasons, was 1.7 per cent (previous year: 1.5 per cent). The number of temporary A better reconciliation of professional and private life helps staff amounted on average over the year to 63 to bind employees to the company, which is a significant (previous year: 58). success factor, bearing in mind the increasing shortage of skilled workers. A consultancy and mediation service for Support of employees with children children and care is available to all employees regardless Employees with small children can take advantage of the of location. support of DekaBank of child care. The offer includes 35 crèches and 15 kindergarten places provided in Frankfurt. The continuous further development of the service is also Generous care times of up to 12 hours daily and the encouraged by the participation in the external certification renunciation of closing times in the holidays provide a procedure “berufundfamilie” (Career and Family), in which comprehensive relief for parents. the Deka Group has regularly participated since 2005. Part of the audit is the definition of strategic objectives and, In addition, Deka provides emergency care which parents building on this, the development of concrete objectives can use up to five days a year per child for free. Here, and measures as well as a binding determination of the children between three and twelve years can be looked for Sustainable HR management 23 PART-TIME R ATIO AC TIVE EMPLOYEES (TABLE 7.A) Deka Group in Germany (%) 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 Full-time Part-time Women 30.5 % 33.6 % 34.6 % 35.6 % 36.1 % 888 501 Men 4.5 % 5.2 % 4.6 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 2.193 119 Part-time ratio total 14.2 % 16.0 % 16.0 % 16.7 % 16.8 % 3.081 620 Women 31.6 % 39 18 Men 8.6 % 85 8 S-Broker AG & Co.KG / Management AG 17.3 % 124 26 PART-TIME R ATIO MANAGEMENT (TABLE 7.B) Deka Group in Germany (%) 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 Full-time Part-time Women 11.7 % 15.4 % 18.5 % 15.9 % 17.3 % 62 13 Men 1.0 % 0.9 % 1.8 % 0.9 % 1.2 % 320 4 Part-time ratio total 2.7 % 3.4 % 4.6 % 3.6 % 4.3 % 382 17 if regular childcare fails. This service is available throughout the needs of the customer and serve them in the best Germany in larger cities. Parents of school-age children are way possible. also supported in bridging school holiday time by the financing of up to ten days’ holiday per year and per child. Deka has the objective of providing framework conditions which prevent any discrimination, sexual harassment or On average, over the last five years, Deka employees return bullying from occurring at all. Violations of the code of to work 13.1 months after the birth of a child. Men are ethics or other forms of discriminatory treatment in the increasingly taking advantage of parental leave. In the sense of legal regulations as well as threatening, hostile course of the year 2016, 122 DekaBank men claimed or abusive behaviour will be punished. There were no parental leave. Thus, their number is higher than for instances of discrimination in the reporting year. women (58) SEE TABLE 8 At the end of the year 2016, 237 employees (115 women The Human Resources & Organisation corporate centre and 122 men) had a non-German nationality. The proporof Deka and the Equal Opportunities Officers provide the tion of employees with a nationality other than German employees with comprehensive consultancy and mediation has been 6.0 per cent since 2007. In total, employees services in the organisation of child care and on the themes from 45 countries are employed at Deka, the most of mother protection and parental leave. The Equal Opporstrongly-represented countries are Italy, Austria, France, tunities Officer also organise several information and netGreat Britain and Turkey. work events a year (Deka parents’ meetings) on topics such as “Children have rights” or “My child is starting school”. Support for employees with relatives QUOTE FROM THE CODE OF ETHICS who need nursing care In cooperation with professional partners, Deka supports “We aim for general equal treatment without employees who look after older relatives. The so-called distinction or discrimination on the basis of elder care advice and mediation relieves employees in the country of origin, skin colour, gender, natioorganisation, financing and implementation of maintenality, age, religion, belief, disability, marital nance tasks. The consultancy service is available daily and Deka assumes the cost. Deka employees can make use of a status, pregnancy, sexual orientation as well wide range of information and networking events on the as the identity or any other properties that subject of reconciliation of work and care. In the year are protected by local law.” 2016, for example, the Equal Opportunities Officers held special lectures on topics dealing with “Dementia” or “Health Care Strengthening Act”. Severely Disabled Diversity All Deka buildings are accessible and have sliding doors Deka regards the diversity of its workforce as positive. or doors with electronic door openers. In the “Prisma” Varied cultural origin, life experience and talent of the building in Frankfurt, there are also disabled toilets and a employees enrich collaboration and help to recognise group of lifts with Braille lettering in the key field. 53.6 per 24 Sustainable HR management EMPLOYEES ON PARENTAL LEAVE, Deka Group GERMANY* (TABLE 8) Parental leave – as per reporting date (Headcount) 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 Women 91 59 70 72 79 Men 2 6 7 11 9 Total 93 65 77 83 88 Parental leave – during the year (Headcount) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Women 55 83 58 61 58 Men 60 82 79 97 122 Total 115 165 137 158 180 Average duration of parental leave (months) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Women 15.2 12.9 11.7 12.4 13.1 Men 1.5 1.5 1.3 1.4 1.5 * Excluding maternity leave and secondary employment during parental leave. cent of the mandatory positions for disabled persons were Nutrition filled at the year-end (previous year: 56.5 per cent). The A balanced diet is an important part of health care as a interests of disabled employees are represented by the contribution to well-being and performance. To this end, Disabled Employee Representative. Deka attaches great importance to varied and healthy food from the region in the canteen. Every day, at least two 4.5 vegetarian and more frequent vegan alternatives are availWorkplace Safety and Health Management able in our canteen. A nutrition consultation service is also Deka health management was developed in the context of available at the sites in Frankfurt. the life-cycle oriented personnel work as a response to the challenges of demographic change and the consequent Medicine and safety at work lack of skilled workers. Its central pillars are the fields of The approach to health and safety at work is based on all exercise, nutrition, medical / prevention and mental health. current relevant legislation, ordinances and regulations as well as the collective bargaining agreement for public and Illness rate private banks. Workspaces are regularly scrutinised accordThe illness rate was 3.8 per cent in 2016 and thus at the ing to ergonomics aspects by the expert for work safety. level of previous years. Deaths at work at Deka were the same as in the years before 2016. (2015: 0) SEE TABLE 9+10 All employees can obtain medical care from the company doctor and are also offered annual flu vaccinations. Annual Exercise health campaigns enable staff to find out about health In order to facilitate it employees to integrate regular exerissues and have their blood sugar, cholesterol and blood cise into their everyday life, the Deka Group runs its own pressure levels checked. Health Centre at its Frankfurt / Main location, which is used by 230 staff. Partnerships with a range of fitness centre Mental health chains and massage practices provide these services to In the reporting year, Deka performed the first pilot surveys employees outside of Frankfurt. in various business areas to systematically evaluate mental stress at work and to develop tailored offerings. The Deka also supports a company sports club. DekaBank surveys will be continued in 2017. Sport e.V. is aimed at employees of DekaBank, their family members and partners and covers both popular and more Deka provides seminars on dealing with stress for its specialised sports. The association currently has approxiemployees and managerial staff as part of the Group-wide mately 500 members. training scheme. These seminars allow participants to analyse the pressures and stresses they face, as well as their To promote team spirit and shared experiences through own personal resources. During the seminars, they are exercise, DekaBank supports the participation of employshown how to handle these resources responsibly, harness ees in running events. One highlight is the annual them and use them successfully. Employees experiencing a J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge run through the inner crisis in their personal or professional lives can obtain conficity of Frankfurt, in which several hundred Deka runners dential or anonymous counselling as part of the Employee were involved in 2016. Assistance Programme (EAP), either by phone or in person. Sustainable HR management 25 The EAP also offers managerial staff, management consultIn line with regulatory requirements, a variable remuneraants and members of the staff committee and works countion component cannot exceed 100 per cent of the fixed cil expert advice via the same hotline. remuneration amount. This upper limit of the variable compensation, in accordance with Section 25a Para. 5 of In 2016, the EAP experts held conversations with 182 the German Banking Act, can be increased to 200 per cent employees, corresponding to a take-up rate of 4.2 per of the fixed component by shareholders’ resolution. Dekacent. Deka supports the EAP through fact-finding events Bank has made no use of the option of to increase the for all employees and special workshops for managerial upper limit for variable remuneration components for the staff. Employees can also obtain psychological support via members of its Board of Management and all further the advisory service, particularly in the case of severe employees of the bank in the reporting year. illnesses, while doctors can be consulted for a second or third opinion. Staff are also able to obtain appointments The percentage of employees in 2016 reimbursed on a with relevant physicians in private practice without the non-contractual basis has grown to 63.7 per cent (previous usual long-waiting times. year: 62.4 per cent). All salaries paid by Deka are, in principle, at least on the level of the statutory minimum wage, The Deka Group supports employees in returning to work however, they mostly exceed this significantly. SEE TABLE 11 after a long absence within the framework of professional integration management. This includes, for example, the Deka employees can place part of their bonus payments, opportunity to schedule a return to work and to regain holiday leave and approved overtime in working time working capacity on the basis of an individual working accounts (known as a Deka ZeitDepot). The time saved in time model. this account can be used for temporary absence in the form of a sabbatical, for example. Remuneration Deka’s remuneration system is based on the long-term In addition to the benefits provided by the employer under corporate strategy. It is reviewed on an annual basis to collective bargaining agreements, Deka also offers its ensure it is in line with current regulation and where employees packages which include capital-forming paynecessary updated to reflect current applicable regulatory ments, group accident and corporate travel insurance and requirements. It offers incentives for strong performance on the option of a “job ticket” travel card for use on local a sustainable basis, whilst avoiding any that would encourpublic transport for employees at the locations in Frankage employees to assume disproportionate risks on behalf furt, with similar arrangements available at other Deka of Deka. The Deka Group remuneration report, available sites. Permanent employees also receive a largely employeron the Deka website, provides detailed information. financed company pension (BVV). Details on pension obligations can be found in the consolidated financial Remuneration is calculated solely on the basis of function statements. and performance and generally comprises fixed and variable remuneration elements. Regular market comparisons The compensation system for the members of the Board ensure that remuneration is attractive and in line with the of Management of DekaBank basically corresponds to the needs of the market. In the granting of subsidies, the Deka remuneration principles for employees of the Deka Group Group does not, in principle, distinguish between part-time and also takes into account applicable regulatory particuand full-time workers. larities for risk-relevant employees. The aim of the Board of Management compensation system is to fulfil the Variable compensation is granted on a performanceregulatory requirements as well as the principles of the related basis. This takes into account the performance of management and remuneration of the Wittenberg Center the individual employee as well as the success of the Deka for Global Ethics. The basic conditions for the granting of Group. An integral part of the assessment of employee a variable remuneration are compliance with the statutory performance is the evaluation of compliance with rules of minimum core capital ratio plus capital buffer, a satisfacconduct defined in the code of ethics of the Deka Group. tory liquidity situation as well as the ability of Deka Group to pay out dividends. In addition, the risk situation of the For employees whose activities have a material impact on Deka Group must be evaluated and included. the overall risk profile of the Deka Group (“risk-relevant employees”) – the variable portion of the remuneration involves assessments and payments spread over several years (deferrals) in line with regulatory requirements. 26 Sustainable HR management ILLNESS R ATE AC TIVE EMPLOYEES (TABLE 9) Deka Group in Germany (%) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Women 5.5 % 6.0 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.3 % Men 2.7 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 3.0 % 3.0 % Total rate 3.7 % 4.3 % 3.8 % 3.9 % 3.8 % REPORTED VIOL ATIONS (TABLE 10) Deka Group in Germany (in year) 2014 2015 2016 Commuting accidents (count) 34 19 19 Principle causes are cycling accidents Location Frankfurt 27 15 19 and injuries relating to black ice during Düsseldorf 6 2 – the winter Leipzig 1 2 – Work-related injury (count) 8 12 6 Location Frankfurt 8 12 6 SAL ARY STRUC TURE AC TIVE EMPLOYEES (TABLE 11) Deka Group in Germany (%) 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 female male NT 59.6 % 60.9 % 61.5 % 62.4 % 63.7 % 40.7 % 77.6 % TG total 40.4 % 39.1 % 38.5 % 37.6 % 36.3 % 59.3 % 22.4 % TG 9 24.8 % 26.4 % 29.4 % 28.3 % 28.1 % 22.7 % 36.8 % TG 8 22.5 % 22.1% 22.2 % 20.3 % 21.6 % 21.0 % 22.5 % TG 2–7 52.7 % 51.5 % 48.4 % 51.4 % 50.3 % 56.3 % 40.7 % Sustainable banking 27 5. Sustainable banking In the management of the direct impact of bank operations, we pursue an integrated approach and work on the reduction of resource consumption and emissions along the entire value chain from procurement through to disposal. All measures are embedded in a certified environmental management system. After the swift entry into force of the climate treaty negotiated in Paris, the Paris Agreement, which we were glad to seem, our contribution to climate protection has gained even more significance. 5.1 products and services as well as for the corporate governEnvironmental management system ance of the suppliers and service providers. Central points of For the implementation of the environmental guidelines the business-related requirements are provided in the Susadopted by the Board, in which Deka commits to a tainability Agreement which the suppliers sign prior to the sustainable business alignment in economic, ecological start of the business relationship. That is about 80 per cent and social terms, Deka introduced a DIN EN ISO 14001of the sourcing volume in strategic purchasing. It obliges the certified environmental management system in 2009. supplier, among other things, to comply with core labour standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO). By The environmental balance sheet included in the framethe end of 2016, 240 suppliers had signed the declaration 1. work of this system includes all the buildings of DekaBank at Frankfurt am Main (Trianon, Prisma and Skyper). The Also, sustainability criteria are taken into account in the figures for the paper consumption relate to all locations in selection of products and services. So, before the beginning Germany, the information on business trips is group-wide. of 2016, all DekaBank computers were replaced by energyThe overall objective of the measures in the field of envisaving devices. The comprehensive requirements for the ronmental management is an annual reduction of greentendering of services in building management have already house gas emissions by 5 per cent. been described in the section “Sustainable products”. The environmental management standard was revised All new suppliers are obliged to provide information on in 2015, the new rules must be implemented by 2018. their standards and services in the area of environmental The innovations include among other things a more riskmanagement in the DekaBank purchasing portal. This oriented approach and a clearer focus on the consideration gives the employees in procurement the opportunity to of the entire value-added chain including the environmentake relevant aspects in negotiations with suppliers into tal impact of products and services. DekaBank will fulfil the account. In the year 2016, a total of 33 new suppliers new requirements on the basis of an implementation plan were examined on the basis of environmental criteria, until the re-certification of the environmental management 30 of which are in the field of consulting / staff / IT and system in 2018. 3 in the area of goods / logistics. 5.2 If DekaBank identifies violations of the specified requireProcurement ments of the Sustainability Agreement within the frameThe strategic purchasing department of the DekaBank work of the regular supplier audits or learns of this by procured goods and services in the value of a total of 245 other ways, the supplier has the opportunity to correct the million euros gross in the report period. About 95 per cent deficiencies. If this is not done, or is not done sufficiently of the strategic purchasing order volume was placed in from the point of view of DekaBank, a multi-stage process Germany, the rest to European suppliers. Deka currently is set in motion which may result in the termination of the does not use any overseas service providers. contract relationship. In the reporting year, there were no terminations of supplier relationships for breaches of the For the selection of the suppliers, Deka has sustainabilitySustainability Agreement. Sustainability management bears related requirements both for the quality of the related the responsibility for this process. 1 In 2016, Deka ordered products and services from approximately 1,000 suppliers. These included many small and single orders. The number of suppliers with significant sales is approximately 200. 28 Sustainable banking 5.3 Greenhouse gas emissions 2 Climate protection The objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by With the entry into force of the Paris Agreement at the 5 per cent each year was clearly exceeded in the reporting beginning of November 2016, the central crash barriers year. Absolute emissions were reduced from 12.408 t CO2e are defined for international climate policy for the coming in 2015 to about 10.593 t CO2e and thus by nearly 15 per decades. The Federal Government's Climate Protection cent. This is due in particular to the increase in the share Plan 2050 specifies the general requirements at national of green electricity from 25 to 75 per cent at the Frankfurt level. It shows “the guidelines for the implementation of location, which is reflected in a significant reduction of the long-term climate protection strategy for Germany and indirect emissions (Scope 2) 3. SEE TABLE 1 provides a necessary orientation for all actors in the economy, science and society” – and thus also for the Deka 5.4 Group. Key areas for action are the reduction of energy Waste and consumption of resources consumption and the eco-design of business travel. After a new waste separation system was introduced in the Prisma location in 2014 and thus the amount of Energy consumption residual waste was significantly reduced and the quantity The reduction of energy consumption at the locations of the of recyclable waste was increased, the system was also Deka Group contributes directly to the reduction of greenimplemented at the end of 2016 at the Trianon site. The house gases, particularly CO2. On the basis of the results amount of waste generated in the reporting year was of the energy audits carried out in 2015 according to DIN reduced at all three locations in Frankfurt, with a total of 16247, the real estate management of Deka was able to 302 t, it was almost 8 per cent lower than the previous carry out numerous measures for the reduction of energy year. All companies assigned with the disposal of waste consumption. Thus, among other things, the light control in have a specialist waste disposal certificate in accordance the Trianon office building in Frankfurt was converted and with the waste regulation. Deka performs regular audits at the Prisma location, the fluorescent tubes in the underat the companies to ensure the safe and environmentallyground car park were replaced with LED lamps. By these friendly disposal of waste. and numerous other measures, energy consumption in total remained at a constant level in the year under review Paper consumption was also reduced, in both absolute and despite a slight rise in the number of employees and was relative terms. Therefore, absolute consumption fell from around 19.5 million kWh. The energy intensity in 2016 was 558 t in 2015 to 530 t in the report year and thus by a 5,702.26 kWh per employee. This corresponds to a reducgood 5 per cent, the consumption per employee fell from tion of 3.79 per cent (2015: 5,927.1 kWh per employee). around 157.6 kg to 144.3 kg (9.2 per cent). This was primarily due to savings in printed promotional material. Transport The consumption of drinking water has also finally shown Business travel, in addition to the energy consumption, positive development. It fell in the reporting year by almost represent the most important direct environmental impact 4 per cent to 34,954 m³. of non-producing companies. After a slight reduction of the total transport performance was achieved in 2015, it increased in the reporting year by 8.5 per cent. The largest increases were in comparatively environmentally-friendly rail transport (+14.3 per cent) and in the road transport sector (+11.6 per cent), while the air traffic saw a belowaverage increase of 4.8 per cent. In total, Deka Group employees covered around 23.5 million kilometres on business trips in the year 2016. Given the increase in volume and in view of the current debate on climate change and the fact that business travel often goes hand in hand with a loss of productive time, Deka will place even more focus on the topic of mobility in the future. 2 The calculation and representation of the CO2 emissions is carried out in accordance groups of fluorocarbons (HFCs and PFCs). The calculation in this report is based on with the greenhouse gas protocol (GHG Protocol) standards of the WBCSD / WRI CO2 equivalents. The factors for the calculation of the emissions are the VfU indica(2004 and 2011). In accordance with the GHG Protocol, in addition to CO2, five tors, Update 2007, as well as Updates 2010 and 2013. more major climate-relevant gases are summarised under the term CO2-equivalents 3 In Frankfurt with the factor for water power and in Luxembourg with the factors (CO2e): Methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and two for wind and water power (50 per cent each). Sustainable banking 29 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2016 4 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (TABLE 1) Direct emissions Indirect emissions other indirect emissions (Scope 1) kg CO2e (Scope 2) kg CO2e (Scope 3) kg CO2e Total 2013 1,483,786 7,211,490 2,808,383 11,503,659 2014 1,813,279 6,652,422 3,127,244 11,592,945 2015 1,859,778 7,183,277 3,364,716 12,407,771 2016 2,087,588 4,937,619 3,567,898 10,593,105 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY ENERGY SOURCE IN 2016 Trianon ML16 in kWh Prisma HS55 in kWh Skyper TA 1 in kWh Electricity 5,796,994 4,499,812 1,234,721 Diesel for emergency electricity 10,786 9,157 581 District heating 5,712,239 1,994,674 274,167 Total 11,520,019 6,503,643 1,509,469 DEVELOPMENT OF TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2013 Tolerance 2014 Tolerance 2015 Tolerance 2016 Tolerance in kWh to 2012 in kWh to 2013 in kWh to 2014 in kWh to 2015 Trianon ML16 11,371,264 1% 10,534,449 -7 % 11,227,097 7% 11,520,019 3% Prisma HS55 7,248,505 1% 6,427,437 -11 % 6,792,819 6% 6,503,643 -4 % TA 10 2,775,108 2% 1,988,699 -28 % – – – – Skyper TA 1 1,479,808 1% 1,385,934 -6 % 1,491,233 8% 1,509,469 1% Total 22,874,685 1% 20,336,519 -11 % 19,511,149 -4 % 19,533,131 0% DEVELOPMENT OF ABSOLUTE BUSINESS TR AVEL ACCORDING TO MODE OF TR ANSPORT 2013 Tolerance 2014 Tolerance 2015 Tolerance 2016 Tolerance in km to 2012 in km to 2013 in km to 2014 in km to 2015 Rail transport 2,511,670 -7.5 % 2,669,702 6.3 % 2,742,944 2.7 % 3,133,884 14.3 % Road transport 7,720,001 -1.0 % 9,428,358 22.1 % 10,105,359 7.2 % 11,280,952 11.6 % Air transport 8,425,736 -19.7 % 9,715,643 15.3 % 8,617,947 -11.3 % 9,034,886 4.8 % Total 18,657,407 -9.0 % 21,813,703 15.0 % 21,466,250 -2.0 % 23,449,722 9.2 % DEVELOPMENT OF ABSOLUTE DRINKING WATER CONSUMPTION 2013 Tolerance 2014 Tolerance 2015 Tolerance 2016 Tolerance in m³ to 2012 in m³ to 2013 in m³ to 2014 in m³ to 2015 Trianon ML16 18,651 2.6 % 16,984 -8.9 % 18,051 6.3 % 18,691 3.5 % Prisma HS55 16,110 12.7 % 19,024 18.1 % 15,888 -16.5 % 13,850 -12.8 % TA 10 840 -55.8 % 1,345 60.1 % – – – – Skyper TA 1 2,282 -1.3 % 2,126 -6.8 % 2,391 12.5 % 2,413 0.9 % Total 37,883 2.0 % 39,479 5.0 % 36,330 -8.0 % 34,954 -3.8 % DEVELOPMENT OF ABSOLUTE WASTE PRODUC TION 2013 Tolerance 2014 Tolerance 2015 Tolerance 2016 Tolerance in t to 2012 in t to 2013 in t to 2014 in t to 2015 Trianon ML16 110.3 -0.8 % 157.0 42.4 % 172.8 10 % 154.2 -10.7 % Prisma HS55 107.4 7.8 % 106.7 -0.6 % 108.6 2% 104.1 -4.1 % TA 10 5.1 -40.0 % 48.7 852.1 % – – – – Skyper TA 1 32.6 -3.5 % 40.2 23.1 % 44.3 10 % 43.6 -1.6 % Total 255.4 0.9 % 352.6 38.1 % 325.7 -7.7 % 301.9 -7.3 % 4 data basis for energy / resource consumption and emissions: Before 2015, 25 per cent of electricity demand was covered by green energy and 100 – The data relate to the three DekaBank buildings in Frankfurt am Main (Trianon, per cent in Luxembourg, from 2016 the share in Frankfurt has been increased to 75 per Prisma and Skyper), the building TA 10 was demolished in the meantime. cent. This green power was, however, not included in the calculation with zero CO2 – In addition, the following exceptions should apply for the data basis: Information on emission factors, but in accordance with the origin, in Frankfurt with the factor for business trips is available throughout the company for the Deka Group. Here, the water power and in Luxembourg with the factors for wind and water power (50 per location in Luxembourg is included along with the locations in Germany. The branch cent). We obtained the emissions factor from the supplier for power consumption. in Switzerland was closed in 2015 for business reasons. 30 Corporate citizenship 6. Corporate citizenship Supporting not-for-profit institutions and organisations lies at the core of the Sparkassen Finanzgruppe brand. In order to achieve lasting effects, DekaBank focuses on medium and long-term cooperations, which are generally seen as a supplement to the commitments by the Sparkassen Finanzgruppe. The main focuses of DekaBank’s corporate citizenship include the promotion of education and science, contemporary art and architecture as well as social projects and sport. Measures with both national and international appeal are supported, particularly in the social field but also local projects and initiatives at the locations. 6.1 of the Deka Immobilien GmbH support the construction Social engagement project in planning and implementation. The aim is to Support for the integration of refugees open the youth facility in the second quarter of 2017. After the initial care of refugees was the main focus in 2015, the public authorities and voluntary helpers were Deutsche Krebshilfe e.V. able to assist the deeper integration of people in society DekaBank has been a reliable partner in the annual and professional life in 2016. DekaBank continued the national golf benefit tournaments in aid of Deutsche Krebsemergency programme initiated in 2015 for this purpose. hilfe e. V. (German Cancer Aid). Around 7,500 golfers took part in the biggest benefit golf tournament in Europe in This meant that associations, in which employees do 2016 and combined sporting activity with help for people work with refugees on a voluntary basis, could apply for with cancer. As a general sponsor, DekaBank supports this donations in the amount of 1,000 euros. A total of 82 event by providing winners’ prizes for the entire tournadonations were made to not-for-profit organisations ment series. In total, 290,000 euros was raised for this focusing on helping refugees. In the year under review, good cause. 14 vocational trainees with recognised refugee status started a twelve-month traineeship at Deka. More 6.2 information on the refugee initiative adopted by the Education and science Board of Management can be found in the section Goethe University Frankfurt am Main “Sustainable HR management”. The “House of Finance Professorship for Sustainable Asset Management” was occupied by Prof. Dr. Alexander Hillert Christliches Kinderund Jugendhilfswerk Arche e.V. at the end of 2016. Hillert succeeds Prof. Reint Gropp, The partnership with “Freundeskreis Arche Frankfurt e.V.”, Ph.D., who, until his appointment as President of the Halle which has been in place since 2008, has been expanded in Institute for Economic Research, held the country’s first the previous year and the agreement on annual donations endowed chair for Sustainable Banking and Finance. The has been extended to 2019. The “Arche” cares for children second DekaBank foundation professorship (“Sustainable from all social backgrounds, including refugee children and Finance”) will be announced in the first quarter of 2017. their families. Private Institute for Quantitative Capital Market As a measure of the emergency program for refugees, Research (IQ-KAP) Deka has made a donation of 500,000 Euros available to The Private Institute for Quantitative Capital Market Arche Frankfurt e.V. which was earmarked at the end of Research (IQ-KAP), founded by DekaBank in 2013, 2015 for the construction of a youth facility in Griesheim. awarded a research prize for the first time in 2016. This This meant that the overall financing for the new facility prize is awarded to scientists specialised in the use of Big could be guaranteed for three years. Through the youth Data, Alternative Investments and forecasting procedures facility, the child facility at the neighbouring Berthold-Otto for capital markets. The scientific advisory board of the primary school will be extended to young people of 12 to Institute, which includes Professors Frank Bulthaupt, Reint 17 years old. After the conclusion of the planning works, Gropp, Ulrich Klüh and Ulrich Schollwöck, awarded the the foundation stone for the construction was laid in in the first prize to the work “Something in the Air: Information presence of the Mayor of Frankfurt, Peter Feldmann, in Density, News Surprises, and Price Jumps” by Doctors November 2016. In addition to financial grants, experts Roland Füss, Markus Grabellus, Ferdinand Mager and Corporate citizenship 31 Michael Stein. In the work, the authors developed a 20 per cent of the homes were offered at a reduced rental method with which information processing can be underprice. The prize money of 50,000 euros was donated for stood and price jumps can be explained and predicted good causes. more accurately. MMK Museum for Modern Art Frankfurt am Main Stock Exchange Simulation Since 2002, DekaBank has supported the MMK Museum In order to promote knowledge of the world of finance and for Modern Art in building the museum collection, which capital markets, since 2014 Deka has supported the Sparcomprises over 5,000 works of international art from the kasse Stock Exchange Simulation. The aim is to strengthen 1960’s up to the present day. Since November 2015, the economic and social competence of the mainly young Manuela Better, Director of Risk Management at DekaBank participants and, in a separate game, to communicate the has worked on the board of trustees of the Friends of the principles of sustainable trading. Therefore, there is not just Museum for Modern Art for the needs and further develone winning team, but the team which has invested its opment of the MMK. The DekaBank is a founding partner funds in the most sustainable companies. 2016 saw the of the museum building in the Taunus tower, the MMK 2, first national awards ceremony at DekaBank for the student and is supporting the exhibition until 2018 together with competition. The existing cooperation between DekaBank other partners. The exclusively private financing of MMK 2 and the Deutscher Sparkassenverlag, the organiser of the by foundations and companies is an example of an innovagame, has been extended until 2019. tive and economically unique model of museum expansion. 6.3 Dresden State Art Collections Art and architecture Since 2006, DekaBank has been one of the main sponsors The International Highrise Award of the Dresden State Art Collections (SKD). In the year The International Highrise Award (IHA) has been awarded 2016, the new permanent exhibition “View of the World every two years by the City of Frankfurt am Main since and Knowledge of 1600” in the Georgenbau of the Dres2004. The IHA was initiated by the City of Frankfurt den Residential Palace, as well as the special exhibition together with the German Museum of Architecture and “Paradise on earth – a landscape painting by Brueghel and DekaBank in 2003. Since then, it has been organised and Rubens” in the picture gallery were funded. The cooperafinanced by the German Museum of Architecture and tion of the Sparkassen Finanzgruppe – consisting of DekaDekaBank and awarded in 2016 for the seventh time. The Bank, the Ostsächsiche Sparkasse, SparkassenVersicherung, IHA is regarded as the world's most important architecture the Ostdeutscher Sparkassenverband and the Deutsche award for high-rise buildings. In 2015, the three partners Sparkassenund Giroverband – with the SKD is to be agreed to extend the existing cooperation for the official continued for a further three years (2017 – 2019). prize of the City of Frankfurt until 2020. The IHA is awarded to buildings that stand out through excellence in aestBerlin State Museums hetics, future-oriented design, urban integration and innoThe Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe, represented by the Berliner vative technology, economy, market capacity and in Sparkasse, DekaBank and the Sparkasse Cultural Fund particular through sustainable construction. of the DSGV has been associated with the Berlin State Museum since 2011 as a main sponsor. In 2016, the In the reporting year, the IHA was awarded to the residenexhibition “El Siglo de Oro. The Era of Velázquez” was tial tower 'VIA 57 West' in New York. The Architect Bjarke the main centre of support in the picture gallery. Ingels (BIG – Bjarke Ingels Group) and the project owner Douglas Durst (The Durst Organization) accepted the price Foundation for Photography and Media Art with statuette and the prize money personally in November Michael Schmidt Archive 2016 at the ceremony in the fully-occupied Frankfurter The “Foundation for Photography and Media Art with Paulskirche church. The award was presented by Dr. Ina Michael Schmidt Archive” was launched in 2003. Its goal Hartwig, Head of Department for Science and Culture of is to preserve the work of the artist Michael Schmidt, who the City of Frankfurt am Main, Dr. Matthias Danne, Real died in 2014. From 2015 to 2019, DekaBank will support Estate and Financial Management Director at DekaBank the Foundation with an annual amount to implement a and Peter Cachola Schmal, Director of the German retrospective which is planned for 2020 on the occasion of Museum of Architecture. The residential tower is a hybrid the 75th anniversary of Michael Schmidt's birth in the New of an American highrise and the classical European blockNational Gallery in Berlin. edge development with a leafy courtyard. In order to fulfil the objective of a socially-diverse residential structure, 32 Corporate citizenship INDICATORS OF SOCIAL COMMITMENT 498,690 EUROS 421,839 EUROS Deka funds for education Deka funds for Art and and science in 2016 Culture in 2016 TOTAL COMMITMENT 2013 2014 2015 2016 Social Affairs 603,079.91 € 311,900.41 € 763,955.93 € 220,748.97 € Education and science 507,154.00 € 676,885.59 € 470,916.00 € 498,689.84 € Art and Culture 603,335.00 € 719,337.00 € 413,900.00 € 421,839.00 € Sport 154,700.00 € 223,900.00 € 160,800.00 € 191,840.00 € Miscellaneous 37,449.87 € 10,255.00 € 115,382.00 € 29,500.00 € Total 1,905,718.78 € 1,942,278.00 € 1,924,953.93 € 1,362,617.81 € STRUCTURE OF FUNDING Donations 1,380,549.87 € 904,901.00 € 1,327,748.00 € 789,646.84 € Sponsoring 525,168.91 € 1,037,377.04 € 597,205.93 € 572,970.97 € DekaBank art collection work in Frankfurt / Main. Other local donations were made DekaBank has been building up its collection of 21st in the framework of “Deka – committed on the spot!” Century art since 2003. The internationally oriented as well as the special refugee aid. Each year, 25 facilities collection now includes over 1,400 work and reflects which are close to the hearts of employees or in which the diversity of artistic expression in the 21st Century. It they are involved are supported with 1,000 euros each. focuses on works which address relevant social issues and In 2016, there were 305 project submissions. stimulate debate about the current definition of art. The make-up of the collection gives particular weight to the In the year 2016, the Restcent scheme started, in which new generation of artists. Guided tours are held regularly DekaBank employees can donate the cent amounts of their for DekaBank’s business partners and employees. Dekamonthly salaries. In the run-up, the employees were able Bank participated in “Kunst privat!” (“Private art!”) for to select the 2016 donation recipient from a wide range of the twelfth time in 2016. Hessian companies show their eligible institutions (“Help for children with cancer e.V.”). art collections and opened the doors of the exhibition to 1,101 employees took part in the scheme in 2016. Because interested visitors. of their commitment, a donation amount of 5,564.70 euros was achieved, which was rounded to 6,000 euros. 6.4 Deka awards donations to institutions which exclusively Sport and directly serve to promote charitable, church and German Olympic Sports Confederation (DOSB) benevolent purposes and are entitled to issue tax donation Since January 2008, the DSGV has been an Olympic certificates. Donations to political parties, political foundapartner of the German Olympic Sports Confederation tions, employer associations or unions are excluded. In the (DOSB) with the participation of the DekaBank and other reporting year, no such payment had been made. interconnected companies. It is important for the donors to support both popular and specialised sports. In addition to the commitment as a partner of Germany’s Olympic team and as a national sponsor of the German Disabled Sports Association (Deutscher Behindertensportsverband), Deka is also supporting the German Sports Badge (Deutscher Sportabzeichen) and elite sports schools. Cooperation with the DOSB was extended at the end of 2016 by a further 4 years to 2020. 6.5 Donations In the reporting year, Deka donated a total of 789,646.84 euros. The largest of the 154 single donations went to the Goethe University of Frankfurt am Main and to “The Arche” foundation of Christian children and youth Independent environmental assurance statement 33 Independent environmental assurance statement DekaBank engaged AGIMUS GmbH UmweltgutachterWithin the scope of our environmental verification review, organisation und Beratungsgesellschaft, an environmental we conducted the following procedures, among others: verification provider and consultancy, to perform a review of its 2016 Sustainability Report in terms of materiality, Interviewed employees from the departments transparency and comparability. It is the responsibility of responsible for the creation of the report about the the Board of Management to ensure that key indicators process for preparing the report and on the internal on sustainability performance are appropriately determined controls in place around this process. and presented in accordance with the reporting criteria Inspected documents regarding the sustainability stratincluding the appropriate identification of significant egy and gained an understanding of the environmental issues. Our responsibility is to verify that the statements and sustainability management structure, stakeholder made in the Sustainability Report are transparent and dialogue and the development process for the company’s complete pursuant to the criteria set out in the GRI (Global environment and sustainability programme. Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Interviewed employees in the specialist departments responsible for individual sections of the report; Independence and quality assurance of the Reviewed and tested on a sample basis the procedures environmental verification provider and the system and process documentation in relation We observed the requirements for environmental to the collection, analysis, validation and aggregation verification providers as well as further professional ethical of the sustainability data and spot checks of this data; requirements for third party reviews and conducted our Conducted an audit and site inspection at the review of the Sustainability Report in line with the Frankfurt am Main office; procedures for the certification of the environmental Aggregated selected data; performed an analytical management system set out in ISO 14001. review of data included in the report; Obtained further evidence to support selected informaScope of assurance engagement tion in the report through inspection of internal It is our responsibility, based on the procedures that we documents as well as reports and records from external have performed, to express an opinion as to whether service providers. any matters have come to our attention that cause us to conclude that the information in DekaBank's Sustainability Opinion Report for the 2016 financial year has not, in all material On the basis of the review that we have performed to respects, been prepared in accordance with the criteria set obtain limited assurance, no matters have come to our out in GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We were attention that lead us to conclude that the information in also engaged to make further recommendations on the the Sustainability Report for the 2016 financial year has further development of the environmental management not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance and sustainability reporting, based on the results of our with the criteria set out in the GRI G4 Sustainability Report environmental verification review. Guidelines. When conducting our review, we observed the professional A materiality study was carried out in Autumn 2015 practice guidelines for environmental verification providers. with 2,699 participants from the stakeholder groups of In doing so we planned and performed our engagement employees, customers, experts and others, which was with due regard to the principle of materiality, in order to supplemented by a further study in Summer 2016, express our opinion with a limited level of assurance. assessed here exclusively on the basis of survey results of 222 Deka customers. A summary of the results is now In an environmental verification engagement with limited available and this concludes that the Bank's stakeholders assurance, the procedures performed are less comprehenattach greater importance to the areas of “sustainable sive than those required for an engagement requiring corporate governance” and “customer relationships and reasonable assurance, such that accordingly, a lower level sustainable products”. As a result, the areas of “business of assurance is obtained. The selection of verification ecology” and “corporate citizenship“ were presented procedures is at the discretion of the environmental verifier in a more compact manner. This is an understandable and was in line with those required for ISO 14001, both transparent change which is also acceptable from an technically and in terms of content. environmental point of view, particularly given that, after seven continuous years of ISO 14001 certification, the area of business ecology has a secure foundation. 34 Independent environmental assurance statement DekaBank has reacted to the results of the materiality We welcome the fact that the Bank has elected not to analysis and has amended its 2016 Sustainability Report formulate a separate sustainability strategy since 2015. with regard to relevant issues from a customer view such This decision reinforces its aim of embedding sustainability as “Sustainable corporate governance” and “Sustainable throughout the whole value chain and hence approaching products”. This development should be perpetuated and it as an integral part of the business model. A new, further developed via the customer requirements articuambitious aim of the Bank deserves particular praise; it lated in the framework of the materiality studies. wishes to become one of the first banks worldwide to comprehensively record the CO2 emissions associated with During the preparation of the report, relevant topics its business activity. In addition to the performed measurewere assessed for materiality and both upstream and ments of the emissions resulting from banking operations, downstream organisational units were taken into considerthe emissions associated with the total assets and the ation. The report includes all information that should be reportable banking business will be recorded from 2018. deemed material, with due consideration given to the principle of materiality, sustainability context and stakeIn addition to the external verification of its compliance holder involvement. with GRI guidelines, DekaBank is evaluated by other specialist rating agencies, thereby facilitating its comparison According to the results of our review, no information has with other banks. Furthermore, this allows all of Dekabeen omitted from the report that could potentially influbanks stakeholders to gain a clear picture of the successes ence the assessment or decisions of stakeholders, or that and potential difficulties experienced in the implementamight reflect social, economic or ecological impacts. The tion of sustainability principles. report discloses both positive and, to the extent that these exist, negative events. Without qualifying the conclusion of our review set out above, we have the following recommendations on the The use of GRI indicators as well as additional sectorfurther development of the Bank's sustainability reporting: specific criteria facilitates the comparability of the report. The Sustainability Report meets the requirements of the In general terms, there is still considerable scope to core “in accordance” opinion and further requirements of increase the level of detail involved in the reporting of the “comprehensive” opinion are fulfilled. One of the indisome indicators, while the result of the stakeholder survey cators (HR2) could only be determined in monetary value clearly show that operational environmental indicators are as opposed to time value as required by the standard; of less interest than business-related aspects. the process for compiling the data should be amended. The increase in greenhouse gases has been effectively The scope covered by the 2016 Sustainability Report thus counteracted by the increase in green electricity procuredemonstrates that DekaBank is willing to allow its sustainament. This is an initiative worthy of praise. Further efforts bility performance to be compared with that of other leadto improve efficiency in business processes are already ing financial institutions. being planned. Progress made in this area should be reported in the next report. Supplementary information and recommendations DekaBank’s commitment to integrating sustainable development into its core business far exceeds normal practice Braunschweig, 4 March 2017 in the sector. It is commendable that DekaBank has signed the UN Global Compact and Equator Principles and has thus a voluntary pledge to uphold internationally recognised principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The progress achieved in the implementation of these principles is also described in the Sustainability Report. The mandatory introduction in 2014 of an internal Code of Ethics for all DekaBank employees, and third parties acting on behalf Dr. Ralf Utermöhlen (Umweltgutachter, DE-V-0080) of DekaBank, also clearly underlines the importance the AGIMUS GmbH Umweltgutachterorganisation & Bank places on the issue of sustainability. Sustainability Beratungsgesellschaft (DE-V-0003) criteria are consistently observed when making investment Am Alten Bahnhof 6 and finance decisions. 38122 Braunschweig Information online Ordering reports Contact Concept, text and design The Sustainability Report 2016 of We would be pleased to send you Johannes Behrens-Türk NKI-Institut, München the Deka Group can be found on a printed copy of the Sustainability johannes.behrens-tuerk@deka.de rolf.haessler@nk-institut.de our website www.dekabank.de Report 2016 of the Deka Group. under “Deka Group / If you would like to receive the Robert Sattler STANDARD RAD. GmbH, Sustainability”. report on a regular basis, please robert.sattler@deka.de Frankfurt am Main contact us. KlausAndreas Finger klaus-andreas.finger@deka.de DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale Mainzer Landstraße 16 60325 Frankfurt Postbox 11 05 23 60040 Frankfurt Phone: +49 (0 69) 71 47 0 Fax: +49 (0 69) 71 47 13 76 www.dekabank.de
