2017 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO Sustainability Report Contents 04 CEO Message 06 Company Profile 08 Business Overview About This Report This report is the sixth sustainability report of Mirae Asset Daewoo. The company published the first sustainability report among Korean Contact Information Address Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul Governance 14 16 Philosophy Board of Directors brokerage companies, and this is the first sustainability report created 04539, Korea 20 Stakeholder Engagement after the merger with Mirae Asset Securities in December 2016. The Phone +82-2-3774-8372 aim of this report is to review sustainability management activities and 21 Ethical Management Fax +82-2-3774-1343 achievement of the company and disclose such information to the stakeholders in a transparent manner. E-mail irteam@miraeasset.com 24 Materiality Test Reporting Method This report was compiled according to the Core option in the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a global guideline for sustainability reports, and to the Financial Services Sector Supplement Guidelines (FSSS). It is also aligned to the 10 principles of the UN Global Sustainability 28 Risk Management for Mid-to Long-term Growth Compact, which the company has been upholding since 2006. Reporting Period Issue 32 35 Fostering Global Talent Protecting Financial Consumers All information in this report is based on the past three years from 38 Sustainable Growth through Finance 2014 to 2016. Performance data for 2014 and 2015 refers to the business result of Mirae Asset Daewoo (former Daewoo Securities) and performance data for 2016 encompasses that of integrated Mirae Asset Daewoo after the merger with Mirae Asset Securities. Both financial information and non-financial information are reported according to Management 44 Performance Analysis the company’s fiscal years following our disclosure policy. However, information that do not fit such criteria have footnotes added and 48 Employee Value Report information deemed necessary from the first half of 2017 is also contained in this report. 52 Customer Satisfaction Reporting Scope 56 Social Contributions The scope of information in this report encompasses the company headquarters, Human Resources Development Center, IT Center, domestic branch network, and overseas subsidiaries and offices and other areas where Mirae Asset Daewoo performs business activities. However, in case data collection was difficult due to physical limitations in terms of material management and assessment, the scope of reporting has been limited to business sites solely in Korea, excluding overseas business sites such as overseas subsidiaries, offices, etc. Appendix 62 Key Performance 71 GHG Emission Verification Statement 72 Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance To enhance the internal and external credibility of this report, the 74 GRI Index company commissioned an independent assurance statement from the 77 UNGC & UN SDGs DNV GL, which is a professional assurance organization and ensured credibility and fairness in the compilation process, disclosure data and 78 Membership in Associations other content in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. Detailed assurance opinions are outlined on page 72~73 of this report. 04 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report CEO message 05 CEO Message I would like to express my sincerest thanks to all of our customers, shareholders, and other stakeholders for your unwavering interest in, and support for, Mirae Asset Daewoo. It gives me great pleasure to report to you on Mirae Asset Daewoo’s performance In 2006, Mirae Asset Daewoo became the first brokerage firm in Korea to release in creating economic, social and environmental value, and to share our vision for a sustainability report. The company has now been listed on the Dow Jones the future through this Sustainability Report. Sustainability Index (DJSI) World for five consecutive years, demonstrating our competitiveness as a sustainable global company. 2017 is the year when Mirae Asset Daewoo is established. As a leading company in Korea, Mirae Asset Daewoo will strive to contribute to the nation’s financial Sustainability has recently become a critical factor for any company in making industry, and help our customers prepare for a happy post-retirement life. We will assessments of its corporate value, and in taking investment decisions. Business for look for a wide range of quality assets, and manage customer assets in a stable financial companies relies on a relationship of trust with customers, which makes way through global asset allocation and brokerage. sustainability a fundamental source of competitiveness. We are establishing a customer and shareholder value-centered culture in all We will continue to grow into a global investment bank through competitiveness our decision-making processes, in particular by strengthening risk management, based on sustainability, and ensure that customer and shareholder profitability are compliance and audit functions. Our organization, operations and processes will always our first priorities. all apply global standards, so that we can build a strong business culture, centered I ask for your continuing interest and encouragement. on customer profitability. Thank you. In addition, we are committed to practicing warm-hearted capitalism, and thus strive to fulfill our social responsibilities through sincere sharing. Staff-led volunteer and sharing activities therefore lead our social contributions. Now Choi Hyun Man celebrating its 17th anniversary, the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has Executive Vice Chairman, provided talent development programs, including scholarships and economic Mirae Asset Daewoo education, to more than 193,328 people. 2016 Key Figures No. 1 57.3 KRW in trillions 6.7 KRW in trillions 213 KRW in trillions Leading brokerage Listed on the DJSI World for Became the first brokerage Participated in the CDP for Total assets Equity capital Total client asset company in Korea 5 consecutive years company in Korea to publish 8 consecutive years the COP in 2006 06 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Company Profile 07 Company Profile Mirae Asset Daewoo has achieved distinctive competitiveness by thinking out of the Global Network As a global investment firm, Mirae Asset Daewoo has pioneered in offering high-value box. We create new markets through relentless innovation and transformation. We products by identifying diverse prime assets across the globe based on our competitive do not stay complacent on where we are today, look far beyond, and seek innovation global network and proactively developing overseas investment opportunities. continuously, and this is where our competitiveness originates from. Global Presence 9 Countries 11 Overseas subsidiaries Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia Mirae Asset Wealth Management (USA) Inc. Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) CCTVM Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) LLC Mirae Asset Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Mirae Asset Investment Advisory (BEIJING) Co. Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities Mongolia UTsK LLC Mirae Asset Investment Asia Limited 3 Representative offices Beijing Representative Office Shanghai Representative Office Ho Chi Minh Representative Office Company Company name Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries Name Location Capital stock Main business Ownership Profile Headquarters Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, Korea Mirae Asset Venture Investments Korea KRW 24.9 billion SME start-up 76.8% investments CEOs Choi Hyun Man, Cho Woong Kee Mirae Asset Securities Hong Financial USD 242,580,645 100.0% Business type Financial investment (Hong Kong) Ltd. Kong investments Total asset KRW 57.3 trillion Financial Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. U.K. USD 78,364,700 100.0% investments Credit rating AA (Korea Ratings, Korea Investors Service, NICE Information Service) Mirae Asset Securities Financial U.S. USD 262,000,000 100.0% Number of employees 4,818 (USA) Inc. investments Mirae Asset Realty Real estate Singapore USD 180,000 100.0% (Singapore) Pte. leasing * As of the end-March 2017 08 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Business Overview 09 Business Overview Wealth Management IWC Pension Investment Banking We provide top-tier wealth management services that Investment Wealth-management Center (IWC) is a We help our customers manage their assets to prepare Our investment banking offers financial solutions for are well suited for customer’s purpose and propensity mega-scale financial complex and offers distinctive for a stable post-retirement life through the efficient corporate customers such as financing for competitive of investment, backed by our global network, largest financial services to corporate and individual customers management of their retirement and individual companies and project financing services in terms of among Korean brokerage companies. based on convergence of advanced financial solutions. pensions based on our distinctive global market asset structured financing for tangible assets. allocation capabilities. Overview Overview Overview Overview Wealth management based on global asset allocation IWC is a brand-new concept envisioned and realized by Mirae Mobile pension management channel A mobile-based pension Corporate finance Equity and bond sales to corporations; capabilities Our global asset allocation experts analyze market Asset Daewoo, offering comprehensive financial services through management application is offered to help subscribers with little identifying investment target; playing a role as a lead manager and conditions based on the broad financial investment product the convergence of retirement pensions, wealth management and financial knowledge can manage their retirement pension with an underwriter for IPO; and pre-IPO investment. line-up, and thus offer optimized portfolio. Wealth Managers corporate finance in seven locations around the nation in Pangyo, ease. This application provides various services encompassing Structured finance Offering and underwriting for asset-backed are appointed to manage customer assets, and they provide Yeouido, Gangnam, Busan, Daegu, Daejeon and Gwangju. retirement and individual pension investment orders, swap trading, products, such as ABS and ABCP, suited to meet customer’s personalized wealth management services to allocate customers and opening pension savings and IRP accounts. Corporate client service We provide consulting services and financing requirement and market conditions. assets according to their investment propensity and purpose. efficient policy operation in terms of human resources, labor affairs, Global asset allocation retirement pension wrap Launched for Corporate loans Offering credit to corporates by building new Brokerage service based on global research Mirae Asset finance and accounting related to the retirement pension policy. the first time in the Korean financial industry in September 2010, business models based on revised Capital Market Act. Daewoo has long provided first-rate domestic brokerage services A number of corporate financial services are provided aimed at this is our flagship wealth management service which offers an based on comprehensive and incisive research of Korean markets. boosting corporate value such as corporate financing, investment one-stop service suited for the investment propensity of subscribers Underwriting·M&A Arranging loans to fund acquisition and In addition, we now offer our clients first-class access to global and M&A. throughout the investment lifecycle – strategy (plan), product forming syndication for corporate M&A; and providing advisory trading as well. By providing differentiated global investment selection (do), and monitoring (see). As of the end of 2016, service on corporate restructuring. Private client service We offer comprehensive one-stop wealth information via our far-reaching network and research reports, we there are a total of 18,784 subscribers with KRW 593.1 billion in management consulting services through which pension assets and Real estate development Advisory and brokerage service for endeavor to build fruitful partnerships with all of our clients. management. financial assets of individuals can be comprehensively managed. project financing in relation to non-financial and intangible assets; Our own specialized retirement asset consulting services such as and financing service for real-estate development. integrated consulting for public and private pensions are provided as well. SOC projects Providing financial advisory in areas of energy generation and infrastructure; and establishing and managing PEFs. Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Key Tasks Financial Product Sales Assets Domestic vs. Offshore 2017 2020 2022 Maximize channel · Strengthen marketing and consulting Offshore 42% 58% Domestic Established Stage synergy to heighten capabilities in IWC and WM competitiveness of · Establish sales channel platform and pension products provide contents Maximize collaboration synergy · Establishment as · Nurture IWC pension management Retail Client Financial Product Sales Assets Breakdown the undisputed No. 1 professionals and improve work process Seek to expand customer pool Mutual Funds CMA Bonds Retirement Pensions brokerage firm 21% 29% 18% 7% Lead the pension · R&D investment to preemptively respond to policy changes Thorough risk management against Growth Stage business through major variable innovation · Seek to expand dividend products · Grow into top five retirement pension provider · Build infrastructure for retirement pension ELS·DLS Trusts Bancassurance · Double the volume of IWC·WM assets consignment operation 10% 12% 3% · Diversify revenue through corporate finance Mutual Fund Sales Assets Breakdown Enhance the · Customized consulting for retail VIP customers Initial Stage Equity-type Bond-type Tanglible Assets Others value of pension · Establish the customer management system for Organic collaboration Strategic allocation customers after-subscription services with WM and IWC of investment timing 43% 8% 4% 4% · Establish and settle IWC businesses through the in full consideration of · Strengthen internal competencies · Strengthen consulting supports for corporate network of affiliates external factors customers Hybrid Derivatives Fund of Funds 21% 5% 8% 10 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Business Overview 11 Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance As a group of independent investment professionals, We offer equity, fixed-income and derivatives products Based on our competitive global network, we are Equipped with competitive investment solution Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to increase profitability in suited for investment needs of institutional investors determined to proactively find prime assets distributed platforms such as the home trading system (HTS) and a stable and consistent way, through product-linked and corporations, as well as research on investment across the globe and identify overseas investment mobile trading system (MTS), we provide differentiated trading and principal investments. products, advisory on investment timing and other opportunities to offer products with high value. customer services by analyzing big data. total solutions. Overview Overview Overview Overview Product-linked trading We offer diverse investment Equity brokerage We help domestic institutional investors Global IB Through principal investment and alternative investment Digital finance innovation Based on our innovative digital opportunities with our in-house developed ELS·DLS and ETNs with reach optimal decisions on investments in Korean and overseas combined with productizing global prime assets, we are offering a finance solutions, we are concentrating our efforts in identifying various underlying assets (e.g. stocks, indices, foreign currencies, companies, based on our differentiated customer service, high distinctive global products to the domestic investors. The company innovative digital finance models such as fintech and developing credit and commodities) to meet client needs for medium-risk quality research and stable trading capabilities. performs cross-border M&A and investment advisory services in differentiated financial services. medium-return investments in the current ultra-low interest rate China, contributing to vibrant exchange between Korea and China. Derivatives-linked products We offer top-tier service in brokering Tailored financial services We scientifically analyze customers in environment. These financial products are linked to our hedging In Indonesia and Vietnam, local IB operations are in practice such domestic and foreign equities and derivatives, creating and such areas as global investment, financial products and pension, investments as well. Furthermore, our stable RP investments secure as IPO, financing brokerage, and investment in solid companies, redeeming exchange-traded funds (ETF), and serving as a liquidity based on big data analysis, and thus provide quality investment short-term fixed interest for our clients. whilst strengthening our wholesale and bond sales. provider for ETFs and derivatives-linked products. information. In addition, we offer product recommendation and Principal investments We are making investments into realGlobal brokerage We are working to develop infrastructure other financial services personalized to meet individual customer Fixed-income brokerage We have strengthened our capabilities estate properties and global companies with high competitiveness for Korea’s outbound equity-trading business operations with needs. in brokering foreign bonds for a number of central banks and at home and abroad, from mid-to long-term perspectives, based institutional investors in Asia, America and Europe. In addition, we institutional investors abroad. We also provide clear guidance Distinctive investment solutions We offer prompt and on our global network, largest among Korean brokerage firms. provide overseas stock brokerage service platform, with a particular on both domestic and global interest rates and excellent client convenient financial services to customers anytime and anywhere A thorough risk management system is in place to pursue stable focus on sucsh markets as Indonesia, Vietnam, Hong Kong services. through the HTS with the proven competitiveness in the online profitability and generate return on capital. A number of advanced (Shenzhen-Hong Kong link, Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect), market, the industry’s first MTS, global asset allocation solution and trading methodologies are applied to the management of bond, Financial products sales We are committed to continuously while offering overseas investment information based on local other diverse investment solutions. foreign exchange, equity products and derivatives products, developing new products and providing customized products research activities, with an aim to improve our competitiveness in pursuing proprietary trading which generates stable and consistent tailored to meet client needs to offer the optimal capital investment global brokerage. return on capital. solutions. Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Equity Sales · Concentrate on new business areas such as overseas Department equity sales Create more synergy within the Mirae Asset Financial Group Overhaul the global Enhance profit stability and expand new business investment process · Expand profit revenue by diversifying investment clients through infrastructure and expand the base improvement and risk · Maintain highest market share and profitability Boost synergy effects in various areas such as brokerage, for stronger content management competencies trading and IB through the collaboration among departments of Passive Solution · Participate in overseas listed ETFs as a limited the company and within the Group Department partner (LP) to penetrate into the global market Advance into the PBS market in the U.S., complete overseas equity trading Increase the number · Enhance the ability to offer products in areas of platform for domestic investors, and provide products of new digital trust and brokerage of derivative-linked products for customers through institutional investors online and offline channels and No.1 Pioneer into new markets and Pursue internal innovation in digital finance Expand the Fixed· Expand market share in the short-to long-term create innovation secure long-term Expand product portion of profits income Sales fixed-income market through proactive commercial Induce close collaboration among IB, investment, fixed-income and in customer growth engines line-up to increase from foreign Department paper (CP) markets relationship investment brokerage services rather than a linear matrix profitability in stocks bond trading and · Strengthen brokerage capabilities with overseas management and offer various strengthen delivery Continue to deliver structured products catering to customer needs central banks and institutional investors derivatives-linked of foreign bonds to through innovation Enhance customer products retail customers Multi Solution · Strengthen product offering capabilities through asset allocation Department collaboration with product development organization convenience through 1 and 2 reinforced global asset · Enhance sourcing capabilities of overseas alternative investment products through our global network allocation solutions 12 13 Governance 14 Philosophy 16 Board of Directors 20 Stakeholder Engagement 21 Ethical Management 24 Materiality Test 14 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Governance Board Stakeholder Ethical Materiality 15 Philosophy of Directors Engagement Management TEST Philosophy All decisions made at Mirae Asset are guided by our Philosophy. Since the establishment of our firm, it has defined who we are and what we should aim for. At Mirae Asset, it is always ‘Clients First’ in every circumstance. Investment Principles Business Philosophy Mirae Asset’s Investment Principles are consistent. We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind. All Mirae Asset employees should have a clear understanding of Putting our clients’ needs first, we aspire to be a consistent partner. Business philosophy is our Investment Principles and put into practice for all business activities. what guides us and is a never-changing value of Mirae Asset. Our investment Principle is a promise to our clients and should be firmly adhered to at all times. Vision 2 1 As emerging market experts with a global perspective, we pursue excellence in Mirae Asset identifies the sustainable Mirae Asset invests competitiveness of companies. with a long-term perspective. investment management to help our clients achieve their long-term objectives. Companies with “sustainable competitiveness” refer A long-term perspective is needed when determining We strive for our clients’ lifetime well-being. Our Group Vision presents Mirae Asset’s evolving role and to those companies with a competitive advantage in whether a company’s competitiveness is sustainable. strategy as a global investment company working towards our clients’ lifetime well-being. market share, business model, corporate governance Though share prices may be volatile over and earnings growth. It is the Mirae Asset belief that the short-term, earnings growth is the main driver share prices eventually converge with earnings growth behind long-term price movements. and subsequent cash flow. Core Values Investing in individual company’s intrinsic Thus, our efforts to identify companies with sustainable competitiveness and generating stable cash flow is Our four core values – Clients First, Objectivity, Team Play and Citizenship – should competitiveness are a search for high quality factors in a the very essence of long-term investment. be the key decision making criteria for all Mirae Asset employees. company that will lead to stable earnings growth. 3 4 Mirae Asset assesses investment risks Mirae Asset values a team-based approach in with expected return. decision-making. Investment risks should always be simultaneously Successful investment management at Mirae Asset is Clients first Objectivity Team Play Citizenship assessed with expected return. Key factors such as not based on an individual’s decision-making but rather valuation, corporate governance and liquidity should be on a team’s decision to firmly adhere to our investment Our clients’ success is our We assess opportunity We grow through respect Profoundly aware of our constantly monitored for any potential damage on the principles and process. success. We will nurture impartially. Our for each individual and responsibilities as good long-term competitiveness of a company. Mirae Asset does not rely on star managers. Portfolios long-term relationships by independence helps ensure belief in team spirit. We corporate citizens, we give helping our clients build our decisions are aligned aim to create an ethical back to the communities Exposure to assets that may incur too much risk should in accordance with our investment principles are created wealth for life with proven with the needs of our meritocracy in which talent that nurture us and pledge be limited while the Risk Management Division should through extensive discussions and teamwork among investment strategies. clients. is rewarded and opportunity to continue to support constantly monitor whether actual investment adheres division members. is equally available to all. a range of community to our investment principles. initiatives. Mirae Asset firmly adheres to these core investment principles 16 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Governance Board Stakeholder Ethical Materiality 17 Philosophy of Directors Engagement Management TEST Board of Directors Appointment and Industry and business experience of candidates are taken into consideration in appointing Expertise of Directors directors, in order to secure expertise and diversity in our decision-making process. In compliance with Article 5 of the company’s internal corporate governance rules, we have strengthened qualification requirements of non-executive directors, such as expertise, fairness, integrity, accountability and faithfulness, to ensure a fair and transparent appointment. Candidates referred by the Committee for Recommending Candidates for Officers are also scrutinized in terms of qualification. As of May 2017, the Board consists of five directors with expertise in finance and business and two directors with background in law, public administration, tax and government, ensuring a balanced representation between career background and professional expertise. Role and Status of BOD Mirae Asset Daewoo has built sound and transparent corporate governance structure in order to promote long-term growth and protect the interest of shareholders, financial consumers and other stakeholders. In addition, we have made continued efforts to improve transparency Non-executive Director Appointment Process in management and build a robust framework for responsible business management. The Board of Directors (BOD) consists of seven directors: three executive directors and four nonexecutive directors. We maintain the independence of BOD from management by composing a majority (57%) of directors with qualified non-executive directors. Expertise Recommended by Expert pool for the Committee for Put to vote at an Independence non-executive Recommending annual general Expertise directors Candidates for meeting (AGM) Name Economy and Industry and work Officers Classification Flnance Laws and Accounting Key Profile (Tenure) business Government experiences investment administration and tax management • Executive Vice Chairman, Mirae Asset Securities Choi • Executive Vice Chairman, Mirae Asset Life Insurance Persons that do not violate Requires the attendance of a majority of the Hyun Man ○ ○ (13 years) • C  urrently Executive Vice Chairman & CEO, independence ineligibility or Committee members, and the concurrence of Mirae Asset Daewoo stakeholder conflicts a majority of the members present Directors with special interests are not eligible Cho • Boram Bank, Hana Bank to exercise voting rights Executive Woong Kee ○ ○ • President & CEO, Mirae Asset Securities directors (6 years) • Currently President & CEO, Mirae Asset Daewoo • Head of IB Division, Daiwa Securities SMBC Kim • H  ead of Treasury, Principal Investment Division, Efficient Operation Five subcommittees are in place such as Committee for Recommending Candidates for Kuk Yong ○ Mirae Asset Daewoo of BOD Officers, Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, Compensation Committee and (6 months) • Currently Vice President, Head of Trading Division Steering Committee. In particular, the Steering Committee has been established within the BOD to deliberate and vote on key management and operational affairs. This is to ensure that • Chairman, Korea Securities Business Association major decisions of the company go through internal deliberation of the Steering Committee, Hwang Kun Ho • First Chairman, Korea Finanacial Investment Association established based on the Commercial Act and Articles of Incorporation, which enhances the ○ ○ (2 years • Currently Visiting Professor, Sogang Business School propriety and legitimacy of managerial decisions as well as transparency and fairness of the 2 months) • Currently Chair of the BOD, Mirae Asset Daewoo decision-making process. This also allows us to deliver values on sound corporate governance Kim • A  dministrative Chief Official & Secretary, and responsible management. In 2016, a total of 20 board meetings were held, with a Byeong Il Ministry of Finance and Economy 100% attendance rate. Meeting agenda was distributed prior to the meetings, allowing the ○ ○ ○ (1 year Non3 months) • Currently Professor, Tax Department, Kangnam University directors to review items and if necessary, obtain details from working-level staff to enhance executive Hong their understanding of the issues at hand. Directors from various professional backgrounds directors Seong Il • CEO, Korea Investment Securities have actively taken part in the BOD meetings last year. As a result, all of the agenda have ○ ○ (5 years • Currently Vice Chairman (non-standing), GK Partners been passed without modified votes, deferrals or other abnormalities. Individual directors 2 months) have leveraged their expertise to promote the company’s growth and protect the interests • D  eputy Minister of Trade Investment, of financial consumers. To this end, they have advised and remained faithful to their role of Kwon Ministry of Knowledge Economy Tae Kyun ○ ○ monitoring and supervising, understood the company’s ethical duties and social responsibilities, • Minister, Public Procurement Service (2 months) and reflected them into decision-making. • Currently Advisor, Yulchon LLC * Tenure: As of May 2017 Audit Committee The Audit Committee supervises the propriety and legitimacy of the management’s actions to help deliver rational management decisions. Comprised of three non-executive directors qualified in terms of independence, the Committee members have backgrounds in business management, accounting and finance, audit and supervisory practice. There are grounds to leverage advisory from external experts, if necessary. To reinforce independence and fairness, of particular note, the Committee members are appointed and dismissed by an AGM, and they execute duties in a stance independent from the BOD or execution bodies. Resolutions made by the Audit Committee cannot be objected by the BOD. 18 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Governance Board Stakeholder Ethical Materiality 19 Philosophy of Directors Engagement Management TEST Number of Preventing Conflict of Directors who wish to leverage business opportunities that benefit or may benefit the Subcommittee Key roles and 2016 agenda Composition meetings held (Handled agenda) Interest company’s interests are required to obtain prior approval. Activities related to conflict of interest are managed and monitored in compliance with Article 398 and 397 of the Commercial Act. Committee for Executive director: 1 5 times Accordingly, the fifth board meeting in 2016 that took place in April deliberated on the fairness Recommending • Recommend non-executive directors, CEO and members of the Audit Committee Non-executive Candidates for Officers directors: 2 (8 agenda) of transactions and unanimously voted on the ‘Comprehensive Approval of the Transactions with Key Shareholders, etc.’. The Fair Trade Act mandates prior approval from the BOD if • Build propriety of the overall internal control system affiliates or conglomerates banned from doing cross-investment among affiliates engage in Audit Non-executive 15 times Committee • E stablish and execute internal audit plans to evaluate and improve the company’s business directors: 3 transactions exceeding KRW 5 billion or 5% of the larger between total capital and capital with (28 agenda) performance a person with a special relationship. In line with the regulation, we have obtained approval •D  etermine compensation amount, payment method and matters on compensation from the seventh and ninth board meetings in 2016 on large-scale internal transactions of Executive director: 1 2 times Compensation framework affiliates. Committee Non-executive directors: 2 (7 agenda) • Develop and disclose an annual report on compensation payment • S upervise comprehensively and create control environment to enable efficient risk management and build internal control framework Risk Executive director: 1 8 times Evaluation and Mirae Asset Daewoo reviews the composition and operation of the BOD and its internal Management •B  uild integrated risk management policies, and assign roles and responsibilities Non-executive Committee for supervising directors: 2 (25 agenda) Compensation of BOD committees prior to an AGM every year. A comprehensive evaluation is carried out, assessing • Develop and amend risk management standards whether the BOD has adequately performed its roles to contribute to the interests of internal and external stakeholders, as well as their expertise, understanding of work duties, ethical Steering •D  eliberate and vote on matters delegated by the BOD, including overall corporate affairs Non-executive 11 times Committee and related matters directors: 3 (16 agenda) and social responsibilities and demonstrated fairness in conflict of interests. This is initiated by the BOD, but specific duties are commissioned and independently performed by supporting * The number of meetings held is based on figures of Mirae Asset Daewoo in 2016 divisions. In addition, the Compensation Committee has set in place under the BOD to build and run a fair compensation framework. The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether the compensation framework for management and specific positions are reasonably developed against risk structure, and monitors the connection among the compensation framework, Independence and To build sound corporate governance system, Mirae Asset Daewoo adhere to the principle of the company’s financial position and risks on a regular basis. The Committee also runs an Diversity of BOD appointing independent and professional non-executive directors. Qualifications for appointing independent probe to monitor whether governance best practices of a financial company are competent candidates are as follows: adequately complied, thus strengths the objectivity of evaluation. Criteria for Determining Comply with the appointment procedures and principles and secure independence Independency of Non-executive I. Person with sufficient job experience or professional expertise in such fields as finance, Directors economy, business management, accounting and law, required to perform duties as the Compensation of Directors (Disqualification of Independence, Article 382 of the Commercial Act) company’s non-executive director or audit committee member Headcount1) Total amount paid2) Per capita Classification (Person) (KRW million) (KRW million) 1. Directors, executive directors and II. Person capable of performing duties without being restricted by certain interests for the employees who are engaged in Executive Director 2 1,715 858 interests of all shareholders or financial consumers as the company’s non-executive director the regular business of the relevant company; or directors, auditors, or audit committee member Non-executive Director 2 37 18 executive directors and employees who Audit Committee Member 3 382 127 have engaged in the regular business III. Person with appropriate sense of ethics and responsibility to perform duties as the company’s of the relevant company within the non-executive director or audit committee member Total 7 2,134 304 latest two years 2. The largest shareholder, his or her 1) Headcount: Number of registered directors as of December 30th, 2016 when Mirae Asset Daewoo was launched after the merger Leverage strategic decision-making to review candidates from various fields to spouse, lineal ascendants and lineal 2) Total amount paid: Total compensation amount paid to directors of the BOD during 2016 descendants contribute to flexible and efficient management 3. Directors, auditors, executive directors I. Appoint a person with relevant experience with business management, law, administration and employees of the corporation, in Employee Compensation against Highest Paid Director cases where the largest shareholder is and other fields that may comprehensively contribute to the business, despite lack of direct a corporation relevance in the financial and securities industries Highest paid director Average employee compensation Ratio Year-on-year change 4. Spouse, lineal ascendants and lineal (KRW million) (KRW million) (%) (%) descendants of directors, auditors and II. Build a dedicated team that consistently provides training and business support to non1,559 90 17.32 244 executive directors executive directors to support expertise in financial industry, and hold regular and irregular 5. Directors, auditors, executive directors meetings to encourage and complement individual expertise and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company 6. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business transactional relationship 7. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of another company where directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors and executive directors 20 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Governance Board Stakeholder Ethical Materiality 21 Philosophy of Directors Engagement Management TEST Stakeholder Ethical Engagement Management Definition of Stakeholders Mirae Asset Daewoo defines key stakeholders as the individuals or groups that have an Ethical Management and Mirae Asset Daewoo upholds ethical management as the first and foremost priority of the influence on the company and vice versa. This also includes shareholders, group institutions Code of Ethics financial industry and pursues ethical practices to take a firm root in employees’ business with legal, financial and operational responsibilities, the media, labor union, NGOs, pressure activities through the Code of Ethics. A Code of Conduct is also set in place to enable groups, local community, competitors, opinion leaders and the academic. In particular, various employees understand what ethical management means and achieve effective ethical stakeholders are categorized based on their role, level of impact, and relations and four key management practices in their daily business activities. Based on principles and trust, the Code stakeholders are designated as customers, shareholders and investors, employees, and local of Ethics is ethical guideline that sets the standard for ethical decision-making and appropriate community and are managed in a systematic manner. We identify key issues and events behavior of our employees. It is also our pledge to maximize corporate value and contribute for each stakeholder classification and this is reflected on our business activities. Diverse to a sound development of the financial market through the ethical management focused on communication channels are in place to pay attention to their opinions. customers, shareholders and society. All members of Mirae Asset Daewoo have responsibilities and obligations to adhere to the Code of Ethics, and the company collects a written oath on ethical management practices every year, in its efforts to settle a fair and transparent culture Stakeholder Mirae Asset Daewoo has established various communication channels to listen to stakeholder of ethics. Communication Channel opinions and expectations. The company undertakes stakeholder interviews and surveys to establish what they believe is important, and uses the results to determine major issues. Information on these is also disclosed in our sustainability report. Organization for Ethical A Compliance Officer is appointed to independently supervise corporate-wide ethics and Management compliance. The Compliance Department is in charge of ethical management of the company, and it manages rules on ethics and compliance, policies and conformity with procedures. The Stakeholder Communication Channel and Issues Compliance Department establishes an overall ethical management execution system and helps employees fully understand the Code of Ethics and put it into practices. Customers Shareholders·Investors (Retail Customers, Consumer Organizations) (Stockholders, Evaluation Organizations) Board of Directors These stakeholders purchase and use Mirae These stakeholders own shares of Mirae Asset Daewoo’s financial products and services Asset Daewoo and take part in the company’s by engaging in transactions with the company. decision-making process. We strive to maximize We make efforts to leverage our expertise shareholder and investor value by generating CEO Audit Committee in which financial consumers can undertake competitive financial returns. convenient and safe transactions. Compliance Officer Audit Division Communication Channel Communication Channel Compliance Department Audit Department Customer Service Improvement Council, AGM, Public disclosure, (39 members) Voice of Customers (VOC), Website, Company forums, Investor relations General Audit Team Investment Forum Financial Consumer Financial Consumer Audit Team 1 Compliance Team Protection Team Complaints Handing Team Audit Team 2 Establish and support Establish and support Handle customer Communication Channel Communication Channel compliance monitoring system consumer protection system complaints Audit Team 3 Labor-management Council, Partner institutions for social contribution activities, Website Cultivate culture of ethics and Review investment Provide training on WM Community compliance advertisement preventing complaints Audit Team 4 Discuss compliance-related Carry out on-site Plan and operate VOC Earning trust from customers requires complete Mirae Asset Daewoo conducts its social issues in advance inspection integrity and expertise from our employees. contributions by collaborating with various Monitor unfair Mystery shopping, standard Mirae Asset Daewoo is strengthening employee organizations, including NGOs, and thus transaction sales process and others competencies, and engages in diverse activities strives to fulfill its role as a member of local to build a healthy corporate culture. Operate anti-money laundering communities and deliver positive social impact. system (Staff, Executives) Employees Local Communities 22 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Governance Board Stakeholder Ethical Materiality 23 Philosophy of Directors Engagement Management TEST Ethics and Compliance Ethics and Compliance Reporting System At Mirae Asset Daewoo, diverse ethics and Internal Control System Mirae Asset Daewoo has established a corporate-wide internal control system in order to Report compliance reporting channels have been established, including company intranet, telephone manage the ethical and compliance process, as part of our endeavor to create fair and and emails through which employee’s ethics violation and compliance failure are submitted transparent value. Employees are banned from engaging in political activities during business and handled. Reports are treated with complete anonymity and whistle-blowers are entitled hours, and all company premises are assessed for exposure to corruption to further grow the to a maximum of KRW 100 million worth of incentive to encourage employees’ participation, company into one that fulfills its ethical responsibilities. and thus create a culture of ethics. Prevention of the Inflow of Illegal Funds An internal system is up and running to Financial Irregularities and Corruption Report Center We operate various channels eliminate illegal financial transactions such as money laundering and fundraising for terrorism through which our customers report matters related to any employee financial irregularities and proactively block the inflow of illegal funds. Furthermore, employee trainings are offered and corruption, thus customers can engage in financial transactions without worry – these to enable them to fulfill their business in right ways. channels include the Voice of Customer (VOC) system at our Customer Center, the complaints Monitoring on Money-Laundering Transactions Transaction Monitoring System (TMS) section on our website run by the Financial Consumer Protection Department, and the went live in 2009 in order to effectively prevent inflow and transactions of illegal funds. Corruption Reporting Center of the Compliance Team. The Compliance Team also operates By analyzing various scenarios, we are thoroughly preparing ourselves to actual incident the internal reporting system (Red Whistle – Helpline). Through these methods, we are striving occurrence and the mandatory customer verification function is designed to proactively and to prevent financial irregularities and to contribute to eradicating corruption. effectively prevent financial crimes in advance. Compulsory Training on Anti-money Laundering To enhance employees’ understanding Ethics and Compliance Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to enhance integrity of its staff through continuous trainings. In of preventing money laundering, Mirae Asset Daewoo provides annual trainings on antiTraining 2016, 159 ethics and compliance trainings took place on topics such as employee’s personal money laundering, which are differed by job. This training is part of the company’s efforts to securities transaction, anti-money laundering, provision and reception of financial benefits, identify and prevent illegal money laundering and establish a sound basis for all its financial and prevention of unfair transactions in various formats such as online training, compliance transactions. campaign, sales office visits and seminars – all in a bid to raise employees’ awareness on Employee Self-Inspection Checklists for internal control per each department and branch ethics and compliance, thus support their will to practice integrity and help them adhere to are developed to set up a corporate-wide internal control management structure and review related regulations. policy compliance status. This list consists of check items in daily, weekly and monthly basis, reflecting the characteristics of each department and branch. These checklists and self159 Trainings on Ethics and Compliance inspection activities help enhance legality, transparency and effectiveness of the company. (Unit: Times) TMS System 2016 159 2015 163 Customer verification and DB integration Anti-money laundering solution Interface with internal and external systems 2014 142 KYC Data extraction Internal Customer management, risk evaluation and Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) program management, watch list management, CTR Behavior detection engine report, etc. Scenario management, behavior detection External engine, each scenario’s extraction threshold Receive report template from KoFIU and Establishing a Culture of Holding a ‘Ethics and Compliance Day’ and Spreading Compliance Issues In order ETL management provides feedback on result Ethics to prevent financial incidents, first Wednesday of each week is designated as ‘Ethics and KYC data, transaction data, and account Compliance Day’ when an internal assessment of potential risks is conducted at each Investigate suspicious transactions data in Data Warehouse department and branch, and ethics and compliance trainings are also offered. Furthermore, in Suspicious transaction management and alert case of severe issues arise from compliance perspective, compliance seminars, on such topics management as compliance case studies of other companies and regulation changes, are held to bolster STR status management the company’s commitment to ethical and compliance management. Each quarter, entire Report and related information management, employees are required to conduct a self-inspection of checklist items, such as providing online report to Korea Financial Intelligence financial benefits, employee’s personal securities transaction, information protection, Unit (KoFIU), encryption of reports inappropriate trading, in efforts to exam their own ethics and compliance status as well as the level of understanding. This also ensures each staff to be compliant with the internal regulations, thereby contributing to creating a culture of ethics and compliance. Mandatory Vacation Program Mirae Asset Daewoo aims to enhance the effectiveness of internal controls through the mandatory vacations set forward under the laws on governance structure and internal control standards. Regular mandatory vacations are provided according to the selection criteria in the job positions applicable for mandatory vacations such as fund trade, budget execution, settlement, and product and property operation. If necessary, irregular mandatory vacations are provided and special inspections take place to protect investors and the company from occurrence of business-related incidents. 24 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Governance Board Stakeholder Ethical Materiality 25 Philosophy of Directors Engagement Management TEST Materiality Test Mirae Asset Daewoo selects issues of keen interest to our business and stakeholders through the materiality test, and reports them in a balanced manner, thus promotes in-depth communication with our stakeholders. Materiality Test Process We carried out the materiality test based on various standards, such as Five–Part Materialist Test Mirae Asset Daewoo conducted the materiality test in comprehensive consideration of by AccountAbility and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. We analyzed our corporate relevance with economic outcome in the mid-to long-term perspective and impact on the vision and strategies, global IB and other industry issues, global standards and media exposure company’s direct and indirect stakeholders. As a result of the materiality test, 15 out of 43 in a comprehensive manner. In addition, a survey was conducted to internal and external issues were designated as issues with materiality and our business activities related to such stakeholders, with an aim to listen to their voices. issues are outlined in pages marked in below table. Materiality Test Process STEP 1 Forming a major issue pool STEP 2 Collecting stakeholder opinions STEP 3 Conducting the materiality test STEP 4 Selecting and approving final reporting issues Internal Issues Survey on internal and external stakeholders Evidence of Relevance •Level of financial impact from revenue, cost and risk perspective were evaluated and weighted • Analyzed the existing pool of issues on sustainable management of former • Conducted surveys with employees, customers, partners and CSR experts •Reviewed internal materials such as strategies of former Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Daewoo and Mirae Asset Securities and collect internal issues • Items such as growing into a global IB, performance evaluation, Daewoo and Mirae Asset Securities, company magazine and •Internal evaluation was conducted including the department in charge • Reviewed business strategies and risk issues social contributions based on the company’s competencies, as well as accomplishment letters •Prioritized the materiality level to separately highlight key issues and customer satisfaction and social and environmental investment received • Identified major issues, such as comprehensive risk management including categorized issues to be managed in a continuous basis External Issues good feedback ESG, information protection, ethics and compliance, through benchmark • Collected issues raised by stakeholders of merged companies study on eight companies listed on DJSI World and global IBs Efforts to enhance customer satisfaction 5.0 • Analyzed new issues raised under international standards •The UN Global Compact that we support and other sustainability Expand environmental investment 4.8 management guidelines, such as GRI G4, SASB, DJSI, ISO26000 were Selected 43 issues based on internal and external issues identified analyzed Proactively advance into the global financial market 4.1 Evidence of Impact Fair performance evaluation and compensation 3.9 •Evaluated the level of impact of major stakeholders such as customers, Social contributions based on the company’s competencies 3.6 partners, employees, local community, NGO, shareholders and the government • Concern over the merger was on the top list according to the analysis results of 3,292 meaningful media coverage in 2016 Materiality Test Results Core issues Impact Issue GRI Aspects Page Cost Revenue Risk Impact ➊ Social contributions based on the company’s competencies Local Communities ● 41, 56~59 11 ➋ Increasing customer satisfaction Product and Service Labeling ● 37, 53 7 ➌ Fair distribution of economic performance Economic Performance ● 46 10 ➍ Work-life balance Employment ● 50 3 14 5 2 ➎ Protecting financial consumer data Customer Privacy ● 55 13 12 9 ➏ Expand environmental investment Active Ownership ● 40 8 6 4 ➐ Expanding socially responsible investments (SRI) Active Ownership ● 39 1 ➑ Fostering global talents Training and Education 32~34 15 ● ➒ Ethics and compliance Anti-corruption ● 21~22 ➓ Preventing money laundering and eliminating fraudulent transactions Anti-corruption ● 23 11 Comprehensive risk management across economic, social, and environmental front Audit ● 28~31 12 Providing right marketing information Marketing Communications ● 35~36 13 Responding to climate change and managing environmental performance Product Portfolio ● 40, 47 Report issues (Potential issues) 14 Increasing accessibility to financial information Product and Service Labeling ● 41 Relevance 15 Developing products aligned with market changes Product Portfolio ● 39, 40, 47 26 27 Sustainability Issue 28 Risk Management for Midto Long-term Growth 32 Fostering Global Talent 35 Protecting Financial Consumers 38 Sustainable Growth through Finance 28 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issue Risk management for mid-to Fostering Protecting Sustainable growth 29 long-term growth global talent financial consumers through finance Definition and Mirae Asset Daewoo defines corporate risk as potential losses that arise in the course of its Regulations of Risk management or business activities. We have categorized risks into credit, market, operational, and other risks according to the risk type, and established regulations, detailed rules and guidelines for efficient risk management. We also have a comprehensive, company-wide risk management system in place. Risk Management Our risk management organization consists of the Risk Management Committee (the Governance ‘Committee’ hereinafter), steering committees, subcommittees, Chief Risk Officer (CRO), and departments in charge of risk management. Risk Management Committee The Committee consists of at least three directors, with a majority of the members being non-executive directors from BOD members. As the top risk management decision-making body, it establishes risk management strategies that correspond to the company’s management strategies, and supervises whether risk management is being carried out appropriately. Major matters deliberated and decided by the Committee include Risk Management for establishing a basic risk management direction and strategies and inspecting implemented matters; establishing, amending, and abolishing general regulations related to risk management; setting the company’s risk-adjusted capital and minimum line of asset soundness; establishing Mid-to Long-term Growth the company-wide risk appetite and loss limits and approving excess limits; approving and monitoring stress tests; and handling other significant issues related to the company’s risk management system. The Committee members are appointed and dismissed by the BOD, with one non-executive director chairing the Committee. Steering Committees In an effort to assist the effective operation of the Committee, we have established two steering committees – the Risk Management Steering Committee for Why does it matter? Risk management is essential to safely protect customer assets and maximize stakeholder risk management activities and the Investment Review Committee to review the company’s value amid rapid changes in the business environment. Of particular note, systematic risk investment activities. Members of the steering committee are selected by the Committee from management is needed to manage loss potential. Opportunities for revenue generation among high ranking officers, including the CRO, and the chair of the steering committee is require a certain amount of risk, yet exposure at too high of a level can lead to large losses also appointed by the Committee. The chairperson may order discontinuity of transactions, in stakeholder profits and corporate value. In addition, changes in the social environment, coordinate risk positions, and request for a measure against relevant personnel. such as the rapidly aging population, have a direct impact on the business environment. Risk Management Steering Committee The Risk Management Steering Committee handles The scope of risk management therefore is expanding from the financial sector to include details and issues related to the risk management of proprietary and client assets that have been non-financial sectors. delegated to it by the Committee, and reports the results and progress of major activities to the Committee. Major tasks of the Risk Management Steering Committee are to establish, amend, What are core issues? Effective risk management should be implemented based on the establishment of an internal and abolish detailed rules related to risk management; assign risk profiles to divisions and management system. In addition to fragmenting various risks, there is a need to build a business sectors that fall within the risk appetite approved by the Committee; set and change management system and criteria for each type of risk as well as a relevant control system. risk limits commissioned by the Committee and approve cases that exceed risk limits; approve Another important factor is to prepare for potential risks, such as leakage of personal and monitor the appropriateness of company-wide risk measurements; check temporary information, in addition to financial risks. changes to and the status of the risk management system; develop guidelines for risk-weighted evaluation on the performance results of departments in charge of transactions; approve the How do we respond? For systematic risk management, Mirae Asset Daewoo has categorized risks that need to introduction of new products for retirement pensions, trust and wraps; and set the risk appetite be managed into market, credit, liquidity, operational, and financial system risks. We have for client asset management. established management systems and criteria that are appropriate for the characteristics of each type of risk, and use them to recognize, analyze, evaluate, and control the risks. We also make sure that our risk management personnel are the best skilled in the industry, and organize our financial affairs in such a way as to establish and maintain risk management BOD systems that satisfy international standards. Committee Risk Management Committee What are achievements To manage different kinds of risks, we use the standard market Value at Risk (VaR) and and limits? internal VaR model, which is calculated by our own risk management system. Although VaR Investment Review Steering Committee Risk Management Steering Committee Steering Committee can be an effective method for measuring market risk, it is limited in providing information on possible losses in cases exceeding a given confidence level, since it is based on a Subcommittee Investment Evaluation Subcommittee Valuation Subcommittee presupposition of normal market conditions. To mitigate this limitation, we use sensitivity monitoring and stress testing. In addition, we are expanding the previous scope of risk management, such as credit and market risks, to include operations, personal information, Council Post-management Working-level Council CRO and ethics, while further elaborating risk management method. Underlying Asset Council New Product Council Risk Response Council 30 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issue Risk management for mid-to Fostering Protecting Sustainable growth 31 long-term growth global talent financial consumers through finance Investment Review Steering Committee The Investment Review Steering Committee Risk Management System Integrated Risk Management System In February 2011, Mirae Asset Daewoo established deals with material issues concerning the review of investments and items delegated by the an integrated risk management system to meet ‘Minimal Requirements for Risk Management Committee, reporting on these results and the progress of major activities to the Committee. Its at Brokerage Firms’ recommended by the financial supervisory authorities, and to support major tasks are to establish, amend, and abolish detailed rules related to assessment and followthe strengthening of total risk management. By doing so, we have built the foundation for up management, and handle matters related to financial investments of a certain size and their calculating total capital at risk, managing risk, and the Risk Adjusted Performance Measurement follow-up management. (RAPM). We have also formulated a long-term plan for integrating and improving risk management systems to flexibly respond to changes in the Net Operating Capital Ratio (NCR) Subcommittee There are the Valuation Subcommittee and the Investment Evaluation system, to increase work efficiencies between business departments and Risk Management Subcommittee under the Risk Management Steering Committee and the Investment Review Department personnel, and to enhance our overall risk management competencies. Based on Steering Committee, respectively. Subcommittees are set in place for quick decision-making and this plan, we have been overhauling and improving our risk management systems by phase. specialized risk management practices in varied fields, and are operated within the authority The second-phase plan was completed in 2016, and thus we completed computerizing the granted to the two steering committees. standardized method-based risk amount calculation process across all sales departments. The third phase will center on computerization of the consolidated financial statement-based NCR calculation process and development of a system manage limits on various risks. Risk Management Mirae Asset Daewoo has categorized risks that are subject to management into market risk, credit Framework risk, liquidity risk, and operational risk, in order to systematically manage risk that the company Integrated Crisis Management System Mirae Asset Daewoo has a total crisis management face. We also have management systems and criteria that are appropriate for the characteristics system in place to preemptively and actively respond to crisis situations, including the spread of each risk, resulting in adequate recognition, analysis, evaluation, and control of risks. of risks and market shocks. We have classified crisis situations into four categories – attention, caution, deterioration and emergency – based on ‘financial market stability indicators’ and Market Risk We use standardized methods set in the Financial Investment Industry Regulations ‘internal soundness indicators’, and set detailed execution plan for each level, in order to to measure market risks. In addition, we calculate internal market VaR model by adopting the prepare for crisis situations. In addition, we closely monitor financial markets for any sign of market risk-measuring system of SAS. instability by applying specific indicators that reflect the characteristics of each department, and Credit Risk We set acceptable exposure limits by counterparty type or credit rating. We also regularly report to senior management. To prevent risks that arise from natural disasters, such maintain an appropriate level of capital adequacy by controlling credit VaR limits based on as fire, floods and earthquakes, as well as risks that are caused by IT system failure, we have standard models. In addition, we identify and closely manage counterparties in the high risk developed a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and share it company-wide. As for risks related to an category through regular monitoring of our credit risk status. IT system failure, we have created an emergency IT manual centering on seamless provision of IT services, to ensure the continuity and stability of business activities. Liquidity Risk We use liquidity gaps and ratios as key indicators to measure liquidity risks. Also, departments related to risk management or funds regularly monitor risks and report them to senior management. In addition to general liquidity risk management, we formulate Midto Long-term Risk Management contingency plans to deal with any liquidity crises that may arise. We classify crisis situations Mirae Asset Daewoo analyzes social and environmental changes on a regular basis, and thus establishes and executes measures that allow us to into four levels – attention, caution, deterioration and emergency–depending on the condition effectively respond to long-term risk factors that influence our overall business. of the company’s liquidity and the level of stability in financial markets. Specific action plans are established for each level to prepare for crisis situations. Potential Risk Business and Social Environment Impact from Risk Countermeasures • The financial investment industry is • Lower asset market fluctuations result in the • Making efforts to continually generate stable Operational Risk We manage and control operational risks through Risk & Control Self considerably influenced by the market loss of investment opportunities. Also, the profits by diversifying profit structure environment, so that there are severe coupling of asset prices has reduced traditional • Enhancing employee capabilities by providing the Assessment (RCSA), Key Risk Indicator (KRI) management, loss data management, establishment fluctuations in profits depending on the effects of asset allocation industry’s best internal training of countermeasures, and calculation of operational VaR based on internal models. Regular environment • On the other hand, extreme market • Leading the money move and increasing market RSCAs are carried out to gauge the level of risks of concern facing each department. If an • Compared to other brokerage companies, fluctuations cause greater fluctuations in dominance through thorough preparation and the company has the highest fixed income customer assets and the company’s profits indication of risk is found, countermeasures are established to control it preemptively. There is Financial bold execution, ranging from entering into balance and fixed income issued offshore and losses new markets to developing innovative products growing importance in risk management that is related to protection of a financial company’s market which means that our business portfolio is • There is a dire need for alternative investments and services and creative thinking beyond fluctuation personal information and countermeasures against IT-related infringements. In response, very sensitive to interest rate fluctuations owing to the loss of investment opportunities conventional financial framework we established an organization that is dedicated to information security and responses to • Rapidly aging population – greater • Increasing uncertainties in the global • Preemptively reducing bond assets that are importance in building a portfolio that investment environment due to recent sensitive to interest rates infringements, and thus strengthened our response system. preserves investors’ assets after retirement exchange rate fluctuations and changing and increases profitability political landscape–there are concerns over Measurement and Management of Risks a global interest rate hike and a downward trend in the domestic real estate market Classification Total Risk Management System ERMS Operational Risk Management System • Increasing social interest in personal • Financial losses due to business discontinuity • Conducting vulnerability inspections at least once Target Risk Market·Credit risk Market·Credit risk Operational risks information protection due to some caused by a computer system failure a year for the electronic finance infrastructure violations, such as a leakage of customers’ • Increasing negative impact on corporate brand and at least twice a year for open web services Standard method-based risk amount personal information by the staff at • Acquiring and operating the ISMS certification, Measurement Market·Credit VaR, sensitivity, image caused by legal violations calculation, counterparty exposure outsourced companies of financial and improving the information protection exposure management per corporate-wide Operational VaR • Steady rise in the size of debt caused by Outcome management for Over-the-Counter (OTC) Security institutions in Korea management system by reflecting requirements transaction counterparty regulatory authority punishments and derivatives (Personal • Toughened legal and institutional set by high-level supervisory institutions and lawsuits, including strengthened government information requirements, such as the notification system certification organizations, and the latest laws • C alculate risk amount based on standard • Integrated risk database regulations •  CSA R protection, IT) of personal information collection sources that should be observed by financial companies methods to set risk limits for each unit • Internal model to measure market and credit risks Major • KRI and the Information Security Management every year and evaluate internal performance • Analyze crisis situation System (ISMS) certification Functions • Loss data • Making sure the adequacy of information • Calculate exposure amount per • Calculate exposure amount per counterparty at • Strengthened management and supervision protection management system operations counterparty for OTC derivatives • Measure risks and report the company level over the compliance with personal through information protection consulting and information protection-related regulations follow-up examination by a third party by government organizations 32 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issue Risk management for mid-to Fostering Protecting Sustainable growth 33 long-term growth global talent financial consumers through finance Global Asset Allocation Asset allocation is a basic and core element of investment. Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to Experts develop capabilities to make diversified investments in various regions and assets, rather than focusing on the domestic market that accounts for a mere 2% of the global stock market – this will be a key strategy that enables us to reduce the risks of customer assets while increasing performance, and thus build a partnership with our customers. Programs to Improve Asset Allocation Capabilities in WM Mirae Asset Daewoo provides its wealth management employees with educational courses, in order to help them better understand global asset allocations and enhance their knowledge of investment products and tools, thereby improving their capabilities to effectively handle asset allocation and management. The participants learn about the history of financial crises as well as theories, such as the MP generation process. In addition, such application programs as ETF management and practical training on optimal asset allocation are offered to foster global asset allocation experts. This helps employees enhance their capabilities in explaining a wider variety of assets to customers and allocating them. We will continue to offer programs that further strengthen employee capabilities. Fostering Mirae Asset DNA School The Mirae Asset DNA School is a training program designed to help newly hired employees learn about diverse investment assets and develop the Global Talent capabilities needed for prompt customer service. This program consists of two phases: ‘content accumulation’ and ‘sales skill development’. In the former, participants develop a basic understanding of professionalism and financial knowledge, including of economics, securities and products; in the latter, participants receive hands-on coaching at actual sales sites. Through this program, participants develop capabilities that are needed to work effectively, immediately after being dispatched on the field. We plan to further develop the program to cover a wider range of content and to further assist our staff to be equipped with practical knowledge. Why does it matter? Mirae Asset Daewoo seeks to provide stable profits to customers and to establish a sound investment culture. We strive to be a ‘financial investment expert’ who manages customers’ WM Master This course is designed to foster top-notch wealth management experts. Its assets instead of a mere ‘stock broker’. Equipped with the ‘top-notch expertise in the goal is to foster a selected group of specialized talents in advisory services (taxation, real industry’, employees of the company continue to perform as a financial investment expert. estate and legal consulting) as well as culture and artistic literacy. Employees with outstanding performance and capabilities apply for the WM Master Course, after which a strict screening What are core issues? Korea accounts for a mere 2% of the global stock market. There is therefore a need to process is implemented to choose participants. Employees who have completed the primary broaden our investment horizons in order to successfully manage customer assets in a stable job-related course (taxation, real estate, legal affairs, etc.) and the secondary culture class (art, manner, over the long haul. There is also a need to expand the scope of asset allocation to travel, music, humanities, architecture, etc.) are engaged in asset management activities as our cover the entire global market. We aim to successfully execute this mission by enhancing our representative WMs. As master WMs, they perform a pivotal role in drawing up and executing capabilities in global asset allocation, rebalancing and brokerage. asset allocation strategies of front-line WMs. We plan to expand the foundation so that a greater diversity of employees can complete this course. How do we respond? We provide training that increases understanding of global assets and forms a consensus on Self-learning Self-learning is an overseas training program aimed at developing a global the need for global investment. By doing so, Mirae Asset Daewoo is fostering global talent mindset. Each employee can plan and execute all relevant matters of the program, including and promoting the enhancement of their capabilities. Trainings on global asset allocation and the training provider and venue. By providing self-initiated learning opportunities and overseas brokerage are our flagship programs to improve global job competency. Through the selftraining expenses to its employees, Mirae Asset Daewoo help them to set a vision for global learning program and the WM Plus·WM Expert training, we are cultivating global talent with growth in specialized fields and grow into top-tier experts with global competitiveness and a global investment mindset. insight. The satisfaction level of participants are significantly high, and there has been a sharp increase in the number of employees who seek to participate in the program every year. What are achievements The effects of human resource investments are reflected in the diversity of customers’ global and limits? asset allocation and the global brokerage outcome, in other words profits. The percentage of financial experts has been also on the rise. In addition to implementing talent-development policies that have clear outcomes, such as diversity in global asset allocation and fostering of Strengthening Global In our efforts to harness investment opportunities in global companies that achieve great outcomes through innovative cases, such as Google and Apple, and as part of global asset global brokerage experts, we are expanding the scope of our talent-development programs Brokerage Capabilities allocations, Mirae Asset Daewoo has been enhancing global brokerage capabilities. and performance management to include leadership and innovative corporate culture, which can serve as a basis for fostering industry experts. Foreign Equity Investment Strategy Conference The Foreign Equity Investment Strategy Conference is a program designed to strengthen global brokerage capabilities. It covers various subjects, ranging from understanding foreign equity investment systems and processes to indepth Analysis of world-leading companies. Real-time broadcasts are also available, resulting in a corporate-wide consensus on foreign equity investment and the creation of an atmosphere where employees study voluntarily. Each WM and department is making diverse efforts, such as holding a knowledge contest on the history and business areas of prospective companies by organizing the broadcasts every day. We plan to provide training that can enhance in-depth capabilities regarding foreign equity through various routes and forms. 34 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issue 35 WM Expert Course This program is aimed at fostering WMs with expertise and creativity. We segment essential knowledge and reflect the opinions of those in demand for training when designing this training program to enable actual onsite learning and feedback. In 2016, this program was offered on such themes as the global economy outlook and investment techniques, global investment strategies, and in-depth analysis of future industries. Our plan for 2017 is to learn about leading industries and companies in the future, such as the 4th Industrial Revolution. WM PLUS We provide special lectures by reflecting the trend in different areas to choose a lecture theme and promoting voluntary participation by employees. By continually exploring content, we quickly ascertain changes in the world and strengthen employees’ long-term job competency. The theme for 2016 was future industries that are garnering attention as new growth engines as well as analysis of global companies. We plan to continually offer lectures on matters that employees should be cautious of and focus on during foreign equity trading. Spreading a Culture of Protecting Financial We pursue an innovative corporate culture where our employees continually generate creative Innovation value from unique perspectives. Consumers Mirae Asset WAY This course enables employees to learn about and identify with the value system of Mirae Asset Daewoo to perform the mission of ‘Client First’. Employees build experiences and engage in discussions on ‘philosophy’, ‘business principles’, ‘code of conduct’, and ‘management strategies’ through workshops. Book Meetings We hold a half-yearly corporate-wide book meeting to spread the culture of reading and debating among all employees and to build an enterprising corporate culture. Through individual-level reading and department-level discussions on books, employees share Why does it matter? There has been an increase in the release of complicated financial products that financial their various thoughts on a single theme and explore what implications there are for business. consumers find difficult to understand. This has led to a rise in incidents of consumer damage, caused by failure to provide financial consumers with right explanations about products. Leadership Workshop for Team Heads and Branch Managers This course is designed Financial authorities are therefore strengthening measures to protect the rights and interests to remind participants of the roles they perform as a unit leader and to strengthen their of financial consumers, such as stricter regulations. Failure to protect financial consumers can leadership, so that they can achieve both trust and performance. Lectures and team-level lead to overall industry stagnation as it damages financial consumer trust. workshops are held on ways to encourage voluntary participation from employees through horizontal leadership. Also, training is provided on trends to come up with innovative ideas Non-face-to-face channels, such as the website and telephone, have been expanded in What are core issues? that enable prompt responses to changes of the world. addition to traditional sales activities at branches. This has resulted in great interest in providing complete information in the product sales process as well as false and exaggerated Permanent Innovator, a Mirae Asset Course The purpose of this course is to share Mirae advertising. Against the backdrop of the rapidly aging population, providing complete Asset Daewoo’s strategies and generate synergy among affiliates, thus form a seamless information to seniors and helping them better understand products also have become critical consensus. The participants share the company’s vision and the detailed business status of matters of complete selling. each sector, and they are also engaged in dialogue and discussion on the corporate vision and directions for realizing the vision. How do we respond? Mirae Asset Daewoo has been carrying out various activities to prevent mis-selling based on its financial consumer protection organization and system. In addition, activities to ensure complete selling have been expanded through employee trainings on a regular basis. We have also strengthened a system to protect elderly investors by preventing mis-selling at each stage of product lifecycle and operating a dedicated channel for seniors. Fostering Global Financial Mirae Asset Daewoo continues to provide trainings by duty type, in an effort to enhance the financial Experts expertise of its staff. Categorized into sales at branches, sales at headquarters and management at Properly selling products to customers and helping customers make the right decisions are What are achievements headquarters, systematic supports for competency enhancement are set in place for each position. In and limits? a basis of industrial sustainability. The efforts we made for many years to ensure complete addition, the company encourages its staff to acquire professional certificates, and offers relevant training. selling have enabled systematic sales process management for diverse financial investment Classification 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 products while increasing awareness of the responsibilities, obligations, and rights between sales staff and financial consumers. We have gone a step further and increased our efforts AFPK 1) 1,486 1,704 1,768 1,789 1,802 in complete selling, in consideration of social changes, such as increased diversity in the C F P 2) 261 304 318 327 328 population structure and a rise in the aging population. Also, there is a need for much more FP 3) 1,462 1,467 1,474 1,480 1,495 interest and efforts to resolve social issues, such as financial fraud. *Figures of 2014, 2015, and 2016 are data of Mirae Asset Daewoo after merger 1) AFPK: Associate Financial Planner Korea 2) CFP: Chartered Financial Planner 3) FP: Financial Planner 36 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issue Risk management for mid-to Fostering Protecting Sustainable growth 37 long-term growth global talent financial consumers through finance Protection of Financial Mirae Asset Daewoo is growing based on customer trust, and employees are fulfilling their Activities to Prevent Customer Complaints We have built an integrated customer Consumers roles as global asset management experts by engaging in responsible sales. The most critical complaints management system and handle them, in our effort to build trust and increase element for maintaining trust is financial consumer protection, for which we are making customer satisfaction. We developed a complaint handling manual and offer customer continued efforts. complaints prevention trainings to our employees. We also provide the ‘Visiting Tour Service for Customer Complaints’, in which visits are made to provide consulting on handling customer Financial Consumer Protection Organization and System Mirae Asset Daewoo has complaints at branches. For customer complaints that reveal the company’s shortcomings, Financial Consumer appointed a Chief Customer Officer (CCO) who is in charge of system planning, training, institutional improvements are made to prevent the recurrence of the complaints. For Protection Charter evaluation and compensation for protection of financial consumer rights and interests. We customer suggestions that are received through our VOC system, we hold a Customer Mirae Asset Daewoo became have also established a dedicated organization and assigned personnel to the organization. Service Improvement Council meeting twice a month as part of efforts to actively reflect the the first company in the Korean By providing the organization with practical, independent authority, we make sure that our suggestions into our work. We also have an autonomous customer complaints-handling financial investment industry to financial consumer protection system works effectively. To enable effective adjustments from system, which allows onsite resolution of customer complaints as soon as they occur, and thus announce a financial consumer the corporate-wide perspective, we have established the Financial Consumer Protection ensures prompt handing of customer complaints. protection charter, the ‘Think you’ Charter, to protect the rights and Council, and regularly hold a meeting at least once every quarter. In addition, we have interests of financial consumers. systematically established internal regulations that are related to financial consumer protection, including two regulations, four detailed enforcement regulations and three guidelines. We Link to: https://www.miraeassetdaewoo.com/ also have a financial consumer protection evaluation system for diverse financial consumer Earning Customer We established a sound foundation, with business integrity as its principle, to provide financial hki/hki3062/n14.do protection issues, through which consumer protection efforts of each unit or staff are reflected Trust through Business products and services that can be trusted by financial consumers. We strive to improve into their performance evaluations. Integrity unreasonable financial product sales practices by continually inspecting and monitoring the practices. Sales of financial products and diverse transactions are thoroughly and strictly Strengthening Employee Training and Inspections We formulate annual employee managed to protect financial consumers, such as strictly reviewing whether the rights and training plans and provide online training in relation to financial consumer protection, such interests of financial consumers are violated when new products and new services are released. as the prevention of mis-selling. We also share financial consumer protection issues and systems, in addition to collective training and visiting training programs for role playing. Furthermore, professional lecturers are invited to offer training with greater expertise. Internal mystery shopping is conducted at least six times a year to inspect the status of complete Financial Fraud Electronic Financial Fraud Prevention Service To protect financial consumers from selling. Continued efforts to encourage actual execution of tasks related to financial consumer Prevention electronic financial fraud, we have been implementing the ‘terminal designation service’ and protection are also made through regular inspections, using indicators that have high relevance ‘additional authentication service’ since 2013. This is intended to strengthen the security with mis-selling, as well as onsite branch inspections. procedure during the (re)issuance of the public key certificate (PKC), registration of a different organization’s PKC, and online money transfer. Activities to Prevent Mis-selling There is information asymmetry between a company and financial consumers in financial transactions owing to the complexity and expertise of products Extended Validation SSL Certificate We adopted the Extended Validation (EV) SSL and contracts. Financial transactions that are conducted without resolving this issue therefore certificate to identify phishing and pharming, from among telecommunication financial frauds, may result in discontent among financial consumers and can even lead to a dispute with the and thus prevent damages caused by them. This informs visitors that the owner of the domain company. This eventually damages credibility and growth potential of the financial industry. they are visiting has been checked and that it is the actual owner. This certificate makes a For the purpose of strengthening the financial consumer protection system, Mirae Asset distinction from phishing and pharming websites when a homepage access is made. This Daewoo has established a financial consumer protection system based on product’s lifecycle increases security and stability to result in the prevention of damage to financial consumers. by the phase of product development, before sales and after sales. Against the backdrop of the rapidly aging population, we are operating the ‘counseling desk for seniors’ to protect Measures against Abnormal Financial Transactions through the FDS We operate senior investors in tandem with a rise in financial demand among senior investors. Dedicated the Fraud Detection System (FDS) to block customer damage caused by telecommunication financial counselors with expertise and experiences are assigned at the desk, and thus offer financial frauds in accordance with Article 2-5 (Interim Measures on Users’ Accounts) of the sophisticated and advanced counseling services. ‘Special Act on the Prevention of Loss Caused by Telecommunications-Based Financial Fraud and Refund for Loss’. Upon detecting suspicious transactions where customers’ accounts are used for such purposes, raising concerns for telecommunication financial fraud using the FDS, money transfer or wiring for the entire or some of the customers’ accounts is delayed or temporarily restricted. As such, we do the utmost to guarantee the safety of financial Efforts for Complete Selling consumers. throughout Product Lifecycle Product Development Product Sales Post-sales Management Review whether consumer rights or Build a standard sales process for each Run the happy call system to make interests are violated through the prior financial product sure if customers receive information Received the Outstanding In 2016, the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) conducted an assessment on the status of financial discussion on new products on and understand the product Organization Award at the consumer protection on 66 domestic financial institutions for comprehensive consumer protection. Mirae Operate a regular inspection system structure, risks and others, and if they Asset Daewoo recorded the highest score in the securities industry, and thus received the Outstanding Inspect using a checklist: Check for (internal mystery shopping, regular Status Assessment by receive required documents Organization Award. In nine out of the total 10 assessment categories, including consumer protection issues from the perspective of financial inspection indicators, etc.) the FSS organization and system and establishment and management of customer complaints management consumer protection Operate the financial product quality Reflect consumer protectionsystem, we received the highest ‘good’ rating and were recognized for having the industry’s best assurance system related issues into an organization’s capabilities in financial consumer protection. We will continue our interest and participation in financial performance evaluation consumer protection since we are built on customer trust and their safety is our number one priority. 38 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issue Risk management for mid-to Fostering Protecting Sustainable growth 39 long-term growth global talent financial consumers through finance SRI Fund and Investment We plan products that consider future generations and customers and that create new business opportunities, and make direct and indirect investments in eco-friendly industries. We also develop and release products that invest in social enterprises for sustainable social development. We are fulfilling our social responsibilities through Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) funds, such as the Mirae Asset Green Index Fund and Allianz Corporate Value Enhancement Fund. We support companies holding green technologies with paid-in capital increase and Initial Public Offering (IPO) and make direct investments in them. By doing so, we strive to create new values by facilitating the green industry, while raising responsiveness to environmental risks and climate change in the society. Providing ESG Financial Products As a financial investment institution, Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to contribute to the establishment of a sustainable society through finance. We have developed ESG-related financial products that reflect social issues, such as new & renewable energy, aging society, and SRI. We are reviewing diverse financial products, including SRIs, clean energy funds, and donation-type funds for our customers and stakeholders. Our flagship ESGrelated fund is the ‘Multi-Asset S&P Clean Energy Fund’, which invests in the S&P Global Clean Sustainable Growth Energy Index, consisting of new & renewable energy-related companies. In addition to making a general fund purchase through Mirae Asset Daewoo, consumers can make an investment through various methods, such as a retirement pension and an overseas stock investment-only, through Finance tax-exempt fund. Developing Financial Products that Consider the Aging Society It has become important, now more than ever, to supply long-term investment products that prepare consumers for old age in Korea, in which the population is aging most rapidly in the world. We are actively providing the Target Date Fund (TDF), which changes asset allocation proportions with the passage of time. It is designed for investors with a specific long-term objective, such as to Why does it matter? We are facing countless social issues, including inequality, poverty, reduced population, rapidly set aside retirement savings or tuition by a specific target date. By supplying TDF with diverse aging population and environmental pollution. There is greater emphasis on companies’ target dates (Year 2020-2045) and strategies (asset allocation, strategic allocation, etc.), we are responsibilities to resolve such social issues, which in turn provide new opportunities to fulfilling our mission as a financial investment company by helping customers prepare for their companies. There is growing demand for investment products that consider the environment senior years in Korea, a quickly aging society. We also established various monthly paid funds and investments in new & renewable energy, and profitability from the investments is also on and derivatives-linked product (ELS, DLS) line-up that help those retired pay for living expenses. the rise. Improvement of financial accessibility for minorities goes beyond simple support, and For example, there is the monthly paid Brazil bond trust, which pays monthly interests for is a good opportunity to create a new customer base. high-interest Brazil bonds, and the Mirae Asset Daewoo Golden Age WRAP, which makes monthly yield payments and makes distributed investments in various assets. By offering such What are core issues? It is essential to identify social crises and opportunities in the process of developing and investment products that help those retired prepare for their senior years and that embody the investing in Environment·Social·Governance (ESG) products. Risk management is also an unique management know-how of Mirae Asset Daewoo, we are further diversifying customer important factor to consider to decide the participation in certain project. There are various choice. project risks, such as issues that arise from a delay in development approval, issues related to national risks, the credit uncertainty of counterparties, and project rejection due to increased market fluctuation. Win-win Growth through Partners Club to Work with SME and Small Giants SMEs have served as a foundation for Finance economic development. Despite the importance of their roles, they have shown limitations in We are developing various products, including socially responsible investment, in continued growth. The roles of SMEs are garnering attention once again owing to the need How do we respond? consideration of diverse environmental factors, such as the new climate change system. Of for new growth engines and an industrial paradigm shift. By offering financial services that particular note, we have continued to participate in new & renewable energy generation are specialized for SMEs, we are contributing to the policy of joint growth through finance. projects that can resolve such issues as climate change and fine dust, and thus develop new Through Partners Club, a collaborative business model between SMEs and Mirae Asset growth engines. Daewoo, we are providing total financial services that are specialized for SMEs so that senior management at SMEs can focus more on management. Through the diverse seminars and What are achievements For sustainable social development, we have been developing financial products and making gatherings of the Partners Club, SMEs are acquiring new knowledge that helps their respective and limits? investments in consideration of society and the environment. These ESG financial products business and taking advantage of opportunities to widen their network by industry and region. however have a high possibility of change in accordance with national policy changes, Growth Ladder Fund Growth Ladder Fund is a government-created fund that is based technological advancements, and other factors. There are even cases in which a product’s on a new concept of backing promising ventures and SMEs in need of capital support for characteristics change during the management period. In fact, some products are put to further growth. The goal is to establish a healthy corporate growth ecosystem. In 2015, Mirae an end because of falling profitability. To overcome such product attributes, we are closely Asset Daewoo was selected to manage ‘K-Growth Global Fund’, which supports SMEs that monitoring the market flow through the Research Center and Global Asset Allocation are experiencing difficulties in advancing into overseas markets due to a lack of resources or Headquarters. We are also looking into new opportunities based on strong research experience despite their technological prowess. Fund management details are available on the capabilities. ‘Growth Ladder Fund’ website run by the Financial Services Commission. Link to SDGs 40 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issue Risk management for mid-to Fostering Protecting Sustainable growth 41 long-term growth global talent financial consumers through finance Participating in New We are involved in new & renewable energy projects as part of our commitment to fight global Increased Financial S-Loan, a Small Equities Collateral Loan Service We launched ‘S-Loan’, a loan service that & Renewable Energy climate change and to develop new growth engines. Accessibility for allows customers to use only a small amount of equities as collateral. The service is designed Projects Minorities for people who have difficulty getting loans from primary financial institutions. By releasing the Floating Solar Power Plant on Hapcheon Dam The Hapcheon Floating Solar Power Plant service, we have increased financial accessibility for the low-income class. Individual customers project involves building a floating solar power plant that is of the world’s largest capacity (40 in Class Six or lower credit ratings, who account for around 80% of all citizens in Korea, can MW) by using the water surface of Hapcheon Dam. The project is jointly conducted by K-water easily and quickly receive a loan up to KRW 40 million. The range of equities that can be used and Mirae Asset Daewoo. Local residents participate in the project in the form of investment in as collateral has been expanded to 1,700 stocks to raise effectiveness. This loan service is some of the funds needed in the power plant construction process. Profits from selling electric provided at branches and via the HTS, company website, and mobile communication, resulting power that is generated after plant construction are returned to local residents. The aim of this in increased accessibility. resident-participating project is to promote regional development and to increase the wealth of local residents. In this regard, we are providing financial advice and funding arrangements for Increasing Web Accessibility to the Disabled In making our financial services accessible the KRW 100 billion in total project costs. to the socially marginalized pursuant to the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities, Mirae Asset Daewoo became the first in the Korean financial Biomass Power Plant Project in Fiji We provide financial advice, arrange funding, and invest investment industry to apply the web standards and web accessibility to its Web Trading in a project that involves building a biomass wood chip power plant in Nabou, Fiji. This 12MW System (WTS) and all its websites, which entitled the company to the ‘Web Accessibility (WA)’ project is expected to cost KRW 50 billion and is planned for completion in June 2017. This certification. The websites have a screen reader program for the visually-impaired, and are also project is to support overseas investment development projects jointly performed by domestic designed to help investors with color blindness or weakness easily check the web contents. SMEs and large corporations. It is expected to generate additional profits once it is registered For these efforts, we received a Special Grand Prize at the ‘2013 Web Award Korea’. Since as a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project. the receipt of the certification, we have been managing digital contents with focus on web accessibility and carried out accessibility assessments, which led to certification renewal in Biomass Energy Supply Program in the South Pacific Our successful execution of the January 2017. We will continue to make our online services easy for customers to access biomass power plant project in Fiji was followed by a biomass energy supply project in the irrespective of user environments or conditions. South Pacific. The intent of this USD 500 million project is to build a biomass power plant and to supply biomass fuel in the South Pacific region, including Fiji, in cooperation with GCF. If the Financial Education for Future Generations and Minorities To protect consumers and to project is successfully executed, it will be expanded to cover the South Pacific islands, including enable minorities to reasonably use financial services, we are providing financial education to Papua New Guinea. We anticipate to generate additional profits. consumers and are thus contributing to enhancing consumers’ right to know. By doing so, we are reducing information asymmetry and pursuing joint growth based on consumer trust. To Solar Power Plant in Japan We provided financial advice and made funding arrangements promote the development of financial knowledge among youths, who will participate in the for project costs totaling KRW 200 billion for a solar power plant construction project in future financial industry, and to build a smart consumption habit, we signed a one-companyYamaguchi Prefecture in Japan. This 58.8MW project is slated for completion in December one-school financial education agreement with elementary, middle, and high schools nearby 2017. The project is in line with Japan’s policy of increasing new & renewable energy power our branches, and are providing financial education and an experiential program. In addition, generation after the Fukushima nuclear accident, and contributed to supply and demand of we are providing education to North Korean refugees, who are financial minorities, and new & renewable energy sources in Japan. offering financial education to elementary, middle, and high school students in connection with the Financial Supervisory Service to help them develop a correct understanding of finance as future financial consumers. We also created a teaching material through talent donations that were made by employees from 2014 to 2015. In 2016, we worked together with the Ministry of Justice and provided economic education to immigrants to help immigrants take part in the healthy growth of the financial industry. Partial bird’s eye view of the Floating Solar Power Plant on Hapcheon Dam 42 43 Management Report 44 Performance Analysis 48 Employee Value 52 Customer Satisfaction 56 Social Contributions 44 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report Performance Employee Customer Social 45 Analysis Value Satisfaction Contributions Performance Credit Rating In 2016, we received AA grade from Korea Ratings, the Korea Investors Service, and NICE Analysis Information Service for our non-guaranteed corporate bonds. We also received Baa2 grade for foreign currency-denominated long-term fixed income from Moody’s, an overseas credit rating agency, and are maintaining that rating. AA Korea Ratings, the Korea Investors Service, NICE Information Service Baa2 Moody’s Performance by Business Wealth Management Mirae Asset Daewoo offers the best wealth management services through global asset allocation that suits customers’ investment propensity and purpose. By Sustainable Economic Mirae Asset Daewoo creates new opportunities through innovation and change, and providing various financial investment products and global asset allocation capabilities based Performance contributes to the development of the Korean financial market by establishing an honest, on our global network, which is the largest in Korea, we are leading the paradigm shift reasonable investment culture. from savings to investment. By putting efforts to achieve differentiated portfolios consisting of mutual funds, fixed-income, real estate, wrap account, and trusts, our total client assets Summary of Economic Performance In 2016, we made continued efforts to provide greater amounted to KRW 213 trillion at the end of 2016. Of this, KRW 102 trillion was in brokerage value to major stakeholders, including customers, investors, employees and local communities. assets (including deposits) and KRW 111 trillion was in financial product sales assets. The merger process between Mirae Asset Securities and Mirae Asset Daewoo incurred costs of KRW 303.8 billion. After deducting the merger costs, the company’s pre-tax income and net Brokerage Brokerage refers to trading securities in the name of a financial investment income came in at KRW 20.9 billion and KRW 15.7 billion, respectively. As of the end of 2016, company upon receipt of customers’ trading order. Mirae Asset Daewoo receives a certain the company recorded KRW 57.3 trillion in total assets and KRW 6.7 trillion in total equity. By amount of fees from customers in the trading process. In 2016, the market share of brokerage business area, the company’s revenue totaled KRW 176.3 billion in wealth management, KRW based on simple summation of Mirae Asset Daewoo and former Mirae Asset Securities’ 283.4 billion in brokerage, and KRW 137.7 billion in IB and trading, based on maximization turnover was 12.8%. of revenue through active expansion of overseas investments and the performance in project financing. In addition, an outstanding management performance was achieved in the area of Pension Retirement pension reserves of Mirae Asset Daewoo reached KRW 6,561.8 billion at financial account to reach KRW 216.4 billion. the end of 2016, placing the company at first place in the securities industry and ninth across all financial industries. Our personal pension business stood at KRW 2,089.8 billion at the end Business Size We are striving to provide shareholders and investors with successful asset of 2016 thanks to our distinctive management capabilities, placing Mirae Asset Daewoo at first management performance and best services. The merger between Mirae Asset Securities and place in the brokerage industry. Mirae Asset Daewoo has enabled us to become the No. 1 brokerage company in Korea. Total client assets reached KRW 213 trillion in 2016. WM assets grew steadily to record KRW 111 Investment Banking We offer corporate financing services, including IPOs, paid-in capital trillion, and the number of high net worth individuals (HNWI) with investments of KRW 100 increases, and issuance of equity-linked notes (CB·BW·EB) and corporate bonds. We also million or more totaled 129,716 at the end of 2016. provide comprehensive financial services that satisfy customer needs, ranging from private equity fund (PEF) management and M&A consulting to arranging and acquiring ABS issuance, Two Years of Operating Results and Asset Status PF, SOC, and real estate finance. We are receiving recognition for our distinctive IB capabilities, (Unit: KRW billion) based on revenue maximization through active expansion of overseas investments and outstanding performance in non-standardized project financing. Summarized Statement FY2016 FY2015 of Income Consolidated Separate Consolidated Separate Trading We continue to achieve a stable, steady performance thanks to our advanced, unrivaled investment techniques and global network. Despite considerable market fluctuations Operating revenue 7,834.0 4,145.5 4,192.5 4,087.2 in early 2016 as well as a drop in fixed income prices in the second half of the year, our trading Operating expenses 7,830.9 4,102.2 4,044.0 3,937.5 business continued to generate revenue through long-term know-how and expertise. Operating income 3.1 43.3 148.5 149.7 Global We preemptively responded to changes in the global market, going beyond the Profit before income 20.9 37.0 226.1 185.2 boundaries of the domestic market, and are operating 11 overseas subsidiaries and three tax expense offices in nine countries, including those in Asia, the Americas, and Europe. We are carrying Profit for the year 15.7 27.8 174.6 142.7 out local businesses based on this global network, such as IB, WM, and trading. We maximize Profit for the year: synergies between the headquarters and the global network by supplying diverse financial attributable to equity 39.3 27.8 169.7 142.7 products, including overseas government bonds and real estate funds. holder of the company Performance by Business in 2016 FY2016 FY2015 (Unit: KRW billion) Summarized Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Separate Consolidated Separate Wealth Classification Brokerage IB & Trading Financial Account Total assets 57,267.8 55,948.6 28,416.0 27,991.8 Management Total liabilities 50,602.0 49,353.1 24,964.0 24,560.7 Net operating 176.3 283.4 137.7 216.4 revenue Total equity 6,665.8 6,595.5 3,452.0 3,431.1 * 2015 figures are based on the performance of former Mirae Asset Securities while 2016 figures are based on the performance of Mirae Asset Daewoo after the merger 46 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report Performance Employee Customer Social 47 Analysis Value Satisfaction Contributions Distribution of Economic Mirae Asset Daewoo pursues adequate value distribution to enhance customer value and Creating Environmental Mirae Asset Daewoo directly and indirectly creates financial value from the environmental Performance contribute to sound social growth. In 2016, we spend KRW 806.2 billion in distribution and and Social Value Using and social perspective by managing a wide variety of financial products and services, such support for major stakeholders, including customers, shareholders and investors, employees, Business Models as managing funds and pensions, providing financial advice, and making direct project and local communities. investments. By investing in social enterprises or investing in new & renewable energy power generation projects to counter climate change, we are creating economic, social, and environmental value in a balanced way. Our environmental value-related funds and financial Distribution of Economic Performance in 2016 advice amount to KRW 960.9 billion, while our social value-related funds and pensions total (Unit: KRW million) KRW 37.9 billion, and corporate value enhancement fund through governance improvements reaches around KRW 145.1 billion. Management Size by the Theme of Product or Service Management Size by the Type of Product or Service (Unit: KRW billion) (Unit: KRW billion) Customers Shareholders and Employees Local communities Government Investors and NGOs Interest expenses Salaries and Income taxes and Society Pension Dividends employee welfare Social contribution expenses other taxes Economy 37.9 (3%) Mutual fund 15.7 (1%) 145.1 (13%) 178.2 (16%) 302,233 25,941 433,816 6,294 37,924 * Reflected the consolidated performance of Mirae Asset Securities’ consolidated financial statements pursuant to K-IFRS No. 1103. 1,143.9 1,143.9 KRW in billions KRW in billions Fair and Transparent Faithfully fulfilling tax payment obligations for economic gains that are earned from business Fulfillment of Tax is an important social responsibility that companies need to execute. We are executing our tax Payment Obligations payment obligations for domestic business sites as well as our overseas business sites based on criteria set forth by the respective local government. When tax laws are unclear to us, we Environment Financial advisory receive help from external professional organizations to satisfy legal standards. We disclose 960.9 (84%) 950.0 (83%) income tax-related information through an audit report that is made available on the Financial Supervisory Service’s electronic official notice system. Financial statement and footnote * The managed amount is as of the end of 2016. Same products and services are reclassified by theme. information on the audit report includes the criteria for calculating income tax expenses, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and income tax expense composition details and tax rates. Solving Social Issues through Financial Products and Services We manage risks that may arise in relation to taxation, and prevent tax-related risks by fulfilling Classification Link to SDGs Content Name of Product or Service our tax payment obligations in a fair and transparent way. For international transactions with overseas subsidiaries, we observe domestic tax laws as well as the OECD Transfer Pricing Goal 7. Ensure access to We are participating in the development of · Mirae Asset Green Index Fund Guidelines, and execute tax payment obligations based on local laws. We have overseas affordable, reliable, sustainable alternative energy through the Green Index · Multi-Asset S&P Clean Energy Fund subsidiaries in the US, Brazil, Hong Kong, and other countries, and we transparently disclose and modern energy for all Fund and Clean Energy Fund. By providing · Biomass power plant project in Fiji the amount of taxes we pay in each region. financial advice for new & renewable · Solar power plant in Japan Environment energy power generation projects, we are · Biomass energy supply program in Goal 13. Take urgent action to contributing to promising business projects, the South Pacific 1 2 3 combat climate change and its and achieving long-term industry development · Floating solar power plant on impacts while pursuing profits. Hapcheon Dam Reputation risk Authorities and regulation risk Disclosure of tax payment details We fulfill our social In countries where we perform Amount of tax payment by region responsibilities as a brokerage management activities, we (consolidated figures basis) We operate the Mirae Asset Social Enterprise company, and strive to prevent Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives observe the respective country’s Investment Association, Mirae Asset Youth any damage caused to our laws, and strive to prevent and promote well-being for · Mirae Asset Youth Business Startup reputation and customer trust by Business Startup Investment Association, and Investment Association legal disputes and losses that all at all ages dishonest tax payment. are caused by failure to fulfill the Growth Ladder Fund to help the growth · Mirae Asset Daewoo Golden Age regulations. of SMEs and venture companies and for a WRAP Society positive social influence. In addition, we are Tax Payment Goal 9. Build resilient · TDF satisfying social demand by developing various (Unit: %) infrastructure, promote inclusive · Mirae Asset Social Enterprise pension products in line with a continued Investment Association and sustainable industrialization rise in demand, and making efforts for joint Korea Asia Americas Europe Others and foster innovation revenue for customers and the company. 94.9 3.0 1.4 0.02 0.68 We are contributing to the establishment of sound governance through our corporate Goal 10. Reduce inequality within · Allianz Corporate Value Economy value enhancement fund, and investing in Enhancement Fund and among countries undervalued companies to promote economic returns. 48 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report Performance Employee Customer Social 49 Analysis Value Satisfaction Contributions Employee Value Protecting Human Rights Mirae Asset Daewoo joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in June 2006, and abides firmly by its ten principles concerning human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, thereby fulfilling social responsibilities that are in line with global standards. We also prohibit all forms of child labor and forced labor. We especially choose talents based on their skills to actively take part in efforts to abolish academic background-based discrimination. Pursuant to the Framework Act on Employment Policy, we do not discriminate against people on grounds of gender, religion, physical condition, social status, educational background, marriage, pregnancy, or medical history during our recruitment process, and guarantee equal opportunities for employment. Building a Corporate Mirae Asset Daewoo has established a new HR system and is building an innovative corporate Culture that Promotes culture across all our work, in order to grow into a global IB. By adopting the concentrated the Development into work system and minimizing overtime work, we are promoting improvements in the quality of a Global IB employees’ daily lives and corporate productivity. We anticipate that rest and self-development during leisure time will result in joint growth for the company and staff. Adoption of a New HR System Mirae Asset Daewoo adopted a new HR system that is adequate for global standards. First of all, we aim to avoid ‘long service-centered HR’ and instead introduce ‘duty-centered HR’ as our foundation. We broke away from the previous Fair Evaluation and We establish transparent procedures and proper criteria, and evaluate staff achievements and vertical organizational culture-centered HR system and adopted a horizontal organizational culture by simplifying positions and a compensation system that is linked to performance. By Compensation capabilities according to a reasonable basis, thus motivating staff and increasing efficiency. The new personnel evaluation system that will be introduced in accordance with changes establishing an institutional foundation that evaluates and compensates staff based on their in the management environment, such as the merger, will be used as a tool for ‘managing capabilities and achievements rather than rank or position, we seek to motivate staff and individual performance’ and ‘developing employees’ rather than as a tool for ‘determining facilitate the company’s growth. the ranking of staff’. Our previous personnel evaluation system assigned grades to staff Change in the Position System We reduced the previous five-step position system to a achievements and capabilities. With the new evaluation system, the respective team head three-step position system. We seek to break away from the previous vertical organizational will frequently provide feedback in the process of the execution of goals to result in the culture and build an organization that is optimal for business trend changes by increasing staff’s growth as well as performance management. In addition, we are ensuring smooth and decision-making speed. The focus of the new HR system is to foster juniors and improve the impartial staff management by conducting communication-based performance evaluations, performance of seniors. A personnel structure in which a high percentage of personnel have including evaluator training for team heads. In detail, we carry out performance evaluations advanced positions is gaining speed, resulting in less promotion opportunities. Against this on all employees, and provide both financial and non-financial compensation according to backdrop, this new system will have a positive influence on motivating juniors. a fair evaluation process, such as basic salaries, bonuses, and welfare benefits. We do not discriminate based on gender, etc. in basic salaries and observe domestic legal standards. In Change in the Promotion System We are adopting a new form of our promotion system 2017, the new employee wage was 277% of the Korean minimum wage. in accordance with the introduction of a new HR system. The previous promotion system was ‘graduation-type promotion’, in which employees were promoted based on the number of years of continuous service and performance evaluations. With the new promotion system, Grievance Handling System and Grievance Counseling System for Women Employee Employee decisions on promotions will be made by considering staff’s achievements, capabilities, and communication is the foundation of an innovative organizational culture. We identify whether they are adequate for the respective higher position. Staff can be promoted more Communication working conditions in depth through multi-directional and routine communication to improve quickly than the previous promotion system depending on their capabilities. the working environment for employees and resolve personal matters, and strive to make improvements in real time. We plan to build a regular face-to-face talk system for employees to collect field requests. We created a channel to listen to female employees’ grievances besides the general grievance handling system. The HR Team hot channel is used to resolve any inconveniences that female employees may experience while working as a member of an organization. 50 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report Performance Employee Customer Social 51 Analysis Value Satisfaction Contributions Labor-Management Labor-Management Council Mirae Asset Daewoo upholds the labor rights stipulated in Employee Safety and Fitness Center for Employees Aiming to promote employees’ physical health, we signed a Relations Based on Article 33 of the Constitution of Korea. We do not have any internal regulations or guidelines Health contract with a fitness center located inside the headquarters building, so that employees can Communication that counter or curtail the application of the law, and we do not take any measures against freely use the center. The fitness center is available for use at any time throughout the day, employees for engaging in labor union activities. We established Labor-Management Council except during work hours. This helps employees relieve themselves from stress and strengthen regulations in 1990, and respect the labor union activities and labor disputes that are stipulated their physical health. in the collective agreement to guarantee labor rights. As of the end of 2016, labor union membership stood at 44%, with 2,130 union members from among the 4,818 employees Emotion Management Program In addition to the industry’s nature of managing wealth who are entitled to membership. The Labor-Management Council represents all employees, and handling sensitive customer information, employees have to spend much of their and performs the role of engaging in discussions with senior management on major employeetime communicating with customers at customer contact points. Managing stress that can related issues. A total 20 council meetings were held in 2016. arise from emotions can have a direct impact on employees’ lives as well as management performance. We have therefore various emotion management programs in place that help Adoption of the Wage Peak System The adoption of a wage peak system is under considemployees enjoy a happy life by relieving themselves of stress and receiving training on mind eration, in order to respond to socio-environmental changes, including the recent emergence management and coaching on emotions. We launched the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) of the aging society and revision of retirement age-related laws, and to establish a longin 2010 to provide psychological counseling and coaching services to resolve various issues term sustainable growth system. We plan to establish a structure that is beneficiary for both that staff come across inside and outside of work, and we are pursuing continuous change the company and employees in that workers will be guaranteed with employment up to the and innovation. We also offer a psychological counseling program called ‘TodakTodak’. The extended retirement age, while the company will be able to utilize the know-how of skilled aim of this program is to promote employees’ psychological health and happiness. A counselor personnel. who received professional training and an applicant who hasn’t fully demonstrated his or her potential interact through counseling, helping the applicant independently resolve issues and enjoy a ‘Happy Life’. There were around 50 counseling sessions this year, and the program is Welfare Benefits We operate a wide array of welfare programs so that employees can attend to their work while offered throughout the year. We also offer a self-reflection program called ‘Inside Out’, which in Consideration of maintaining balance between their personal and work life. helps participants examine themselves and learn how to engage in dialogue with themselves Employees’ Lifecycle through meditation and emotion coaching, thus helping them live a ‘Happy Life’. As of 2017, Welfare System We run condominiums so that staff can enjoy their leisure time. Housing around 100 staff took part in the program, which will be continually operated in the second loans are provided to purchase or lease a home to increase employees’ sense of stability, in half of the year. These programs help staff understand and control their emotions, relieve addition to financial support for tuition and medical expenses. We also have a group term life themselves of stress, and develop a sense of pride towards their work. They contribute to the insurance policy for the entire staff, and pay all related premiums. There is also an employee establishment of smooth customer relations in the long term. health checkup system in place as part of efforts to promote employee health. Retirement Pension System We have the retirement pension system in place, in order to help employees enjoy a stable post-retirement life. We provide retirement benefits based on the defined contribution (DC) plan to all staff who have worked for the company for no less than a year and are paid wages. As of the end of 2016, the number of staff covered by the retirement pension system was 4,493. Maternity and Childcare Leave To encourage childbirth and protect mothers’ rights against the backdrop of a low birthrate in Korea, we guarantee maternity and child care leaves that are stipulated in laws. In 2016, the number of employees who took a childcare leave reached 337, and the retention rate after childcare leave was 93.1%. In addition, we have been operating child care centers since 2011 pursuant to Article 14 ‘Establishment of Company Child Care Center’ of the Infant Care Act. This is a part of the company’s welfare system that is aimed at helping employees feel less burdened from childbirth and child care. Key Welfare Benefits Programs Classification Content Support for leisure life Condominium usage, fitness center usage Maternity leave before and after birth, child care leave, congratulatory Protection of new mothers fund for birth Provide loans to purchase or lease a home, and provide an allowance to Housing support employees living outside of their hometown Support employees’ medical expenses, health checkup for employees Medical and health support (spouses) Educational support Support child schooling expenses Transportation expenses for overtime and compensation for working on Support for daily life holidays, reward for long-term continuous service, etc. Support for congratulatory Support for funerals (condolence flowers, funeral supplies, funds), leave and consolatory occasions for congratulatory and consolatory occasions, etc. 52 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report Performance Employee Customer Social 53 Analysis Value Satisfaction Contributions Customer Enhancing Customer Advancing the CS System Placing the highest priority on customer satisfaction, we are Satisfaction Satisfaction working hard to offer various products and services that are suitable for customers. By integrating our CS systems, we have established service standardization criteria and built CS standards. To further advance and standardize services, we are engaging in systematic management of the system, resulting in improvements in corporate image among customers. Operation of the CS System Establishment of Full establishment Diversification of CS Objective CS Infrastructure of CS standards Assessment Methods identification of CS · Develop service execution standards and create a manual · Conduct customer satisfaction surveys (external professional organization) Developing Products that New Product Selection Process Mirae Asset Daewoo has a new product selection process · Operate the CS leader system · Perform service monitoring (visits) · Operate the CS DAY (twice a month) Reflect Customer Needs to build an excellent product line-up that is suited for the long-term, global investment and Market Trends environment, rather than short-term market trends. First of all, we perform a quantitative evaluation on funds in the entire market, and implement the first scoring by applying our internal selection criteria on upper-tier funds in the quantitative evaluation. We then conduct Expansion of Enhancement CS Motivation Strengthening CS Programs of CS capabilities Program of CS execution the second scoring based on the internal qualitative evaluation crtieria, and decide on the final line-up. · Customized CS training for WM (branch) · Reward outstanding WM and excellent CS leaders · Training for CS leaders (quarterly) Quantitative · CS standard training for new employees · Reward HCMP for outstanding CS leader (yearly) evaluation Final (entire market) selection Providing Distinctive Customer Services Mirae Asset Daewoo offers a wide array of services to satisfy customer needs against the backdrop of continually low interest rates and greater First scoring Second scoring (criteria for selecting (qualitative evaluation) demographic changes, such as the aging population. By conducting scientific customer analysis mutual fund) using big data, we are providing a large amount of high-quality investment information on various areas of investment, including global investment, financial products, and pensions. We are also providing financial services that are optimized for individual investors, such as customized product suggestions per customer. Advancing the Recommendable Product Selection Process By advancing the recomListening to the Voice of the Customers We established an integrated voice of customers mendable product selection process, we recommend products to customers that can generate (VOC) system so that opinions can be freely shared via branches, website, customer center, and continuous and steady performance, and thus choose products that suit customer needs. First email. This enables us to listen to customer voices directly and deliver the collected information of all, we perform a quantitative evaluation based on internal criteria, and then conduct a to the Product Planning and Development Department so that customer opinions can be secondary quantitative evaluation and qualitative evaluation for excellent products that were reflected. Also, the entire process of receiving customer opinions, reviewing and handling selected from the first quantitative evaluation to select candidates for recommendable products. them, and producing the outcome is shared in real time so as to ensure quick and active Our Asset Allocation Committee then selects excellent financial products in given sectors, which customer feedback. is followed by the selection of the most suitable core products to be recommended in consideration of the market outlook. Developing Products that Can Be Rebalanced within Funds We have developed and are supplying products that guarantee stable profits even amid sharp changes in the market environment. In 2016, we developed the ‘Mirae Asset Global Solution Fund’, an exclusive tax exempt fund for overseas stock investment that can be rebalanced within funds by selecting and diversifying the investment of highly performing funds. We plan to supply products suited to the changing market situations by looking into and commercializing promising alternative Case Study investment assets, including investable real estate and structured products. DLB – Principal-protected Hybrid Fund As a product for customers who are beginners to investment, we released DLB, a principal-protected hybrid fund, which is expected to generate The ‘Oblige Club’ – providing a service for successful wealth a maximum yield of 8% through investment in hybrid funds with little principal loss. The management and peaceful twilight years of customers underlying asset for this product is a hybrid fund, which is a DLB product of public equity with Mirae Asset Daewoo provides a lifestyle care service to VIP customers. We offer greater capital guarantee, attaining both stability and profitability. It is a two year-maturity product value than financial services to customers, such as a top-quality academy, the V-Point where the underlying asset is the Mirae Asset High Dividend Focus 30 Fund. A yield of 80% is program which provides special benefits based on our global infrastructure, and an paid upon the fund’s growth rate and if the yield exceeds 13%, early redemption of 8% is paid. education program for children. In addition, a team of experts dedicated to VIP advisory If the fund records a minus yield, its principal is paid. offers consulting services in various professional fields, including real estate, tax, law, and inheritance. 54 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report Performance Employee Customer Social 55 Analysis Value Satisfaction Contributions Providing CustomerMirae Asset Daewoo is taking the lead in rapidly-changing digital finance by investing all its Improving Customer Customer information leakage not only lowers trust in the respective company and causes Centered Digital Financial capabilities, befitting its status as the largest brokerage company in Korea. We provide various Information Management financial damage, but can also substantially impact the company’s very survival. Information Solutions digital finance solutions based on the mission to ‘enable easy and quick online transactions leakage in financial companies, where customers’ personal information is directly linked to anywhere and anytime’. financial transactions, would trigger secondary and tertiary damage if misused by other financial companies. It may also lead to other social issues. Providing Digital Finance Services Providing a digital investment solution We provide the global asset allocation solution, Strengthening the Information Protection Infrastructure To securely protect customers’ which was the first online asset management system to be provided in the industry, to information assets, we acquired the ‘Information Security Management System (ISMS)’, which customers through personal pension, retirement pension (DC), IRP, and others as part of is a domestic certification, and built an information protection system. We also operate an efforts to expand the foundation of online asset management. integrated security management system that enables real-time analysis and countermeasures against security-related situations that are detected and blocked by individual information Customer management using big data We provide customized investment information protection systems. Other various measures are taken to protect information and prevent per individual by using big data. We recommend high-yield assets to customers and offer personal information leakage, such as the information leakage prevention system, encryption of customized asset management services based on customer data and the market’s social data. all documents, and secure USB and blocking of media. User Protection Information Protection System Monitoring Education and Training Establishing the Infrastructure for Digital Finance • S imulation exercise for responding to Realizing an era where investments are made through voice We plan to provide a • P reventing electronic • Blocking of DDoS attacks • Integrated security control infringement accidents financial fraud • Invasion prevention and blocking financial service in alliance with GiGA Genie, which is a voice-based artificial intelligence (AI) • Server·DB access control • T raining for the conversion of the disaster • D etecting fraudulent system TV developed by KT. Once the GiGA Genie service is fully launched, various services will be • NMS, ESM recovery center financial transactions • Web firewall system provided based on voice communication to customers, including stock price and index inquiry, • Information protection training for employees information on market conditions, and stock and financial product recommendation. Our ultimate goal is to realize an ‘era where investments are made through voice’. Spreading the Information Protection Culture We are protecting information and preventing leakage incident risks by spreading the information protection culture. Developing customer convenience services We are making efforts to ensure that customers are provided with easier and more convenient financial services. We are developing • ‘Day of Information Security Inspection’ We designated a ‘Day of Information Security Inspection’ to protect important internal information various services, such as convenient certification using customers’ bio-information, such as fingerprints, the chatbot service that is available for customer communication throughout the • Information protection training To enhance employee awareness of information security, day, and the non-face-to-face account opening process that is more convenient than before. we provide information protection training that is suitable for the characteristics of different We plan to launch these services at the end of 2017. duties, such as executives, general staff, IT staff, and information protection managers • Simulation exercises We conduct emergency drills through the biannual ‘inspection of information handling system vulnerabilities’ and ‘simulation exercise for responding to infringement accidents and the conversion of the disaster recovery center’ Customers Mirae Asset Daewoo • Encouraging change into OPT tokens to prevent the exposure and leakage of • Encrypting customer information and storing it safely on the database, security cards and building a database access control system so that access is allowed Case Study only to employees with access authority • D etecting and analyzing customers’ login information in real time by establishing the FDS for e-financial transactions. Identifying the truth by immediately • Strengthening countermeasures against external hacking and internal contacting customers, if deemed fraudulent. Establishing a system for the information leakage incidents by separating the IT Center and the entire registration of incidences linked with the internal information protection unit, work network and Internet network of headquarters and branches Enhancement of User Convenience Mirae Asset Daewoo’s MTS received Customer Support Center, and other financial institutions Mobile Trading System (MTS) the iF Design Award first time in securities industry • E stablishing the Data Loss Prevention (DLP) system to prevent external breaches of any document containing personal information and Smart Neo, our Mobile Trading System (MTS), was selected as the Winner in the app and software encrypting automatically (Digital Rights Management) if any document category at the ‘2017 iF Design Award1)’ hosted by Germany’s iF International Forum Design. is breached to block external viewing of information Partners • Categorizing trainees into general staff, IT staff, information protection managers, executives, and partner companies, and conducting Its user paths are designed to It improves user convenience It has enhanced convenience by • Conducting training on information protection for staff as well as major partner information protection training that is adequate for each group ensure quick, simple execution in stock orders and financial featuring the ‘automatic order company employees to enhance awareness of information protection of core functions. It supports product transactions based on change by time slot’, which • Strengthening the information protection level by leveraging a pool of efficient asset management diverse customer Analysis. automatically changes the order • P resenting a guideline for outsourced companies entrusted with personal specialists by signing an annual security advice and consulting information, and taking actions against companies failing to meet minimum agreement with companies specialized in information protection by using the characteristics of mode according to the time, and standards for correction or their replacement mobile communication. the ‘chart news’ function, which • Received the ISMS certification in December 2014, which is a domestic enables the user to find causes standard on the information protection management system, and for stock price changes. continuously maintaining and improving the company’s abidance to domestic and overseas standards through follow-up analysis and 1) The iF Design Award is regarded as one of the world’s three major design awards-the other two are the Reddot and IDEA Design Awards. renewal assessment 56 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report Performance Employee Customer Social 57 Analysis Value Satisfaction Contributions Social Contributions Investing in the Future of Enabling Bigger Dreams on the World Stage – Mirae Asset’s Overseas Exchange Program Korea A seed becomes a flower and bears fruit. Likewise, we believe money should be spent on developing our youths and a healthy society, and this is why we offer active, distinctive programs. We are especially operating the ‘overseas exchange program’, which is Mirae Asset’s flagship social contribution program and the largest exchange student scholarship program in Korea. This program involves providing incentive funds to domestic university students who are chosen as exchange students to study at overseas universities. In providing opportunities, we place priority on students who have strong confidence toward the goals and visions that they want to achieve in lands of opportunity. We are offering the entire world as lecture rooms for new learning so that the students can overcome the boundaries of reality and broaden their Social Contributions CSR Directions Social contributions of Mirae Asset begin with ‘practicing warm-hearted knowledge in a bigger world. Since the program was launched in 2007, a total 4,017 university to Practice ‘Warm-hearted capitalism’. We strive to go beyond a leading financial investment group of Korea that students (as of March 2017) took part in the program to build a foundation for development Mirae Asset’s Overseas Exchange Program contributes to raising the wealth of customers, and generate greater social value through Capitalism’ into a future talent with a global perspective and are developing into creative talents. They accountable management. With the ‘Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation’ performing studied in a total 44 countries, ranging from such advanced countries as the U.S. and Germany central roles, we are engaging in social contribution activities through seamless cooperation to such emerging markets as Brazil and India. Program participants are chosen twice a year in among affiliates. Mirae Asset’s social contribution activities are focused on three areas – ‘nurturing spring and autumn semesters, and offered with scholarships of a maximum KRW 7 million. talent’, ‘social welfare’, and the ‘culture of sharing’. We are systematically and continually We increased the number of recipients to an annual 500 in 2016 so that a greater number of executing scholarship and education support programs based on the slogan, “Mirae Asset will Korean youths can grow into global talents on the world stage, going beyond Korea. Mirae serve as hope for the youth”. We will return the profits we made through corporate activities to Asset will stand by the side of youths at all times, encouraging them to develop a flexible way society, and strive to build a healthy society where we stand by the side of the underprivileged of thinking and insight into the future by gaining diverse knowledge and cultural experiences. through volunteering. Nurturing Talent Social Welfare Culture of Sharing Voice of Stakeholders One of the greatest assets of being an exchange student is to meet many I was able to grow further thanks to Mirae people who work in different fields. I visited many people who work in the Asset’s overseas exchange program. field that I am aiming for. I was able to find answers regarding my future path as well as how I should live my life moving forward. After the end of Choi Hong-hyeon, Korea University the semester, I was given an internship opportunity at a local private equity (Studied in Hong Kong in 2016) fund management company, allowing me to gain practical experience. Developing global talents of Making employee donations Mirae Asset’s overseas exchange program enabled me to develop the ability Supporting social welfare with the future through scholarship and participating in the The scholarship from Mirae Asset was a great lucky break and opportunity needed to grow from a student to a member of the working population, a sincere interest programs volunteer group for me. Life as an exchange student was filled with continuous challenges. and to view the world from a wider perspective. Based on this valuable I continually came across unexpected difficulties, including those related to experience, I will strive to become an excellent member of society who class method, language, friends, and food. I felt myself grow throughout the contributes to social sharing activities, never forgetting that I was a recipient process of overcoming these issues one by one. of the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation’s scholarship. CSR Milestones of Mirae Asset Financial Group 2000 2006 2007 2008 2013 2016-Current (April 2017) Beginning scholarship Fostering global financial Providing opportunities for overseas Spreading a culture of sharing Giving a gift of books Hope Relay programs talents experiences and education The Mirae Asset employee volunteer We launched the Book Project in The cumulative number of The Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo We chose Mirae Asset global investor We select Mirae Asset overseas exchange group was established to carry 2013, following the Hope Book participants in the Mirae Asset talent Foundation, a social welfare scholarship students based on scholarship students so that young talents out contribution activities in a Cafe, so that children can dream of development program exceeded foundation, was established based the thought that there is a need can develop extensive knowledge and more organized and systematic a brighter, bigger future through 190 thousand in 2017, reflecting the on the thought, ‘No student should for talents who can think more embrace different cultures. By doing manner. We conducted the ‘I Love books. strong determination and efforts not be able to study because of extensively in order to develop so, we have built a foundation for their You’ donation campaign, and the made by Mirae Asset to serve as hope financial reasons’. competitiveness in the global development of competitiveness and ability matching grant, through which for youths. We will continue to take market. We have been providing to adapt to the global environment. the amount raised by the donation active, detailed action so that the an opportunity for young talents campaign is matched one-on-one to hopes of youths and our society grow. to grow into global experts by raise twice the amount of funds. experiencing the world stage at an early phase. 58 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report Performance Employee Customer Social 59 Analysis Value Satisfaction Contributions ‘I Love You’ Donation A culture of sharing to ‘practice warm-hearted capitalism’ is embedded in the daily lives of Campaign – The Beginning employees at Mirae Asset, and has spread across the company. It includes the ‘Mirae Asset 1% Donation’, where 1% of employees’ monthly wages are donated, and ‘I Love You’, a donation of the Sharing Culture campaign based on employees’ voluntary participation. The donations that are raised through these activities are matched one-on-one by the company to result in twice the amount of funds, which are used to help the underprivileged. Mirae Asset establishes ‘1 Company, 1 Village’ sisterhood ties, aiming for win-win relations between fishing villages and cities. A volunteer group, consisting of all employees, was formed to carry out regular volunteering in connection with facilities for children, the disabled, and seniors. Global Social Contribution Mirae Asset is taking steps forward towards global finance, and has been conducting educational environment improvement programs for overseas children, regarding the entire Activities world as our local community. Together with the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and Plan Korea, we supported the repair of elementary schools and extension of middle Global Cultural Experience Program schools that meet safe school standards for three years from 2015 through 2017. The schools are in Indonesia and the Philippines, which are frequently hit by natural disasters, including earthquakes and typhoons. We also provide disaster safety education to students, teachers, Social Welfare and Taking a Closer Step towards Becoming Global Talents – Global Cultural Experience and local residents to improve their ability in responding to disasters and to minimize danger. Program Launched in 2007, the Global Cultural Experience Program takes middle school Also, our employee volunteer group was dispatched to the schools in 2015 to engage in diverse a Culture of Sharing students in regional childcare centers across the nation to sites of global companies and cultural volunteer work, including financial and art education for children and mural-painting. heritages, providing the students with opportunities to discover their growth potential by extending their knowledge and experiences. We will continue to provide all the support needed for children to develop bigger dreams and visions as global talents and to realize the dreams through their encounter with the world. Encountering My Dream in Books – Book Project Implemented since 2013, the Book Project presents ‘my own books’ to children who like reading but find it difficult due to their circumstances. The books, which suit the children’s interest and book-reading level, remind children of the joy of reading and help children develop positive thoughts by brightening up the children. Experience-based Training for Financial Self-sufficiency – Financial Career Training for Youths This program supports underprivileged adolescents in childcare institutes and juvenile detention centers who seek to prepare themselves for an independent life by providing economic education and an opportunity to explore their future career paths. It helps them grow into sound members of society. The students visit organizations to build various experiences, ranging from ‘managing their allowance’ and ‘savings and investment’ to planning the ‘future’. The education is easy to understand and fun. They also learn about subjects that increase selfsufficiency, such as rental housing and purchasing of daily supplies, and develop their sense of independence. Global social contribution activities – mural-painting Case Study Global social contribution activities – financial education Fostering bilingual global talents Children from multicultural families with parents from different countries grow up in an environment where two languages and cultures coexist. They naturally learn and understand the languages and cultures. This serves as an opportunity for the children to grow into global talents with various communication skills. It is also meaningful in that these children will take the lead in shaping Korea’s future in the right direction. To enable children from multicultural families to realize their dreams and demonstrate their talent on the world stage, Mirae Asset holds a nationwide bilingual speaking contest, develops bilingual learning materials, and offers other talent-improving programs. Briquette delivery by executives 60 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Management Report 61 Eco-friendly Management Social responsibilities of financial companies on environmental issues are increasing, including System the carbon emission trading scheme and green financing. Against this backdrop, we strive Appendix to fulfill our environmental responsibilities based on the eco-friendly management system, including GHG emission reduction and energy saving. Moreover, we strive to create new business opportunities through the facilitation of green financing. Reduction Activities through GHG and Energy Management Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to minimize environmental impact through quantitative performance management on energy and GHG. There is almost zero direct GHG emission caused by energy sources directly owned or managed by Mirae Asset Daewoo, given the nature of the financial industry. We manage the Scope 2, which refers to indirect emissions. We also encourage employees to take part in GHG emission reduction activities in their daily lives. In addition, we replaced outdoor advertisements with high-efficiency LED lighting. We are forming an enterprise-wide consensus by conducting various campaigns, such as turning off lights during off hours and refraining the use of airconditioning units and heating devices. We will grow into a company that prevents potential environmental risks and fulfills our environmental responsibilities by expanding the scope of ecofriendly management not only at the headquarters level but also to branches. 62 Key Performance Action Plans for Energy Saving We replaced all general fluorescent lamps (T-5) in our underground parking lots and common-use areas with LED lamps, which use a low amount 71 GHG Emission Verification Statement of electric power. Also, a dimming system activated by sensors was adopted for underground parking lots to apply visual effects and eco-friendly elements, in addition to reducing electric 72 Independent Assurance Statement power use. An ice storage system was applied to contribute to the reduction of energy use through the use of midnight electric power. Also, we carry out activities for energy saving and 74 GRI Index GHG emissions reduction by coming up with our ‘Action Plans for Energy Saving’. We manage the amount of energy used and GHG emissions of the headquarters and all the branches, and 77 UNGC & UN SDGs conduct activities for energy saving to reduce the amount of electricity used as the main source of energy. 78 Membership in Associations Water, Resource, Mirae Asset Daewoo has a system in place for using greywater and rainwater. Water that is used and Waste Management once and is clean as well as rainwater are purified for reuse in bathrooms and for landscaping, resulting in water saving. There is a sewage treatment facility inside the Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Building that handles internal purification to minimize our impact on the environment. Given the nature of the financial industry, all the waste discharged is domestic waste, which is treated by an outsourced company. Wastewater is batch treated at a sewage treatment plant of Seoul Metropolitan Government, and the environmental impact is minimized through thorough separation of garbage disposal. Raising Environmental We emphasize the importance of efforts to lower environmental impact for sustainable Awareness and Establishing development, while enhancing environmental awareness among employees. In 2011, the Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Building became the first building in Korea to receive the SILVER grade in the a Green Office Core & Shell category of eco-friendly buildings from the US Green Council in the category of the Leadership in Energy and Environment Design (LEED). 62 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix 63 Key Performance Economic Performance For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. As at December 31, 2016 and 2015 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd.) and its subsidiaries (Korean won in thousands) (formerly known as Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd.) and its subsidiaries (Korean won in thousands, except earnings per share information) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 2016 2015 Assets Operating revenue Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 2,006,028,721 391,020,824 Commissions received ￦ 671,222,416 296,108,689 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 33,187,791,805 19,316,183,864 Gains on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 5,389,594,263 3,160,131,996 Gains on available-for-sale financial assets 70,376,855 90,481,084 Available-for-sale financial assets 8,739,716,751 2,470,756,311 Interest income 925,526,979 510,557,622 Loans and receivables, net 10,080,235,050 5,516,536,854 Gains on loans and receivables 8,747,893 51,612 Investments in associates 415,153,973 357,149,742 Gains on foreign currency transactions 576,584,478 81,205,035 Property and equipment, net 347,756,016 10,918,631 Others 191,968,917 53,963,884 Investment properties, net 1,115,086,366 116,530,414 7,834,021,801 4,192,499,922 Intangible assets, net 655,881,351 26,642,445 Operating expenses Other assets 120,706,828 191,818,254 Commissions expense 127,067,469 50,516,500 Income tax receivable 121,631,480 18,464,269 Losses on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 6,037,776,179 3,263,945,100 Deferred tax asset 477,787,620 Losses on available-for-sale financial assets 80,282,270 49,740,051 Total assets ￦ 57,267,775,961 28,416,021,608 Interest expense 382,955,584 239,747,241 Liabilities Losses on loans and receivables 20,205,744 37,182,654 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss ￦ 22,049,093,636 9,607,540,168 Losses on foreign currency transactions 373,253,646 69,012,378 Deposits due to customers 4,125,075,298 945,134,870 Salaries 459,943,075 189,429,955 Borrowings 18,946,893,914 9,715,170,613 Selling and administrative expense 332,930,441 139,019,160 Debentures 2,725,625,018 1,496,065,655 Others 16,436,705 5,438,646 Provisions 15,152,117 5,019,303 7,830,851,113 4,044,031,685 Other liabilities 2,737,601,397 3,136,304,955 Operating income 3,170,688 148,468,237 Income tax payable 2,569,874 4,387,058 Non-operating income, net Deferred tax liabilities 54,361,716 Non-operating revenue 47,747,862 113,264,209 Total liabilities 50,602,011,254 24,963,984,338 Non-operating expense (29,977,609) (35,630,075) Equity 17,770,253 77,634,134 Capital stock 3,401,960,790 1,698,077,585 Profit before income tax expense Equity holder of the Company 50,656,868 220,411,139 Capital surplus 1,813,265,000 321,046,945 Non-controlling interests (29,715,927) 5,691,232 Retained earnings 1,397,747,544 1,398,258,401 (Provision for regulatory reserve for loan losses of ￦82,105,710 and 20,940,941 226,102,371 ￦44,214,327 as at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively) Income tax expense (Planned provision for regulatory reserve for loan profits (losses) of ￦31,256,743 and (￦37,891,383) as at December 31, 2016 and 2015, Equity holder of the Company 11,365,369 50,660,601 respectively) Non-controlling interests (6,125,329) 802,220 Capital adjustment (103,038,496) (56,924,983) 5,240,040 51,462,821 Accumulated other comprehensive income 128,929,761 68,209,583 Profit for the year Non-controlling interests 26,900,108 23,369,739 Equity holder of the Company 39,291,499 169,750,538 Total equity 6,665,764,707 3,452,037,270 Non-controlling interests (23,590,598) 4,889,012 Total liabilities and equity ￦ 57,267,775,961 28,416,021,608 15,700,901 174,639,550 Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Net change in unrealized valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 22,268,817 (10,900,365) Equity in other comprehensive income of associates (2,301,019) 4,871,032 Gain or loss on translation of foreign operations 34,691,576 (8,914,940) 54,659,374 (14,944,273) Total comprehensive income for the period Equity holder of the Company ￦ 100,011,678 154,167,471 Non-controlling interests (29,651,403) 5,527,806 ￦ 70,360,275 159,695,277 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share (won) ￦ 116 817 64 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix 65 For the years ended For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 December 31, 2016 and 2015 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd.) and its subsidiaries (Korean won in thousands) (formerly known as Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd.) and its subsidiaries (Korean won in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Consolidated 현금흐름표(연결) Statements of Cash Flows Attributable to equity holders of the Company 2016 2015 Accumulated NonTotal Cash flows from operating activities Capital Capital Capital other Retained controlling Total equity stock surplus adjustment comprehensive earnings interests Profit for the year ￦ 15,700,901 174,639,550 income Adjustments : Balance at January 1, 2015 ￦ 622,441,380 439,222,973 (57,137,489) 83,792,649 1,242,972,524 2,331,292,037 24,037,716 2,355,329,753 Total comprehensive Interest income (925,526,979) (510,557,622) income for the year: Dividend income (144,722,343) (50,493,228) Profit for the year 169,750,538 169,750,538 4,889,012 174,639,550 Interest expense 382,955,584 239,747,241 Net changes in unrealized valuation of AFS financial (11,433,259) (11,433,259) 532,894 (10,900,365) Income tax expense 5,240,040 51,462,821 assets Equity in other Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 88,231,372 27,443,508 comprehensive income 4,871,032 4,871,032 4,871,032 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 3,457,877 3,878,977 of associates Gain or loss on translation Loss on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 33,014,236 69,558,961 (9,020,839) (9,020,839) 105,899 (8,914,940) of foreign operations Loss on disposal of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 1,747,122 Transaction with owners, etc.: Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 1,422,926,327 180,700,490 Dividends paid 30,702,600 (20,370,700) (14,464,661) (4,132,761) (4,132,761) Loss on valuation of derivatives 822,368,877 679,991,549 Capital increase with 653,047,225 300,783,874 953,831,099 953,831,099 Loss on disposal of derivatives 585,385 consideration Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 29,679,889 14,285,670 Capital increase without 391,886,380 (391,886,380) consideration Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 50,602,381 35,454,381 Disposal of treasury stock 129,760 129,760 129,760 Loss on valuation of investments in associates 4,409,546 2,282 Stock option 82,746 82,746 750,789 833,535 Loss on disposal of investments in associates 32,370,349 Acquisition of additional (6,702,822) (6,702,822) (6,946,571) (13,649,393) interest in subsidiaries Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 2,315,271 Balance at ￦1,698,077,585 321,046,945 (56,924,983) 68,209,583 1,398,258,401 3,428,667,531 23,369,739 3,452,037,270 Depreciation 15,060,921 9,915,437 December 31, 2015 Balance at Depreciation on investment properties 10,249,308 ￦1,698,077,585 321,046,945 (56,924,983) 68,209,583 1,398,258,401 3,428,667,531 23,369,739 3,452,037,270 January 1, 2016 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 338,401 103,786 Total comprehensive income for the year: Amortization 25,225,622 2,973,935 Profit for the year 39,291,499 39,291,499 (23,590,598) 15,700,901 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 124,634 1,923 Net changes in unrealized valuation of AFS financial 37,523,132 37,523,132 (15,254,314) 22,268,818 Stock option expense 9,347,331 1,071,713 assets Rent expense 2,095,216 1,197,109 Equity in other comprehensive income (2,865,512) (2,865,512) 564,493 (2,301,019) Bad debt expense 20,205,744 37,182,654 of associates Other bad debt expense 8,236,492 1,950,091 Gain or loss on translation 26,062,558 26,062,558 8,629,017 34,691,575 of foreign operations Loss on foreign currency translation 1,779,281 15,916,815 Transaction with Loss on restoration 68,939 72,558 owners, etc.: Dividends paid (39,802,356) (39,802,356) (39,802,356) Other operating expenses 261,043 221,652 Adjustment due to Provision of allowances for litigation 61,902 1,703,883,205 1,491,689,033 (2,427,845) 3,193,144,393 26,107,929 3,219,252,322 business combination Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading (73,404,561) (57,107,075) Increased in treasury stocks (43,730,328) (43,730,328) (43,730,328) Stock option 44,660 44,660 7,073,842 7,118,502 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading (17,415,437) (2,867,188) Changes in scope of Gain on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (287,173,190) (56,389,026) 529,022 529,022 529,022 consolidation Gain on disposal of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss ￦ (1,751,750) (24,105,951) Balance at ￦ 3,401,960,790 1,813,265,000 (103,038,496) 128,929,761 1,397,747,544 6,638,864,599 26,900,108 6,665,764,707 December 31, 2016 66 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix 67 For the years ended For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 December 31, 2016 and 2015 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd.) and its subsidiaries (Korean won in thousands) (formerly known as Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd.) and its subsidiaries (Korean won in thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss ￦ (214,849,433) (570,048,670) Cash flows from investing activities Gain on valuation of derivatives (1,514,798,802) (452,141,228) Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets ￦ 14,240,820,946 844,284,673 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (70,376,856) (90,481,084) Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates 2,418,229 2,884,345 Gain on valuation of investments in associates (21,381,904) (8,391,647) Proceeds from disposal of investments in subsidiaries 163,371,023 Gain on disposal of investments in associates (19,274) (276,100) Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 236,619 8,387 Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries (677,486) (75,928,397) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1,293,172 542,400 Gain on disposal of property and equipment (34,694) (5,677) Decrease in deposits 1,900,381 9,395,622 Gain on disposal of intangible assets (1,060,170) (126,667) Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (12,336,928,887) (938,293,512) Reversal of bad debt allowances (8,543,118) (51,612) Acquisition of investments in associates (18,621,054) (29,000) Reversal of other bad debt allowances (358,000) (2,124,676) Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (950,326,445) Gain on foreign currency translation (162,897,368) (43,380,459) Acquisition of property and equipment (52,619,977) (6,795,605) Gain on restoration (15,486) (17,456) Acquisition of investment properties (913,116,554) (74,827,929) Reversal of allowances for litigation (8,517,281) Acquisition of intangible assets (20,832,905) (2,078,539) (515,267,898) (536,657,354) Increase in deposits (8,214,601) (2,094,776) Changes in : Net cash used in investing activities ￦ (53,991,076) (3,632,911) Other deposits 376,971,692 (56,349,328) Cash flows from financing activities Due from financial institutions for customers account 138,332,777 (429,189,451) Proceeds from borrowings, net ￦ 2,533,244,033 Financial assets held for trading 4,982,193,624 (3,959,610,772) Proceeds from debentures, net 551,700,000 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 1,923,208,686 (337,841,322) Issue of new shares with consideration 953,831,099 Loans and receivables (413,620,062) (106,009,467) Proceeds from disposal of treasury stock 172,586 Other assets 2,827,280,838 (449,956,634) Increase in other liabilities 16,057,383 112,593,351 Deposits due to customers 330,501,029 217,178,135 Decrease of borrowings, net (2,759,279,173) Financial liabilities held for trading 119,950,030 (47,364,163) Decrease of debentures, net (313,892,096) Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss (2,765,402,577) 1,350,461,189 Acquisition of treasury stock (113,805,572) Other liabilities (2,634,354,284) 45,995,633 Dividends paid (150,824,058) (4,132,761) Provisions (4,479,311) (596,142) Decrease in other liabilities (41,774,539) (20,950,988) 4,880,582,442 (3,773,282,322) Decrease in non-controlling interests (13,649,393) Interest income received 937,532,223 520,889,960 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ￦ (3,363,518,055) 4,112,807,927 Interest expense paid (368,853,150) (213,389,771) Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents held ￦ 17,889,870 6,239,894 Dividends received 144,366,201 50,437,838 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,615,007,897 271,940,733 Income tax paid (79,433,561) (66,112,078) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 391,020,824 119,080,091 Net cash used in operating activities ￦ 5,014,627,158 (3,843,474,177) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ￦ 2,006,028,721 391,020,824 68 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix 69 Social Performance Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Employment Employee Training Total number of employees 3,044 2,995 4,818 Total training hours Hour 94,500 102,675 181,309 Male 1,836 1,784 2,722 Number of employees received training Person 6,877 4,978 12,463 By gender Female 1,208 1,211 2,096 Total training expenses KRW billion 2.5 2.6 6.6 Domestic 3,005 2,955 4,782 By region Education on Human Rights and Ethics Overseas 39 40 36 Training hours for education programs on human rights Executives 92 85 201 Hour/Person 142 167 126 and ethics per employee Department head level 206 205 439 Number of people who participate in education programs on 4,922 4,857 4,818 Deputy general manager level 691 662 945 human rights and ethics By position Manager level 475 516 894 Number of people who participate in education programs on Person 2,933 2,903 4,304 prevention of sexual harassment Assistant manager level 647 581 1,068 Number of people who participate in education programs on Staff level 872 865 1,204 2,887 2,854 2,882 information protection Others 61 81 67 Person Protection of Financial Consumers Full-time 2,566 2,430 4,063 Education on Participants Person 26,831 24,507 37,051 Part-time 478 565 755 complete selling By type Training hours Hour 12 16 13 Number of employees converted from part-time 14 66 118 1st quarter 94 99 98 to full-time Results of mystery shopping evaluation New hires 115 221 306 (Fund, derivative 2nd quarter 82 97 97 Recruitment and Point Retiree 160 279 341 linked securities, 3rd quarter 97 99 99 retirement Wrap, trust, Female new hires 30 114 177 bond, etc.) 4th quarter 94 94 87 High school graduates 281 283 381 Number of VOCs received 1,028 4,829 5,281 Receiving and Case Minorities Disabled people 19 16 24 handling of VOCs Number of VOCs handled 1,028 4,829 5,281 Foreigners 26 21 26 Social Contribution Expenditures and Participants Retention rate after parental leave 101 105 307 Expenditures in social contributions KRW billion 3.2 3.7 6.3 Parental leave Number of people staying at work for 12 months 59 74 187 Hours for volunteer activities Hour 8,836 6,731 8,166 since returning to work after parental leave Labor union membership percentage % 70 70 44 Participants in volunteer activities Person 2,397 2,096 2,836 Number of absentees due to injuries or illness Person 20 18 134 * 2014 and 2015 figures are data of the former Daewoo Securities; and 2016 figures are data of Mirae Asset Daewoo data after the merger. Occupational Lost work days Day 720 683 8,133 injury Number of injuries Person 0 0 0 Hiring and retaining outstanding talents Mirae Asset Daewoo makes continued efforts to recruit the best talents in different fields, and hired 306 talents in 2016. The turnover rate was 7.6% in 2015 but substantially dropped to 4.2% in 2016. This is an outcome of our efforts to retain outstanding talent. We will continue to spread our vision and increase satisfaction levels to recruit and retain employees. 70 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix 71 GHG Emission Verification Statement Environmental Performance Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Introduction Energy Consumption Korea Productivity Center was required to verify ‘2016 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Statements (hereinafter ‘Statement’)’, LNG 11,510 10,513 13,426 of which reporting years was defined as January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016, by Mirae Asset Daewoo. Gasoline, diesel 298 337 216 Levels of Assurance Kerosene GJ 442 308 340 A reasonable level of assurance was agreed. Electricity 272,630 278,233 332,680 District heating 7,248 6,289 6,600 Verification Scope GHG Emissions In 2016 GreenHouse Gas emissions throughout domestic 13 company buildings of Mirae Asset Daewoo’s own Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 736 578 719 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) tonCO2eq 13,241 13,750 16,402 Verification Criteria Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 565 543 502 · GHG Energy Target Management Guideline Water Consumption · Community-Scale GHG Emission Calculation Guideline Tap water and sewage m3 117,417 117,776 105,101 · IPCC Guideline: 2006, WRI·WBCSD GHG Protocol: 2004 Use of Raw Materials · ISO14064-3: 2006 standard Paper usage ton 210 174 77 Weight of Waste Limitation General wastes kg 108,180 111,900 63,750 Having investigated by sampling method, the Statement might have errors and uncertainties. Final GHG estimates may contain uncertainty for the reasons such as unspecified standard and method, although no exceptional factors has been reported. Energy Consumption GHG Emissions Conclusion Total · The verification team confirmed that the ‘Statements (2016)’ was being reported in accordance with self-inspection guideline 98.7 (Unit: GJ) 4.78 Total (Unit: tonCO2eq) based on GHG Energy Target Management Guideline and IPCC Guideline. 96.0 4.59 353,262 17,121 · Appropriate corrective action was taken by Mirae Asset Daewoo in accordance with investigation results from the verification team. · The verification team confirms that the ‘Statements (2016)’ was being reporting ‘appropriately’ in accordance with relevant Energy standards. consumption GHG emissions 292,128 295,680 intensity intensity 13,977 14,328 (Unit: GJ/FTE) (Unit: tonCO2eq/FTE) 73.3 3.55 Classification Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Direct Emissions (Scope 1) 719 ton CO2e Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) 16,402 ton CO2e Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) 502 ton CO2e Total Emissions 17,623 ton CO2e 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 * Total GHG emissions and GHG emissions intensity are based on Scope 1 and Scope 2. 13th June 2017 Korea Productivity Center, Sustainability Management Center Director Dong-Soo, Kim 72 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix 73 Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Sustainability Context Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (“Mirae Asset Daewoo”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of The Report shows stakeholders efforts to achieve Mirae Asset Daewoo’s vision. In addition, the Report presents the performance DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of Mirae Asset Daewoo Sustainability Report 2017 (the “Report”). DNV GL’s results from perusing core values of client first, expert group in investment, mutual trust and respect, and social responsibility in assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review connection with sustainability issues. Mirae Asset Daewoo addresses in the Report how 15 material issues are managed and what have been provided in good faith. was the key performances achieved in 2016, which would help the stakeholder understand the management approaches toward the material aspects. Scope of assurance Materiality The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period from 1st January Mirae Asset Daewoo has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The issue pool with relevant 43 issue is formed to 31st December 2016. This also includes: by analysing the key issues from the global sustainability initiatives and standards, the topics which industry peer group considers • E valuation of the Report on the adherence to the principles for defining the sustainability report content set forth in the Global material and the subjects covered by journalist reports. The issues in the pool are rated by combining the level of impact on Mirae Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0; Asset Daewoo’s business and level of stakeholders’ interest in the issue. The prioritization is based on the stakeholder survey results. • E valuation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and Mirae Asset Daewoo has ended up with 15 material issues through these evaluation processes. In additional, Mirae Asset Daewoo the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. has presented the relevance of Mirae Asset Daewoo’s financial and risk aspects to selected key material issues. The audit team reviewed the materiality assessment process and noted that the relevant material issues prioritized from the process are addressed in Basis of our opinion the Report. The assurance engagement was planned and carried out using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM 1), which is based on Completeness our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 The Report has covered the sustainability management approach and sustainability performances of Mirae Asset Daewoo for the (ISAE 3000). We provided the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in May through June 2017 and the site visits were reporting period. The reporting boundary has been set to include headquarters, human resource development center, IT center, made to Mirae Asset Daewoo’s headquarters in Seoul. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: domestic branches as well as overseas subsidiaries and offices over which Mirae Asset Daewoo has business control. However, • c hallenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying when it comes to social and environmental data, Mirae Asset Daewoo limits the scope of reporting to domestic business operations data management system, information flow and controls; and excludes overseas business operations because the impacts to stakeholders are not material. The audit team reviewed that the • interviewed representatives from the various departments; performance results of material issues within the reporting boundary were reported without omissions in the Report. • c onducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they Accuracy and Reliability relate to selected content and performance data; We found a limited number of non-material errors and these were corrected prior to inclusion in the Report. The data presented in • reviewed the materiality assessment report. the report were gathered from the teams responsible for data control Mirae Asset Daewoo. The audit team interviewed the Personin-charge, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. Limitations The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated data. Based on sampling verification and other reported information and The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Mirae Asset Daewoo’s subsidiaries, available evidence, nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that the data and information presented in the associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external Report have any intentional error or material misstatement. stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Competence and Independence Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as Mirae Asset Daewoo’s website (www.miraeassetdaewoo.com). These documents, DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this The audit team has complied with DNV GL’s Code of Conduct. Assurance Statement. The directors of Mirae Asset Daewoo have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of Mirae Asset Daewoo in accordance with the June 2017 terms of reference. Seoul, Korea Conclusion In Kyoon Ahn On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4 Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; Stakeholder Inclusiveness Mirae Asset Daewoo has identified 4 internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Shareholders and Investors, Employees and Local community. Mirae Asset Daewoo engages with the stakeholders at company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) 74 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix 75 GRI Index General Standard Disclosure Disclosure on Management Approach for Material Aspects Aspect Index Indicators Page Remarks Aspect Index Indicators Page Remarks Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker about the organization’s sustainability 4~5 DMA 44, 46 G4-3 Name of the organization 6 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 44, 46 Economic G4-4 Primary brands, products, and·or services 8~11 Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate EC2 40 change G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 6 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 50 The number and name of the countries where either the organization has significant operations or that G4-6 7 DMA 48 are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and LA1 68 region Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and Employment G4-8 6~7 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by types of customers and beneficiaries) LA2 50 significant locations of operation G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 6~7 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 68 Organizational Profile G4-10 Total number of employees 6 DMA 32 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 68 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category 69 Training and Education G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 46 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender LA11 100% and by employee categry Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, G4-13 2 or ownership or its supply chain DMA 38, 56 G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary approach or principle 28~31 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and Local Communities SO1 57~59 development programs External economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or G4-15 77 other initiatives which the organization subscribes to or endorses FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 41 G4-16 Memberships of associations such as industry associations 78 DMA 21 G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 6~7, 20 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant Anti-corruption SO3 22~23 risks identified G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 24~25 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 22 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 25 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services, and initiatives to enhance financial Identified Material DMA 35, 38 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 25 literacy (former FS15, FS16) Aspects And Boundaries G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 25 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and PR3 service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject 36~37 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, Product and Service to such information requirements G4-22 2 and the reasons for such restatements Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product No Significant PR4 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 2 and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Violations G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 20 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 36~37 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 20 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 41 Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement by type and by stakeholder group 20 DMA 35 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, Marketing PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 36 G4-27 25 Communications and how the organization has responded to them Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing No Significant PR7 36~37 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Violations G4-28 Reporting period 2 DMA 55 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer No Significant G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 PR8 55 data Violations Report Profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 Policies with specific environmental and social components, assessing, monitoring, improving staff DMA competency, and environmental and social risks and opportunities, applied to business lines (former FS1, 38 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen (including GRI Index, External Assurance G4-32 72~73 FS2, FS3, FS4, FS5) Report, etc.) Product Portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region and sector 47 The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance G4-33 72~73 for the report FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver social benefits for each business line 39, 47 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 16~19 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver environmental benefits for each business FS8 40, 47 line https://www. miraeassetdaewoo. Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 21 Audit DMA 31 com/newir/home/kr/ assessment procedures (former FS9) csr/rule.jsp Ethics and Integrity Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the organization holds the The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters DMA 38 G4-57 22 right to vote shares or advises on voting (former FS12) related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Active Ownership Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the organization has The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and FS10 47 G4-58 22~23 interacted on environmental or social issues matters related to organizational integrity FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 47 76 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix 77 UNGC & UN SDGs Disclosure on Management Approach for Non-material Aspects Aspect Index Indicators Page Remarks Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant Market Presence EC5 locations of operation 49 UNGC Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 40 Mirae Asset Daewoo joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary corporate initiative that calls for corporations to assume social Impacts EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 47 responsibility, in June 2006. By abiding by its ten principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, we are taking part in global standards on corporate social responsibility and declaring our strong determination to practice sustainability Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 70 management. We will continue to abide by the ten principles of UNGC to fulfill our social responsibilities as a global financial investment EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 70 company. EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 70 Classification Principles Activities of Mirae Asset Daewoo Page Energy EN5 Energy intensity 70 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and We establish human rights protection principles, and Human Rights provide training on preventing various human rights 48, 69 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 70 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human violations, including sexual harassment. rights abuses. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 70 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of We operate the Labor-Management Council based on EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 70 association and the effective recognition of the right to 48, 50, 68 communication. collective bargaining; EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 70 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and We establish principles on protecting human rights Emissions EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 70 compulsory labour; concerning the eradication of child labor and forced labor, Labour 48 and implement the principles throughout our business Standards Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and activities. EN18 GHG emissions intensity 70 Prohibition on discrimination based on gender, age, EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 70 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of religious belief, social status, region of origin, school, 48 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 70 employment and occupation. childbirth, medical history, etc. is specified on the Rules of Effluents and Waste Employment. EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 70 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; We develop alternative energy through the Green Index Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonNo Significant Fund and Clean Energy Fund, participate in new & Compliance EN29 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater 39~40, 47, compliance with environmental laws and regulations Violations Environment renewable energy power generation projects, including environmental responsibility; and 60 the floating solar power plant on Hapcheon Dam, as part Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the Transport EN30 70 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of of efforts to save energy, and build a green office. organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce environmentally friendly technologies. Held the Occupational Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in We conduct compliance and ethical management Safety and Health Anti-Corruption 21~23 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Committee, all its forms, including extortion and bribery. activities, such as blocking the inflow of illegal funds. LA5 management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational participated by an health and safety programs equal number of management and labor Occupational Health UN SDGs and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, LA6 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, 68 Mirae Asset Daewoo is conducting activities to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that were established by the UN for the by region and gender sustainable development of the international community. The following lists the activities we perform for each goal. Details concerning LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 68 the goals are available at http://sustainabledevelopment.un.org. LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 68 Classification Goals Activities of Mirae Asset Daewoo Page Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all · Developing financial products in consideration of the aging LA12 68 Goal 3. 39 Opportunity according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity at all ages society, such as the Target Date Fund (TDF) Equal Remuneration for Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category and significant Refer to page 710 · Providing financial education to future generations and the LA13 underprivileged Women and Men locations of operation in the business report Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and · Offering various scholarship programs, such as Mirae Asset’s Labor Pracitces Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Goal 4. 41, 57~58 LA16 49~50 promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Overseas Exchange Program Grievance Mechanisms grievance mechanisms · Providing financial career training for youths which is an Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 48 experience-based training for financial self-sufficiency Freedom of Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls · Supporting the career development of female employees 49~50 and Collective HR4 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these 50 · Participating in the development of alternative energy through Bargaining rights the Green Index Fund and Clean Energy Fund Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Goal 7. · Participating in new & renewable energy power generation 39~40, 47 Child Labor HR5 48 modern energy for all measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor projects, such as the floating solar power plant on Hapcheon Dam Forced or Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory · Operating the Mirae Asset Social Enterprise Investment HR6 48 Compulsory Labor labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Association, Mirae Asset Youth Business Startup Investment Goal 9. 39 sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Association, and the Growth Ladder Fund to help the growth Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or Assessment HR9 69 of SMEs and venture companies impact assessments · Increasing financial accessibility for minorities through S-Loan, Human Rights Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries 41 HR12 22 a small equities collateral loan service Grievance Mechanisms grievance mechanisms Take urgent action to combat climate change and its Goal 13. · Saving energy and building a green office 60 Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal impacts SO11 22 for Impacts on Society grievance mechanisms Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable · Protecting personal information by strengthening our Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the No Significant Goal 16. development, provide access to justice for all and build information protection infrastructure and spreading a culture 55 Compliance PR9 effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels of information protection provision and use of products and services Violations 78 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2017 Sustainability Report Appendix Membership in Associations Name of organization Asia Society Korea Center ISDA Korea Management Association Association of Compliance Officers K-OTC Korea Money and Finance Association Capital Market Association of Korea Association of Korea Options, Swaps & Derivative Securities Companies Real Estate Investment Trusts Association Center for Financial Law of Korea Capital Market Institute Korean Pension Association Seoul National University Committee on Financial Informatization Korea Center for International Finance Korean Securities Association Promotion Financial Information Business Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korean Securities Law Association Financial Information Security Council Korea Economic Research Institute National Strategy Institute Financial Law Center, Sogang University Korea Employers Federation Seoul IB Forum Financial Security Forum Korea Federation of Banks The Institute of Internal Auditors Financial Security Institute Korea Financial Investment Association UN Global Compact Korea Financial Telecommunications Global Finance Society & Clearings Institute Institute for Global Economies Korea Listed Companies Association 2017 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO Sustainability Report Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea The paper used in printing the 2017 Mirae Asset Daewoo Sustainability Report is certified as eco-friendly paper by the FSC™ (Forest Stewardship CouncilⓇ). In www.miraeassetdaewoo.com addition, the soybean oil ink used in its printing minimizes the impact on the environment.
