DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 CONTENTS Foreword 3 What we promised in 2016 and what we achieved 4 Goals for 2017 6 What we work for 8 About DLG 11 How we are working with corporate social responsibility at DLG 12 Scope and reporting principles 15 DLG’s CSR organisation 16 Responsible supply chain management 18 Food product safety and quality 21 Resource efficiency 22 People in DLG 24 FOREWORD Welcome to the DLG Group’s CSR report for 2016 As one of the largest agricultural comparonment and anti-corruption in the group’s mental responsibility. Over the course of nies in Europe, DLG plays an important daily operations. At the same time, we are the year, we have made a particular effort role as both purchaser and supplier of committed to actively communica­ ting to implement a number of group-wide feed, feed compounds, crops, and other the group’s CSR activities and results in policies that we have developed since inputs in the first stage of production an annual progress report known as a entering the UN’s Global Compact. In of food. Together with our energy busiCommunication on Progress (COP). This 2017, we will continue to focus on ensuring ness, this gives us a central position in is our COP, where we publish our objecthat our policies become more deeply anthe Danish and European agriculture tives and initiatives for social responsichored in our business, so we can make and food cluster. Our aim is to be the bility. At the same time, we describe the an even greater difference for both the industry leader and set its course. This direction we want to be heading in over DLG Group and the world around us. means that we, as a company, recognise the next year. and accept a social and environmental We are pleased and proud to be able to responsibility. confirm, by way of this progress report, Our aim is to be the inour continued support of the UN Global DLG operates on the conviction that a dustry leader and set Compact. company’s work in social responsibility its course. This means must be measured by its concrete actions. This is why in 2012 we committed that we as a company to the UN Global Compact, which is an recognise and accept DLG’s Group Management international initiative with ten principles a social and environfocusing on corporate responsibility. mental responsibility. Kristian Hundebøll (CEO) As part of the Global Compact, DLG is Lars Sørensen (CFO) working to implement the principles in 2016 was yet another eventful year rich in Ole Christensen (COO) human rights, employees’ rights, envilessons for our work in social and environKim Balle (COO) KRISTIAN HUNDEBØLL, KIM BALLE, LARS SØRENSEN OG OLE CHRISTENSEN DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 3 WHAT WE PROMISED IN 2016 – AND WHAT WE ACHIEVED RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY √ Continue to analyse and evaluate our ÷ Implement DLG’s Code of Conduct √ Continue to focus on responsible value chain based on the criteria in for Suppliers in the most essential supply chain management as part of UN’s Global Compact suppliers within the individual busiISO 22000 and other certifications ness areas of the DLG Group √ Implementation of the FEFAC soy √ Implement the requirements in ISO sourcing guidelines as a basis for √ Support the Roundtable for Su­ 22002-6 Feed and Animal Food Propurchasing sustainable soy for the stainable Palm Oil (RSPO) duction in Danish feed production Danish market √ Maintain focus on formulation and √ Maintain focus on formulation and • Present the FEFAC Soy Sourcing implementation of relevant KPIs for implementation of relevant KPIs for Guidelines to stakeholders and food product safety and quality in the food safety and quality in the group’s partners in Danish Agriculture & group’s various business areas various business areas Food Council and their member companies • Work towards the development of a common purchasing policy for sustainable soy for the Danish market • Purchase up towards 10% of DLG’s soy consumption in accordance with the minimum requirements in the FEFAC Soy Sourcing Guidelines 4 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY PEOPLE IN DLG √ To expand and apply Lean principles √ Continue roll-out of and training of √ Increase the percentage of female throughout the entire group with reour anti-corruption policy managers in Denmark and Sweden to spect to resource efficiency. Optimisa25% by no later than 2018. This develtion follow-up through KPI reporting opment should preferably be reflect√ Continue on-going implementation ed in the highest levels of the group’s and awareness building of DLG’s management ÷ All business units scale back their priworking environment initiatives mary energy source by 2%. Each business unit must state their primary en√ Cultivate an inclusive working enviergy sources and present an action √ Elect a woman to DLG’s board of dironment through training in diversity plan to reach this goal. rectors by no later than 2018 and inclusion √ Develop and incorporate a common √ Ensure a pipeline of female talents by √ Measure and follow up on employee policy for resource efficiency focusstriving to maintain at least 1 woman views on diversity in the annual eming on energy and environment in on the list of candidates when recruitployee satisfaction surveys to maintain “Strategy 2021” ing focus on an inclusive work environment ÷ 5% reduction in movement factor DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 5 GOALS IN 2017 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ! We will continue to stimulate market­ driven demand for sustainable soy ! Continue implementation of DLG’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers so that it has been presented to and accepted by DLG’s suppliers in the most essential areas before the close of 2017 ! We will document sustainability of Danish-produced rapeseed oil for energy purposes ! Support the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 6 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY RESOURCE EFFICIENCY PEOPLE IN DLG ! DLG expects to seize the possibilities ! Ensure continuous expansion of Lean ! Continuous inspection of the implefor DLG Feed to be able to adhere to principles among all employees to enmentation of the anti-corruption policy the new inspection possibilities of sure focus on resource optimisation the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration through chain control ! Institute workplace evaluation for the and third-party certifications as part ! 2% reduction in primary energy purpose of improving the working of public inspection source consumption in all business environment units. Each business unit must state their primary energy sources and ! DLG aims to actively participate in draw up an action plan to reach this ! Continued focus on preventive mea­ collaboration with the Danish Veterigoal sures as part of our working environnary and Food Administration in dement initiatives veloping an interplay between public and private inspection activities. Pur! Conversion of lighting to LED or a­­ pose: Best inspection for the money nother lighting technology with re! Competence mapping of the working efficiency and visibility of inspection duced resource consumption environment organisation ! Continued focus on optimisation of ! Incorporation of diverse recruitment transport. This will be achieved as an element in DLG’s manager through reduction in the movement training factor and focus on optimisation of tonnage/load and km/tonne ! Ongoing measures to increase workplace diversity at DLG ! Develop and incorporate a common policy for resource efficiency focusing on energy and environment in ! Continuously work for an increased “Strategy 2021” share of female managers on all levels, ensuring a pipeline to Top Management ! Elect a female board member by no later than 2018 ! Continue efforts to have at least 1 woman on the list of candidates when recruiting DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 7 WHAT WE WORK FOR • Acquiring agricultural products for members at • Working to the benefit of farmers by ensuring optimal quality members the best possible production eco­ • Pre-process and selling of members’ commernomy through both national and international cial crops activity • Supporting members with an extensive array of services and tools 8 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 DLG’s CORE BUSINESS PRE M IX LYScandagra Polska Vilofoss Poland FARM D PUAI Fodermix AN SU DLG a.m.b.a Vitfoss TRITION HaGe PP Stormøllen NU Scandagra Group Deutsche Vilomix Svenska Foder Vilofoss Russia Calcialiment Team AG Land & Fritid SE Y RVI CE & ENERG DLG is one of Europe’s largest agricultural companies DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 9 CROP CULTIVATION THE WORLD MARKET SERVICE VEGETABLE AND PRODUCE ENERGY AND CROPS ANIMAL NUTRITION PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS 10 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 ABOUT DLG The DLG Group is Europe’s second-largest agricultural com­­pany and is a cooperative owned by Danish farmers. Within a decade, we have gone from being a purely Danish cooperative to an international group with subsidiaries in more than 12 countries and a turnover of more than 50 bln DKK. Today the group has 7,000 employees, including 3,000 in Denmark and 3,800 in Germany, which is the group’s largest market. DLG’s three strategic business areas are Farm supply, Premix & Nutrition and Service & Energy, and the group plays a number of different roles in primary production. DLG supplies farmers with feed from its own production facilities, along with seeds, fertiliser, agricultural limestone, crop protection, and fuel for daily operations. The DLG Group is also one of Europe’s largest expor­ ters of malting barley, seed corn, feed and milling grain and rapeseed. DLG is also involved in the processing of vegetable crops such as rapeseed oil. DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 11 HOW WE ARE WORKING WITH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT DLG At DLG we believe that our CSR initiatives produce the best results when we focus on the areas that create the most value for our key stakeholders, customers and owners, employees and suppliers, and for DLG as a business. In other words, CSR supports our business and helps us reach our strategic goals DLG SUPPORTS THE UN policy is based on the Global Compact, low all relevant legislation and regulations GLOBAL COMPACT DLG’s core values and our fundamental in the countries in which we operate. We DLG adhered to the UN Global Comapproach to social responsibility, namely are dedicated to maintaining open dipact in 2012. In the time since, DLG has that the initiative must be strategic, signifialogue on CSR-related issues with our focused on creating the internal framecant and practical. stakeholders. works necessary to work with the 10 principles of the Global Compact in a way DLG commits to following the ten prinThis policy is evaluated and revised on that creates value. These principles can ciples of corporate responsibility in the an annual basis by DLG’s group manbe found in the description of the various UN Global Compact. As part of this efagement. As an extension of our wish to CSR areas in this report. fort, DLG is working to implement the work strategically with CSR, DLG does principles in human rights, employees’ not consider donations as part of its CSR In 2014, DLG’s group management rights, environment and anti-corruption work. adopted a group-wide CSR policy. The in the group’s daily operations. We folDLG’S CSR-POLICY • We always strive to ensure the • We do not accept corruption in highest quality and security in any of its forms, including (but our agricultural products and not limited to) bribery, extortion, foodstuffs production, from farm facilitation payments or nepoto fork tism. • We are ambitious in our efforts • We strive to maintain secure to secure responsible value chain working conditions, a sound management and protect the working environment and to group’s reputation create good opportunity for development for our employees • We strive to reduce DLG’s and business partners energy consumption, minimise our environmental emissions and • We respect internationally generally reduce our environrecognised human rights and mental impact continually evaluate our business to identify instances that can negatively impact these rights 12 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT • The company should support and respect the protection of internationally declared human rights • The company should ensure that it does not contribute to violations of human rights • The company should uphold the right to organise and effectively recognise the right to collective bargaining • The company should support the elimination of all types of forced labour • The company should support effective elimination of child labour • The company should eliminate discrimination with respect to working and employment conditions • The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • The company should take the initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility • The company should encourage the development and expansion of environmentally friendly technologies • The company should fight all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 13 Implementation of social responsibility is a task that is never finished. 14 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 SCOPE AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES In this report, we present the DLG group’s CSR priorities. We also aim for COMPANIES the report to provide our stakeholders SPOTLIGHTED a clear image of the challenges and opportunities we see in relation to work IN THIS REPORT with CSR. The purpose of the report is to provide an accurate picture of how we handle CSR-related challenges and op• DLG a.m.b.a. portunities in such a way that we can also • DLG Service a/s run a successful business in the future. • Vilofoss Group Implementation of social responsibility is • HaGe Kiel a task that is never finished. Integration • Svenska Foder AB of the CSR initiatives across the group • Team AG will, therefore, remain a focus area for • Gasa Group 2017, as it has been in previous years. When compiling this report, we have DIALOGUE WITH gathered inspiration from general and STAKEHOLDERS recognised principles for CSR reporting. The CSR report has been drawn up without any direct involvement of external The report has been drawn up by looking stakeholders. Naturally, we maintain onat a number of the business areas that going dialogue with our stakeholders in we consider the most significant to the various fora, but not a systematic dialogue business, our stakeholders and for our on CSR. We have identified our most imindustry on the basis of the Global Comportant stakeholders as customers, ownpact principles. Picking up from last year, ers, employees and suppliers. It is our in 2017 we will continue working to deambition for 2017 to further elevate a velop common accounting principles for systematic dialogue on sustainability CSR data for use in the report, including and responsibility in our value chains. As data on energy, employees and supply a company, we generally experience inchain management etc. creasing expectations our stakeholders that responsibility and a high level of inThe report covers DLG’s business, tegrity are an important part of running starting with DLG a.m.b.a. and majoria successful company. This is also an exty-owned subsidiaries. Associated compectation we have of ourselves as a companies, in which DLG does not have a pany. This is why we acknow­ledge and decisive influence, are not included in listen to the expectations that we enthe report. counter, and strive to live up to them as effectively as possible. The CSR report is one method of bringing this initiative to light. DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 15 DLG’S CSR ORGANISATION Managerial responsibility for DLG’s adand the requirements and expectations vances in social responsibility is anchored that our stakeholders have of us. Both in the group’s upper management. A help ensure that the company is able to CSR coordinator has been appointed, create value over the long run. It should who is responsible for overseeing this be understood that a more integrated work on a day-to-day basis and coordiapproach to CSR, accounting for the nating cross-sectoral activities, interenvironmental expectations and market nal and external communications, and requirements imposed on the company, Global Compact reporting. The task of can present many business advantages. elaborating goals, action plans and KPIs This might be, for example, in the form was assigned to four cross-sectoral work of improved risk management, greater groups in 2016. product innovation, boosted employee motivation, fewer expenses, and a strong • Responsible supply chain CSR profile among our most important ­management stakeholders. • Resource efficiency • Food product safety We believe that an integrated approach • Diversity and inclusion to CSR can also create a more solid anchoring in DLG’s various business units. The groups consist of representatives But a broad anchoring is not something from all parts of the group, and its manthat is achieved overnight in a large inagement is rooted in DLG’s group manternational group. This is a more distant agement board (EXCOM). It is also the horizon, which in some cases also calls group management board that is refor new work procedures and solutions. sponsible for ensuring that cross-unit We are, as already mentioned, aware that and sector-specific CSR initiatives are these measures take time. We are thereimplemented in practice. The individual fore also conscious of the fact that CSR business areas are responsible for transwork in DLG is an ongoing process that lating the CSR goals into concrete action will unfold step by step, not something plans. The four groups reflect the CSR that can be implemented all at once. topics of decisive strategic importance for the DLG Group. BUSINESS INTEGRATION In line with DLG’s three overarching COMMENTS principles describing our approach to CSR as strategic, significant and pracOR QUESTIONS? tical, it is of fundamental importance that CSR work effectively meshes with Email: information@dlg.dk DLG’s overarching business strategy 16 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 We believe that an integrated approach to CSR can also create a more solid anchoring in DLG’s various business units. DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 17 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT As a responsible agricultural group, DLG wishes to maintain control on the company’s value chains. This means strengthening the group’s control of the risks associated with working with an ever more complex and international supplier chain. 18 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 Both in Denmark and abroad there is PURCHASE OF increasing focus on the need for comRAW MATERIALS panies to have a greater command than DLG a.m.b.a’s policy for purchasing of in the past over what takes place in the raw materials is that at least 90% of our company’s supply chain and with their suppliers must have a certified quality suppliers. DLG has also observed this assurance system in place that covers the expectation in the interplay between raw materials that DLG purchases. The customers and business partners. greatest percentage possible of these must be GMP-certified (Good ManufacAt the same time, responsible supply turing Practice). In 2016, more than 90% chain management is a critical focus area of our suppliers had a certified quality for DLG since we are increasingly intercontrol system, while 75% of the raw nationalising our operations. As DLG materials were GMP-certified. moves towards a greater level of internationalisation, we see a growing need to Svenska Foder, the group’s Swedish agcarry out a more systematic approach to ricultural supplier, also purchases with a cooperation with the group’s suppliers. focus on fulfilling the requirements set by It’s therefore also a matter of managing the ProTerra certification system. This is risk in the value chain. a non-GMO standard and includes agricultural practice, use of chemicals, energy The basis for responsible supply chain consumption, working conditions and management starts first and foremost respect for local residents and natives. with the group’s Supplier Code of ConIn 2016, ProTerra soy accounted for over duct and creating an overview of the 70% of Svenska Foder’s total soy purgroup’s many suppliers. For example, we chasing. The largest supplier to Svenska make purchases on the international marFoder delivers 100% GMOand salmoket to a greater extent than before, such nella-free soy. as from China and other counties in Asia, Eastern Europe and South America. The principles of the Global Compact concerning human rights particularly come into focus in conjunction with sourcing DLG AND SOY of raw materials from other parts of the world. These are therefore included as DLG accounts for about half of Denmark’s an important part of our Supplier Code purchasing of soy meal. The majority of of Conduct. this is used for pig feed. Soy is a critical ingredient in feed production, at approx. THE DLG GROUP’S SUPPLIER 15-20%, and constitutes a major part of CODE OF CONDUCT DLG’s overall production. Through our In 2015, DLG drafted a Supplier Code Supplier Code of Conduct, Charter for of Conduct. This describes the requiresoy suppliers and a series of visits to soy ments we set for our suppliers. The reproducers and suppliers in Argentina quirements originate from our CSR poland Brazil we have sought to advance icy and the sustainability criteria of the insight and understanding through diUN Global Compact. The goal for 2016 rect dialogue regarding an extensive was to implement the new Supplier Code number of parameters concerning CSR of Conduct with the most essential supstakeholders. This includes responsible pliers within the individual business areas relationships with neighbouring regions, in the DLG Group. The goal was partialenvironmental stewardship, good farming ly fulfilled and is in progress, but will be practice and long-term economic plancarried over into 2017. The goal is for our ning. Observance of human rights and Code of Conduct to have been presentthe criteria of the Global Compact were ed to and accepted by DLG’s suppliers in also a key part of this dialogue. the most essential areas before the close of 2017. DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 19 long series of production requirements, of developments in the palm oil industry including requirements pertaining to enin Southeast Asia. RSPO brings together vironmental sustainability, use of child interested organisations from various labour and use of pesticides in producsectors of the palm oil industry for the tion. With respect to all our purchasing purpose of developing and implementing of soy, we have also established requireglobal standards for sustainable palm oil. ments that suppliers live up to our own The most important principles behind the charter and Supplier Code of Conduct, certification include transparency, emwhich consists of a number of points, in ployees’ rights, use of the best available which adherence to the Global Compact growing methods, protection of nature is one of the requirements. We maintain and the environment, and long-term ecoa continuous dialogue with our suppliers nomic planning. In 2015, the group carregarding responsibility and sustainability ried on a dialogue with our suppliers in in soy production, while also taking part Malaysia, a measure that included several in public debate on this matter. visits to the country. We will continue to work to support the RSPO in 2017. DLG is also a member of the Roundtable for Responsible Soy (RTRS) (by way PURCHASE OF DLG’S CHARTER of the European industry organisation VITAMINS AND MINERALS FOR SOY SUPPLIERS FEFAC, which organises feed businesses in Europe). In 2015, DLG also assumed a DLG’s vitaminand mineral activities are collected under the brand Vilofoss. Only leading role in the development of FEraw materials approved in the EU are • The supplier must be a member of FAC’s ‘Soy Sourcing Guidelines’, which purchased for the production of vitamins the Global Compact shall serve as a basis for purchasing of and minerals. This means that DLG’s • The supplier does not utilise child sustainably produced soy in Europe. In suppliers in this aspect play a so-called labour 2016, we worked towards making the “gatekeeper” function if the product • The supplier must recognise emFEFAC initiative the standard in the inis coming from a third country. In conployers’ right to organise dustry, while also building awareness in junction with quality management, we • Raw materials from rainforest areas customers and partners in the farming follow up by means of analytical checks felled after 24 July 2006 are not sector. Meetings have been held with all by employing the HACCP system in areas accepted the stakeholders in the value chain, from where we identify the greatest risk. • The supplier must have a policy that suppliers and customers to interest oruse of pesticides must take place ganisations, etc. Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points in accordance with local legislation is a system for quality assurance of food and the Stockholm and Rotterdam Implementation in 2016 was complicated products throughout the entire producConventions. by the fact that the market for certified tion chain. The system builds on idensoy became considerably more differentification of microbiological, chemical Supply chain management in HaGe, the tiated and the needs of buyers (slaughand physical risks in the raw materials, group’s German agricultural supplier, is terhouses and dairy producers) changed, designation of particularly critical steps based on the recognised certification particularly in relation to non-GMO verin production and pre-processing and systems QS and GMP+. HaGe is also a sus certified soy. We are still supporting in packaging and later establishment of member of AGL, an association of 21 the FEFAC initiative for sustainable soy, checkpoints in the production sequence. feed producers that jointly account for but we want to be ready to meet whatmore than 50%of Germany’s feed proever demand may come from the conEvery one of the approximately 200 raw duction. AGL carries out risk-oriented sumer’s side-non-GMO, European, FEmaterials used in vitamins and minerals supplier screening, and each member’s FAC soy, or other. We aim to continue are approved according to a fixed proquality manager audits three suppliers to stimulate market­d riven demand for cedure: Assessment of familiarity with a year. The audit reports are published sustainable soy. the company, the product information online. for the goods in question and nutritionPALM OIL al characteristics, safety for humans and Together with a number of food product DLG’s purchasing of palm oil for use in animals, and whether the goods can be producers including Arla, Danish Crown, feed production is on par with that of soy used in the production facility (such as the Danish Agriculture and Food Council, meal. In 2012 DLG became a member with respect to particulate and odour DLG has pledged to buy only sustainably of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm production). produced soybean meal that meets a Oil (RSPO) in order to be better informed 20 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY Food product safety at DLG begins right certifications in place, including FamiQS, to ensure feed and food product safety from primary production with handling GMP+ and QS. These international cerin feed production. of crops and feed for livestock. This tifications focusing on quality and feed, means ensuring the highest quality in and food product safety are routinely Simultaneously, DLG is in the midst of an food product production throughout subject to third-party audit. We have audit process for the ISO 22000 standthe entire chain from farm to fork. As a been focused on formulating and impleard for food products for the purpose supplier and purchaser of raw materials, menting relevant KPIs for food product of ensuring that the content is updated crops and feed for agriculture and the safety and quality in the group’s various to apply to DLG’s business areas and food product industry, food product business areas, including through conmarket expectations to the greatest exsafety and high quality are top priorities tinual follow-up of quality data every tent possible. We have, amongst other for DLG. This is a key concern for our three weeks and concrete actions to imthings, collaborated under the direction position as a responsible producer in prove quality and quality documentation of DAKOFO and SEGES for recognition the feedand foodstuffs area. Society’s through the project ‘DLG in 1st place’. of ISO 22002-6 as a basis for third-party heightened focus on food product safety certification of the Danish feed industry and quality requirements for raw materials In the feed area, DLG also provides to meet demand from the German Qualalso means that whatever one’s level in economic support to a Danish-led food ität und Sicherheit. the food product chain, there is the risk product secretariat in order to secure of being held accountable if something central placement of Danish stakeholdDLG also expects to seize the possibiligoes wrong. ers in the development of international ties for DLG Feed to be able to adhere standards in food product safety under to the new inspection possibilities of the This is why we at DLG see ourselves as the ISO system. In 2014 and 2015, DLG Danish Veterinary and Food Administrabearing a very great responsibility. actively worked to see that the secretartion through chain control and third-pariat implemented the standard for feed ty certifications as part of public inspecFOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND production under ISO direction as a suption. We aim to actively participate in QUALITY OF FEED plement to ISO 22000, while also ensurcollaboration with the Danish Veterinary In correlation to quality management ing progress in the same. In 2016, DLG and Food Administration in developing of the vitamin and mineral compounds actively participated in the development an interplay between public and private used in conjunction with food product of this standard with an expectation of inspection activities. production, DLG has a number of quality having an ISO standard in place by 2017 As a supplier and purchaser of raw materials, crops and feed for agriculture and the food product industry, food product safety and high quality are top priorities for DLG DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 21 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY Resource efficiency is a prerequisite for sustainability and competitiveness DLG is a large player in a highly compe­ REDUCED CONSUMPTION OF compared to 3.8 million litres in 2015. titive market. It is therefore important to PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCES This represents a 7.8% reduction in our be as resource-efficient as possible in Production of agricultural products is diesel consumption, which considerably order to increase DLG’s competitiveness a core area for DLG and requires great surpasses our goal of reducing conand sustainability. Energy is one of DLG’s amounts of energy. It therefore makes sumption by 5%. most important resources in all produccommercial sense to strive to become tion and logistics. In order to contribute as energy-efficient as possible, as this LEAN to the most sustainable development, benefits both the environment and our Lean is a critically important method for DLG strives to be effective and innovacustomers. increased resource efficiency, and we are tive in its use of technology and resources. working diligently to roll out these tools This is why we place significant emphasis The overarching energy goal in DLG’s in our production logistics and transin the DLG group on becoming as enerproduction for 2016 was to implement port, partly in the form of Lean agents gyefficient as possible and maintaining concrete projects equating to savings in and training. A major initiative was made profitability. This creates value for both the individual business units of 2% per throughout the group in 2016. the environment and our customers. year for the specific energy consumption type. This goal was only partly reached Nearly 100% of the employees of our In 2016, we developed and implemented a in 2016, including in our central German Swedish subsidiary Svenska Foder have common policy for resource efficiency with subsidiary. In the Danish segment of now been trained in Lean, and 20 have a focus on energy, environment and clithe agricultural products area, energy been trained as Lean agents. Lean promate. It is part of a larger project known consumption increased, as a number of cesses are continually being implemented as ‘DLG in 1st place’ and will be carried measures to improve the quality of our to increase resource efficiency. on over the coming years. feed products required additional energy compared to 2015. However, we beIn 2017, we will continue to ensure the The overarching goals of our resource lieve that even though a 2% reduction in expansion of Lean principles among all efficiency work in 2016 were to reduce primary energy source is an ambitious employees in the group to ensure focus the group’s movement factor by 5%, to goal, the goal shall be carried over into on resource optimisation. expand the Lean principles and reduce 2017. All relevant business units are dethe primary energy source of all business veloping action plans to increase their REDUCTION OF FOOD WASTE units by 2%. energy efficiency. We will also prioritise In conjunction with the divestment of a conversion of existing lighting sources to subsidiary, the DLG Group was left with a THE MOVEMENT FACTOR LED or some other resource-saving techsurplus of 90 tonnes of pickled cucumber The first goal in particular proved to be a nology capable of reducing resource and red cabbage that could not be sold challenge in 2016 as the movement factor consumption. and was thereby slated for disposal; this climbed because of an unexpectedly was then used to the benefit of vulnerhigh level of redundant driving. This was TRANSPORT able groups instead. In order to avoid due to a late and wet autumn and unReduction of fuel consumption remains food waste, DLG donated these goods to expectedly high volumes of crops. This the primary focus of the transport area. the organisation FødevareBanken (food outcome showed us that the agricultural In 2016 we continued shifting our transbank), which works to distribute surplus sector’s continued development towards port flow over towards lorries with greater food and Christmas meals to the counlarger and larger machine capacity precapacity and better fuel economy. All EUR3 try’s shelters and other kitchens serving sents demands for greater collaboration vehicles have now been phased out of our the socially vulnerable. with our customers regarding correct transport flow, and the goal of converting inventory placement and increased into EUR15 has thereby been reached. house storage of crops. Seen in this light, our goals for reduction of the movement We are also focusing on more environfactor in 2017 have been made even mentally friendly driving, and in 2016, more robust against externalities. we consumed 3.5 million litres of diesel 22 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 We place significant emphasis in the DLG group on becoming as energy-efficient as possible and maintaining profitability DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 23 PEOPLE IN DLG In DLG, we understand diversity in terms of inclusion. By this, we mean that we strive to strengthen and value all employees so that each individual can contribute to the whole. 24 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 DIVERSITY We believe that a workplace where difIn 2016 we began implementing our diLEGALLY MANDATED ference is valued will ultimately be able versity strategy with three overarching REPORTING ON GENDER to create value for our owners. goals: UNDER-REPRESENTATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION We continually work to create inclusive • Recruit and hire based on a diverse 99B OF THE FINANCIAL structures that do not unintentionally inand qualified group of possible STATEMENTS ACT. fringe or impede upon any groups. Deapplicants to ensure a high-perforIn 2015, we set a number of concrete goals cisions on recruitment, hiring, training, mance workforce for gender diversity. This distribution redevelopment and evaluation of our em• Cultivate an inclusive workplace by flects the fact that we have many hourly ployees shall always follow the principle supporting a culture that promotes employees working in physically oriented of equal opportunity. Our policy is to crecollaboration, fairness and provides job positions, where the recruitment pool ate an environment where the individual individual employees the possibility primarily consists of men. If, on the other employee is respected and rewarded on to contribute and develop their full hand, one looks only at the gender distrithe basis of their efforts, not their age, potential bution in white-collar workers, the gender gender, ethnic background, sexual orien• Assume responsibility by measuring distribution is more balanced than for all tation or handicap. We also value diversity and following up on employee peremployees overall. in the form of various personal traits and spectives on diversity, and shaping ways of thinking. our management to lead in a diverse environment and create an inclusive DIVERSIFICATION STRATEGY culture AND GENERAL GOALS In 2015, DLG developed a diversity strateA Diversity and Inclusion Council congy, in which we broadened our diversity sisting of representatives from group perspective beyond gender alone. This companies has been created to support strategy encapsulates our priorities and this initiative; it worked over the course goals, and is guided by our overarching of 2016 to ensure progress and follow-up vision for diversity. on CSR goals. 21% Female managers 10% Female managers 29% Female employees 39% Female employees 41% Female office workers 48% Female office workers DENMARK SWEDEN 16% Female managers 9% Female managers 25% Female employees 19% Female employees 42% Female office workers 29% Female office workers GERMANY FRANCE DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 25 STATUS OF DIVERSITY sions promoting diversity in our employer Measure and follow up on employGOALS FOR 2016 branding, such as our job announcements. ee views on diversity in the annual Our Swedish subsidiary has focused on employee satisfaction surveys to Elect a woman to DLG’s group explicitly gender-neutral word choices in maintain focus on an inclusive work board by no later than 2018. their recruiting, and strives to ensure parity environment The company’s board of directors consists in the annual salary review process. In 2016, we began measuring employee of a total of 12 members (three of whom perspective on diversity in DLG. The purare employee representatives) who are Cultivate an inclusive working enpose of this was to monitor developments selected from DLG’s committee of reprevironment through diversity and over an extended period. The first survey sentatives, which includes 133 members. inclusion training of relevant manshowed that employees generally perOn the basis of an evaluation of the reagers and specialists ceive they work in a diverse and inclusive cruiting base, DLG has adopted a target In 2016, we began more systematic efforts organisation, and that DLG reflects equal figure of one woman for every nine board to make managers aware of the potential opportunities for men and women. members (excluding employee representfor bias in their recruitment. This training atives). Our goal is still to have one woman in recognising bias will be further forma­ elected into DLG’s board of directors in the lised in 2017, and will become a central 2018 voting round. 1,200 of DLG a.m.b.a’s role in management courses. 26,000 owners are women. Ensure a pipeline of female talents by striving to maintain at least 1 AS PART OF MY WORKDAY, I WORK TOGETHER WITH COLLEAGUES woman on the list of candidates in OF VARIOUS AGES, GENDERS, ETHNICITIES, AND BACKGROUNDS. recruiting In 61% of the recruits in Denmark in 2016, 5,5 DENMARK there was at least 1 woman on the list of candidates. This is something we will SWEDEN 5,4 continue working on in 2017. 41% of the recruited managers and specialists were GERMANY 5,7 women. In Germany, a major effort was made to ensure that qualified female FRANCE 6,0 candidates came to job interviews. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Increase the percentage of female managers in Denmark and Sweden to 25% by no later than 2018. This AT DLG, EVERYONE HAS THE SAME OPPORTUNITIES FOR development should preferably be DEVELOPMENT REGARDLESS OF SEX, AGE OR BACKGROUND. reflected in the highest levels of the group’s management. DENMARK 5,8 On the group level, DLG is focused on a number of different initiatives, all aiming 5,8 SWEDEN to provide female employees the opportunity to realise their leadership potential. GERMANY 5,6 From 2015 to 2016, we expanded the selection of manager development courses, FRANCE 5,7 and systematically encouraged managers to send potential new managers to 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 pre-management courses. Similarly, we On a scale 1-7, 7 is best have made it a priority to use expres26 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 WORKING ENVIRONMENT DLG has 7,000 employees, all of whom WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS help make it possible for us to run a sucThrough our working environment initiacessful and effective business. Employees tive, we have succeeded in significantly who are trustworthy, value­ creating and reducing the number of workplace acciambitious constitute DLG’s most impordents in 2016 compared to 2015. At the tant resource, and it is this that allows us same time, the length of medical leave to continue our positive development. In periods resulting from these has also addition to general personnel policies, we been reduced. are working with policies across the group for social responsibility and governance. DLG is continuously working to improve the working environment for the sake of A safe and sound working environment our employees and to live up to governis a determining factor for our develmental rules in the area a task that on a opment. At DLG, this means both preday to day basis is largely fulfilled through venting work-related injuries and illness having an effective working environment and at the same time creating a social organisation. Workplace accidents in environment that promotes employee 2016 were successfully reduced to zero well-being and motivation every day. in our Swedish subsidiary Svenska Foder. This is a very positive situation, and proof Working in agriculture and production that targeted and serious effort pays off. is associated with greater risk than other types of work. It is therefore a determinWORKING ENVIRONMENT ing factor for DLG always to maintain a ORGANISATION safe and sound working environment for In 2016, DLG held an election for the our employees. We achieve this through working environment organisation. All preventative measures and information employees are represented by a work enpertaining to work safety, working envivironment representative, who on a local ronment and health. level is included in a work environment group together with a supervisor. The The goal for 2016 was the implementaworking environment group addresstion of working environment initiatives es many aspects in safety, health and in DLG and measures to promote awarewell-being, but always maintains focus ness of these. We sought to fulfil this on prevention of accidents and hand­ling through a number of concrete actions: of accidents in cases where they might occur. • Election to the working environment organisation INCIDENTS (NEAR-ACCIDENTS) In DLG, we take a positive view of an in• DLG’s working environment crease in the number of registered incitraining, which provided intensive dents. We are convinced that through instruction regarding DLG’s working a more systematic documentation of environment incidents/near-accidents and lessons learned from these, we will be able to • Focus on rounds, so that all departprevent many workplace accidents. In and this new tool makes the data availments are visited by a representative mid-2016, we developed a system for able to everybody. In 2016, 45 incidents at least once a year the registration of incidents that is acces(near accidents) were registered, comsible to everyone online. This has meant pared to 18 in 2015. • Intensive work to evaluate and a significant increase in the number of respond to action plans in iapv.dk, as registrations, both by functional area and a preparation for the 2017 Workplace geographical area. Knowledge sharing is Evaluation. an important aspect in prevention work, DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 27 104 WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS SVENSKA FODER VITFOSS GASA 0 1 1 DLG 13 TEAM HAGE 41 45 28 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 EXPANDED WORKING ENVIRONMENT INITIATIVES We are continuously working to strengthen group-wide working environment cooperation across national borders and companies. The employee satisfaction survey from 2016 shows robust satisfaction and engagement in the group’s employees, who as a whole fall solidly above the average on the Danish labour market. Employees also express having suitable conditions to complete their tasks in a safe and productive manner. This indicates that the general working environment in the DLG group is doing well. With additional focus on coordination efforts, we will be able to inspire one another to raise this level generally over the next few years. In the annual working environment review in DLG, the following focus areas were defined for 2017: • Workplace evaluation • Rounds DLG will conduct an evaluation of all employees’ workplaces in 2017. The aim of this is to increase well-being and create a better working environment. The workplace evaluation can help DLG map problems in the working environment and prioritise problems and solutions. Rounds constitute an important element in preventative work. Rounds are a means of monitoring and inspecting conditions in the working environment, and can, for example, culminate in registration of an incident and/or action plan. In DLG, we have the policy that all locations where employees are present must undergo an inspection round by a working environment representative at least once a year. The same applies for DLG’s tankers and pickups. DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 29 ANTI-CORRUPTION DLG always strives to uphold legislathis, DLG has its own anti-corruption tion, rules and relevant provisions in the policy. countries in which we operate. This is a prerequisite for DLG to be a responsiThe policy describes the DLG Group’s ble actor. In this respect, our CSR policy position on corruption, and how corrupclearly expresses our approach to corruption is avoided in the DLG Group, while tion: “We do not accept corruption in any at the same time providing comprehenof its forms, including but not limited to sive guidelines on how DLG employees bribery, extortion, facilitation payments should act with respect to corruption. or nepotism in any of our business operaDLG’s anti-corruption policy describes tions or relations”. at the same time how DLG employees should act in situations where there may Corruption is not acceptable at DLG. It be some doubt as to whether the objecis not part of our way of doing business, tive bears any characteristics of bribery and we believe that our employees must or corruption. neither practice nor be subject to corruption. This position is also reinforced In 2015 and once again in 2016, this inthrough our adherence to the UN Global itiative focused on rolling out the anti­ Compact, which encourages companies corruption policy throughout the entire to work against all forms of corruption, group and establishing anti-corruption including extortion and bribery. procedures in our internal audits. All relevant employees have undergone The DLG Group is increasingly global in an online course in anti-corruption, and scope and sources raw materials from have pledged in writing to adhere to various parts of the world, including these principles. In 2017 we will continue some with a markedly lower standing in working to expand the institution of this the corruption assessments released by policy, specifically: To conduct a risk asTransparency International than our core sessment of the group in this area for the markets in northern Europe. Recognising purpose of a focused review. 30 DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 Corruption is not acceptable at DLG. It is not part of our way of doing business, and we believe that our employees must neither practice nor be subject to corruption. DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 31 The DLG Group is one of Europe’s largest agricultural companies. We create value for our owners and customers as the preferred business partner of the farming sector. We will set the course for Europe’s leading agricultural companies. We wish to be an indispensable part of the world’s most important industry. The group is bound by our core values. We are trustworthy, value creating and ambitious in everything we do DLG Axelborg Vesterbrogade 4A 1620 København V T: +45 3368 3000 www.dlg.dk B17008
