UNIT TED NATIO ONS GLOB BAL COMP PACT (UNG GC) COMM MUNICATIO ON ON PRO OGRESS (CO OP) LETTE ER MARCH H 2017 LETTER OF CO OMMITME ENT PRESE ENTED BY Y MANAGIN NG DIREC CTOR AND D CHAIRMA AN, NASSE ER GHAND DOUR It is m my pleasure to affirm ouur commitm ment for the ppast two yeaars (2015-20 017) to the Ten Principles P of o the Uniteed Nations aand its Fourr Pillars thaat are Humaan Rights, Labor, Environm ment and Annti-Corruptioon. We havee for the seccond consecu utive year workked in support of the Tenn Principles and will coontinue to addhere to them m and we would like to elabborate our deedication annd inspirationn towards them. MET TS ENERGY Y has alwayys strived and a worked towards beecoming a beacon b of humaan rights andd humility ass well as beinng a fair andd just business that respeects all the needss and rights of individuaals and with the Pillars set s by the UN NGC, we aree proud to say thhat we are walking w on thhe expected path. p We area delightedd to share with w the UNG GC our actions and we hope this report will stimuulate a dialo og on what it means to be a responnsible manuufacturer soccially and internnally. We invvite and wellcome your comments, c questions q andd feedback. Best Regards, Nasseer Ghandourr MD, Chairman First of all we shall briefly say what are the 4 Pillars while stating the Ten Principles in regards to each pillar and describe how METS ENERGY is in sync with these Principles. Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses.  METS ENERGY has not and will not under any circumstances assist in any form of human rights violation. We have firmly and clearly stated this in our Employee Hand Book and we will continue to promote and respect human rights and we shall also advocate them to our suppliers, customer and partners.  Our legal office and Human Resource Department ensures that our business adheres to the protection of human rights and we apply these principles when dealing with day to day operations. We prioritize innovation to create cost-effective products that alleviate suffering and builds resiliency in developing communities. Labor Standards 3. The businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. The effective abolition of child labor. 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. METS ENERGY employs more than 500 employees to push us forward and make this business a success. We believe in creating an environment that promotes success and rewards for our employees. Our human capital investment is what allowed to us to branch out and create our POWERMET network in 13 different countries and we also promote diversity as we have an almost even number of female employees as we do male. We also have in our Employee Handbook the rights and rules for all the employees to follow.  METS ENERGY is committed to providing a healthy and safe environment for our employees, customers and anyone else who works or visits the factory. We take all the precautionary steps to meet this responsibility. We also have a zero tolerance for child labor and we support the elimination of all types of forced compulsory labor.  We strive to meet and adhere to safety regulations and meet government policy and standards for all our employees. We have here at METS ENERGY implemented fire safety evacuation training and such other trainings in order to secure the safety of our staff and their wellbeing while on the job. Environmental Principles 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technology.  METS ENERY identifies the our increase in business activities and industrialization is a cause for environmental deterioration and that is why we continuously attempt to improve our efforts to minimize our impacts on the environment and try to reduce it as much as possible. We implement practices such as reminding the staff to turn off lights and air conditioning units when the finish to save energy. We also make sure to handle and store dangerous equipment with care in order to avoid any incidents to our employees and the environment. Moreover recycling bins are placed throughout the offices and factory floor.  Solar panels and a wind turbine are used to decrease carbon emissions and power parts of the offices. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery.  METS ENERGY does not take part of any bribery and we value transparency in our work and we are committed to integrity, fair dealings and adopt corporate governance practices when it comes to this delicate topic. METS ENERGY has a ZERO tolerance for any form of corruption, extortion and bribery. Our staff has been thoroughly trained on policies covering corruption, bribery and coercion/conflicts of interest and how to report any improper business and behavior. For any inquiries, you can contact us at: METS ENERGY SAL Choueifat Bchamoun Crossroad Beirut Lebanon P.O.Box: 113/7354 Postal Code: 1103 2170 Tel: +961 5 801 401 Fax: +961 5 801 337 Email: info@metsenergy.com sales@metsenergy.com
