Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability PRINCIPLES IN SUMMARY 2016 ACTION MARS IN 2016 LIFE AT MARS HEALTH & WELLBEING SUSTAINABILITY Letter from our CEO and Mars in a moment Creating a great work environment Driving nutrition & health Creating sustainable operations Office of the President Principled leadership Advancing food safety & security Developing sustainable supply chains Letter from our Chief Targets & progress Sustainability and Health & Wellbeing Officer 1/21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability A LETTER FROM GRANT F. REID CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT It’s been almost three years since I took the helm at Mars, and every The reflection yielded a validation of the company we want to leave day I continue to be inspired by the efforts of our Mars Associates. As for the next generation: family-owned, united by The Five Principles of you’ll see in this report, those efforts include creating a great workplace Quality, Responsibility, Mutuality, Efficiency and Freedom, and committed environment, improving health and wellbeing and responsible marketing, to creating enduring, mutual benefits for us and our stakeholders while advancing food safety, increasing the sustainability of our operations and operating sustainably. supply chains, and strengthening our human rights strategy. Our decisiveness enabled us to address the dynamics in which we are Mars has long believed that our business will thrive and endure for operating with intentional, strategic shifts. We looked at the way we generations to come, if those that we work with – from the farmers at organize ourselves; the shape of our portfolio; and our commitments the start of our supply chain, through to suppliers, Associates, customers, around climate change, human rights and health and wellbeing. We are consumers and ultimately the planet – thrive as well. This desire to create making strategic choices in these areas – all in the service of generating exceptional business performance by creating a “mutuality of benefits” for growth that we are proud of as a business. Mars and our stakeholders dates back multiple generations, and is carried forward by the 85,000 Mars Associates who it is my honor to lead today. I’m proud of the passion Mars Associates have demonstrated for As I consider the last three years, and what we delivered in 2016, I’d say continuously raising the bar to address the global threats we face – from that this has been a time characterized by reflection, decisiveness, strategic obesity to climate change to resource scarcity. It’s our duty as a company change and performance. and as global citizens to do our part to drive positive, strategic change. It’s also good business practice. 2 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability lifestyle. One of our clear aims is to drive responsible consumption, as demonstrated by our added sugars commitment, pack sizes that encourage moderate portions, and reformulation to reduce saturated fats and sodium. And for pets, we continue to deliver great nutrition, while expanding our whole range of pet health services. At the core of our sustainability efforts is the belief that the best outcomes happen when we collaborate with others. That’s why we teamed up with experts at the World Resources Institute in 2016 to develop science-based targets for climate, land and water, and why we stand steadfast in our support of the Paris Climate Agreement. We’ve also aligned with global health authorities around their guidelines on added sugars and salt consumption. And we’re partnering with others on social issues such as poverty and income inequality. As part of my personal commitment, I’ve joined the Board of Directors of The Consumer Goods Forum and the Business and Sustainable Development Commission, so that we can learn from, and contribute to, these organizations in our shared quest to see business as a whole contribute to society. I’m pleased that this year’s summary showcases many examples of our productive partnerships. As Mars Associates, we are all stewards of the legacy we want to create for We source 100 percent of our Guided by The Five Principles and informed by science, we’re looking for the future generations, and we take pleasure and have fun when we do it well. coffee from certified sources most effective ways to minimize our impact on the environment, improve This past year we’ve achieved some great things that make us proud, and the social impacts we have in the communities where we operate and deserve to be celebrated. These wins also encourage us to carry on when source our ingredients, and deliver excellent financial performance. This is we face particularly difficult challenges, or fall short of our own hopes and integral to our business strategy to be relevant to our consumers, our retail ambitions. Forrest E. Mars, Jr., an inspiration to all of us, who sadly passed customers and our Associates, and to create value for Mars. away this past year, used to challenge us to be “healthily dissatisfied with ourselves.” But equally, “to know that perhaps tomorrow you can do a We’ve been clear from the outset that we must focus on the areas where better job. That perhaps the mountain that you didn’t climb today, you can we have the biggest impacts and where we can make the most difference. climb tomorrow.” With that in mind, we drew from a number of external models – such as the planetary and social boundaries models, and the UN Sustainable My thanks to all of the Associates and partner organizations that are helping Development Goals – as well as some very rigorous assessments of our Mars be the company we strive to be, and to climb the mountain! own value chain to identify our five biggest environmental and social impacts: greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, land use, water use, human Sincerely, rights and income. Our health and wellbeing priorities are defined based on the type of product, whether confectionery, dinnertime staple or pet care. But they all have one common goal: that all our brands have a place in a well-balanced Grant F. Reid 3 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability A CONVERSATION WITH BARRY PARKIN CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY AND HEALTH & WELLBEING OFFICER Barry, what is distinctive about Mars’ approach confections products are “treats” to be enjoyed occasionally, to sustainability? and we’re focusing on renovating and innovating products, Well, much of what we’re doing is similar to other responsible marketing our products responsibly, and championing businesses. But I think there are four things that do set Mars’ transparent labeling to help our consumers make smarter approach apart. choices. On the other hand, our rice and whole grains can be a healthy staple in everyday meals and we’re scaling up our First, doing what’s right instead of just doing better. As work to provide healthy meal options and inspire families to Grant explained, we’ve set our goals in each area based cook together. Chewing sugar-free gum after meals is proven on the best available science to ensure we are operating to help promote healthy teeth, while our Petcare products within planetary and social boundaries and thereby and services are developed to provide the very best nutrition becoming a truly sustainable business. and care to pets of all ages and breeds. Second, this is a business strategy built on win-wins. This is not about philanthropy or clever marketing. We’ve But all our products have one thing in common – Mars’ built a clear roadmap based on strong returns, and we’re overarching belief that the products we make and the confident that doing good does lead to doing well. services we provide should be a part of a healthy and happy Third, we look for uncommon collaborations. We lifestyle for the people and pets who enjoy them. You’ll find recognize many problems are too complex for any many more great examples in the Health and Wellbeing company to solve alone. That’s why we continue to seek section of this report. innovative partnerships and coalitions of action to find breakthrough, scalable solutions. What’s next for sustainability and health and wellbeing Finally, we’re looking to amplify our impact. Not only are at Mars? we taking responsibility for driving sustainable change We’re continually learning and evolving on our journey. in our extended supply chains, we’re seeking to drive Sustainable business is not a one-size-fits-all approach – it systemic progress in the industries we operate in, and requires us to have our finger on the pulse of environmental, beyond – to maximize our positive impact and create social and health and wellbeing challenges, and refresh additional win-wins. our strategies when needed. That’s why, this year, we’ll be launching new ambitions for 2020 and beyond. Constantly The other element of your role is to focus on health and challenging ourselves and setting ambitious targets is vital if wellbeing. With such a variety of brands, how is Mars we want to do more than keep pace. We want to get ahead approaching this area? of these challenges and do our part to deliver on the United The diversity of our portfolio means that our products Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, creating positive provide different benefits in people’s lives and play a variety impact through our business practices and decisions. of roles in health and wellbeing. Many of our chocolate and 4 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability PETCARE MARS IN A MOMENT Almost a year in net sales Nine of our brands are worth more than From humble beginnings in Frank C. Mars’ kitchen more than a century ago, Mars remains true to our roots as a family-owned business. We make some of the world’s best-loved brands, offering diverse CHOCOLATE products and services for people and their pets. We employ S W I T H OU S TART RA Associates in ING SS OC veterinary Y TH care Creating some of the world’s ER IATE WRIGLEY EV S brands and products We’re made up of over Collaborating in FOOD talented individuals The Five Principles Quality Responsibility Mutuality Efficiency Freedom Proudly DRINKS operating since guide all we do, uniting Associates across geographies, Operating in more than cultures and generations drinks Global HQ SYMBIOSCIENCE in McLean, Virginia, U.S. center for Cocoa health science 5 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability PRINCIPLED LEADERSHIP HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR COMPANY STRUCTURE WORKING WITH OTHERS Mars is one of the world’s largest private, family-owned businesses. Mars, Incorporated is governed by a Board of Directors that Mars doesn’t operate in a vacuum. Our products, and our actions, impact That provides us with the freedom to take a long-term view, to own our includes members of the Mars family and our CEO and Office of and are impacted by a huge variety of stakeholders – consumers, local destiny and to stand firm by The Five Principles that guide us everyday. the President, Grant F. Reid. Additionally, we have four external communities, customers, suppliers, governments, non-governmental advisors who independently counsel the Board. Grant steers the organizations (NGOs), peer companies, industry associations and more. These Five Principles – Quality, Responsibility, Mutuality, Efficiency and Mars Leadership Team in the management of strategic direction It’s important we create links with all our stakeholders and foster good Freedom – guide everything we do, from friendly conversations in the and day-to-day operations. relationships. Ultimately, this enables us to collaborate, tackle challenges corridor to our formal Ethics and Compliance Program. Every Associate together and create mutual benefits for all. knows and stands by these Principles, right from day one. In 2016, we made changes to the way we work together and the way our business is structured. It’s about driving accountability and better Because partnership is so ingrained in our business, you won’t find a Quality makes sure the consumer always comes first and that we decision-making throughout the business, and focusing our corporate dedicated section in this report or on our website. Instead, read on to find take pride in our work at all times. Responsibility means every single office on the transformations that will prepare us for the future. great examples of how we work with others across all of our segments and Associate has a stake in the success of our company. Because of functional areas. Mutuality, we strive for all our actions to create shared benefits and fair returns. Efficiency ensures we use resources to their fullest and waste When it comes to advocacy and lobbying, we know there are times when we as little as possible. And, throughout it all, we maintain the Freedom to must be especially careful to uphold our Principles. That’s why we encourage shape our future. Associates who engage with governments, trade associations, regulatory bodies and unions to refer to our policy for participating in political processes, ensuring every interaction leads to growth we are proud of. 6 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Mars 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability SUSTAINABLE SOURCING Read more on page 18 OUR 2016 Ongoing target: 2020 target: 100% black tea from 100% cocoa from certiﬁed sources4 certiﬁed sources TARGETS & PROGRESS Progress: Progress: Achieved >50% in 2015 Maintaining On track We’ve been encouraged by our progress toward our HEALTH AND WELLBEING Read more on page 11 milestones so far, many of which came due in 2015. In the Ongoing target: Ongoing target: face of a changing world, it’s also important to regularly Encourage families to All chocolate and Ongoing target: 2020 target: refresh our ambitions. That’s why we’ve updated many of share one billion more confectionery products 100% coﬀee from 100% ﬁsh and seafood our targets, as we continue to look at how we can do our healthy meals below 250 kcal per portion certiﬁed sources4 from sustainable sources part to tackle the challenges we share with society. Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: Click beneath the targets to find out what’s next for each area. 59 million 99% Achieved 43% in 2014 On track On track Maintaining On track CREATING A GREAT WORK ENVIRONMENT Read more on page 8 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Read more on page 16 Ongoing target: Ongoing target: Increase the percentage of Reach the 80 th percentile for 2020 target: 2020 target: 2025 target: Ongoing target: female managers we employ engagement in the Gallup all Absolute GHG reduction Energy eﬃciency 100% packaging recyclable 100% palm oil from companies database of 40% vs. 2007 improvement of 10% vs. 2015 certiﬁed sources Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: 41% 76th percentile 29.2% 1.2% 90% Achieved in 2013 On track On track On track Work to be done On track Maintaining RESPONSIBLE MARKETING Read more on page 12 1 We will not direct marketing communications primarily to children under 12 in terms of advertising and Ongoing target: Ongoing target: 2020 target: Ongoing target: 2020 target: media content. Compliance is measured against 24 NEW NEW commitments as defined by our Mars Marketing Code. Media content TARGET Media placement TARGET Water eﬃciency improvement of Send zero waste to landﬁll 100% rice from Sustainable 2016 2016 2 Marketing communications will not be directed to compliance >95%1 compliance >97%2 15% at water-stressed sites vs. 2015 from our direct operations3 Rice Platform farmers audiences when more than 25 percent of the audience is under 12 years old. The compliance target is >97 Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: percent; due to the forward-looking nature of the media buying process, it is impossible to achieve a compliance 10% rate of 100 percent. 95% 97.3% 3.3% 0kT 3 Due to extenuating circumstances, two sites had to send waste to landfill in three periods during 2016. The total amount of waste sent to landfill was 23 tons, amounting Maintaining Maintaining On track Maintaining On track to 0.02 percent of the waste sent to landfill in 2007 before our ZWL program started. 4 Own-brand products only. 7 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability CREATING A GREAT WORK ENVIRONMENT Associates are what makes Mars special. We’re a close community that collaborates, celebrates one another, and provides a supportive environment to deliver growth we are proud of. We were proud to climb eight places to be ranked 12th on the Great Place OUR To Work® list of the World’s Best Multinational Workplaces. And we topped the list in Europe! APPROACH Mothers, sisters, daughters, factory managers, farmers, company Overall, Mars made the Great Place to Work® list in It’s the varied backgrounds and combined CELEBRATING directors… women wear many hats, and at Mars, we want to encourage women to play a leading role! From mentoring circles 24 countries. talents of the 85,000 of us working for Mars that drive our business success. We celebrate FEMALE and training sessions, to better maternity benefits and breastfeeding facilities, we’re putting the support systems in place to make We won a global Gallup Great Workplace Award diversity while being united by The Five Principles of Quality, Responsibility, Mutuality, Efficiency and Freedom. Our ambition is to ASSOCIATES sure women can thrive. Our goal is gender equality, and we’re seeing an average increase of one percent a year in the number of women in our workforce. Now, 41 percent of our Associates for the seventh time! create positive benefits for the company, our are women, compared to a global average of 39 percent. local communities and the planet. Our Global President of Mars Food, Fiona Dawson, won the 2016 In 2016, we were the only We’re a global community of engaged, IMAGE Overseas Businesswoman of the Year Award. Tracey Massey, food manufacturer to passionate and creative Associates, responsible President of Mars Chocolate North America, participated in Fortune make Fortune’s 100 Best for our own growth, but always supported by magazine’s Most Powerful Women Summit in October 2016. And Companies to Work For® our leaders and managers. Every day is about one of our inspiring female Plant Managers – Sarah Sordy, based list in the U.S. unlocking possibilities for our development and in Birstall, U.K. – was featured in an online series on women in the business – find out more about how you can engineering, and is making waves in a traditionally male-dominated join us on our careers page. area. We couldn’t be prouder of our successful female Associates! 8 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability HEALTHY WORKPLACES = HAPPY ASSOCIATES We all work hard, but we want to make sure that hard days at the office are few and far between! At Mars, we strive to create healthy workplaces where all Associates are supported to improve their diet, activity levels and general health. In 2016, nearly 150 sites across all our regions and segments participated in our second Healthy Worksite Survey, which assesses five key areas – wellbeing leadership, physical activity, diet and nutrition, tobacco control, and psycho-social health. We’re seeing improvements already. Nearly three quarters of the sites that had already taken the survey in 2015 showed progress, and 23 sites were at gold or platinum level in all five areas. For sites that need more support, we’re helping them on their journey with detailed 12-month improvement plans. My co-workers come in all shapes and sizes, from tiny kittens to huge Great Danes! Our petfriendly offices are just one of the reasons I’m proud to work at Mars Petcare. Being able to bring Alfie (my black Labrador) to work makes me happier, and is great for my fellow Associates, At Mars, we embrace different perspectives and unique ways of thinking. We were named one of the 2016 Best Workplaces for Diversity in the U.S., according too. Our studies clearly show pets make RECOGNIZING AND to Fortune and the Great Place To Work® Institute, and we’re proud to be listed better offices by relieving stress, encouraging CELEBRATING on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2016 Corporate Equality Index. interaction and bringing more smiles! DIFFERENCES We’ll continue striving toward greater diversity and inclusion across our business and beyond. Because it’s our differences that make us even better, together. — GILLIAN ENEVOLDSEN VP People & Organization at Mars Global Petcare 9 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability 100,000+ volunteer hours in 2016 – a company best. Over 130,000 people and 100,000 pets benefited As Associates, we know we don’t just work for Mars – from MVP. And 100 percent At Mars, we know you’re never too old to learn. Continuous we belong to something much bigger. Whether that’s of our Wrigley, Banfield and education, developing talent, encouraging growth – these are all GIVING BACK the communities where we live or a farming village on Mars Food sites have an HUNGRY things we’re passionate about. Supporting our Associates to learn FOR the other side of the world, we take pride in building MVP program in place. really is a no-brainer, and the mutual benefits are clear. When our relationships and contributing to wider society. Ten years people progress professionally and personally, they enrich our strong, our Mars Volunteer Program (MVP) and Mars Ambassador Program (MAP) give Associates a chance In 2016, Mars LEARNING company even more! to grow, while giving back to people, pets and the planet. ambassadors from We use the 70:20:10 philosophy – where 70 percent of learning happens on the job, 20 percent through mentorship, and the other When floods ravaged Louisiana and West Virginia, Banfield and the Banfield Foundation put our principles into action 30 countries completed 10 percent through independent learning. All Associates have access to Mars University, where there are courses on marketing, by looking out for pets in need. Associates gave more than 700 volunteer hours and funded an animal rescue vehicle, resulting in free relief and care for more than 5,000 dogs 22 MAP assignments sales, leadership and more. In 2016, Mars University provided more than 663,000 training hours! We encourage Associates to seek new learning opportunities in different roles, and even different and cats affected by the disaster. In the flood’s aftermath, functions. Our Graduate Leadership Development Program gives shelters in need benefited from 20 tons of pet food from young recruits the opportunity to work in rotations to experience Mars Petcare, and the Acadiana Animal Aid shelter in Check out this article different teams, challenges and mindsets. Louisiana received a $10,000 disaster relief grant from about why we’re passionate the Banfield Foundation. Together, we are making a better about our volunteer and These and dozens more opportunities keep us all constantly on our world for pets in both the best, and worst, of times. ambassador programs. toes! We’re determined that all Associates are empowered to grow and develop throughout their career at Mars. 10 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability IMPROVING HEALTH & WELLBEING We love our products and services and hope our consumers do, too! At Mars, every one of us is passionate about offering high-quality services and making great-tasting products that are nutritious and safe for people and pets around the world to enjoy. DRIVING NUTRITION & HEALTH OUR APPROACH Mars makes more than just great candy. We also make chewing gum, pet food, rice, pasta sauce, drinks, and offer services for pets… IMPROVING ORAL HEALTH AROUND THE WORLD it’s a long list! Whatever the brand, we focus We support the World on bringing quality you can trust to consumers Together with our global Health Organization’s and pets. And wherever possible, we improve partner, the FDI World recommendation that the nutritional value of our products so they Nearly all adults and more than two thirds of children suffer from tooth Dental Federation and people limit their daily support healthy and active lifestyles. decay. It’s the most common chronic disease in the world, yet it’s almost nearly 20 national dental consumption of added entirely preventable. The Oral Care Community Service Grant Program, associations worldwide, sugar to less than 10 Every part of our portfolio brings different benefits supported by the Wrigley Company Foundation, helps people take care of we’re working to percent of their total to our consumers, but our approach is broadly their teeth by providing oral health education, services and treatment to improve oral health and energy intake – and, in similar. Cut down on fats, salt and sugar. Add underserved children and adults in six countries. Since 2010, the Wrigley to raise awareness of 2016, we worked with more positive nutrients like fruits, vegetables Company Foundation has given over $7 million worth of free dental care to the benefits of chewing a number of customers and whole grains. Make sure our pet food and vet more than 100,000 people. sugar-free gum. to reformulate products services keep our furry friends healthy. Provide and promotions so the right information for our consumers to make In December 2016, the Wrigley Company Foundation extended the program, consumers can live by informed choices. And deliver our products partnering with the Russian Dental Association to launch Russia Kids Smile. this recommendation. and services in safe, quality environments. Now, more children in Russia can get the dental treatments they need. 11 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability INSPIRING #BETTERFOODTODAY FOR A BETTER WORLD TOMORROW With much-loved brands like UNCLE BEN’S®, MASTERFOODS® and In 2016, for the first time, DOLMIO®, Mars Food is seeking to make everyday meals healthier, we audited our compliance easier, more affordable and tastier. What’s more, we’re aiming to against the Mars Marketing improve access to nutrition and serve more communities responsibly. Code (MMC). Partnering with In 2016, Mars Food announced a new global Health and Wellbeing independent auditors, we Ambition with four clear aims: checked our media content and placement against 30 Providing healthy meal options – guided by the Mars Food criteria based on the industryNutrition Criteria, we’re cutting sodium, added sugars and fat leading commitments in our and increasing fruits, vegetables and whole grains. MMC. We’re delighted that our compliance stood at 95 Including nutrition labeling on products – we’re helping Most of us know candy is a treat. And eating too percent for content and 97.3 consumers easily find the amount of calories, sodium, much of anything isn’t good for you. But how percent for placement – not added sugars, total fat and saturated fat they’re eating; and much is too much? And what are the rules when bad for a first attempt! But recommending how often they should consume our more it comes to other things, like risotto or protein we’re determined to make indulgent products within a weekly balanced diet. bars? At Mars, we care deeply about helping progress, which is why consumers make the right choices for themselves we’re focusing on weakerInspiring healthy cooking and eating together – because and their families – and it makes me proud to performing regions and media the benefits of shared meals are so powerful, we’re inspiring see our progress coming to life. From innovative types to bring them in line opportunities for people to come together at mealtimes. pack formats to ambitious reformulation with our commitments. Read targets, we’re making it as easy as possible for more about our marketing Helping Associates live healthier lives – our efforts start Mars products to be part of a healthy lifestyle. approach and audit process. at home, which is why we’re offering all Mars Food Associates access to worksite kitchens, fitness facilities, nutrition education, and healthy, affordable meals in our cafeterias. — KIM BROOKS Director of Health & Wellbeing Read more about Mars Food’s progress on health and wellbeing. at Mars, Incorporated 12 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability USING DOGGY DNA TO CARE FOR OUR PETS’ HEALTH Our mission at Mars Petcare is to make a better world for pets, and that means providing the best nutrition and veterinary care. The more we know about our pets, the more we can do to keep them happy and healthy, which is why, through Wisdom Panel®, we’ve been researching canine genetics for nearly two decades. Owners can collect a sample of their dog’s DNA at home, send their sample to our lab, and receive a full report with ancestry information, breed descriptions, predicted weight profiles, and much more. In some cases, these results can be truly lifesaving – read Darwin’s story below and check out more #WisdomPanelAmbassadors online. As pet lovers ourselves, we know pets make our lives better. That’s why we strive to make sure DELIVERING they’re healthy and happy. This year, we launched When Mark and Robert adopted Darwin as a small puppy, ROYAL CANIN® ANALLERGENIC, a diet for cats that’s they got him from a Boxer rescue center. Very soon after, NUTRIENTS formulated to reduce the risk of allergic reactions they started to notice that he had behaviors that really to food. This veterinary formula uses purified weren’t characteristic of Boxers. They did a Wisdom carbohydrates and partially digested proteins to Panel test and found out he had no Boxer at all! Among TO HELP relieve even the most severe symptoms. other breeds they found Neapolitan Mastiff. Not long after they got him, Darwin got very sick and despite the PETS THRIVE We’re not just looking out for our feline friends. Puppies face a challenging start to life, with up to a vet doing several tests, no diagnosis was found. Darwin’s owners then remembered their Wisdom Panel results 25 percent chance of death in the first three weeks. and shared them with the vet, who deduced that Darwin We’re doing everything we can to reduce this. We’ve was suffering from a kind of meningitis that affects largedeveloped ROYAL CANIN® PUPPY PRO TECH, an breed dogs such as the Neapolitan Mastiff. In this case, advanced first-milk supplement that’s scientifically knowing the breeds in their mixed-breed dog was one of proven to reduce the risk of puppy mortality. We’re the missing links that helped save his life. committed to providing pets with the nutrients they need to survive – and thrive. 13 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability IMPROVING HEALTH & WELLBEING HARNESSING THE POWER OF ADVANCING GENETICS TO FEED THE HUNGRY FOOD SAFETY Almost 800 million of us – that’s one in is aiming to change that. By bringing nine people on the planet – don’t have together companies, NGOs and scientists, access to enough food. But some of the AOCC is figuring out the genetic codes the most nutritious food crops, such as of more than 100 orphan crops to help & SECURITY baobab, groundnuts and yams, have been revolutionize plant science in Africa. The neglected by science because they aren’t Consortium’s African Plant Breeders as profitable as staple foods like rice and Academy (AfPBA) is training more than 250 wheat. These are known as “orphan crops.” plant scientists to champion this work. So far, the first two classes of AfPBA students The African Orphan Crops Consortium have returned to their home countries to (AOCC), which Mars helped to establish, set up their own orphan crop work. OUR APPROACH Quality – one of The Five Principles – is always our starting point when it comes to products and services. We make products and deliver services PARTNERING FOR SAFER SUPPLY CHAINS we’re proud of, that we’re confident in, and that we know are safe for people and pets. We’ve worked hard to fine-tune the way And, in 2017, we plan to work with WFP to we maintain our quality standards at Mars. develop better quality checks during the As hard as we try, there are very occasionally And now, we’re teaming up with global manufacture of nutritious food for children. times when we fail to live up to our own organizations to share our knowledge with expectations of quality. In those cases, we them, as well as to learn from them. By taking Another exciting collaboration is with the conduct thorough assessments to understand an open and collaborative approach, we can Partnership for Aflatoxin Control in what went wrong and learn from those incidents. help raise global food safety standards as part Africa (PACA). Aflatoxins are poisonous And we’re always looking to go one step further to of our mutual goal of safer food for all. Every chemicals found in some moldy foods, which improve food safety across our entire supply chain year, food-borne illnesses cause the loss of contaminate about 25 percent of food crops – whether partnering with suppliers to ensure safe 33 million healthy years of life – and we know globally. PACA is working to eliminate these ingredients, or collaborating with the wider food this a vital challenge to address. toxins and promote sustainable agricultural industry to research new solutions. Food safety is supply chains. Mars is on the PACA steering about guaranteeing the best for our own products, Together with the World Food Programme committee, and in 2016 we co-authored and ensuring that – in a world where millions go (WFP), we’ve been supporting procurement a book chapter on how food safety can hungry – the work we do increases global access experts with food safety training, risk contribute to aflatoxin control and broader to sufficient, safe, nutritious food. assessments and insight on managing food food security in Africa. safety in dry production environments. 14 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability FOSTERING UNCOMMON COLLABORATIONS AT OUR GLOBAL FOOD SAFETY CENTER We never underestimate the power of working with others and thinking outside the box. In 2015, we launched the Mars Global Food Safety Center (GFSC) in Huairou, China, a pre-competitive facility and global knowledge-sharing hub to raise the bar in food safety and help ensure safer food for all as we help feed a growing population. As well as playing host to some exciting partnerships, including WFP and PACA (see page 14), the GFSC held its first ever food safety science symposium in April 2016. More than 60 food safety experts from >400 visitors to our Global academia, industry, NGOs and government agencies attended to discuss Food Safety Center in “Uncommon Collaborations and the Future of Food Safety Science.” 2016, including global food safety experts More than ever, we saw the power of collaboration in action. Participants and opinion leaders shared insights on the food safety challenges impacting the global food supply chain, and identified opportunities for collaboration. It was crystal clear to everyone that food safety is a global challenge and a common responsibility that can’t be solved by any one company or organization. 175 food safety professionals trained through five accredited training courses on topics I am incredibly proud to work at our Global including preventing food fraud and Food Safety Center. Here, it’s not just understanding new about conducting research, but about working with food safety legislation partners and leaders from across the world to find solutions and put food safety on the global agenda. We have the opportunity to make a real difference. 4 peer-reviewed studies published by Mars scientists — JING REN and collaborators Global Head of Microbiological Food Safety Research at Mars GFSC 15 / 21 15 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability EVOLVING AS A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS It’s a fact: a healthy planet makes for a thriving business. Within our operations and across our supply chain, we’re building our business on sustainable practices. From cocoa farmers to packaging suppliers, our aspiration is to make sure everyone in our value chain benefits from our growth while protecting the planet for generations to come. CREATING SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR APPROACH Climate change, population growth, Water crises are one of the biggest threats facing the planet. food shortages… our planet is facing big We’re playing our part to protect this life-giving liquid by carefully challenges. And we need big solutions! LOOKING TO managing the water we use for our operations. SCIENCE TO SET That’s why at Mars, we’ve made the bold But that’s not all. We’ve teamed up with experts at the World More than 1,000 commitment to become Sustainable in a Resources Institute (WRI), WWF and Ecolab to develop ambitious OUR TARGETS businesses and investors Generation. It’s not about doing a little bit water targets. Together, we used the latest science to assess the signed a letter telling better. It’s about stepping up, recognizing water impacts across our value chain. We found that 46 percent of global leaders that the impact our business has, and pledging our factories are located in areas with high water stress. We’re using business backs a lowto do our part to protect our planet for these findings to focus our efforts and set targets based on the carbon U.S. – and Mars generations to come. latest – and best – science. was one of the first. To meet our ambitious goals, we’re Preserving water resources for future generations requires a team investing in renewable energy, improving effort. That’s why we’re sharing our findings with others as well our energy, water and waste efficiency, as learning from them. Our next step is to create a platform that and developing new technologies that all companies can use to set water targets and develop a range of change the way we work. Every step indicators to help measure progress towards the goals. forward will help our business, people and the planet flourish. Read more about our work on water. 16 16 / 21/ 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability My job is to engage with Associates UNITING FOR ACTION to inspire them to find new ON CLIMATE CHANGE efficiencies and cut waste. It’s challenging – I admit – but it’s so We’re serious about tackling climate change. But we can’t solve these challenges alone. rewarding to see the Sustainable The Paris Agreement – a global agreement in a Generation program in action between more than 100 countries to cut GHGs – came into force in November 2016, and to be part of our strategy to and we now need to turn it into action. inspire growth we are proud of. We made our voice heard at the UN’s Marrakech Climate Conference, known as COP22, by signing a letter urging global leaders to help meet the targets set out in SE OH the agreement and encouraging business Global Supply Chain leaders to switch to renewable energy. Sustainability Manager at Wrigley At Mars Drinks, we’re always looking for new ways to ensure our products have minimal impact on the environment, while contributing to a vibrant, thriving workplace. Our customers have told us their number one sustainability challenge, when it comes to GOING 100% RENEWABLE workplace drinks solutions, is packaging. So we examined the entire lifecycle of our Freshpack® to Thanks to wind energy, we’re getting closer to becoming find ways to improve. We discovered raw material carbon neutral. Our Moy wind farm in the Scottish REFRESHING extraction was the biggest CO2 contributor. By Highlands, completed in 2016, generates renewable power AND RECHARGING removing an aluminum foil layer and reducing the number of materials we use, we’ve reduced the equivalent to 100 percent of the electricity consumption of our entire U.K. operations. CUSTOMERS, MORE carbon footprint of the packaging by 31 percent! SUSTAINABLY This wind farm takes us one step closer to being Sustainable And it doesn’t end there. Our Recycle Your in a Generation, with zero GHG emissions from our global Freshpacks program gives North American operations by 2040. And we have another clean power customers an easy way to divert 100 percent of project in the pipeline – a new wind farm that will provide their Freshpacks away from landfill. 100 percent renewable electricity for our operations in Mexico. When it’s up and running, we’ll be nearly a third of We’re proud of our new Freshpack design and the way to our 2040 global GHG target – well on our way to determined to provide the most sustainable becoming Sustainable in a Generation! workplace drinks solution by 2020. 17 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability EVOLVING AS A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPING OUR SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SOURCING ROADMAP SUPPLY CHAINS PHASE 1: 1 STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK INITIAL Sustainable sourcing focuses on our ﬁve biggest impacts SCOPING — land use, GHG emissions, water use, income and human rights — for our priority raw materials, which represent more than 60 percent of everything we buy 70% It’s simple really. If we want to continue making our great products, 2 SUPPLY CHAIN MAPPING OUR we need to ensure a sustainable supply of raw materials. That’s Understand which country of origin, or sometimes why we work on sustainable sourcing, with a focus on the most farm, our raw materials come from APPROACH of priority raw material significant environmental and social impacts in our supply chain. supply chains have been We’ve identified our five biggest impacts: land use, GHG emissions, 3 IMPACT AND RISK ANALYSIS mapped to origin water use, income and human rights. Assess social and environmental impact We know we can’t solve these complex challenges alone. We work with suppliers, academics, farmers and community groups to build a detailed picture of our supply chain, identify where we can make progress, develop plans and take action. Ultimately, our aim is to create mutual benefits for everyone in our value chain. PHASE 2: 1 CO-CREATE TARGETS DEVELOPING Deﬁne what we want to achieve for each raw AND DELIVERING material, based on what the science tells us STRATEGY Being part of a company committed to driving evidence2 DEFINE STRATEGY based solutions to ensure we are learning and adapting Design our sustainable sourcing approach, working with suppliers and other partners, is why I love coming to work every day. At Mars Symbioscience we MORE THAN 700 integrated into our sourcing strategy measure success by our contribution to the wellbeing of people and planet; a healthy future where business and the communities 3 IMPLEMENT STRATEGY we source from mutually thrive; and global and local priority raw material suppliers Deliver through a menu of strategic options engaged through hundreds of resources are preserved for future generations. meetings and over 50 trips to 4 MONITOR, EVALUATE & REPORT origin countries in 2016 Ensure we achieve the targeted impact — HEATHER PFAHL Senior Manager at Mars Symbioscience 1818/21 / 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability SOURCING HIGHLIGHTS PALM OIL MINT We’ve joined forces with The We partnered with Agribusiness Forest Trust to build traceability Systems International (ASI) to test in palm oil. In 2016, 91 percent good agricultural practices in India, of the palm oil we used was resulting in higher yields and less traceable back to the mill. Read input costs for smallholder mint HUMAN RIGHTS the latest on our palm oil work. farmers. We will expand the program In 2016, we activated a to include 2,500 farmers in 2017. new global human rights strategy across our own ADVANCING HUMAN RIGHTS operations, our tier 1 IN OUR FISH SUPPLY CHAIN suppliers and across our extended supply chain. Reports have highlighted serious human rights challenges in the Thai fishing industry. Given that we use fish from Thai fisheries in some of our cat food products, we are taking action to understand whether and how these issues relate to our own supply chain. In 2016, we ADDRESSING FORCED LABOR released a Thai Fish Supply Chain Human Rights Action Plan detailing our approach. We co-chaired the development of Consumer We believe traceability is an important first step. That’s why we’ve entered an exciting Goods Forum’s (CGF) Priority TEA VANILLA pilot project with our biggest tuna supplier, Thai Union, and USAID Oceans, to use mobile Industry Principles on Forced Through our work with the Kenya We joined the Sustainable Vanilla applications and cloud computing to track detailed fishing data right back to the level of Labor. We’re taking action to Tea Development Agency, we’ve Initiative to help improve farmers’ individual vessels. This technology has the potential to significantly increase supply chain advance these principles across supported five tea factories to livelihoods and ensure a sustainable visibility at sea. our business, and working cut their electricity consumption supply of high-quality vanilla. with CGF members in specific by more than 430,000 kWh. It’s clear we can’t solve human rights challenges alone. So we’re collaborating with our supply chains, beginning with suppliers and partners, such as the Issara Institute, to connect with migrant communities. the seafood and palm oil We’re also a Board member of the Seafood Task Force, a unique coalition that brings industries in Southeast Asia. Read about how we sustainably source other raw materials together Thai fish supply chain actors, NGOs and governments to drive lasting change in the fishing industry. 19 /1921/ 21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability A symbol of life and a staple for nearly half the world’s population, Women in cocoa communities are often the hardest-working and least rice is pretty incredible. But it’s a thirsty crop, using 40 percent recognized. We’re partnering with CARE International to change this SETTING THE of the world’s irrigation water! We’re on an exciting journey to EMPOWERING by empowering women through financial education. The 70 Village STANDARD FOR create a sustainable rice supply that helps our business grow while meeting the nutritional needs of a growing population. WOMEN IN Savings and Loan Associations we’ve set up so far in Côte d’Ivoire are giving nearly 2,000 members access to important financial resources SUSTAINABLE As a leading member of the Sustainable Rice Platform (SRP), we’re COCOA and training. When women are financially empowered, their entire RICE community benefits.In addition to investing in crops, women spend bringing together dozens of rice-loving government agencies, privatemoney on education and healthcare, which benefit their children, sector corporations, research institutions and NGOs. In 2016, we achieved extended families and, ultimately, the next generation of cocoa farmers. a major milestone by sourcing all our basmati rice from SRP farmers – about 10 percent of Mars Food’s rice sourcing overall! With partners such as UN Environment, the International Rice Research Institute and Thanks to the Vision for Change project, I’m now harvesting 800 WWF, we’re supporting 2,000 basmati rice farmers in Pakistan and India kilograms of cocoa per hectare, twice what I used to produce! to improve their productivity and reduce water use. In Pakistan, we’ve — MRS. BAMBA ASSIATA Cocoa Farmer, Kragui (pictured above) already seen a 32 percent increase in farmer income and a 30 percent reduction in water use since the project began, and we’re working to expand these practices to rice farmers outside our supply chain. As a Cocoa Village Center Operator, I’m trained in agronomy and basic accounting. Thanks to the Mars project I’ve become more responsible. To support as many rice farmers as possible, we’re setting up programs I allow myself to do projects without asking for advice. I’ll buy myself a to tackle the key issues specific to our sourcing regions: water stress in laptop and then a vehicle… and for that I’m not counting on anyone’s help. Spain; farm yield and farmer income in Asia; and women’s empowerment — HELENE KLA AMENAN Cocoa Village Center Operator, Boubouo in Pakistan and India. It’s ambitious, but we’re up for the challenge! 20/21 Principles in Action Summary 2016 Mars in 2016 Life at Mars Health & Wellbeing Sustainability COME AND JOIN THE CONVERSATION! REPORTING SCOPE AND DATA Everything we do at Mars, we do with our partners – you – in mind. Whether Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) has you’re a potential colleague, existing Associate, consumer, customer, assured our reporting and data. This gives stakeholders government representative, non-governmental organization or an academic – confidence that what we say is accurate, and helps we’d love to hear your thoughts on this year’s Principles in Action Summary. us improve our strategies and performance. Read the assurance statement and data To get involved, follow the links below. assurance on our website. This report covers the global activities of our company, Mars, Incorporated, and its business segments: Petcare, Chocolate, Wrigley, Food, Drinks and Symbioscience. www.mars.com It describes our performance in the 2016 calendar. In most instances, environmental data for our factories is based on actual figures. Our estimated data represent no more than five percent of all data in this report. For responsible marketing, our media content compliance was audited by Ebiquity, based on data from 18 markets/ regions during Q4 2016. Media placement compliance was audited by MediaCom and Starcom, based on data from our top 14 markets, excluding Russia, during Q2–Q4 2016. Financial values are United States dollars (USD), unless otherwise stated. Principles in Action Summary 2016 21 / 21
