HYUNDAI STEEL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 02 22 36 Contents With the aim of creating values for our customers, Hyundai Steel Company focuses on enhancing both performance and INTRODUCTION Created Values GOVERNANCE quality of our products. 02 Message from CEO 24 Technology Value 38 Corporate Governance 04 2016 Highlights 28 Environmental Value 40 Ethics Management It is our goal to build a sustainable 14 Corporate Profile 32 Health and Safety Value 41 Fair-Trade Compliance society by sharing our values with local 16 Corporate Philosophy 34 Community Value 42 Risk Management communities. 17 Vision 2025 18 Business Model 20 Main Products We are committed to protecting the environment in order to leave our one and only planet clean for our next generation. Developing new products and services will 44 74 80 provide our customers and communities with differentiated values, ensuring mutual growth. SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT STATEMENT 46 Financial Performance 75 Independent Audit Report 81 Independent Assurance 50 52 Research and Development Talent Management 76 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 83 Statement Stakeholder Engagement Beyond Steel 56 Customer-Oriented 77 Consolidated Statements of 84 Materiality Test Management Comprehensive Income 86 GRI Index 57 Environment and Energy 78 Consolidated Statements of 89 UNGC and UN SDGs Management Changes In Equity 90 GHG Assurance Statement 64 Occupational Safety and 79 Consolidated Statements of Health Cash Flows 66 Win-Win Growth 69 Social Contribution Message from CEO Message from CEO Dear Distinguished Stakeholders, On behalf of Hyundai Steel, I wish to extend my sincere gratitude We will create an open culture of empathy in the workplace. for your generous support and encouragement. I am very pleased Through a corporate environment oriented towards flexible to have the opportunity to communicate with you through this thinking and creative challenges, we will produce synergy among Integrated Report. With our vision of “Engineering the Future departments by promoting company-wide communication and Beyond Steel,” we are working to create new values with a shift collaboration. While attaining self-realization, our employees in outlook and differentiated approaches to our major businesses. will be equipped with professionalism based on the sense of Moreover, we have been putting tremendous effort into fulfilling pride and ownership of the company. As a result, Hyundai our social responsibilities as a corporate citizen, so that future Steel’s overall competitiveness will be enhanced. Moreover, we generations may lead sustainable lives. will identify new possibilities by resolving present issues and, to Despite difficult domestic and international economic conditions, reach this objective, we will foster an open workplace culture of Hyundai Steel has increased management performance in sales dynamic inter-departmental cooperation. Hyundai Steel will, on and net profit over the previous year. In addition, we have the basis of this organizational climate, prioritize our customers reached some remarkable milestones by improving our financial first and differentiate our perspectives on various problems to structure, such as reducing our debt ratio and boosting our credit position ourselves as a company that thrives with our customers ratings. Furthermore, we have enhanced our portfolio of marketand society. leading products by developing the ultra-high strength H-Beam, high performance earthquake-resistant steel, and advanced We will communicate with our stakeholders and advance together. multi-phase (AMP) steel for automobiles, while establishing a Hyundai Steel has established a reputation as a global corporate foothold in the global market via the steel service centers located citizen, which has been built on the communication and trust that worldwide. we share with our stakeholders. Based on our people-oriented safety culture, we are not only assuming the responsibility for However, internal and external business environments in 2017 the welfare and health of our internal and external stakeholders, still pose complex challenges. Over the last year, the growth rate but also seeking the benefit of our company and society through of the global economy has decelerated and the Chinese market, shared betterment with our business partners. In addition, we which constitutes the largest share of the global steel market, Hyundai Steel Creates a has become largely unstable. The main Korean industries that have been following through on our commitments to help the local community by utilizing our manpower and material Common Value Network drive demand for steel, such as shipbuilding, have been facing resources, and also supporting the United Nations Sustainable constant difficulties due to the aftereffects of the long-lasting with Our Customers and global economic recession. The auto market is also encountering Development Goals (UN SDGs) to help address pressing global issues. Society. stagnant growth due to weakened consumer confidence. In the face of this, Hyundai Steel will endeavor to overcome the Hyundai Steel will constantly strive to become the leader in internal and external obstacles with which we are faced and strive the coming age of steel along with our stakeholders. Going ceaselessly to generate progress and corporate value. forward, your interest and endorsement will be a vital asset to our company. Accordingly, Hyundai Steel has announced our management principle of 2017 – “Creating a Common Value Network with I sincerely ask for your continued support and encouragement for Customers and Society.” We plan to implement intensively the Hyundai Steel. following agenda to achieve the goal of building a Common Thank you. Value Network. Our business competencies will lead changes. Against a fiercely competitive market and a hostile business environment, Hyundai Steel will secure its competitive advantage through a proactive attitude that leads change and an innovative approach that goes beyond existing business know-how. We CEO & Vice Chairman of Hyundai Steel will diversify our profit structures by rapidly stabilizing our new product lines, such as special steel, steel powder and forging. Yoo-Cheol Woo Additionally, we will actively pursue the specialized values that focus on customers’ needs, instead of partaking in the exhaustive price war, thereby strengthening the competitive edge of our products in the steel market. 02 03 2016 Highlights 2016 Highlights Focusing on the Expanded Application of Stronger and Lighter Advanced HighStrength Steels for New Cars The stronger and lighter advanced high-strength steel is helping improve our profitability, as a highly competitive area that demands high technology. Hyundai Steel exclusively provides these advanced sheets for the 51.7 The use rate of the advanced % Success of Customers high-strength steels applied to Genesis EQ900, and has expanded usage rate of the the Genesis EQ900 by Hyundai Motors advanced high-strength steels to up to 51.7%. (Based on tensile strength of over 60 kgf/mm2) Creating Value for the Customer “By staying true to our belief that we can design the future with new ways of thinking by fully sharing our customers’ values, we will increase our opportunities for building enterprise value.” Excerpt from the New Year’s Message of Yoo-Cheol Woo, Vice Chairman of Hyundai Steel 04 05 2016 Highlights 2016 Highlights Total amount of iron mold produced in the Dangjin Achieved Total Production of 60 million tons of Melted Iron Integrated Steelworks Dangjin Integrated Steelworks achieved a total production of 60 million tons of 60 million tons melted iron in June. This is an achievement that comes 6 and a half years, after the blowing in of the first blast furnace at the Dangjin Integrated Steelworks in January 2010. The result is a very meaningful outcome, and it would not have been possible for us to supply better materials to our customers without the passion and devotion of all our employees. Expansion of Overseas Steel Service Centers (SSC) for Global Customers We expanded our investments in the overseas Steel Service Centers in order to provide stable product supply for the production of our increasing number of global customers. The SSC in Mexico was completed in May 2016, and has entered operation. Also, the SSC in Chongqing, China started to operate in May 2017. Baa2 Improved Credit Ratings from Global Credit Rating Agencies will Enhance Competitiveness (Moody’s) Due to Hyundai Steel’s stable financial status, global credit rating agencies Overseas Steel Service Centers upgraded their credit ratings. Moody’s increased its ratings from ‘Baa3’ to ‘Baa2’ 13 BBB0 and evaluated our credit forecast as stable, while Standard and Poors (S&P) upgraded it from ‘BBB-’ to ‘BBB0’. places (S&P) 06 07 2016 Highlights 2016 Highlights Selected ‘Manufacturer and World-Class Products of Korea’ 12 As a Result of our Effort to Provide the Best Products to Customers, We were consecutive Selected ‘World-Class Products of years Korea’ for 12 Consecutive Years Hyundai Steel has been selected ‘Manufacturer and World-Class Products of Korea’ in Annual production of the 2016 for its six products such as H-Beam, high speed steel (HSS) roll for hot rolling, track 3 CGL in the Suncheon Works shoe assemblies, inverted angles, steel piles, oil country tubular goods (OCTG) for 12 500 consecutive years, and is honored to be the leading steelmaker in Korea. Developed a New Strong Steel, Earthquake-Resistant Rebar thousand tons Hyundai Steel has led the earthquake-resistant steel field since the first development of the seismic-resistant H-Beam in Korea in 2005. With interest in seismic-resistant steel on the rise these days due to frequent Continuous Expansion of Investment to Enhance earthquakes, we have developed a high-performance earthquake-resistant reinforced bar (SD400S, the Competitiveness of our Customers SD500S and SD600S) which is now ready for production. Hyundai Steel invested in galvanized steel sheet (3 CGL) facilities in the Suncheon Works to improve the competitiveness of our global customer SD SD SD companies. In this way, we want to achieve the establishment of stable supply 400s 500s 600S bases and diversify our customers for AHSS (advanced high-strength steels) sheet. In addition, we produced special steel bars for the first time after the trial test at the special steel plant in the Dangjin Integrated Steelworks. Following this initial production, we aim to start production in earnest of the special steel for automobiles from 2017 onwards. 08 09 2016 Highlights 2016 Highlights Social Contribution From 2014 to 2016, we carried out a local development Increase in annual Establishing household income Project for Global project in Mandalay State, Myanmar, where people lived in Region Development to Improve the Quality of Life for Residents of very poor conditions. We constructed drinking water facilities and a community center, and provided job training, while also dispatching a volunteer group composed of 30 employees. 116 % Sustainability Myanmar Thanks to these efforts, we achieved a very meaningful outcome that contributes to laying the basis for independence, with an annual income increase of 116% per household. Working in Empathy with Society Total number of energy-efficient houses constructed “Please do your best to make Hyundai Steel an enterprise that coexists and cooperates with local communities, with selfconfidence and a sense of duty.” President, Hak-Seo Kang, during appointment 668 houses Welfare-Environment-Employment, Creating Value in Three Ways House Repair – Energy Efficiency Project Hyundai Steel runs the ‘House Repair – Energy Efficiency Project’ to improve the residential environment for low-income households. This creates value in ceremony for volunteer group’s leader, 2017 three ways: by improving residential welfare, by reducing carbon emissions through reducing energy consumption, and by creating jobs. 668 houses have been remodeled since the project was launched in 2011, and it has contributed to a 731 ton reduction in carbon emissions. 10 11 2016 Highlights 2016 Highlights DJSI Asia Pacific for 8 Consecutive Years Hyundai Steel has been listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Asia Pacific (DJSI Asia Pacific) for 8 consecutive years as of 2016. This is an indication of the world-wide recognition of our sustainable management activities and performances. Colored Conveyor Belt Developed through Joint Study with Suppliers Hyundai Steel developed a colored conveyor belt jointly with Hwaseung Exwill, one of our suppliers. The colored conveyor belt applies a new technology, which forecasts the life cycle of the belt based on its color. In this way, Hyundai Steel endeavors to create new values for win-win growth through cooperation and communication, and enhances our cost and technology competitiveness through joint developments with Participating our suppliers. First Technology Fair Held to Promote Harmony with Suppliers suppliers 56 The first technology fair was held in the Danjin Integrated Steelworks under the slogan ‘Technology, the Only Way to Achieve Success.’ 56 national and international suppliers participated in the fair. Exclusive booths were installed and nearly 100 products were displayed in the consulting fields of companies quality, environment, productivity and localization. The fair served as a venue for communication, to promote products and exchange technology between suppliers. Evaluation of Win-Win Growth Index Selection of the Best Class Hyundai Steel obtained the best class in the evaluation of the win-win growth index held by the Win-Win Growth Committee. This was made possible by enhancing our suppliers’ competitiveness through a variety of win-win Evaluation of win-win growth index growth activities such as funding, technical support and protection, management support, and more. The Best Class 12 13 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile 1 14 1 14 3 9 3 9 2 2 8 8 For the last 50 years, Hyundai Steel has relentlessly created 4 4 new possibilities for steel, growing with the development of 12 12 7 11 7 11 the Republic of Korea. Having expanded the business from 13 13 5 6 5 6 10 10 the electric arc furnace to the blast furnace, we have built 31 31 our reputation as a comprehensive global steelmaker. We will continue on our path toward becoming the world’s best 37 37 28 28 steelmaker through the infinite growth potential of steel, 29 29 based on our strong will and dedication. 16 16 We are increasing our global market competitiveness and 30 30 15 15 17 17 expanding our business field to find more customers in larger 21 21 32 31 32 31 markets. In particular, we operate 17 overseas subsidiaries 24 24 18 18 20 20 and 6 overseas branches in 14 nations around the world, 25 25 19 19 36 36 expanding common interest with customers and providing 27 27 customized services. 34 34 35 35 23 23 22 22 Key Figure 33 33 Sales KRW 16.7 trillion 26 26 Operating Profit Domestic works and offices Steel service center KRW 1.4 trillion Other subsidiaries Overseas sales branches Domestic Network Overseas Network Overseas Network 1 Head Office 10 Busan Sales Office Subsidiaries Sales Branches 2 Dangjin Integrated 11 Ulsan Sales Office 14 Asia America 32 Tokyo (Japan) Steelworks 12 Daegu Sales Office 33 Singapore 15 Hyundai Steel Investment (China) Co.,Ltd. (HSCN) 24 Hyundai Steel America, Inc (HSAL) countries 3 Incheon Works 13 Gwangju Sales Office 16 Hyundai Steel Beijing Process Co., Ltd (HSBJ) 25 Hyundai Steel USA, Inc (HSSA) 34 Dubai (UAE) 4 Pohang Works 14 Seoul IT Office 17 Hyundai Steel Tianjin Process Co.,Ltd (HSTJ) 26 Hyundai Steel Industry and Trade Brazil LLC (HSBR) 35 Hanoi (Vietnam) 5 Suncheon Works 18 Hyundai Steel Jiangsu Process Co., Ltd (HSJS) 27 Hyundai Steel Mexico S de R. L. de C. V (HSMX) 36 New Delhi (India) Employees 6 Suncheon Forging 19 Hyundai Steel Suzhou Process Co., Ltd (HSSZ) Works 20 Hyundai Steel Chongqing Co., Ltd. (HSCQ) Europe Europe 11,221 persons 7 8 Ulsan Works Yesan Works 21 Qingdao Hyundai Machinery Co., Ltd (HSMC) 22 Hyundai Steel India Private, Ltd (HSCH) 28 Hyunai Steel Czech s.r.o (HSCZ) 29 Hyundai Steel Slovakia s.r.o (HSSK) 37 Frankfurt (Germany) 23 Hyundai Steel Pipe India Private, Ltd) (HSPI) 30 Hyundai Steel TR Automotive Steel Parts Co.,Ltd (HSTR) 9 Seoul Sales Office 31 Hyundai Steel Rus LLC (HSRU) 14 15 Corporate Philosophy · Vision 2025 Corporate Philosophy Vision 2025 Management Philosophy Declaration of the Vision We hereby announce that we will become a partner who provides the best materials for the products that customers We realize the dreams of mankind by creating a desire based on our advanced technology and quality. This will allow our clients to use materials more easily and strengthen their product competitiveness, thereby increasing their performance. We believe that our employees new future through ingenious thinking and endless will grow to become global talents and professionals who will not only lead the success of Hyundai Steel but also will promote the growth of the steel industry and the Korean economy. Hyundai Steel also will fulfill its CSR and challenges. achieve shared growth with its stakeholders through continuous investment in job creation and transparent and fair competition. Finally, we will engineer the future beyond steel, and develop a new industry model that promotes shared growth. Vision System Hyundai Steel will overcome any future crisis by gathering the capabilities of its employees based on Vision 2025 and Unlimited Sense Realization of Respect for handing down and developing our successful experience in integrated steel mill projects. The Vision System consists of Future Vision Engineering the future beyond steel along with the following three strategies (business, management of Responsibility Possibilities Mankind infrastructure and IT) to achieve our vision. Future Vision Engineering the Future Beyond Steel Our vision of unlimited With a courageous mindset of not We offer value, better products responsibility for safety and being afraid to fail, we never allow and better services for people and Business Strategy happiness of customer is realized ourselves to become complacent, make the lives of our customers Application via our quality management and bringing a great future toward more affluent. Engineering we stay committed to creating new goals. unlimited value for our society. Design and supply the best and Based on practical values for differentiated products to customer application enhance customer's competitiveness Core Values When realizing our internalized core values with challenging spirit and passion, the heart of Hyundai Motor Group Management beats even faster. Infrastructure Strategy Self-developing Collaboration Open System Customer We promote a customer-driven corporate culture by providing the best quality and impeccable services , with all our efforts aimed at satisfying A system that connects Openness employees and any other our customers. elements to promote continued growth with a flexible attitude Voluntary Acceptance towards internal and external Engagement Challenge We refuse to be complacent, embrace every opportunity for greater changes. challenges, and are confident in achieving our goals with unwavering passion and ingenuity. IT Strategy Collaboration We create synergy through a sense of “togetherness” that is fostered by mutual communication and cooperation within the company and with Smart Platform our business partners. Process Planning Realization of smart platform, which organically Operations R&D People We believe that the future of our organization lies in the hearts and capabilities connects information in Manufacture Sales Business of individual members and will help them develop their potential by creating a every process from material innovation innovation Marketing to customer corporate culture that respects talent. Quality Cost ■ Suppliers and customers Shipping Purchase Globality We respect the diversity of cultures and customs, aspire to be the ■ Hyundai Steel world’s best at what we do, and strive to become a respected global Flow of information corporate citizen. 16 17 Business Model Business Model Input VALUE CHAIN Output Financial Capital Sales1) Our business operates with the funds provided by Integrated Steelworks Processing shareholders or investors, and we strive to maximize shareholder value through the shareholder return policy including payment of dividends. KRW 16.7 1) Based on consolidated financial statements trillion Hot-rolled coils Cold-rolled coils Manufactured Capital Production We continuously enhance our production capabilities through the completion of new projects, facility investment, etc. Raw material Blast furnace Converter Casting Rolling Plates Pipes 22,380 thousand tons Human Capital Patents Registered (National and International) As talented human resources are vital for our growth, we continuously invest in recruiting and fostering 5,006 Automotive parts young talents. cases Intellectual Capital GHG Emissions We secure our technological competitiveness through Sections 19,103 research and development on new products and process technology. In particular, we have developed a thousand new type of steel with high drawability and advanced tCO2 high strength customized special steel sheet. Electric arc furnace Processing Natural Capital Resource Recycling Reinforcing Bars We continue our investment in facilities to enable effective use of energy and water resources and so on, thereby reducing our environmental impact through eco-friendly processing technology. 10,303 thousand tons Scrap Electric Casting Rolling Hot-rolled coils Furnace Social Capital Social Contribution Investment We not only maintain collaborative relationships with 14.5 various stakeholders including customers, suppliers, local governments and the local community, but also Special steel work to be a good corporate citizen based on our KRW billion social contribution strategy. 18 19 주요 제품 소개 Main Products Main Products Automobiles Construction shipbuilding ENERGY home appliances others Cold-Rolled Coils H-sections Plates Pipes Cold-Rolled Coils Railway Rails Produced by rolling hot-rolls at room temperature, cold-rolled coils Sections are mostly used for the structures of buildings. Their Like the heavy plates used for construction, heavy plates used for Steel pipes for energy use are utilized for drilling, mining and Cold-rolled coils for home appliances have universal use, ranging Used for various types of railways, from normal railways to highhave a smooth, clean surface with an even thickness, making high weldability and shock-resistance performance reduces the shipbuilding refer to the thick steel plates that demonstrate high transporting energy sources. As such, they require highly advanced from TV bezels and back covers to outer panels of refrigerators speed and magnetic levitation tracks, railway rails demand higher it the preferred material for automotive sheets for the exterior use of steel as well as the construction time compared to other performance in low temperatures and shock resistance. The major technology to endure high pressure, steep changes in temperature, and washing machines. Their high corrosion resistance, strength performance than other sections and high performance and interior as well as the car body. They can be classified into steel products. Hyundai Steel’s diversified H-section product lineapplications are for partition walls, upper decks (or hatch covers of and corrosion. Made of hot-rolled coils and plates, the oil country conductivity, and workability help bring about various designs in abrasion-resistance. Hyundai Steel was the first Korean cold-rolled coils, galvannealing (GA), hot-dip galvanizing (GI), up ranges from quake-resistant Steel H-Section New (SHN) to bulk carriers), container ships and LNG carriers. Hyundai Steel has tubular goods (OCTG) pipes are used for mining oil and gas buried in home appliances. Hyundai Steel also produces high-tension/ steelmaker to successfully develop the first railway rails in 1979 and and electro-galvanizing (EG) depending on the manufacturing checkered H-beams and junior H-beams. received certifications from ship classification associations of many deep underground or as linepipes to transport extracted crude oil high-lubricant GI and electro-galvanized steel sheets (EGI), as well high-speed railway rails for the Korean Train Express (KTX) in 1998. method. countries with its technology to manufacture general ships and to refineries. Hyundai Steel manufactures a variety of steel pipes as pickled & oiled steel sheets (PO) that have high workability high-tensile steels. that meet the standards of the American Petroleum Institute (API) according to client needs. Reinforcing Bars Track Shoe Assembly for energy pipes. In fact, the P110 OCTGs were the first Korean Automotive Parts Reinforcing bars are another preferred steel product for steel pipes to earn the world-class product certification. The Track Shoe Assembly is the wheel of excavators, similar to Sections Stainless Steel Enhancing the safety and fuel efficiency performance of construction/engineering. Hyundai Steel’s ultra-high strength the tire of an automobile. It is a high strength, high-precision automobiles requires advanced technology to raise the strength reinforcing bars boast top performance results in strength, Sections are classified into H-beams, I-beams, angles and channels, Stainless steel is highly impervious to rust. Unlike other product operated on a slope and can stably withstand weights at of steel while reducing its weight. Utilizing advanced engineering workability, and weldability. Specifically, the screw-type reinforcing according to their shapes. As they are used as heavy plate stiffeners conventional steel materials, it has excellent corrosion resistance construction sites where a lot of sand, gravel, etc. are spread out. Plates methods, such as hot stamping, tailor-welded blanks (TWB) bars use couplers for assembly, making them the perfect material for ships and deck house materials, these products have advanced properties. It does not easily bend in high temperatures because and hydroforming, Hyundai Steel produces light-weight safer for ultra-high skyscrapers because of their relatively competitve high-strength and shock absorption technology. Hyundai Steel’s Steel plates for plants are used for making the pressure containers of its excellent thermal resistance. These properties make stainless Rolls automotive parts, applied mainly to major guards against collisions, price and safety. inverted angles have been singled out as world-class products by that purify, refine and store crude oil or gases. Pressure containers steel a suitable material for home appliances such as utensils and the inner panels of doors and the chassis. the Korean government for their advanced technology. must endure low and high temperatures, and also be able to washing machines. Rolls require high resistance to abrasion and heat with high endure decay to contain crude oils and gases with a high content durability because they are used to roll half-finished steel, such as Plates of H2S gas. Hyundai Steel manufactures ultra-strength, ultra-thick slabs and billets, at a high temperature. Hyundai Steel products Special Steel Forged Steel Products Steel plates generally have a thickness of 6 mm or more. Plates for plates for pressure containers with high weldability, which includes include hot-rolled coil rolls, plate rolls and long product rolls. As Special Steel is used in vital parts of automobiles such as the construction are used for steel structures/frames of steel bridges, Forged steel products refer to products that have been forged in QT heat-processed steel plates, enabling the company to be the crank shaft, conrod, and various types of gears, it needs high plants and mega-sized buildings. In addition, for specs and sizes particular shapes by hammering steel materials. Thus, it requires a supplier to energy companies at home and abroad for major Sheet Piles strength and high durability. Hyundai Steel produces carbon difficult to produce with H-sections, build-up beams which are high level of durability performance. This type of steel is used for projects. steels with less impurities and alloy steel with some addtional alloy made up of welded plates are used. shipbuilding, windmills and industrial equipment, with ship engine Sheet piles are used for dams to resist the pressure of water or elements. Products include round bars, square bars, wire rods, bar builders being the major clients of forged steels, as types of steel fit soil during work on rivers and streams. Their main usage includes in coils, etc. for the ship engines that travel the five oceans. piling for tumbling bays or soil-arresting, as well as ground-making works. Adding copper to sheet piles has improved the corrosion resistance, facilitating repetitive reuse of sheet piles free of worries about rust or decay. 21 Hyundai Steel is creating new value through change in the mindset and by a differentiated approach on its 24 28 32 Technology Value Environmental Value Health and Safety Value products, services and operating businesses, with the aim of ‘Engineering the Future Beyond Steel’. 34 Community Value Created Values 22 23 Created Values Technology Value Advanced High-Strength Steels We have increased our advanced high-strength steels (AHSS) strength and workability with reduced weight, especially for automobile use. Its strength performance is twice that of normal steel, while the weight of its application parts is 10 percent lighter than normal steel, thereby enhancing fuel efficiency and safety performance. Going forward, Hyundai Steel will concentrate its R&D investments and efforts on developing even stronger and lighter steels. Expansion of Application of Advanced High-Strength Steels Hyundai Steel secures the best level of technology to produce Application Ratio of Advanced High-Strength Steels1) AHSS sheet with ultra-high strength and good formability. With this recognized high-level technology, our AHSS sheets have been applied to various types of automobiles and Hyundai Steel has been gradually expanding sales in this area. Genesis EQ900 52 1) Tensile strength: 60kgf/mm2 or more % Ionic 53 % Sales of Advanced High-Strength Steels (Unit: 1,000 tons) Technology 1,544 Value 1,173 1,086 > Business and Social Context > Performance Under the current supply excess in the steel markets, global steelmakers are expanding their contact points with customers, and combining recent material technology and IT innovation to enhance their unique competitiveness factors. In particular, developing new products and Budget for R&D manufacturing technologies to meet the requirements of major related industries such as automobiles, construction and shipbuilding is vital for the sustainable growth of steelmakers. Genesis EQ900 2014 2015 2016 95.5 > Our Approach Development of 3rd Generation Hyundai Steel creates value for customers and enhances market competitiveness through research Cold-Rolled Coils and development. We respond quickly to changes in the market, focusing on achieving an appropriate balance between new products and process technology. We are also committed to KRW billion Hyundai Steel has been developing 3rd generation cold-rolled the advancement of our basic technology and the development of environmental technology in order to deal with various changes including stricter environmental laws. Moreover, Hyundai Steel coils, ‘AMP (Advanced Multi-Phase)’ which have excellent forming will continue to enhance competitiveness through close connections and adjustment with related features and high strength compared to conventional cold-rolled industries. Registered patents coils. We succeeded in producing test products in 2016, and (Nationaly and internationally) are currently going through a test process, with plans to supply it to automobiles in 2020. AMP is an advanced high-strength > Future Action steel product and also has around a 90-110% higher elongation rate than conventional steels, representing greater molding 5,006 Plans for 2017 performance. Advanced development system Establishment of customized and for future products automated process basis cases Advancement of customer value Development of advanced technology Cold-rolled coils oriented application technology for eco-friendly steel mill 24 25 Created Values Technology Value Automotive Parts Earthquake-Resistant Steel In the automobile industry today, laws on environmental regulations and vehicle collisions have been enhanced, resulting in a continuous Damage to buildings caused by natural disasters such as earthquakes is gradually increasing. To prevent the damage, earthquake-resistant steel is demand for new technology related to automobile weight reduction and improvement of collision stability. Hyundai Steel develops and produces used when designing buildings. Earthquake-resistant steel delays the collapse time by absorbing shocks when earthquakes occur, securing the time automotive parts such as major collision members and inner door parts by applying new technologies like Hot Stamping, TWB (Tailor Welded for people to evacuate a building. Since we developed earthquake-resistant steel for the first time in 2005, these earthquake-resistant steels have Blanks), Hydroforming, CFRP (Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastics) and more. Our Yesan Works is the exclusive plant to produce light-weight parts, been successfully applied to the construction of the Science Base of Jangbogo in the Antarctic Base, a Coal Thermal Plant in Bogota, Colombia, and we plan to construct 21 hot stamping production lines by 2017 through continuous investment. Lotte World Tower, etc. Hot Stamping Tailor Welded Blanks (TWB) Development of High Performance Sales Volume of EarthquakeEarthquake-Resistant Reinforcement Bar Resistant Steel Hot stamping is a method of manufacturing high-strength parts TWB is a method of laser welding tailored sheets with different * Based on sales of SHN material (Unit: 1,000 tons) of a 150K class by both forming and rapid cooling a 60K class steel thicknesses and material characteristics to make required part In 2016, Hyundai Steel became the first Korean steelmaker to sheet in the mold after heating it to a temperature of over 900℃. At shapes. Automobile light-weight parts applying this technology develop high performance earthquake-resistant reinforcement bars, present these hot stamped parts are applied to 20 automotive parts include front and rear inner door panels, tailgates, main members, such as SD400S, SD500S, and SD600S, and build a commercial in one vehicle and weight reducing effects of more than 15% can etc. For the front inner door panel, weight can be reduced by about production system. Since application targets for the earthquakebe measured, compared to a product produced coventionally. 4% by applying this method. resistant design have expanded due to the recently rising frequency 589 of earthquakes, it is expected that our earthquake-resistant rebar will significantly contribute to improvements in building safety in Korea. Moreover, we endeavor to support relevant projects such 477 as reinforcement construction to enhance the earthquake-resistant performance of buildings in Elementary Schools of Naenam in Gyeongju. 279 158 2013 2014 2015 2016 Earthquake-Resistant Reinforcement Bar Parts with hot stamping applied TWB process The Increasing Neccessity of Earthquake-Resistant Steel With rising awareness of the risk of earthquakes, the necessity of Earthquakes with a Magnitude over 2.0 Hydroforming adequate response measures has become clear. While an average of just 47.6 earthquakes with a magnitude over 2.0 occurred in Hydroforming is a method of forming non-welded pipes into complex shapes by using high water pressure. When hydroforming technology is Korea each year from 1999 to 2015, a total of 263 such events were applied it reduces costs, compared to conventional processes, due to a significant reduction in welding and assembling. Hydroforming can also recorded in 20161). Most Korean buildings are not strong enough In 2016 263 provide effects such as an improvement of the strength of parts, reduction of weight by up to approximately 20%, and more. to withstand earthquakes, with only 33% employing earthquakeresistant design2). The government is in process of legislating the earthquake-resistant design of buildings to spread the use of such Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastics (CFRP) steel in buildings, and earthquake-resistant design is becoming a Average in times critical factor in building design. 1999~2015 48 1) Refer to status and forecast of domestic earthquake-resistant technology, Monthly Report As CFRP is a plastic composite material using carbon textile as the reinforcement, the weight is relatively light but the strength is twice of Korea Development Bank (2017) higher. Hyundai Steel is constructing advanced research facilities, researching CFRP part manufacturing, and forming technology to diversify 2) Refer to status of earthquake-resistant design in each municipality, data of Ministry of times Land, Infrastructure and Transport (2017) automobile materials. In addition, we are enhancing our strategic technology development on composite materials to improve the fuel efficiency of automobiles. 26 27 Created Values Environmental Value Eco-Friendly Road Pavement, FerroPhalt The by-products generated in Steelworks have two features. First, they are generated in large volume, and second, they include a lot of useful components with recycling value. Hyundai Steel strives to minimize reclamation and incineration to create new value from the by-products with these features. Launch of FerroPhalt Utilizing Slag Hyundai Steel recently developed ‘FerroPhalt’, an eco-friendly road of the Public Procurement Service. In addition, we are planning to pavement material using slag. As FerroPhalt uses steelmaking slag, enhance cooperation with local companies by building business the main by-products produced in steelworks, the natural aggregates networks with asphalt concrete companies in Chungcheongnam-do. used in road asphalt construction are replaced. The company started to develop FerroPhalt starting 2012 and conducted durability evaluation for more than 3 years on the in-house road of the Dangjin Integrated Steelworks. The result of this test found that in the FerroPhalt section of a test road, the service life of the road was more than 20 months longer than the regular one and Environmental also the initial qualities, including deformation strength, more than 40% higher. Following this testing, the quality was verified by using Value FerroPhalt in the local road pavement in Dangjin, Seosan, Asan, etc. in 2016. Hyundai Steel is preparing the basis for commercialization by standard registration of slag asphalt concrete and product registration Roads applying FerroPhalt From Slag to FerroPhalt > Business and Social Context > Performance Public interest in the management of environmental pollutants has been gradually increasing. The Korean government is also enhancing regulations and punishments by improving related rules and acts. Act on Liability for Environmental Damage and Relief thereof has been implemented in GHG emissions 2016. Act on the Integrated Control of Pollutant-Discharging Facilities and the Framework Act on Resource Circulation are scheduled to be put in force in 2017 and 2018, respectively. As managing environmental pollutants becomes integral in management activities, systematic monitoring and actions are required. Slag generated during the Production of steelProduction and Utilization for asphalt 19,103 steel-making process making slag aggregate for comercialization of construction asphalt concrete FerroPhalt > Our Approach thousand Hyundai Steel reflects the environmental factors during the decision-making process of tCO2 Construction of Resource Recycling Expected Effects of FerroPhalt management activities and minimizes the environmental impacts generated from production processes and products. At the same time, our dedicated organization is establishing systems and Network conducting related activities to implement integrated environment and energy management at all domestic and overseas sites. By using FerroPhalt, an eco-friendly road pavement material, we can Hyundai • Creation of new markets for ecoRecycling rate of help prevent resource depletion by replacing more than 1 million Steel friendly aggregate projects by-products tons of natural aggregate per year, and we can respond to potential > Future Action issues such as environmental degradation. In addition, the excellent durability of the FerroPhalt is expected to reduce road maintenance Asphalt 99.1 Plans for 2017 costs by more than 20%, contributing to the reduction of road Concrete Municipality • Reduce road maintenance costs in local communities. maintenance Company Implementation of the image of Reduction of dusts and improvement of costs eco-friendly steelworks environmental facilities efficiency % • Cost saving in construction Building a basis for preventive action on Increasing the competitiveness of • Stable procurement of local aggregate sources environmental regulations recycling of by-products 28 29 Created Values Environmental Value Wastewater Reuse Technology Eco-Friendly Integrated Steelworks As industrial development and living standards improve, water use increases sharply. The amount of water available on the earth, however, is From the initial stage of the construction of Dangjin Integrated Steelworks, Hyundai Steel built the closed-type raw material handling systems for limited, and water shortages due to climate change are becoming increasingly real. The demand for water reuse is gradually shifting from attention the purpose of making an eco-friendly steelworks. We have been developing various technologies including CO2 emission minimization in order to to necessity. In the case of steelworks, the characteristics of the effluent water differ from the wastewater of other industries, making it difficult to make the world’s most eco-friendly steel mill. reuse. To overcome these limitations, Hyundai Steel has invested strongly in the development and application of waste water reuse technology. Management of Fugitive Dust by Using Closed-Type Raw Material Handling Facilities Development of a New Wastewater Treatment Process The closed-type raw material handling facilities can be classified into circular and linear type storage. These two storages basically prevent raw Hyundai Steel is developing new technologies from wastewater reuse to wastewater non-discharge system in order to effectively treat the materials such as iron ore and coking coal to be blowing away by the wind by enclosing them in a structure. We completely solve the fugitive generated wastewater. In 2014, we had developed technology to recycle steelmaking wastewater as cooling water for each worksite by using dust problem, experienced by other steel mills located near the seashore. a reverse osmosis membrane and are currently constructing a reuse facility to reduce the amount of wastewater discharged per day by 15,000 m3/d. Also, we have strived to develop a new technology, Zero-Liquid Discharge system, in stages from 2015 as the aim of mid to long-term technology development. As a result, we completed the basic technology development using Seawater Reverse Osmosis (SWRO) in 2016. Wastewater Treatment Technology Wastewater Effluent recycling Advanced effluent recycling technology Zero liquid discharge Refusetreatment technology technology derived Slurry MF (Micro Filter) + SWRO MD (Membrane Distillation), Evaporation, BWRO (Brackish Water MD + FO (Forward Osmosis) Crystallization Reverse Osmosis) Recycling rate Recycling rate Recycling rate Recycling rate 44~60% 75% 90% 99% Circular type raw material storage Recycled water Reduction of CO2 through the Development of Eco-Friendly Technology Hyundai Steel produces 19,103,000 tons of CO2 per year. In order to reduce costs and reduce CO2 emissions through energy savings, we are Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) System replacing fuel and raw materials, increasing facility efficiency, utilizing biomass, recovering CO2 and recycling resources, developing various new renewable convergence technologies, and developing innovative steelmaking processes. Through this technology development, we will Hyundai Steel had completed the development of technology to contribute to the realization of a green steelwork and the achievement of national GHG reduction targets. recycle 75% of wastewater discharged to the sea in 2016 and is conducting the pilot evaluation to derive operating factors. We will implement eco-friendly steelworks with the industry's first 'Zero • Coke Oven • Slag latent heat recovery • Recovery increase Liquid Discharge Technology' through continuous technology Gas reforming • CO2 absorption and technology of technology separation technology converter gas development. • Biomass utilization Cokes · technology Blast Furnace Steelmaking Refinement • Gas fuel injection • Waste heat recovery • Burner technology technology technology for continuous • Optimization annealing facilities technology of ignition burner Electric Arc Hot•Cold Sintering Furnace Rolling Wastewater recycling system 30 31 Created Values Health and Safety Value Safe Workplace There are various risk factors in the steel manufacturing process, when operating large equipment or working in high temperature conditions. Systematic safety control regulations and processes are vital to minimizing the risk factors for partners' workers and our employees. Building Safety Systems and Infrastructure Through safety inspections and diagnostics, Hyundai Steel is actively improving conditions at work sites and facilities. The company conducts self-inspections of major hazardous facilities, and minimizes the risk factors on site through joint labor-management checks and theme inspections. For the safe operation, we have established 10 core safety rules, and all employees working in all domestic business sites are to comply with them. In addition, the Safety Standard, which contains safety rules and work procedures for safe operation, was established and distributed to all employees. Safety Management Activities for Closed Spaces Hyundai Steel pursues a number of activities to prevent safety accidents in workplaces. Suffocation risk factors are highly likely to Health and Safety be connected to severe disasters compared to general accidents, and mainly occur in closed spaces1). Hyundai Steel engages in an array of activities to minimize suffocation accidents. Firstly, we Value have established a standard for the classification of closed spaces in our workplaces and strengthened our management. We have assigned a hazard level to each enclosed space and strengthened the measurement of four hazardous gases so that the operator can recognize whether or not the hazardous gas is exposed > Business and Social Context > Performance during the work process. Furthermore, in order to check whether Industrial disasters can have significant effect on a company’s business activities, and also cause workers comply with safety management systems and standards issues in product supply. Recently, as public awareness of safety incidents has been increasing, or not, we stringently inspect any closed spaces . In particular, we particularly through the media and civil society, the government has been reinforcing regulations Industrial accident are continuously inspecting whether workers are complying with related to workplace safety and health. rate safety regulations such as the measurement of hazardous gases concentration, ventilation, Isolation & Locking System (ILS) and implementation. > Our Approach 0.17 1) When ventilation is insufficient, there is a high risk of fires and explosion caused by flammable substances, as well as suffocation and poisoning caused by hazardous Hyundai Steel strives to realize happiess for individuals and to fulfill its corporate social responsibility. gases and a lack of oxygen. Gas check in closed space We are expanding our safety facilities and enhancing various activities for employee safety awareness to achieve a zero-disaster status. We also encourage all people to engage in safety activities by setting up employees in our steelworks as well as members of partner companies as % Work Process in a Closed Space safety management targets. Permission•Education Protection•Relief ILS2) Ventilation Gas measurement Access control equipment > Future Action Plans for 2017 Verification of risks in each work unit Finding and improving safety hazards on site Creating value • Permission for safety • Wearing air respirator • Executive ILS • Ventilation • Gas concentration • Watchdog for basic safety work (for closed • Carrying gas concentration by operation, (forced or natural) measurement every • Entry and exit records Evaluation of implementation of basic Intensive management of unsafe space) measurer maintenance and 30 minutes safety guidelines behaviors sub-vendor (Back to the basic) 2) Isolation & Locking System: Locking system blocking disaster factors by physically preventing the accidental activation of the energy or power supply to equipment or machines Boost of safety culture Boost of the Safe & Fun Campaign 32 33 Created Values Community Value Employee Volunteer Group Hyundai Steel actively and systematically runs the Division Volunteer Groups composed of employees in each division to support the local communities. In 2016, 19 Division Volunteer Groups and 22 Autonomous Volunteer Groups planned and operated the volunteer programs based on voluntary participation. Division Volunteer Groups Autonomous Volunteer Work Hours of Employees Volunteer Groups 19 groups 22 groups 86,222 hours H-Together Travel Camp Community Hyundai Steel operates the special program, H-Together Travel Camp to help Hyundai Steel employees' children understand handicapped children and respect differences. Value Youth Travel Camp with Handicapped Children Hyundai Steel operates ‘H-Together Travel Camp’, where the disabled and the children of employees can learn how to live > Business and Social Context > Performance together and understand each other. It was a good opportunity Social contribution activities are being developed in a direction to coexist with a society based on for them to spend time together in January and July of 2016. For our core competencies. These activities have a positive effect on management, not only raising 3 days and 2 nights, they participated in activities like climbing corporate image, but also securing excellent talents and raising employee satisfaction. In recent Participation rate in Seongsan Sunrise Peak and riding a rail bike on Jeju Island. As years, the role of companies has been expanding not only to create economic profits but also to employee volunteer group a result, they had an opportunity to complement each other’s strengthen corporate social responsibilities, such as solving social problems. In addition, activities to weaknesses and understand each other during the camp, through protect the environment, which is a public resource such as the natural environment near the main business sites, are also emphasized. various activities. 98 H-Together Travel Camp > Our Approach CSR activities of Hyundai Steel have grown through the following phases: a preparation period % Improvement of Awareness Concerning Disabilities focused on establishing systems; a quantitative expansion period in which partnerships with nonprofit organizations were strengthened by selecting core projects; and a qualitative maturity period ‘H-Together Travel Camp’ – 120 participants with and without Recognition on the Disabled (Unit: %) that focused on participating in local communities and generating social results. Based on the social disabilities in the youth travel camp were surveyed on the differnce contribution visions and strategies, we will systematically implement social contribution activities Positive Social contribution concerning the awareness of disabilities before and after the camp. that focus on circulation, communication and change. Negative 3 Neutral Positive investments The survey found that the understanding of the non-disabilites Neutral 60 1 99 students concerning those with disabilities was highly improved by 37 > Future Action the camp experience. 14.5 Plans for 2017 Enhancement of mid and long term Enhancement of performance Before After social contribution strategy system management for social contribution KRW billion Rearrangement of portfolio for social Expansion of participation of contribution stakeholders 34 35 Hyundai Steel is building a corporate culture of fulfilling social responsibilities by 38 40 41 Corporate Governance Ethics Management Fair-Trade Compliance establishing a fair-trade order and ensuring ethics of the CEO and all employees. 42 Risk Management Governance 36 37 Governance Corporate Governance 01 Corporate Governance Board of Directors Operation of the BOD The Board of Directors (BOD) of Hyundai Steel is the top Transparency and Professionalism in Director Subcommittees under the BOD are either chaired or BOD Remuneration decision-making body in management, and is dedicated Appointment membered by our outside directors. The Audit Committee In compliance with Article 388 of the Commercial Act and to enhancing the corporate value and growth of the The directors are appointed at the general shareholders’ and the Ethics Committee, which consist only of outside its own Articles of Association, Hyundai Steel decides on corporation. The board consists of a total of 9 members, meeting in accordance with the Commercial Act of Korea directors, hold regular meeting and have systems to maximum remuneration of the directors and compensates including 4 inside directors and 5 outside directors. It is and the Articles of Association. Outside directors are guarantee the independence of the directors. In 2016, a them through fair and transparent processes. At the structured in this way (over 50% outside directors) to ensure evaluated and recommended by the Outside Director total of 10 meetings, including 4 general BOD meetings and 52nd general shareholder’s meeting, the remuneration limit Candidate Nomination Committee, and then appointed at 6 ad-hoc meetings, were held to discuss and approve items was set to KRW 10 billion, and a total of KRW 2.927 billion the BOD’s independence. To secure expertise and efficiency the general shareholders’ meeting. As of March 2017, the including the annual business plan and budget, issuing of was paid as remuneration in 2016. in the BOD’s decision-making, the BOD runs separate outside directors of Hyundai Steel include experts in areas corporate bonds, and transactions with special interests. The subcommittees such as the Audit Committee, Ethics BOD Remuneration (Unit: KRW Million) board also surveyed both the financial and non-financial Committee, and Outside Directors Candidate Nomination such as tax, general management, construction, law, and performance of the company through the reporting of Committee. Without the approval of the BOD, individual the environment, and they provide opinions regarding the Classification No. of BOD Total Remuneration operations of the internal accounting management system directors may not engage in any means of transaction, company’s general policies and practices in their area of and fair-trade compliance program. Establishment and Inside Director 4 2,559 neither personal nor on behalf of a third party, with the expertise. The executive directors are the executives of each resolutions of the BOD is valid only if the majority of the Outside Director 5 368 company, and also cannot be engaged as a full-time business division. The chair of the BOD is appointed at the directors attends and the majority of directors in attendance Total 9 2,927 employee or director of another company in same line of board meeting every year. Vice Chairman Yoo-Cheol Woo is agrees. Any director with a conflict of interest will lose his or business. the current chair of the board. Over the long term, Hyundai her right to vote on the relevant issue. Steel’s BOD will continue to work to enhance shareholder Classification Highest Average Remuneration Ratio Remuneration1) for Employees (%)2) Diversity of Outside Directors value through transparent and sound management. Audit Committee Remuneration (Annual 1,259 87 14.5 Hyundai Steel has developed a process related to the The Audit Committee consists of 4 outside directors and is Remuneration and composition of its board of directors that ensures Independence of Outside Directors the apparatus that reviews and determines vital issues on the Incentives) the incorporation of diverse points of view and the Hyundai Steel has defined certain evaluation standards related inspection of the company’s accounts and works which are 1) Current standard of CEO remuneration representation of a broad cross-section of the community in to the independence of its outside directors based on the constantly monitored. During its 5 meetings held in 2016, 2) Highest remuneration/Average remuneration of employees terms of gender, birthplace, expertise, industrial experience, Commercial Act of Korea so that the BOD can actively play a issues on operations of the internal accounting management etc. In particular, we are trying to secure expertise and a role of ‘supervising and balancing.’ As such, the following are system, management accomplishment reporting in each diversity of individual capabilities among our directors. excluded from consideration for an outside director position. quarter were evaluated. IR Activities Hyundai Steel presents a report of its business performance Ethics Committee to its investors and the media quarterly, biannually, and Disqualification criteria for ourside directors The Ethics Committee consists of 5 outside directors annually. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and other Outside directors are directors who are not engaged in the regular business of the relevant company, and do not correspond to any of the following and works to form an ethical enterprise culture. It is the executives attend these presentations, which are a way subparagraphs. Where any outside director falls under any of the following subparagraphs, he/she shall be removed from office. organization that is dedicated to realizing transparent of communicating with the investors and the media. The management. During its 5 meetings held in 2016, issues CFO and the executives also participate in the conferences 1. Directors, executive directors and employees who are engaged in the regular business of 5. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of the parent company or the relevant company, or directors, auditors, executive directors and employees who have subsidiaries on activities for social contributions, donation status, lawheld by securities firms, host non-deal roadshows (NDRs), engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the last two years 6. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has a abiding management activities, approval of large internal and even visit the investors to actively engage in investor 2. The largest shareholder and his/her spouse, as well as his/her lineal ascendants and significant interest such as business relations with the company descendants 7. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of another company for which transactions were evaluated. relation (IR) activities. Hyundai Steel also invites investors 3. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of the corporation, in cases where directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors the largest shareholder is the corporation and executive directors worldwide to visit its headquarters and worksites in order 4. Spouses and lineal ascendants and descendants of directors, auditors and executive Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee to promote understanding of the business, and conducts directors As the committee assigned the task of recommending conference calls when the investors cannot attend face-tooutside directors as per the Articles of Association and face meetings. Board of Directors (as of Mar, 2017) ● Committee Chair ○ Committee Member Regulations of the BOD, the majority of the Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee should be composed of Classification Name Career Highlights Subcommittees outside directors. It is composed of 3 members, including 1 Audit Committee Ethics Committee Outside Director inside director and 2 outside directors. The Outside Director Candidate Nomination Candidate Nomination Committee held a total of 2 meetings Committee in 2016, and the outside directors and the Chair were reInside Eui-Sun Chung Vice Chairman of Hyundai Motor Company appointed in the meetings. Director Yoo-Cheol Woo Vice Chairman of Hyundai Steel ● Hak-Seo Kang President of Hyundai Steel Choong-Sik Song Head of Finance and Economy Division of Hyundai Steel Outside Ho-Yul Chung Professor at the Law School of Sung Kyun Kwan University ● ○ ○ Director (Economic Law) Shareholder Composition Seung-Do Kim Professor of Environmental Biotechnology Engineering at Hallym ○ ● ○ As of the end of 2016, Hyundai Steel had a total of 133,445,785 issued shares, and its market capitalization equaled KRW7.6064 trillion (KRW57,000 University (Environment) per share as of the end of 2016). As of the end of 2016, the largest shareholder was KIA Motors, which held a share of 17.27% by itself, and a share of Eui-Man Park Representative Tax Accountant of Samick Tax Accounting Firm (Tax) ○ ○ 35.99% when its special relations were included. Based on the voting right commissioned for the 52nd regular director’s meeting in 2017, the next largest Eun-Taek Lee Professor of Architecture at Chung-Ang University (Architecture) ○ shareholders with more than 5% of the total share were NH Investment & Securities (5.61%) and the National Pension Service (NTS, 7.69%). Jung-Suk Oh Professor at the Business School of Seoul National University (Business Administration) ○ ○ 38 39 Governance Ethics Management·Fair-Trade Compliance 02 Ethics Management 03 Fair-Trade Compliance Ethics Management Status Ethics Training for Employees Fair-Trade Compliance Program Diffusion of Fair-Trade Culture Since its announcement of the Ethics Charter and Code To enhance the ethics awareness of our employees, we Since the introduction of the Fair-Trade Compliance Program Employees have pledged to internally spread a fair-trade of Ethics in 2000, Hyundai Steel has worked on spreading run ethics training both online and offline. In 2016, we (CP) in 2002, Hyundai Steel has established a system and culture. As the policy on fair-trade was adopted with the an ethical culture through campaigns such as developing offered ethics training twice to new employees, and 131 culture of fair-trade compliance through CP trainings, CP strong support of directors and managers along with the audits, employee pledges on fair-trade, compensation to CEO, the pledge was made by all 419 employees at the team ethics guidebooks for employees. In addition, we offer were trained. Furthermore, employees of the company and departments that properly observe fair-trade, etc. In 2016, leader level and above. In particular, the background and training in ‘understanding ethics’ to new recruits and relevant subsidiaries were trained following the implementation of we enhanced employee awareness of the need to comply meaning of the fair-trade pledge were explained to the CEO departments, and also provide education related to antithe Improper Solicitation and Graft Act in 2016. with fair-trade requirements by carrying out a 100% preand all employees at the department head level and above, bribery, anti-corruption, personal information protection, contract meeting system, expanding the CP targeting and we received their signatures on the pledge, raising ethics and human rights, even to the employees of our number, intensively implementing the CP audit, etc. We will the Fair-Trade Awareness of Management. As it has been suppliers. In addition, we have supplemented our corporate Compliance with Anti-Corruption Law strive to become a leader in ethics management through indicated in the pledge that there will be disadvantages to principles by including the goal of ‘establishing a transparent Hyundai Steel operates an ‘anti-corruption compliance continuous work for fair-trade compliance. individuals when any major requirements of the Fair-Trade corporate culture’ in the Code of Ethics. program’ to induce employees to comply with the antiAct are breached, directors and employees maintain their corruption act based on relevant laws such as US FCPA awareness when they work. We are planning to make efforts (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) since 2014. In this regard, Pre-Contract Meeting System to raise awareness about fair-trade throughout the company Diffusion of Ethics Management Culture an anti-corruption compliance program is provided to In order to enforce the regulations of the Fair-Trade Act on by having the directors and employees make a fair-trade In order to spread an Ethics Management Culture among employees of 16 overseas relevant departments twice per internal trade between affiliates, Hyundai Steel has run the pledge every year. pre-contract meeting system since January 1, 2015. Under employees througout the company and our overseas SSCs, year. In 2016, we invited an experienced anti-corruption this system any department that intends to sign a contract Hyundai Steel has posted the Ethics Charter and Code of lawyer to provide several anti-corruption trainings to with another affiliate is required to consult with the Business Implementation of Fair-Trade Act Ethics in Korean, English and Chinese on the company overseas staff and heads of corporations to promote the Cooperation Team. This system has been imposed in order The CP-related departments deliberate on the fair-trade webpage. Also, our employees have pledged to comply with anti-corruption agenda in our overseas SSC. to prevent legal risks and increase employee awareness of related Acts, regardless of the Legal Team’s activities. In relevant laws and improve their ethics awareness, following fair-trade. In 2016, we reviewed the legitimacy of trades this way, it helps all the directors and employees to make the implementation of the Improper Solicitation and Graft in advance when making contracts with major restricted appropriate decisions. Furthermore, it has indirect and Act in 2016. We also work actively to spread an Ethics affiliates, and achieved 100% pre-contract consultation. We direct training effects on workers in charge of related work Management Culture by distributing relevant guidelines. will continue to prevent risks in fair-trade through the new and plays a vital role in boosting Fair-Trade Compliance system. Awareness. Management Process of Ethics Charter Fair-Trade Compliance Program (CP) Performance Period Target Content Enforcement of Employee Recognition Systematic Management Further Actions 1st half Main Department of Seoul Marketing Office (7) Diffusion of the Fair-Trade Related Trends Main Department of Technical Planning Office and Seoul Marketing Office (10) Inspection of Compliance with Fair-Trade Receipt of Written Pledge Regular Monitoring Disciplinary Action 2nd half Main Department of Steel Material Procurement Office (4) Consultation and Deliberation on Fair-Trade Distribution of PR Brochure Cyber Audit Office Relevant Action Main Department of Construction Steel Business Division (5, twice) Main Department of Alloying Steel Business Division (4, twice) Regular Training Preventive and Preliminary Inspection System Improvement Further Education Fair-Trade Compliance Training Category Target Content Cyber Audit Office Inside training New Employees in 2nd Half of 2015 (94) Introducing fair-trade in general operations and Hyundai Steel CP operations 3 Departments of Business Management (11) Internal training to prevent unfair internal trades and unfair group behaviors Hyundai Steel operates the Cyber Audit Office in order to secure transparency and reliability in its business activities. It collects information regarding all types New Employees in 1st Half of 2016 (37) Introducing fair-trade in general operations and Hyundai Steel CP operations of employee misconduct, including unfair requests or corruption that takes place through the internet, telephone, fax or documents. Team Leader of Procurement, Finance and Management 3rd Quarter outside expert lecture (understanding and cases of unfair supports and unfair trades) Division (30) 1st outside expert lecture of 4th Quarter (understanding and main cases of unfair group behaviors) Main Department of Procurement and Marketing Division (124) 2nd outside expert lecture of 4th Quarter (understanding and main cases of unfair supporting Informant Protection Policy Main Department of Procurement, Marketing and Management behaviors) • Security: We prohibit any act of disclosure or insinuation of an informant’s personal information without consent. and Strategic Planning Division (172) • Status: We prevent any type of disadvantages or discrimination in business activities or at work due to the report, statement and data submission. Outside Fair-Trade Compliance Controller (once) Training and meeting of Fair-Trade Compliance Controllers · Training on proper method of surcharge • Exemption of responsibility: We allow a reduction of the penalty to the informant if any mistakes or errors of the informant have been found in the disclosure. calculation training Fair-Trade Compliance Manager (once) Training and meeting of Fair-Trade Compliance Controllers · Fair-Trade Seminar in 2nd half of the year 40 41 Governance Risk Management 04 Risk Management Risk Management System Key Risks Hyundai Steel manages potential risks from business activities helps in minimizing impacts of the risks. Moreover, we reflect Hyundai Steel identifies the impacts of risk on overall risks, and has established effective countermeasures to and preemptively responds to the risks via its well-organized any changes in the business environment and feedback of businesses by regularly monitoring and inspecting the key respond to them and apply them to the business activities. risk management process. Selecting major risk elements that each department in order to manage the key risk factors, can significantly compromise the business and coming up and also run internal processes as a countermeasure to Type of Risk Potential Impact on the Business Response Measures with indicators to manage each element is the first step. This potential risks. Response Indicator-type Low-price steel import Concerns over a reduction of the local sales • Establish timely response measures on an increase and reduction of low-price competitiveness of our company due to excessive import products Risk Management Process imports low-price products Raw material price An increase in raw material prices leads directly to • Establish timely response strategy by monitoring the variation in raw material Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 an increase in manufacturing costs prices Secure quality Negative impact on consumer reliability and • Prevent unstable works and reduction of quality competitiveness resulting from Identify Key Risks Establish Risk Management System Monitor & Respond to Risks competitiveness economic losses due to a rise in sub-quality human and material accidents products and customer claims • Unify quality-related work processes by establishing quality control towers in the ◈ Risk Pooling ◈ Risk Profiling ◈ Monitoring company ◈ Internal Survey ◈ Risk Classification ◈ Response Planning Financial stability Secure a vital factor for business operations by • Prevent deterioration of capital flow by increasing cash generating capabilities achieving a certain level of fiscal stability during a recession ◈ Risk Assessment ◈ System Review ◈ Response Activities ◈ Key Risk Selection ◈ Management Planning ◈ Feedback Information security The leakage of main technical and marketing • Prevent risks caused by non-compliance with internal security regulations, such as information can reduce the company’s leaking of major confidential data, propagation of malicious code, etc. competitiveness, result in system errors from malicious code and a negative impact on production activities Safety management Deteriorates the enterprise image and has a • Operate a safety control tower to establish the safe management system negative impact on production activities due to • Spread a culture of safety for safe management severe disasters in the workplace • Unify safety-related work processes in the company Scenario-type Steel market downturn Leads to a reduction of demand and the price of • Analyze the balance of industrial demand and supply, profitability of steel firms Key Risk Selection and Management steel materials; caused directly by slow market and status of competitors’ restructuring demand When risks are selected, the risk pooling, survey of expert scenario-type and disaster-type. For indicator-type risks, Increase in utilities expense An increase in fuel prices leads directly to an • Monitor the trend of international fuel prices and the variation of national power groups and the incorporation of the survey result, deciding we monitor both leading and lagging indicators, and take increase in manufacturing costs policies Severe global market Concerns over a reduction in the export • Monitor excessive supply and the variation of export strategy of competitors by a gravity of each risk by analysis of AHP1) and adjustment of responsive measures when a high-risk potential is detected. competition competitiveness of our company due to excessive newly increasing plants in Middle East and Southeast Asia supply and a reduction in the price of steel qualitative weightage as well as considerations of changes in We respond to scenario-type risks with pre-set scenarios by materials in overseas markets internal and external management environments are carried predicting future directions of the market environment and Trade restriction Difficult to enter into market when reinforcing • Monitor the trend of trade volume in import countries for major steel materials trade restriction in major import countries and status of protection measures out. Trade restriction risks were added in 2016, and key risks business activities. In order to minimize disaster-type risks, we Labor management Have an impact on production activities due • Determine a method of risk reduction by establishing an advanced labor culture relations to cessation of operation and damage to were selected accordingly. The selected risks are controlled establish response manuals and conduct training regularly. production facilities by the management system based on the characteristics 1) Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP): a structured technique for organizing and Disaster-type Natural disasters Have an impact on production activities due • Construct the response system for disasters and catastrophes of uncontrolled type analyzing complex decisions based on quantification to suspension of works, damage to production facilities, etc. of each risk type, by classifying risks into indicator-type, Risk Governance Potential Risks Hyundai Steel is dedicated to identifying the potential risks Risk of Technology Leakage Top Management Meeting Board of Directors that can be generated by environment changes in markets Cyber-attacks targeted enterprises systems and employees Risk Meeting Body and any restrictions by establishing a management system to have brought about a huge amount of damages such as respond to unexpected incidents. malicious code infection, damage of data and leakage Business Planning Team of confidential information. As enterprises’ information Environmental Restriction Risks assets are the vital asset including technical data as well Financial Risk Business ·Strategy ·Restriction Risk Operation Risk The environmental regulations are gradually enforced as production and management data, they should be with increasing interest in the environment in society as a thoroughly controlled. In particular, Hyundai Steel continues Material (Steel scrap, coking coal, iron ore, etc.) Material (Steel scrap, coking coal, iron ore, etc.) Ethics whole. The company should abide by the environmental to invest in Research and Development and also has a variety Exchange rate Exchange rate Legal compliance restrictions or there will be a negative impact on the of new technology. In this regard, technology leakage can Tax Political status of the nation and region Greeting company’s reputation as well as a need to pay a penalty such have a negative impact on securing market competitiveness. Credit Policy and restrictions Safety as surcharges. Hyundai Steel is monitoring the changes in In order to prevent it, Hyundai Steel continues to monitor Trend of competitors Environment environmental restrictions and is systematically responding confidential data in order to maintain safety and soundness Information protection through its combined environment management system, of the information management system. Also, we endeavor Society basic resource recycling and relief measures for pollution to block risky factors in advance by education on information Quality damage. and security, targeting overall directors and employees. 42 43 Management and employees alike share and practice the necessary beliefs for humans to 46 50 52 Financial Performance Research and Talent Management coexist with nature and one another. Development Hyundai Steel will build a sustainable society and create shared values with all of its stakeholders 56 57 64 and related organizations. Customer-Oriented Environment and Energy Occupational Safety and Management Management Health 66 69 Win-Win Growth Social Contribution Sustainability Performance 44 45 Sustainability Performance Financial Performance 01 Financial Performance Economic Performance Product Sales (Unit: 1,000 tons) Despite low global economic growth and poor steel industry Advanced High-Strength Steel and a merger with Hyundai Product 2014 2015 2016 business conditions, we have maintained a steady operating HYSCO. profit by expanding sales of high-value products such as Home country Long steels 6,196 7,071 7,714 Flat steels 12,534 12,542 12,554 Others 987 877 930 Overseas Flat steels 1,740 3,561 Sales1) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Operating Profit (Unit: KRW 100 million) Others 24 11 214 Internal transactions1) (22) (1,303) (2,743) 167,624 161,325 166,915 Total 19,719 20,938 22,231 1) Mark a negative number of overseas SSC as an internal transaction recognition, merged after the 2nd quarter of 2015 14,911 14,641 14,450 Improvement of Financial Indicators Reinforcement of Reduction of Debt Market Response in Each Product 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Since Hyundai Steel began operating its own third blast Flat Steels 1) Based on consolidated financial statement of K-IFRS (Korea-International Financial Reporting Standards) furnace and was merged with the cold-rolled steel division of We have thoroughly prepared customized products in order Hyundai HYSCO, our cash flow has greatly improved. Hence, to secure profitability to the best of our ability and respond to we have been focusing on debt repayment to improve our the market environments. Although the cost increased in the Operating Profit Rate (Unit: %) Net Profit (Unit: KRW100 million) financial structure since 2014. We have repaid about KRW second half of the year, we secured as much profitability as 2.2 trillion of our total loans, including about KRW 0.8 trillion possible for our major products such as cold-rolled coil and in 2016, about KRW 0.7 trillion in 2015 (including loans of plate by taking advantage of a rebound in international steel Hyundai HYSCO) and about 0.7 trillion in 2014. As a result, prices, etc. In addition, 2 CGL in Dangjin was built at an early 8.9 9.1 8.7 8,340 7,823 7,392 the debt to equity ratio was reduced from 120.1% at the stage so as actively to accommodate demand for advanced end of 2013 to 89.9% at the end of 2016. Also, our debt/ high-strength steels. As a result, sales increased, which led EBITDA ratio has been reduced from 9.0 times to 4.3 times. to an expansion of the market share for advanced highDespite the unstable market situation, the management will strength steels in overall sales of auto steel plates. continue to focus on paying debt as much as it for sound 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 financial structure. Long Steels Hyundai Steel has concentrated on sales of bar-type steel Upgrading Credit Rating products, taking advantage of continuously good housing Standard & Poors (S&P), the global credit rating agency, business conditions, the restructuring of the Chinese steel Production and Sales of Products has upgraded our credit rating by one level, from BBBto industry and positive external environments. Reinforcement BBB0 in 2016. In addition, Moody’s upgraded its ratings bar steel recorded the highest sales rate because an increase Product Production (Unit: 1,000 tons) one level from Baa3 to Baa2. As a result, we became the in sales of apartments has led to large-scale construction. The only steelmaker whose credit rating was upgraded by H-beam also achieved maximum sales within Korea thanks Product 2014 2015 2016 both global credit rating agencies after the financial crisis. to the positive impact of an increase of the market share and Nation Long steels 6,423 6,800 6,845 Furthermore, we have been able to secure reliability through price negotiation power as Chinese import products were Hot-rolled coil 3,668 3,499 3,200 the continuous improvement of our financial structure by subjected to anti-dumping laws. We utilized our marketing Flat steels 2,383 2,627 2,516 stable cash flows and profit making. skills in the branding of our earthquake-resistant bar steel Cold-rolled coil 6,164 6,260 6,563 products by utilizing the increased national awareness of Others 712 1,123 1,538 Credit Rating earthquake risk following the earthquake in Gyeongju in Overseas Others 24 872 1,718 2016. We are also planning to increase the profitability by KRD Korea NICE S&P Moody’s Total 19,374 21,181 22,380 Rating Credit Credit increasing sales of high-value products. Rating Rating AA(S) AA(S) AA(S) BBB0(S) Baa2(S) 46 47 Sustainability Performance Financial Performance Investment in Downstream Process Improvement of Profitability Economic Performance Distribution Hyundai Steel is always making efforts to create value government and local communities were KRW 10.2706 3 CGL at the Suncheon Works Sales of Strategic Products Anticipating the expansion of global auto brand sales with Hyundai Steel intensively fosters high-value products which with shareholders. In 2016, the value distributed to trillion. an increase of middle and long term production by Hyundai have been identified as strategic products to lead quality relevant groups to suppliers, directors and employees, the and KIA Motors, we started the facility investment in 3 CGL growth, by securing stable profits and leading the market in Suncheon Works in the 2nd half of 2016. We also expect in the future. Competitive products that are leading the Economic Performance Distribution that efficiency will be improved by production specialization market, creating financial value and contributing significantly Shareholder Amount (KRW 100 million) Remark between the cold-rolled works in Dangjin and Suncheon, to increased profitability include Advanced High-Strength and that we will secure stable supply bases to prepare for the Steels for automobiles, steel for corrosion-proof chassis, Investors such as shareholders 4,632 Payment of dividends and interests diversification and specialization for high strength steel plates high carbon alloy steel, API hot rolled steel for steel pipes, The government 3,125 Taxes and dues Local communities 145 Investment of social contribution based on this investment. Production is planned to start in Quenching & Tempering (QT) steel (plate), earthquakeSuppliers 85,124 Grant of purchase cost and win-win growth the 1st quarter of 2018. resistant SHN round steel and hot stamping steel. We are Directors and employees 9,680 Total remuneration also planning to strive for improved profitability through Forging Works the continuous expansion of strategic product sales in In order to expand the supply scope of steel materials, we new demand areas. This will be achieved by creating new Economic Performance are nominalizing facilities and introducing new facilities. In demand for high quality products produced at the special Distribution Change Trend (Unit: KRW 100 million) particular, we completed combined operations with forged steel plant and forging works, to be sold to global autobile steel in the existing Incheon Works through an investment brands. in the Suncheon Forging Works, which we took over in 116,735 99,907 102,706 2015. Also, we are currently introducing facilities, obtained Cost Saving from large shipbuilding companies, for large-scale openWe are focusing on improved profitability through die forging and impression-die forging, with a production continuous cost saving in a difficult market environment. capacity of 10,000 tons per year. Large forging facilities When it comes to procurement, we have increased raw currently under construction are to be completed and material purchase and strived to secure stock flexibility by operational in the second half of 2017. It is expected that comparing cost effectiveness with others brands. In the the productive capacity of high alloy steel will be secured in area of logistics, cost saving is realized by diversified contract 2014 2015 2016 order to manufacture parts, and project competitiveness will types such as offshore fare, etc. In the area of production, also be increased by the composition of plate and forging efficiency of operations and production is being improved packages through related investments. We will supply highby specialized manufacturing of products at each worksite Tax Policy value forging products in stages starting with engine parts and refurbishing of old facilities. The resource recovery To return appropriate value to local communities through for shipbuilding in the future. rate and energy are also being intensively managed. tax payment, Hyundai Steel complies with the provisions of Despite the difficult market environment with its steep the Commercial Act and relevant laws. We submit payment Overseas SSC•Hot Stamping fluctuations of raw material prices, we aim to improve the reports and statements of tax adjustment annually to the Hyundai Steel expanded its investment in SSC overseas cost competiveness by making continuous efforts for saving National Tax Service, thereby disclosing them to the public. site corporations in order to respond to the expansion of costs, optimizing purchases, and improving our internal Also, the reporting line and responsibility for settlement are overseas production by Hyundai and KIA Motors. Steel efficiency. all stated in internal regulations. We will faithfully comply production was started at our Mexico subsidiary and with our tax obligations and minimize the risk factors our Tianjin, China subsidiary in 2016, as well as at our associated with taxation from a long-term perspective. Chongqing, China subsidiary in May 2017. Also, we invested in hot stamping to respond to the auto trend of higher safety and gas mileage. We are currently operating a total of 17 hot stamping facilities in Yesan and a sum total of 26 units, including 7 units in Tianjin and 2 units in Ulsan. 48 49 Sustainability Performance Research and Development 02 Research and Development R&D System Smart Factory Constructing Hyundai Steel operates the Hyundai Steel R&D Center, on projects based on an organic solidarity with the Hyundai Steel is building a Smart Factory to respond to the by expanding the connection between processes based on a research and development organization that responds project strategy. Moreover, it contributes to the technical 4th Industiral Revolution. We are pursuing the construction data-based simulator and real-time sharing of information to current requirements in a timely manner based on a development of CO2 reduction to respond to preventive of an intelligent production system with the aim of 2025. between processes. site-oriented technical development system. It maintains environmental regulations, stabilization of work by Through this, we aim to realize an active production system appropriate research and development activities based developing opertaion technology, etc. on the technology, and strives to raise its competitiveness Smart Factory Constructing Plan Mid and Long Term R&D Hyper Connectivity Horizontal 01 Secure process and quality stabilization technology for new project Connectivity Visualization 02 New function to develop light-weight materials and parts Reinforcement of steel business Expansion for competitiveness 03 Improve automated process level customer-oriented Real-time sharing of product connection between parts Strategic Initial stabilization of new project Technology 04 Advancement of low cost and high quality production technology information between Direction Accurate data measurement processes simulation/modeling Raising of competitiveness of 05 Development of ultra-high tensile strength and customized steel clients 06 Lead the world’s first eco-friendly steel technology 07 Reinforce functions in technical support and marketing Main R&D Activity Performance and Plan R&D Performance through Cooperation Classification Performance in 2016 Plan for 2017 Cooperation with the Government Cooperation with the Construction Industry Hyundai Steel engages in various state-run R&D Projects. We We execute construction steel research based on technology Sheets Automobiles Develop new advanced high-strength steel (AHSS) with high fomability Develop AHSS with customized function • AHSS with high fomability (100K1) and 120K) • AHSS with high fomability (150K) researched and developed a national GHG reduction model, cooperation with construction companies. In particular, steel • Mass-production of 180K heat-treated steel sheets for • Heat-treated Steel with high strength and high toughness (180K, 80K TWB 4)) bumpers (performance improvement for rear collision) • 100K ultra-high strength sheets for car lower arms construction steel materials that can secure earthquakefor compound performance architectural structures have • 100K ultra-high strength, sheets for commercial car frames • Mass-production of 100K ultra-high tensile steel with high bending (improve shearing & bending) characteristics for seat rails (100K) resistant performance of buildings, and resource circulation been developed to meet the demand for steel with high General Develop customized steel sheet Develop high value-added steel with customized function network utilizing the by-products in 2016 on an industrial functions such as earthquake proofing, fire resistance, etc. In • Ultra-clean, high carbon, thin steel sheets • Heat treated ultra-high strength OCTG • Non-heat treated, thick, ultra-high strength OCTG • Hot rolled steel sheets for earthquake-resistant steel pipe (60K) and academic cooperation basis. addition, we support major Construction Industry Institutes • Cold-rolled products tailored for foreign cars • Steel sheets for high pressure hydraulic tube of heavy equipment of the Korea Society of Steel Construction as a main member Heavy plates Develop ultra-thick2) and extremely low temperature heavy plates Develop heavy plate for using at extremely low temperature and for energy • High strength, thick plate treated QT3) for pressure vessel of oil • QT steel for the shipbuilding and marine sector to enable extremely low Cooperation with Parts Manufacturers and carry out seminars and training on various subjects. tanker temperature use • Wear Resistant Steel Plate with high hardenability treated QT • High strength and low toughness steel for the pressure vessel steel and We cooperate with auto parts manufacturers on technology We are planning to proceed with an array of activities in for construction and heavy equipment wind power development for parts using steel. Also, through regular the verification of quality and structure performances, Special steel Develop special steel for automobiles Develop high quality special steel for automobile & energy • Develop 44 special steel grades for automobile parts (engines, • Special steel for bearing of wind generator and cylinder rod of automobile technology exchange among the related industrial firms, support for study activities and collaborative research and transmission, chassis and so on) 2 parts manufacturers and Hyundai Steel, we resolve development. 1) Tensile strength enduring the weight of 100kg in the area of 1mm 2) Steel plate of a thickness of over 100mm problematic issues by listening to the demands of our 3) Quenching & Tempering: Rapid cooling (quenching) to form high-strength microstructure and heating (tempering) to increase low temperature toughness 4) Tailor Welded Blank: Functional parts are made from individual sheets of steel of different thickness, strength which are joined together by laser welding customers and providing customer-focused technical supports. Major R&D Activities Utilization of Machine Running Technology Hyundai Steel is working to respond to the changes in with minimum efforts, rather than a method based on trials the global steel industry that are happening with the and errors. Using this method, we developed AMP Steel introduction of big data, digital innovation, etc. In particular, with high strength and excellent fomability, and are studying our R&D Center develops new products and studies to apply automobile parts. In addition, we will minimize materials by introducing a machine learning method utilizing the cost, time and manpower required for developing steel artificial intelligence, and has been harnessing machine grades by using machine learning, and study continuously learning theory to respond to the industrial environment. studying the development of new materials in the future. The method of designing steel using machine learning is a Technology exchange with parts manufacturers technology that aims to develop the optimal new steel grade 50 51 Sustainability Performance Talent Management 03 Talent Management Human Resources Development Competency-Based HRD HRD direction and strategy Hyundai Steel has established a competency based HRD Organizational Development. Based on the HRD Training Hyundai Steel seeks challengers, creators, specialists and Culture, People and Infra. We strive to ‘foster Hyundai Steel and provides proper training programs for employees in Scheme, a total of 603,923 hours of training were collaborators as its employees. For this reason, we have set talents with the global competence and passion we need to achieve our goal of being the best integrated steelmaker’. all positions. The competency based HRD covers Basic provided in 2016. three Human Resources Development (HRD) directions: Skills, Leadership, Job Competency, Global Skills and Ideal Employee Standard curriculum (Managerial) challenger CREATOR SPECIALIST COLLABORATOR Category Core Leadership Global Job OD (Organization A person with a challenging spirit A person who responds to changes in A person who strives to become the A person who builds strong and collaborative Development) for the future an enthusiastic and creative manner best, through expertise and knowledge relationships with co-workers Position Year Executives Vice Chairman Breakfast Global one forum President Top meeting of HRD Direction CEO Vice President management Course Senior Managing Director Executives PEOPLE CULTURE INFRA ongoing Executives Managing Director Fostering professionals and nextCreating a sophisticated corporate culture that Establishing various learning systems to aid ongoing Director Executives Induction HMG PRIME generation leaders that create new value in steel achieves core values and visions employee development General 5-year Team leader leadership training Training before starting the work of an overseas corporation director New Teamleader Induction Manager 4-year • Systematic development of talent specializing in • Implementing organization development • Operating a training policy and system that 3-year steel with expertise and leadership activities to achieve core values and Vision 2025 supports employees’ voluntary participation 2-year • Strengthening the system for fostering core • Taking the lead in establishing a sophisticated and growth Core value seminar (team seminar and division seminar) 1-year General Manager Induction Expatriate POOL program global talents corporate culture that meets global standards in-house trainer program Deputy 5-year Expatriate program Sexual harassment prevention training Talent program General 4-year Manager HRD Strategy Career employee Onboarding 3-year Deputy General Manger improvement course Theme special lecture Job professional program (e-learning) Foster Hyundai Steel talents with the global competence and passion required to achieve the company’s goal of becoming 2-year GOAL the best integrated steelmaker Language skill up program 1-year Deputy General Manager Induction Manager 5-year Change agent workshop Foster top talents with outstanding character and skills / Establish a corporate culture that observes principles and 4-year Work professional training I I (external consignment) MISSION challenges 3-year Manager improvement course Initiatives Internalization Systemization Specialization 2-year Work professional training I (own training) 1-year New manager course Internalization of Vision 2025 Systemize the competency basis Specialize training programs Assistant 4-year Work professional training I I (external consignment) training program Manager 3-year Assistant Manager Improvement course 2-year Work professional training I (own training) 1-year Assistant Manager Ongoing Vision 2025 Internalization Training leadership, work, globalization, etc. In addition, we improved Staff 4-year Job professional program(iExternal) 3-year Hyundai Steel has developed and promoted its own training the learning accelerated type HRD policy to enforce the base Assistant Manager induction 2-year Staff Ongoing Job professional program(in-house) courses on the theme ‘Understanding and Practice of Vision of HRD and operate the learning support system, e-campus. 1-year (new New SET New Employee Mentoring Steel 2025,’ so that all employees can understand and internalize We will also expand the learning culture based on the employees) Employee (Steel Expert membership + OJT Camp Onboarding Training) Training Vision 2025, to increase employee awareness of the vision. capabilities of employees by introducing educational credit This course includes modules related to the necessity of the systems. vision, understanding Vision 2025 and positive goals related Standard curriculum (Technical) to the vision. It was composed for employees to help them Operating Multi-Faceted Employee Education Category Core Leadership Job internalize the message via indirect and direct experiences. In In order to foster Multi-Faceted Employees with a strong Job behavior Job professional addition, we have formed the Vision Action Board to enable foundation in steel and vital business capabilities, Hyundai L5 (over 21 years) more effective propagation of the organization vision. It is Steel has established a work education system, and Training for retired employees our goal to be consistent in sharing the vision and promoting is endeavoring to provide strong internal training for Supervisor program In-house trainer it further among employees so that we can provide an general and research jobs. In particular, we strengthen Life cycle training (50 years old) program L4 (11~20 years) Senior operator ongoing enterprise-wide management for changes our employees our foundation by ensuring all employees are grounded in Senior operator induction Organization activation training may personally experience. steel making processes and have a strong knowledge of Life cycle training (40 years old) Junior operator ongoing the goods. By completing training systems and courses for L3 (6~10 years) Junior operator induction Job professional mind program Systemization of Education Based On Capability our staff members, our well-organized ‘career-specialized (5,10,15 years) We are endeavoring to carry out staff-leading capability training program’ is under operation in order to present education and contribute to achieving the management directions to be a professional in each field and help them L2 (3~5 years) Job professional program Job professional program Job professional program performance and organizational objective under the mission build individual capabilities. It also helps us to operate them Job professional mind program (3 years) of HRD with the goal of ‘Fostering talents with character to support the establishment of individual development plan (Prodution) (Maintenance) (Administration) and ability, and establishing a corporate culture with a of capabilities. Additionally, we are activating knowledge L1 (1~2 years) strong foundation and challenges’. In particular, we pursue exchange and expanding internal education by supporting Staff ongoing a training policy of creating a sustainable voluntary and selfthe development of internal lecturers. learning culture of the employees based on an education L0 (new employees) New Employee onboarding system that serves each capability such as shared values, 52 53 Sustainability Performance Talent Management Human Resources Management Vision Action Board Hyundai Steel’s overseas worksites hire a number of local talents Recruitment Principles The Vision Action Board is a junior board organization with different nationalities. For this reason, we ensure that these Employee Status (Unit: persons, %) Hyundai Steel knows that talented people are an invaluable composed of representatives from the assistant manager to the worksites comply with the labor acts in each country. We make Category 2014 2015 2016 manager level in each worksite and division, and was organized efforts to prevent unfair labor practices that interfere with labor, asset for the competitiveness of the company, and invests in its employees to foster promising talents with potential. Total Employees 10,836 11,344 11,221 to act as a Missionary, Change Agent and Communicator. The and work continuously to make improvements in areas that are We recruit new employees in the first and second half of By gender Male 10,503 11,010 10,934 Vision Action Board is composed of a total of 33 members unsatisfactory. We checked working conditions and compliance the year, and invite experienced workers at any time. Our Female 333 334 287 with each having a 2-year term. In 2016, it was used to shape with local labor law for 5 overseas production subsidiaries employment policies are systematically applied based on a By group General 2,678 3,078 3,119 the company’s management through vision leader fostering in 2016. We also tried to identify areas for improvement by Technical 7,760 7,921 7,763 training, meeting with the CEO, workshops for identifying monitoring labor and management environments of overseas fair employment process, spanning document evaluations, Others 398 345 339 aptitude tests, interviews, and physical exams. priorities, and more. We are planning to find assignments worksites through surveys of employment satisfaction levels, By type Regular 10,601 11,159 11,045 corresponding to each division and worksite in the future. checks at the sites, employment interviews, etc. Based Contract 235 185 176 Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity on regular inspection on overseas working environment By age Below 30 2,424 2,056 2,185 Discrimination based on gender, race, religion or regional 31~40 3,717 4,334 4,334 Trust-Based Labor-Management Communication conditions, we will continue to improve the personnel and origin is strictly prohibited in Hyundai Steel. We help our 41~50 2,661 2,685 2,655 Hyundai Steel maintains interactive communication between labor policies in order to enhance the satisfaction of employees. employees with different talents and backgrounds motivate 51 or older 2,034 2,269 2,047 labor and management for mutual trust, and works to enhance Furthermore, to prevent any labor-management conflict that themselves at work by implementing diversity policies and New recruits 565 650 283 employee understanding of the management situation. The might occur due to misunderstandings of local culture or laws, improving related systems. We are also dedicated to providing Turnover rate 4.7 4.7 3.7 company consults with its labor union, which represents 70% we seek ways to communicate with locally hired employees by equal opportunity to all our employees to help them realize of its workforce, on major issues like the wage negotiations holding meetings with them, providing regular management their full potential. The company also prohibits child labor and held every year, and this cooperation between labor and briefing sessions and establishing a grievance mechanism. forced labor. We fully comply with the Korean Labor Law and management has helped to increase the competitiveness of Retirement Pension Labor Rights at Overseas Worksites International Labor Organization (ILO). the company. Also, business information is shared in order to Hyundai Steel has established a retirement pension system resolve management issues. We also held a Labor-Management Labor risk Labor management to secure the stable payment of retirement benefits. Hyundai Council at each of our worksites consisting of at least 20 Fair Evaluation and Compensation Working Working LaborEqual opportunities are provided for all of employees to help Steel’s retirement pension deposit is KRW 599.4 billion (as members on the council from both sides meeting at least once condition time management Communication safety relations them realize their full potential, ensuring compensation based of the end of Dec, 2016) and severance pay is given in every quarter to discuss and resolve employee grievances, Labor accordance with DB (Defined Benefit) retirement pension at check on ability and performance and eliminating discrimination increase welfare, etc. The Labor-Management Council discusses Salary · Grievance Employment Royalty of any kind. Every individual employee’s abilities and the time of retirement. improving productivity, enhancing the working environment, Welfare settlement fostering accomplishments are assessed to ensure their compensation improving employee health, enhancing HR and labor is reasonably and fairly calculated. management systems and sharing enterprise visions. Corporate Culture Welfare Benefit Programs Performance Evaluation Process Grievance Procedures for Employees Family-Friendly Management Housing support Support through low-interest loan of KRW 35 million for Hyundai Steel listens to grievances of employees, and handles house purchase, KRW 25 million for leasing a house Providing accommodations for unmarried persons at Dangjin, Incheon, Through the Family-friendly Management Policy, we help them reasonably to secure human rights and establish a Pohang, Suncheon and Ulsan Works our employees enjoy a better work-life balance and further Commuting bus Commuting buses for all areas including Seoul, Dangjin, Incheon, Target setting Performance Determination of Feedback sound organization culture. The Grievance Procedures include Pohang and Suncheon interim check evaluation level support family health, education and leisure. In addition, a contents investigations and handling, disciplinary actions and Internal fitness Free gym and sauna facilities at Dangjin, Incheon, Pohang and Suncheon and swimming Works number of family-friendly programs are operated including position changes of the HR committee, which leads to quick pool center Fitness center and swimming pool at the Seoul Office for employees only family charity groups and children’s language camps, and we Discounts on Discount on automobiles from Hyundai and KIA Motors offered for actions on registered grievances. One grievance was registered Hyundai & KIA employees, with additional discount provided based on years of service are working to establish a family-friendly corporate culture. Motors vehicles Workforce for verbal attack and assault and actions were taken to handle Discounts Issue employee-exclusive card for 10% discount and provide an online As of December 31 2016, Hyundai Steel has a total of it in 2014. Two grievances were registered for the verbal attack at Hyundai Hyundai Department Store website exclusively for employees Using status of parental leave (Unit: persons) Department 11,221 employees, with an average length of service of 11.7 and assault, and actions were taken to handle them in 2015. Stores Classification 2014 2015 2016 Condominium & Discount offered on various condominiums and resorts across Korea including years. Hyundai Steel employs 304 persons with disabilities In addition, four grievances were registered; two for sexual Resort Hyundai Condominium at Seolak and Haevichi Hotel & Resorts Jeju Parental leave 15 9 20 harassment and one for verbal attack and assault in two Support for club Provide support for various hobbies and sports club activities as well as 344 Korean veterans. Outside of Korea, Hyundai activities Parental leave returns 15 8 20 business offices, and necessary actions were taken. Steel has 883 employees in Asia, 206 in the Americas and Medical support Offer regular checkups and general health checkups, and support hospital Worked for 12 months or longer 3 15 8 bills for employees (100%) and their families (50%) 215 in Europe. The company has 215 female managers, Labor Rights at Overseas Worksites Operate health clinics or health management office at all works upon return Educational cost Cover all school expenses for employees’ children, from high school which represent 7% of management. for children 54 55 Sustainability Performance Customer-Oriented Management·Environment and Energy Management 04 Customer-Oriented Management 05 Environment and Energy Management Customer-Oriented Management System Environment and Energy Management System Customer Satisfaction Surveys Environment and Energy Management Policies department. The Environment and Energy Department Customer Satisfaction Principle Hyundai Steel carries out surveys and interviews in main Hyundai Steel is working for sustainable development by is composed of the planning department, workplace Hyundai Steel is trying to create value with customers in its increasing resource efficiency and minimizing environmental management and support department and technical management and business strategy so that all management business areas to figure out customers' satisfaction. The pollution. To do this, we review the impacts on management development department for the research center. The activities emphasize the importance of ‘customer satisfaction’. survey covers the entire process from the decision-making activities caused by various environmental issues as well planning department analyzes national and international Based on these principles, we believe that we can only gain step of a client company’s purchases to actual usage, as well as weather changes, and regulate the Environment and regulation trends and leads political responses, develops the trust of our customers by being genuine with them. as the quantitative assessment of the customer-oriented Energy Management norms while implementing practical internal and external response systems and supports environment, pricing policy, technology development, order the overall management of environment and energy. strategies in stages. In addition, our major national worksites Organization for Customer Satisfaction processing, customer portal system, distribution service, The workplace management department deals with have achieved and implemented ISO14001 (Environmental In order to improve customer satisfaction levels, Hyundai delivery, product quality and claim processing. In addition, environmental pollutants and manages environment and Management System) and ISO50001 (Energy Management Steel has an organization that can manage all factors we conduct interviews with our major clients, and these are System). energy issues generated by production activities in each that might have an impact on customers including sales, incorporated into the qualitative assessment of customer workplace due to the use of energy, etc. The technical R&D and services. The sales organization, which is in satisfaction. In 2016, there was increased customer Organization of Environment and Energy development department for the research center develops direct contact with the customers, maintains a customersatisfaction in the steel, section beam and hot and coldIn order to establish the Environment and Energy environmental and energy technology and conducts rolled products. The overall satisfaction level was also higher Management policy, comply with the environmental facility research and development activities, pursuing goals such as oriented system consisting of exclusive teams for different management and laws and achieve the related technical improved processes. industries. Meanwhile, the R&D and services organizations than the previous year. development, we operate a dedicated envrionmental energy engage in customized activities that suit different customer Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey (Unit: points) characteristics based on related systems. Environment and Energy Management Policies Classification 2014 2015 2016 Customer-Oriented Management Activities Score of Customer Satisfaction 71.8 72.5 74.6 Sophistication of Customer Portal System Fulfilling our Risk analysis of Efficient input Minimization of ethical and social In order for customers to conveniently check and handle management of energy and emissions and responsibility as an information concerning purchases, Hyundai Steel runs activities resources pollution enterprise a customer portal system that comprehensively handles information of customers’ purchases and claims. The ▶ Improving brand value through ▶ Responding to the ▶ Pursuing eco-friendly purchases ▶ Operating and monitoring customer portal system handles all processes from order to promotion, local win-win and government's policies and for fuel and material, facility and pollutant measurement and CSR activities regulations energy protection facilities delivery, including purchasing, customer complaints and ▶ Utilizing substitute resources ▶ Collecting information on ▶ Optimizing input and inhibiting ▶ Preventing pollutant expansion and energy and offset project environment and energy issues generation for process utilities handling of claims. Customer issues relating to general ▶ Improvement and high-added development ▶ Establishing an anticipation, ▶ Introducing new technology for value for recycling rate of bymarketing activities can be handled by the customer portal evaluation and response energy efficiency product and wastes strategy for impact factors system. Also, it improves customer satisfaction levels by identifying customer complaints and problems, etc. In addition, when the portal was adapted for mobile phones, Organization Structure of Environment and Energy customers became able to make orders from any location. CEO Strategic planning Dangjin Integrated R&D Center Incheon Works Pohang Works Suncheon Works Ulsan Works division Steelworks Environment and Environment Environmental (Incheon) Energy Planning (Pohang) Safety (Suncheon) Safety (Ulsan) Safety Energy Management Management Technology Environment Team Environment Team Environment Team Environment Team Team Team Development Team Management Team (Incheon) (Pohang) (Ulsan) Business Electric Power Resource Recycling Energy Technology Cold Rolling Mill Production Production Maintenance Cooperation Team Technology Team Team Development Team Assistance Team Technology Team Technology Team Manage Team Local & Gas Technology Suncheon Environmental Team Cooperation Team Forging Works Water Facilities Business Support Team Team Forging Production Team Mobile Customer Center 56 57 Sustainability Performance Environment and Energy Management Response to Environmental Regulations Air Quality Management Hyundai Steel monitors newly imposed environmental laws relevant acts at the overall company level. We actively engage We thoroughly manage the environment by establishing Agreement of Air Pollutants Emission Reduction and revisions to the existing laws as they occur, and responds in the government's efforts to protect the environment. a stricter standard than required for the management Dangjin Integrated Steelworks voluntarily entered into an to changes in the law to ensure proper compliance with of air pollutants including dust, fugitive dust, deposition agreement to reduce emissions of air pollutants and improve particulate, sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides, foul odor and air qualities in the vicinity of the worksite with Dangjin, Response Status of Environmental Regulations noise pollution. In addition, we endeavor to maintain Chungcheongnam-do. Based on the agreement, it is pleasant air qualities in worksites and adjacent regions by scheduled to invest about KRW 460 billion to improve the Classification Response status improving our internal management index to achieve our air, through activities that will include improving air pollution Management policy of combined environment Hyundai Steel is in the process to receive an integrated approval in order to comply with ‘Act on Integrated medium and long term objectives in stages. protection facility efficiency, replacing old protection facilities, Control of Pollutant-Discharging Facilities' that has been applied since 2017 by organizing TFT throughout establishing a green zone around its steelworks, and more. the company. It analyzes the emission impacts of pollutants generated in our sites, and removes risks by reviewing emission standards in each worksite in advance so that the newly introduced combined In addition, it plans to reduce emissions of air pollutants up environmental management system can be flexibly applied to company worksites. to a level of 60% of the 2016 emissions by 2020. Framework act of resources circulation To promote circulative use of wastes, Hyundai Steel is reviewing a variety of approaches to utilizing Emission of Air Pollutants (Unit: kg) Emission Concentrations of Air Pollutants1) (Unit: kg/ton) wastes from sites which are reclaimed and incinerated as recyclable goods, in keeping with the aims of the regulated Framework act of resources circulation. We also engage in independent research Category 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 and development to reduce waste and expand recycling. Furthermore, for new usage and demand development, we continue to cooperate with other industries and recycling industries. Dust 0.07 0.08 0.05 1,373,430 SOx 0.39 0.52 0.64 Dust 1,596,654 NOx 0.39 0.48 0.47 1,089,871 Relief system for environmental pollution damage Hyundai Steel has subscribed to environmental liability insurance to cover compensation for environmental 1) Emissions of air pollutants / steel production pollution damage and accidents in 7 worksites, as required by the ‘Act on Liability for Environmental Damage and Relief Thereof'. In addition, we enforce environmental management activities in managing 7,566,241 the emission levels of pollutants, investing in improvements to environmental facilities and checking SOx 11,047,170 Emission Concentration of Dioxin (Unit: ng-TEQ/㎥) environments in order to ensure that pollutions generated in overall production processes are minimized 14,302,737 and prevented. Worksite 2014 2015 2016 7,546,241 Blast furnace in Dangjin 0.03 0.17 0.13 NOx 10,272,132 Electric arc furnace in Dangjin 0.01 0.02 0.01 10,615,998 Incheon 0.06 0.04 0.08 Pohang 0.04 0.01 0.04 Environmental Investment (Unit: KRW 100 million) Suncheon forging 0.00 0.003 We invest in the environment to establish eco-friendly Category 2014 2015 2016 steelworks in pleasant environments, and continue to operate facilities to reduce environmental pollutants. Environmental operation cost1) 2,985 2,725 3,281 2) Environmental investment cost 649 708 622 Environmental benefit3) 2,481 1,559 1,302 1) The environmental operating cost includes environmental facility operation Inhibition of Fugitive Dust by New Technology costs (electricity bills, maintenance expenses and labor expenses), resource creation costs (by-product processing expenses, transport expenses, reclamation Hyundai Steel reduced fugitive dust2) by applying a Fogging technique in the Conveyor Belt Chute of the steelworks, where the expenses and consignment expenses), general administrative costs, depreciation costs, energy collection costs and environmental R&D expenses. fugitive dust was largely being generated. The Fogging technique is a method of reducing fugitive dust by spraying water through 2) Environmental investment cost includes the cost on the amount used nozzles. We confirmed that fugitive dust emission was reduced by about 70% by the Fogging technology. to improve the prevention facilities to reduce air pollutants, stabilize water treatment facilities, repair and improve environmental facilities, etc. 2) As a non-point source pollution which does not have regular outlets, it is difficult to manage. 3) Environmental benefits include benefit values such as selling of wastes, reduction of costs, avoidance, tax incentives, etc. 58 59 Sustainability Performance Environment and Energy Management Water Quality Management Recycling By-Products Hyundai Steel endeavors to minimize its impacts on the Aware that by-products should be used as resources, incineration. In particular, we aim to secure a leading position Facility Expansion for Industrial Water Supply and ecosystem in regions where its wastewater is discharged. Hyundai Steel has established a Resource Recovery Plan in resource circulation through the resource recovery of Drainage We thoroughly manage our emission concentrations in for by-products to improve the resource circulation and by-products, in keeping with the government's resource Hyundai Steel established a method to ensure an uninterrupted supply of wastewater by applying our own standards, which are added value. In this vein, we have built a wide circulation circulation policy. water even in periods of water shortage. Dangjin Integrated Steelworks stricter than those required by law. expanded its water supply and drainage facilities for industrial water by system, verified slab demand, minimized reclamation and investing KRW 15 billion to resolve the water pollution in Asan Lake, Suwon, a water source for industrial water. The 2017 drinking water Response to Water Resource Risk by Participation in Plan for Resource Recovery from Residual Products supply is expected to increase by 18% year on year, by increasing CDP's Water Program ultrafiltration membrane processing. Hyundai Steel has participated in the CDP's water program 2010 2016 2020 for two consecutive years since 2015 to respond to the Step 1. Step 3. Step 4. global water shortage. We diagnose the level of the water Establishment Step 2. Development Leap Stabilization management and check the risks and response status. Our Establishment of Stabilization of Establishment of Development of treatment resource recycling optimal resources treatment water management efforts were acknowledged when we system system technology achieved the Leadership A-level in 2016. We will continue to ◦ Legal treatment ◦ Stabilization of facilities ◦ Establishment of wide ◦ Application of new work to manage water risks in the future. circulation system technology for resource ◦ Treatment planning ◦ Development of inside recovery and outside demander ◦ Diversification of slag demand ◦ Construction of resource ⇨ Recovery of available recovery facilities ◦ Improvement of recycling ◦ Improvement of value added Water Consumption Volume (Unit: 1,000 m3) Wastewater (Unit: 1,000 m3) rate of by-products resource from byproducts ⇨ Value added 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 maximization 46,592 24,035 Construction of Wide Area Circulation System New Demand Development Plan for Slag Total 50,240 Total 27,148 The wide area circulation system is a system in which lessMethod for Demand 60,887 29,501 valuable by-products of steelworks are utilized as resources in By-Product Development other industries based on cooperation with other businesses Air-cooled blast furnace • Expand aggregate utilization 38,878 4,810 Industrial Water for concrete 42,296 7,522 in our industry and in different industries. By-products of • Aggregate for fill and cut of water recycling the ground • Utilize cement material 49,760 volume 8,002 steelworks can become useful materials in other industries, • Concrete aggregate • Utilize aggregate for PHC pile and the value of these by-products can also be improved 3,796 19,225 Revolving furnace • Increase recovery rate of gold Discharge through this cooperation. First of all, iron-containing by• Recovery of gold from from base metal Waterworks 4,157 19,626 • Expand to utilize aggregates volume products were recycled through cooperation with the base metal 4,278 21,499 • Aggregate for fill and cut for asphalt concrete cement industry, enabling us to reduce our annual water of the ground • Utilize aggregates for artificial 3,918 • Cement material reef treatment costs by about KRW 4 billion. In addition, as • Utilize revolving furnace Other1) 3,787 process material Concentration of Water Pollutant Emissions (Unit: mg/L) sludge generated in the calcination process was utilized as Electric arc furnace 6,849 • Utilize cement raw materials • Recovery of gold from the desulfurizing agent, replacing limestone, the national base metal • Develop item to reduce CO2 1) Based on the consumption volume of recycling water in Gajwa Wastewater Classification Worksite 2014 2015 2016 assignment was completed and it is in the process of being • Aggregate for fill and cut Treatment Plant of Incheon Factory of the ground Suspended Blast furnace in Dangjin 2.4 2.1 2.3 industrialized. In this regard, it is expected to reduce costs by Solids (SS) Electric arc furnace in 1.5 1.7 1.2 about KRW 1 billion. Intensity of Water consumption and Dangjin Minimization of Reclamation and Incineration Wastewater treatment (Unit: m3/ton) Incheon 24.3 25.0 12.0 Diversification of Slag Demand By-products handled through simple reclamation and Pohang 1.7 1.7 1.6 Category 2014 2015 2016 About 70% of the waste generated by a steelworks is slag. incineration were minimized in order to improve resource Suncheon 0.8 0.7 2.8 Ulsan 0.0 8.2 9.1 Hyundai Steel established a New Demand Development Plan circulation and meet the government's policy goals. Water consumption to production 2.40 2.37 2.72 amount Chemical Blast furnace in Dangjin 17.2 10.6 11.5 for Slag as a mid-to-long term plan to find new demand This involved multiple technical reviews of the recycling Oxygen technology. In this regard, we achieved a cost reduction Wastewater treatment amount to 0.99 0.93 0.96 Electric arc furnace in Dangjin 2.8 6.4 5.5 for slag, following a preliminary demand increase for slag Demand production amount Incheon 64.0 43.0 70.0 (COD) and circulation aggregates. In particular, secondary refining of up to KRW 0.6 billion by recycling about 10,000 tons of Pohang 3.8 3.8 5.4 waste refractories in the electric arc furnace as aggregates, slag resources generated in steel processes were successfully Suncheon 8.3 8.1 10.6 industrialized in 2016. Also, the asphalt concrete aggregate and providing about 20,000 tons of fallen coals to cement Ulsan 0.0 24.2 25.2 utilization technology of electric slag was industrialized. companies. 60 61 Sustainability Performance Environment and Energy Management Responding to Climate Change by Supporting Emissions of GHG1) (Unit: 1,000 tons CO2) Intensity of GHG and Energy2) (Unit: tCO2/ton, TJ/ton) Industrialization of the 2nd Refined Slag Suppliers Hyundai Steel developed a technology that utilizes refining slag generated Category 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 in the reduction processes of the revolving furnace as a highly functional Hyundai Steel participated in the ‘Green Credit Finding Project,’ which was supported by the Ministry of Trade, GHG emissions Total 18,797 19,573 19,103 cement material. In 2016, we entered into an agreement with a cement company to provide 100,000 tons annually and accordingly we expect a Scope 1 13,317 14,157 13,450 Industry and Energy and Korea Energy Agency. This is a 0.97 profit of up to about KRW 0.4 billion annually by securing the sale profit Scope 2 5,480 5,416 5,653 GHG government project in which GHG emissions are reduced 0.92 and reducing treatment cost. We continue to search for new demand and Intensity by supporting small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) 0.85 customers which have difficulty in carrying out reduction projects Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ) 0.0157 voluntarily, and emissions are offset in proportion to the Energy Category 2014 2015 2016 0.0148 Generation of By-Product (Unit: 1,000 tons) investment share. We brought about an energy reduction Intensity 0.0139 among our suppliers by supporting the high-efficiency facility Energy Total 304,171 314,240 310,717 Category 2014 2015 2016 consumption Electricity 102,967 103,708 107,196 replacement project of Dongjin Metal, and achieved the Fuel 199,027 208,884 201,564 Total 10,440 10,319 10,394 Green Credit in 2016. Steam 2,177 1,648 1,957 Slag 6,917 6,728 6,596 Dust 536 501 488 Energy Efficiency in Production Course Refractory 134 145 153 Dangjin Integrated Steelworks installed a 100kW ESS (Energy Sludge 646 668 649 Storage System)1) which has been in operation since 2016 Biodiversity Others 2,207 2,277 2,508 for efficient power use. It manages the peak on power Hyundai Steel manages its impact on biodiversity in the and carried out various activities to support biodiversity. uses by the ESS facility and also reduces power costs by vicinity of its domestic and international worksites by working In national and international worksites there were no Status of Recycle (Unit: 1,000 tons, %) in cooperation with governments and local communities. endangered animal and plant habitats and ecosystem applying the optimal pattern of power use in each hour. The In particular, Happy Yes, Hyundai Steel’s university student protection areas. Also, there were no cases in which harmful Category 2014 2015 2016 Incheon Works produces medium pressure hot water with volunteer group, participated in a forest establishment substances disposed by Hyundai Steel have had an impact the electric arc furnace emission gases by utilizing the heat Recycling amount 10,237 10,185 10,303 project to reforest Nanjido where wastes are reclaimed, on biodiversity. recovery system. The hot water produced reduces the LNG Recycling rate 98.1 98.7 99.1 used by steam boilers in the production process, and has Development of Resources Circulation System with Hyundai Motor Group also been sold to local demanders since 2016. In this vein, Hyundai Steel is at the beginning and the end of the organic resources circulation system connecting the steel, parts, automobiles and we have contributed to reducing GHG emissions in local construction of Hyundai Motor Group. We produce hot rolled steel plates with the melted iron extracted from the furnace of Dangjin Climate Change Response communities. Integrated Steelworks with iron ores and coals. After the hot rolled steel plates are processed into cold-rolled steel plates for automobiles, they are applied for the production of automobiles. Once they are no longer used, automobiles are collected for recycling and utilized as materials Improved Response for Emission Trading 1) As it is a system that aims to increase energy efficiency by supplying stored power on demand, it is used as emergency power in power failures and to manage power for the construction of steel and H-beam in the electric arc furnace of Hyundai Steel. Hyundai Steel continuously works to maximize the value Hyundai Steel has a TFT dedicated to responding to the peaks. of steel in the value chain of enterprises, and expands the circulation of steel. emission trading policy that is involved in monitoring and analyzing GHG emissions, identifying and implementing Automobile Management of GHG Emissions Recycling Center reduction projects. The relevant departments are The scope for GHG emissions and energy consumption participating in the TFT on policies, planning, production amount covers 10 works (Incheon, Pohang 1 and 2, Dangjin, management and R&D. We have been doing our job in Suncheon, Sucheon Forging, Ulsan, Yesan 1 and 2 and Electric Arc Collects steel scrap for Construction Automobile recycling from disposed Furnace compulsory reduction of GHG during the 1st plan period (in Onsan), headquarters, Seoul Office and Uiwang Research Industry automobiles Industry Re-makes steel 2015-2017) of the emission trade by earnestly pursuing a Center. GHG reduction activities in the overall company and for construction through electric arc plan to reduce GHG. In anticipation of the 2nd plan period working reduction in Dangjin Integrated Steelworks were furnace processes of Completes automobiles Produces steel for construction reinforcement from old Constructs buildings, bridges, that begins in 2017, the relevant Cross Functional Team (CFT) incorporated, and therefore GHG emissions were reduced after assembling coldsuch as reinforcement, buildings steel towers and rails by rolled steel plate materials H-Beam, etc. by melting utilizing reinforcement was organized with a focus on the coal strategy, processing and part panels Hyundai Steel compared to the previous year in 2016. steel scrap and H-Beam technology and energy technology to secure mediumand long-term technical competitiveness. Blast Furnace Fabricates cold-rolled steel Makes hot rolled steel plates for automobiles through plates by integrated various processes in hot steelwork processes from rolled steel plate melted iron 62 63 Sustainability Performance Occupational Safety and Health 06 Occupational Safety and Health Occupational Safety and Health System Occupational Safety and Health Activities Management of Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) Operation of Industrial Safety and Health Committee Safety Management Operating Policy Reinforcement of Emergency Response System Hyundai Steel is systematically managing the MSDS on Each worksite operates an Industrial Safety and Health To prevent safety accidents and strengthen advanced safety When emergencies such as fires, gas leakages or natural chemical substances handled. In order to understand the risk Committee to collaborate in providing a safe worksite for capabilities, Hyundai Steel has established and implemented disasters occur, an emergency response system is provided of chemical substances to be used in sites, we evaluate the management and labor in each quarter. The Committee a Safety Management Operating Policy. In 2014 we to enable a swift response and also we maintain manuals reliability of the MSDS and train workers in the MSDS of the improves the safety and health of workers by deliberating strengthened the foundation for safety management, and in for each emergency status. In addition, for emergencies of chemical substances. In addition, the MSDS on the chemical and determining critical issues for the safety and health 2015 we pursued diverse activities to establish the basis for suppliers, rescue manpower and equipment are provided to substances handled is provided at all sites so that workers of the management and labor. This will prevent risks that autonomous safety management. In 2016 we reinforced our effectively handle the situation. can check the relevant information at all times. It is expected are detrimental to our workers. The committee has an safety capabilities to ensure a more advanced safety culture. that this will reinforce the safety management of chemical equal number of members from management and labor Safety Diagnosis of Overall National and International Safety Management Operating Policy substances, allowing mobile access to MSDS information and includes representatives of the labor and the business Workplaces and training workers in the handling of new chemical worksite. Issues about supplying manpower, managing dust Hyundai Steel carried out the safety diagnosis to expand Objective for safe “ZERO Severe Disasters” its leading safety management system and safety culture substances in the future. at the slag yard and managing regions exposed to other management to all workplaces including the overseas subsidiaries. We gases were discussed at the Dangjin Integrated Steelworks in Value creation of basic safety checked compliance with relevant laws in the areas of safety, 2016. Vital direction (Back to the Basic) health, firefighting and gas through the safety diagnosis, and shared approaches to reducing the risk factors at the Working with Suppliers for Safety Management Infrastructure • Confirming the risks in each work unit site. We completed the safety diagnosis in domestic works Hyundai Steel actively pursues safe growth with its suppliers Site-oriented safety • Finding and addressing poor safety issues at sites in Incheon, Suncheon, Pohang, Forging Plant and Ulsan and with the aim of becoming a Century Sustainable Steelmaker. System • Evaluation of execution on basic overseas subsidiaries and sales branches in China, Europe We support a variety of safety activities for all the workers safety policy Behavior based safety • Intensive management of unsafe and India in 2016. The safety diagnosis will continue to be enforcement activities within the workplace including joint safety checks and carried out in 2017. Mind • Promotion of safety sharing GHS-MSDS inspection safety events that participate in all subsidiaries so that an Expansion of safety • Safe & Fun Activity autonomous safety foundation can be established at all community awareness Expansion of Safety Culture by Complying with Safety sites, including steel mills. A regular council is held at each Regulations To ensure that directors and employees naturally become Activities to Eliminate Risk Factors site by Hyundai Steel, where suppliers can deliberate on Composition of Management Organization for aware of the importance of safety and to internalize safety In order to establish safety measures for risks within the major safety issues and share accident cases and safety Workplace Safety and Overall Health awareness, a number of safety activities are being carried workplace, Hyundai Steel works to remove high risks. improvement cases. To systematically manage workplace safety and health, we out. Additionally, 10 Core Safety Rules were established In particular, we have improved working conditions by have gone through an organization restructuring to form a and all employees are thoroughly complying with safety identifying risk factors in each work unit with high risk Industrial Accident Rate (Unit: %) safety and health center. The safety and health center acts as regulations at all business offices and sites. There were factors, and precisely analyzing such factors. Through a Control Tower for Industry Safety and Health in the company implementation issues and 5 restriction issues selected as these risk evaluations which are performed by site workers, as a whole, and manages industrial safety related issues in the Core Safety Rules issues, and penalties were added in practical safety measures are established for risks. In addition, each workplace including Dangjin Integrated Steelworks. In accordance with the Rules when they were breached. In 0.30 the safety department and suppliers jointly participate in 0.22 addition to existing company-wise safety diagnosis and safety addition, we held the 3rd ‘Challenge! Safety Green Bell’ 0.17 the Work Schedule Improvement Deliberation Committee, activities for major shut-own, a comprehensive occupational event for company employees. Through this Safety UCC and work together to reduce risks that may arises for our safety and health is under management through safety Contest we gave an award to the 22 employees with the suppliers at work. 517 practices involving high risks were 2014 2015 2016 evaluations and safety communication meetings targeted all best creations adjusted, and the best improvement cases were announced worksites. to other workplaces. Organization Structure of Occupational Safety and Health Safety Health Center Safety Management Office Dangjin Integrated Steelworks Incheon Works Pohang Works Line Safety Team Safety Health Team Safety Environment Team Safety Innovation Team Safety Management Team Suncheon Works Ulsan Works Yesan Works Safety Environment Team Safety Environment Team Safety Environment Team Safety Assessment Team Fire Safety Team Suncheon Forging Works Overseas Subsidiaries Health Management Team Safety Technology Team Business Support Team 17 subsidiaries 64 65 Sustainability Performance Win-Win Growth 07 Win-Win Growth Win-Win Growth System Operation Support We believe that strengthening win-win growth with SMEs Growth Committee, composed of executives from the Support and Protection of Technical Development is an effective way of enhancing our competitiveness. As sales, procurement and finance and economy divisions, to Hyundai Steel carries out joint research and development on the development performance, enabling us to improve winthe CSR Team is the exclusive department in charge of implement a group-wide commitment to win-win growth. to improve the technical capabilities of its suppliers and win cooperation and competitiveness of technical development win-win growth to develop and support win-win growth In addition, we established a working group under the develop superior products. We supported the evaluation of by sharing performances with suppliers. We jointly developed programs, it works to build long-term cooperative relations. Committee to carry out practical activities. characteristics of emergency backup power based on fuel cells a colored conveyor belt with Hwaseong Exwill, a first in Korea, To support shared growth, we established a Win-Win and direct reduced iron, the development of an optimal model completed national and international joint patent application, for charging electric arc furnace and a total of 17 joint research and were selected by the Fair-Trade Commission as a model Organization Structure of Win-Win Growth and development projects in 2016. Furthermore, we provide case of win-win cooperation. It is expected that we will achieve Win-Win Growth Committee financial support for joint applications to protect the technology a cost reduction effect that is greater than KRW 800 million Head : Director of Strategic Planning Division of our suppliers, and also the use of data by the deposit policy of through the relevant joint development, while the suppliers will Win-Win Growth Bureau technical data. We support a total of nine such cases; four cases expand their sales over KRW 110 million. Director of Bureau : CSR Manager for joint patent applications, four cases for patent applications Win-Win Strategic Dangjin and once for the use of the technology deposit policy in 2016. Growth Sales Procurement Finance Management R&D Incheon Pohang Committee Division Division Division Division Planning Division Center Integrated Steelworks Works Works Financial Support Marketing Steel materials procurement Finance Personnel affairs Business Technology Cooperation Management Management Support for Talent Recruitment and Training Financial Support Programs director director management director supporting planning director management director director Combined procurement director director director Hyundai Steel supports recruitment and training of suppliers Hyundai Steel runs financial support programs that can directly director to help them cope with manpower shortages and develop help its suppliers. We offer loans to our suppliers with interest Procurement support director talents. As one of these efforts, Hyundai Steel has established incomes raised from the Mutual Growth Fund (KRW 35 billion Practical Marketing Procurement planning team Finance team Personnel affairs Policy supporting Technical strategic (Dangjin) (Incheon) (Pohang) Work support Logistics contract team team team team Cooperation Cooperation Cooperation ‘Hyundai Steel’s exclusive online recruitment system.’ In addition, in 2015, KRW 37.5 billion in 2016, and KRW 37.5 billion in Committee team Combined procurement team Product management management management Minor material procurement development team team team we help suppliers attend Hyundai Steel’s recruitment fair held 2017). We also support loans of up to 80% of the supply team planning team Facility procurement team by the Win-Win Growth Committee so that individuals with contract for our suppliers, at a lower interest rate than banks Material procurement team Scrap strategic team outstanding talent can be recruited. We also support free after signing a Mutual Growth Bridge Loan Agreement. In training in core work courses by utilizing the government's addition, we donated KRW 0.2 billion to the Large & Small Support Project targeting directors and employees of suppliers. Business Cooperation Foundation with the capital for Mutual We offer employees of suppliers an opportunity to receive free Growth, which will be used to finance energy-saving facility Win-Win Growth Program and external consignment training from external professional installation projects for suppliers. Hyundai Steel also provided At the core of win-win growth , Hyundai Steel is working to been evaluated every year in order to faithfully carry out the training centers and share training needs, targeting directors KRW 8 billion in payment guarantee commissions to customer build partnerships with its suppliers. We operate a number Fair-Trade Agreement. The company will continue to work and employees in the numerous fields of leadership, quality, companies, and paid KRW 181.9 billion for early payments of win-win programs. In order to offer practical aid to ceaselessly to fulfill the win-win growth agreement and production, accounting and taxation in order to strengthen before national holidays to release capital flow burdens of suppliers the company has made programs such as such expand its support programs for suppliers, in order to boost their capabilities. suppliers. as financial aid, technical support, education and training, their competitiveness. In addition, Hyundai Steel will do its and recruitment support. In 2011, Hyundai Steel entered best to be a company that sets a good example of win-win Improvement of Suppliers’ Competitiveness into a win-win partnership agreement with the Fair-Trade growth. To support joint growth by improving the development Commission. The support status for suppliers has since competitiveness of new technology and new products, finding suppliers with the best technology capabilities and expanding Win-Win Growth Program outlets, we have operated a ‘Proposal center for localization, Fair-Trade compliance Fair-Trade and ethics • 4 execution issues of Fair-Trade Commission / Purchase Ethics Regulations / Fair-Trade Compliance Program substitute goods and improved goods’ for suppliers within management the purchase system since 2014. Suppliers can freely propose • Transparent purchase process / Payment conditions for supplying goods / Operation of combined purchasing material Fair purchase policy system technical development assignments through the proposal Win-win cooperation Funding • Joint growth fund / Network loan / Investment funding for joint growth / Win-win growth system center, and about 258 proposal assignments were registered in improvement 2016. Proposals are jointly studied and developed with suppliers Technical support / • Joint research and development support / Performance sharing policy / Joint patent application / Bailment of technical Technical protection data after reviewing improvements in steel making efficiency. Management support • Expansion support for outlets / Welfare policy / Management consulting / Training / Employment support After completing the development, we provide incentives such as long-term contracts with suppliers, contributing to Joint growth operation • Operate purchase cooperation committee and sub-division committee / New Year’s celebration by CEO of Hyundai Steel Construction and operation system of operation system with suppliers / Site visits to suppliers by management / Inside joint growth meeting / Pledge of ethics management / improvements in production and reductions in cost depending Operating dispute mediation meeting 66 67 Sustainability Performance Social Contribution 08 Social Contribution Communication with Suppliers Expansion of Suppliers’ CSR Social Contribution System Communication Channels for Suppliers Discrimination of Suppliers Vision and Mid-to-Long Term Strategy for Social Hyundai Steel provides diverse communication channels Hyundai Steel classifies major suppliers based on trade Contribution including New Year’s meetings and regular workshops amount, trade volume, evaluation scores of suppliers, etc. Hyundai Steel established a social contribution vision and values of circulation, communication and change, guided with the aim of establishing a win-win growth model that We support the CSR of suppliers by performing due diligence long-term strategy by taking its business competency and by the social contribution vision of the “100-year miracle and strengthens partnerships with suppliers, while creating a and safety evaluation on companies for major suppliers and social demand into consideration. We execute sustainable change with you.” forum for the discussion of various issues. At the beginning companies with partial risks. and faithful social contribution activities based on three core of each year, we hold New Year’s meetings with purchase (Units: Number of companies, KRW 100 million) suppliers. In 2016, 197 employees from 195 suppliers, Vision including CEOs, attended the meeting and made a firm Classification 2016 commitment to achieving win-win growth by implementing Total number of suppliers 2,485 100-year Miracle and Change with You safety management. We also held regular workshops Number of major suppliers 314 for 232 suppliers on 25 major products of the combined purchasing office to introduce the purchase policy and Total purchase amount of suppliers Purchase amount of major suppliers 84,667 44,325 ‘‘ Hyundai Steel always with you ’’ product operation methods, report problems, offer proposals and share market status as well as various other issues. Furthermore, the first technology workshop was Establishment of Basis Compliance of Suppliers held, at which a total of 111 products from 56 suppliers When evaluating new suppliers, what Hyundai Steel assesses were displayed. In addition, we are trying to improve the includes their social responsibility about worksites and safety Creating Shared Value working conditions at workplaces and improve productivity as well as financial status, product quality and technology. by selecting the best products. Suppliers are also registering In addition, we encourage all suppliers to establish work Core Values as new enterprises, and opportunities are being provided to processes that support social responsibility in terms of their them to achieve long-term supplier rights. employees' human rights, industrial safety and health, and environment protection based on ‘Code of Conducts for Stakeholder Value Circulation Social Innovation Engagement Customer Satisfaction Surveys for Purchase Suppliers Hyundai Steel Suppliers.’ To work with suppliers to identify problems in transactions Contribute to business and social value creation Lead various bodies and expand impacts Pursue changes and basic problem resolutions and make improvements, Hyundai Steel has carried out Evaluation of Suppliers’ Sustainability by utilizing the resources and capabilities of the based on communication with internal and over social issues overall value chain external shareholders Customer Satisfaction Surveys of purchase suppliers. The In order to remind suppliers of the need to raise safety ▶ Contributing to a reduction of resource ▶ Expand shareholder participation ▶ Contributing to the resolution of social surveys targeted 1,243 suppliers with transaction amounts awareness and manage any risks to the human rights and circulation and environment impacts ▶ Improve internal and external awareness problems ▶ Contributing to a society based on beauty ▶ Building a self-supporting base of more than KRW 100 million in 2016. These included potential safety accidents, we regularly evaluate safety. evaluations in a range of categories including the contract Companies that want to participate in any construction Main Activities process, personnel in charge of purchasing, purchase system contract are subject to an evaluation of safety manuals, House Repair – Energy Efficiency Project Happy Yes University Student Volunteer Group Science Academy and creation of an environment and culture that is focused construction licenses, safety and health management Gift Giving Campaign Sport CSR in China on suppliers. Based on the results of these surveys, we systems, safety education execution, etc. In addition, we H-Together Travel Camp Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers in India H-USR Social Enterprise Expert Program developed plans for improvement, and expect to strengthen inspect the site of new suppliers, major contractors, etc. In Global CSR Local Development Project in communication with our suppliers. particular, Hyundai Steel inspects the working conditions Myanmar by checking the safety level at workplaces, ensuring that Link to SDGs workers wear protection devices. We also listen to any difficulties our suppliers may address. Sustainability was Goal 11 E stablishing inclusive, Goal 3  nsure healthy lives and E Goal 1 E  nding all types of safe, recoverable and promote well-being for poverty in all countries evaluated at 59% by all suppliers from 2014 to 2016. sustainable cities and all at all ages Through this evaluation, 1% of our suppliers were residential areas classified as high risk (less than 70 points based on internal construction safety evaluation). All suppliers with high risk Goal 12 E stablishing a sustainable Goal 10 E nding imbalances Goal 4 Securing comprehensive improved their sustainability performance by establishing a consumption and within the country, and and balanced high production pattern between countries quality education and remedial action plan. We aim to increase the rate of suppliers increasing lifelong education for the sustainability evaluation to 65% in 2017. opportunities for all 68 69 Sustainability Performance Social Contribution Social Contribution Performance Stakeholder Engagement Social Contribution Cost (Unit: KRW million) Employee Volunteer Participation Rate (Unit: %) Happy Yes University Student Volunteer Group Gift Giving Campaign Hyundai Steel runs the Happy Yes University Student Employees directly provide gift-sharing services for neighbors, 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Volunteer Group with the responsibility of talent fostering for targeting low-income residents on New Year’s Day and 10,567 13,272 14,492 95 97 98 sharing and taking care of neighbors by university students. Thanksgiving Day. The gift-sharing activities are appreciated The Happy Yes Group selects 100 national university by municipalities every year, with the company visiting Matching Grants Amount (Unit: KRW million) Employee Volunteer Hours1) (Unit: hours) students and is operated as a one-year program. It provides 400 houses and 130 welfare centers in 2016. Employees 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 local services based on the region of national worksites. directly deliver greetings, food and essential products to local 759 859 901 128,122 85,069 86,222 For 2016, the 8th Happy Yes University Student Volunteer residents, and work to build strong relations with them. 1) Reduced mandatory volunteer hours and increased the persons subject to Group worked based on the idea of ‘upcycling’ in which mandatory participation starting from 2015 based on general employee. abandoned goods are recycled to create new value and H-USR provide services, by utilizing the original ideas of the 100 H-USR is a social contribution business that is jointly Value Circulation participants. executed and planned by Hyundai Steel's labor union and Status of House Repair in 2016 House Repair – Energy Efficiency Project management. The goal is to meet its social responsibilities, House Repair – Energy Efficiency Project aims to contribute to and communicate with residents at all times. We are leading social welfare by providing three benefits: improved welfare Incheon : 23 houses local development by creating numerous local tailored service through a reduction in energy costs such as heating costs programs, such as the installation of fire prevention goods in Dangjin : 26 houses by enhancing the energy efficiency of residential conditions, run-down houses within the region. 1 protection an improved environment through the reduction of CO2 center for the emissions, as well as job creation through connections disabled between self-sufficient enterprises and social enterprises Pohang : 21 houses targeting energy poverty and low-income residents. The project's goal is to renovate a total of 1,000 houses from 2011 to 2020, with the energy efficient construction of Suncheon : 14 houses 668 households and 1 welfare center achieved by 2016. Representative projects have included window replacement, indoor and outdoor insulation, boiler, wall papering, LED, etc. In 2015, energy-efficient construction projects were also provided for 84 houses and 1 welfare center in Incheon, Pohang, Dangjin and Suncheon, where Hyundai Steel’s worksites are located. Analysis of Project Effects in 2016 (Based on annual effect per house) Happy Yes University Student Volunteer Group Houses Social Welfare 1.276kg per Facilities 1,058.4kg per house facility (193 pine trees) (160 pine trees) Heating cost Heating cost KRW 175,588 KRW 138,660 Improvement rate of per year confidentiality : an average of 39.2% • Participated in by 13 social enterprises and self-sufficiency enterprises (about 433 workers participated in construction) • Supporting community : Social Cooperative of Korea Residential Welfare • Introduction of activities through media 44 cases Gift Giving Campaign H-USR 70 71 Sustainability Performance Social Contribution Social Innovation Global CSR – Local Development Project in Myanmar H Science Academy Hyundai Steel conducted CSR activities for local development job training and livestock were also provided to increase the Hyundai Steel runs its Astronomical Universe and Science Sport CSR in China to develop 6 target villages in Taung Bi Lay in Mandalay, independence of local residents. In addition, Hyundai Steel Camp at KAIST Science Camp and Songam Space Center as By utilizing the potential of the women’s soccer group, Red Myanmar, where the severe water shortage makes it difficult engaged in a range of activities to work with local residents by a project to foster future science talents by utilizing the Angels, a Chinese sport CSR was launched. We entered to secure drinking water and maintain health, hygiene, and dispatching 30 employee volunteers to Myanmar, which did infrastructure of customers’ companies. Last year, 780 young into Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Tapping education, especially for women and children. As a result of work such as repairing village facilities and providing training scientists had a chance to get closer to their dreams through Middle School of Chongqing, China and pledged special work conducted over 3 years from 2014 to 2016, 4,450 local to local residents. Through the volunteer survey, 95% of professional science education and rare astronomical education facilities and environmental improvement activities residents and children were supported. Work was done to participants showed positive attitudes toward service activities experiences. for 3 years, to improve the technology for the Chinese establish a community center and water supply facilities, and and increased self-esteem for the company. juvenile soccer team. Economy Improvement •Support for agricultural education and agricultural activities •Support for education and activities related to livestock Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers in India Activities •Job Technology Training •Composition of village credit union When the residents of Chennai (India) experienced the worst Social Enterprise Expert Program Building the Capacity of Local •Active support for Saemaul Undong Committee flooding in 100 years, the Happy Move Youth Volunteers Since reaching an agreement with the Graduate School of Communities •Formation of village drinking water committee and improvement of capabilities of Hyundai Automobile Group were dispatched to India Sungkonghoe University Institute for Social Welfare in 2007, •Awareness improvement activities for sanitation targeting residents and schools in January and July to help the desperate local residents Hyundai Steel actively invests in fostering experts to support Construction of Infrastructure •Building of community center •Building of 6 residential service centers in Chennai, and 100 volunteers participated on behalf of stable operations of social enterprises and contribute to the •Construction of drinking water facilities Hyundai Steel. Over a period of 2 weeks, houses that had creation of jobs for socially vulnerable classes. As of 2016, collapsed due to the flooding were reconstructed and water a total of 451 NGO activists had participated in domestic or Major Performances (2014~2016) restoration services were carried out to restore drinking water overseas training under this program. In an analysis of the effects of the 3-year project that began in 2014, it was found that rest room facilities, drinking water sources, etc. for residents were improved. Economic independence levels were also found to be increased in terms of owning livestock and risen annual income per households. facilities. Annual income per household (Unit: MMK) Toilet status in houses (Unit: %) Before project Before project After project After project 1,500,000 1,000,000 57.4 40.3 500,000 32.8 22.8 19.3 8.5 12.9 1.3 4.7 0 0 Seabunda U Yin Thel Yar Iyatti Iyama Ayaro Flush Conventional Pit Outdoor Others Su Chaung toilet toilet defecation H Science Academy Sport CSR in China Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers in India Social Enterprise Expert Program Global CSR – Local Development Project in Myanmar 72 73 Financial Statement Independent Audit Report 75 76 Hyundai Steel Company March 7, 2017 To the shareholders and the board of directors of Hyundai Steel, Independent Audit Consolidated Statements Report of Financial Position We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Hyundai Steel, which comprise the statement 77 78 of financial position as of December 31, 2016 and as of December 31, 2015, the statement of income and expenses, the statement of changes in net assets and the cash flow statement for the fiscal year then ended, as well as a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes to the financial statements. Consolidated Statements Consolidated Statements Responsibility of the Management of Hyundai Steel for the financial statements of Comprehensive Income of Changes In Equity The management is responsible for the preparation and proper overall presentation of the financial statements in accordance with K-IFRS (Korean International Financial Reporting Standards) relating to the preparation of financial statements and for the internal controls considered necessary to enable the financial statements to be 79 prepared such that they are free from material misstatement, irrespective of whether this is due to fraud or error. Responsibility of Auditor Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted Consolidated Statements our audit in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with of Cash Flows professional conduct requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the judgment of the auditor, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control Financial relevant to the entity’s preparation and proper overall presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of evaluating the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the management of Hyundai Steel, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Audit Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Hyundai Steel as of Statement December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, and of the results of its operations and changes in its net assets and cash flows for the fiscal year then ended in accordance with K-IFRS (Korean International Financial Reporting Standards). 27th Floor, Gangnam Finance Center, 152, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Samjong KPMG CEO Kim, Kyo Tae This report is effective as of the auditors’ report date (March 7, 2017). Certain subsequent events or circumstances that could significantly affect the accompanying financial statements may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. This may result in modifications to the auditors’ report. 74 75 Financial Statement Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 52nd (As of December 31, 2016) 51st (As of December 31, 2015) Consolidated Statements of 52nd January 1, 2016 ~ December 31, 2016 51st January 1, 2015 ~ December 31, 2015 50th (As of December 31, 2014) Comprehensive Income 50th January 1, 2014 ~ December 31, 2014 (Unit: KRW) (Unit: KRW) nd st th nd st 52 51 50 52 51 50th Assets Sales 16,691,511,903,578 16,132,512,865,309 16,762,359,710,587 I. Total current assets 6,794,973,724,870 6,666,847,614,070 6,120,637,512,290 Cost of sales 14,230,770,140,074 13,701,874,413,909 14,441,611,789,482 Cash and cash equivalents 737,221,941,998 820,293,377,680 695,483,722,766 Short-term financial instruments 168,948,368,210 188,951,393,609 180,376,679,213 Gross profit 2,460,741,763,504 2,430,638,451,400 2,320,747,921,105 Trade and other receivables 2,371,015,053,950 2,249,012,150,413 2,165,675,060,100 Income tax refund receivables 5,375,277,677 7,826,134,909 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,015,739,681,950 966,496,708,672 829,609,437,617 Inventories 3,407,724,268,132 3,287,218,827,476 2,953,972,759,040 Operating income 1,445,002,081,554 1,464,141,742,728 1,491,138,483,488 Current derivative financial assets 2,293,590,840 13,102,025,933 Other current financial assets 12,524,302,685 11,155,109,690 10,239,054,061 Financial income(loss) (296,660,642,264) (483,000,111,481) (412,440,010,856) Other current assets 89,870,921,378 89,288,594,360 110,890,237,110 Assets held-for-sale 4,000,000,000 Finance income 173,529,171,303 117,331,770,752 215,284,187,056 II. Total non-current assets 25,594,298,137,478 25,269,585,923,391 22,813,161,889,858 Finance costs (470,189,813,567) (600,331,882,233) (627,724,197,912) Non-current trade and other receivables 1,158,057,701 8,770,152,807 678,280,455 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,554,528,785,625 1,450,944,101,872 1,391,086,795,524 Share of profit of associates 10,016,558,035 9,494,766,187 11,528,755,804 Investments in associates 116,200,718,756 116,252,881,797 115,567,455,953 Investment property, net 217,788,377,990 218,603,025,027 219,547,800,590 Other income(loss) (28,128,084,449) (63,908,980,783) 8,523,858,973 Property, plant and equipment, net 21,645,220,541,999 21,410,717,552,774 19,572,284,839,279 Other income 186,195,985,041 158,269,731,293 113,083,893,829 Intangible assets, net 1,793,114,184,759 1,852,604,842,964 1,341,026,934,109 Non-current derivative financial assets 5,079,504,160 6,701,054,854 179,795,443 Other expenses (214,324,069,490) (222,178,712,076) (104,560,034,856) Other non-current financial assets 206,506,412,675 160,784,922,645 163,058,581,621 Net profit before taxes (loss) 1,130,229,912,876 926,727,416,651 1,098,751,087,409 Deferred tax assets 23,684,318,003 20,050,477,048 8,936,135,910 Other non-current assets 31,017,235,810 24,156,911,603 795,270,974 Income tax expense 296,251,392,313 187,560,785,017 316,455,731,694 Total assets 32,389,271,862,348 31,936,433,537,461 28,933,799,402,148 Liabilities Profit for the year 833,978,520,563 739,166,631,634 782,295,355,715 I. Total current liabilities 6,813,114,744,937 6,657,440,588,526 5,885,585,483,280 Other comprehensive income (loss) 61,130,379,315 4,780,706,148 (274,251,709,106) Trade and other payables 2,853,552,359,281 2,458,879,019,012 1,878,044,862,366 Short-term borrowings 1,105,519,933,343 1,893,484,852,382 1,866,156,485,598 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss: Current portion of bonds 1,229,574,853,669 1,400,372,814,106 939,428,697,679 Current portion of long-term borrowings 1,380,403,113,648 653,378,892,365 901,396,915,873 Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities 32,880,453,191 (43,861,423,284) (37,144,653,242) Income taxes payable 125,783,258,670 116,558,353,459 155,714,100,593 Items that will be never reclassified to profit or loss: Current derivative financial liabilities 53,778,063 2,462,403,736 3,547,937,388 Other non-current financial liabilities 399,928,829 363,400,000 Gain (loss) on fair value of AFS financial assets 78,112,403,529 43,195,756,621 (234,490,797,459) Other current liabilities 117,827,519,434 131,940,853,466 141,296,483,783 Total non-current liabilities 9,212,518,096,258 9,758,994,346,807 9,233,426,347,053 Gain(loss) on overseas operations translation (268,459,688) 60,873,776 48,247,354 Bonds 4,070,640,241,437 4,579,221,197,078 4,591,033,769,870 Items that will be never reclassified to profit or loss: (42,343,702,850) 6,678,963,874 (3,005,447,617) Long-term borrowings 4,285,664,696,687 4,409,825,463,846 3,951,602,154,045 Non-current derivative financial liabilities 58,509,696,562 15,171,928,432 10,863,741,027 Re-measurements of defined benefit plan (7,250,314,867) (1,293,464,839) 340,941,858 Other non-current financial liabilities 865,506,000 1,079,963,151 1,969,126,768 Total comprehensive income for the year 895,108,899,878 743,947,337,782 508,043,646,609 Defined benefit liabilities 43,646,291,389 95,944,442,610 78,086,550,340 Deferred tax liabilities 682,261,812,665 601,066,165,970 555,479,831,666 Profit attributable to: Other non-current liabilities 70,929,851,518 56,685,185,720 44,391,173,337 Total liabilities 16,025,632,841,195 16,416,434,935,333 15,119,011,830,333 Owners of the parent company 818,763,275,714 733,620,694,702 764,761,099,904 Equity Non-controlling interests 15,215,244,849 5,545,936,932 17,534,255,811 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent 16,070,417,085,335 15,242,022,800,475 13,623,903,615,917 Company Total comprehensive income attributable to: Share capital 667,228,925,000 667,228,925,000 582,748,920,000 Share premium 3,914,352,871,253 3,921,954,413,634 2,869,623,263,719 Owners of the parent company 879,862,765,713 738,633,546,738 492,147,213,595 Retained earnings 10,548,492,652,600 9,794,918,989,922 9,191,935,247,743 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,069,448,968,948 1,040,931,727,413 992,190,799,354 Non-controlling interests 15,246,134,165 5,313,791,044 15,896,433,014 Treasury stock (129,106,332,466) (183,011,255,494) (12,594,614,899) Earnings per share Non-controlling interests 293,221,935,818 277,975,801,653 190,883,955,898 Total equity 16,363,639,021,153 15,519,998,602,128 13,814,787,571,815 Basic earnings per share 6,253 5,955 6,600 Total liabilities and equity 32,389,271,862,348 31,936,433,537,461 28,933,799,402,148 76 77 Financial Statement Consolidated Statements of 52nd January 1, 2016 ~ December 31, 2016 51st January 1, 2015 ~ December 31, 2015 Consolidated Statements of 52nd January 1, 2016 ~ December 31, 2016 51st January 1, 2015 ~ December 31, 2015 Changes In Equity 50th January 1, 2014 ~ December 31, 2014 Cash Flows 50th January 1, 2014 ~ December 31, 2014 (Unit: KRW) (Unit: KRW) nd st Capital 52 51 50th Capital Capital surplus Profit surplus Accumulated other Treasury stock Non-controlling Total Cash flows from operating activities 2,916,568,140,314 3,075,906,331,603 1,936,559,205,481 comprehensive interest capital Cash generated from operations 3,455,050,670,695 3,755,742,783,525 2,555,464,054,316 income Profit for the year 833,978,520,563 739,166,631,634 782,295,355,715 1 Jan, 2014 (beginning capital) 582,748,920,000 2,869,623,263,719 8,520,651,019,336 1,229,267,065,166 (12,594,614,899) 174,987,522,884 13,364,683,176,206 Additions of expenses and others not involving cash outflows 2,222,646,043,470 2,195,469,427,565 2,201,236,843,071 Total Net profit 764,761,099,904 17,534,255,811 782,295,355,715 comprehensive Deduction of income and others not involving cash inflows (91,841,671,988) (91,194,629,922) (124,742,722,609) Profit and loss on available (234,428,329,897) (62,467,562) (234,490,797,459) income financial assets for sale Changes in assets and liabilities: 490,267,778,650 912,301,354,248 (303,325,421,861) Loss on valuation of 16,569,844 31,677,510 48,247,354 Trade and other receivables (143,569,698,871) 881,783,898,237 (76,388,909) investment stock using the Inventories (118,752,421,368) 507,544,228,517 247,249,344,813 equity method Other current financial assets (577,636,722) 1,864,505,161 1,442,079,054 Gain and loss on valuation of (3,005,447,617) (3,005,447,617) derivatives instruments Other current assets (1,524,190,234) 48,466,217,570 (11,193,332,187) Gain or loss on overseas 340,941,858 340,941,858 Other non-current financial assets (46,549,896,040) 1,386,963,734 (12,458,255,459) operations Other non-current assets (5,998,050,846) (42,992,464,688) (11,703,442) Remeasurements of net (35,537,620,497) (1,607,032,745) (37,144,653,242) defined benefit liabilities Trade and other payables 921,594,549,825 (331,141,619,497) (450,869,690,082) Total comprehensive income 729,223,479,407 (237,076,265,812) 15,896,433,014 508,043,646,609 Other current liabilities (11,391,021,220) (35,774,826,330) 17,062,727,516 Transaction Year-by dividend (57,939,251,000) (57,939,251,000) Other non-current financial liabilities (64,457,151) (530,046,207) (105,622,437) with Acquire treasury stocks Shareholders Other non-current liabilities 4,875,815,718 3,383,475,656 21,177,452,170 Sell treasury stocks Derivative financial assets and liabilities (898,982,989) 3,526,140,882 (295,112,167) Variation caused by a merger Payment of severance benefit (55,958,978,952) (52,002,113,817) (37,488,867,912) Non-controlling interest relating to business Plan assets (50,917,252,500) (72,989,224,299) (77,812,225,761) combinations Transference between affiliates (223,780,671) 54,172,942 Additional acquisition Interest received 14,099,625,122 12,267,793,228 18,653,784,498 of investment stocks in subsidiaries Dividends received 36,582,291,300 25,631,989,050 19,970,650,750 31 Dec, 2014 capital at the end of the year) 582,748,920,000 2,869,623,263,719 9,191,935,247,743 992,190,799,354 (12,594,614,899) 190,883,955,898 13,814,787,571,815 Interest paid (364,762,993,633) (428,617,729,728) (433,703,098,068) 1 Jan, 2015 (capital at the beginning of the year) 582,748,920,000 2,869,623,263,719 9,191,935,247,743 992,190,799,354 (12,594,614,899) 190,883,955,898 13,814,787,571,815 Income taxes paid (224,401,453,170) (289,118,504,472) (223,826,186,015) Total Net profit 733,620,694,702 5,545,936,932 739,166,631,634 Cash flows from investing activities (1,975,836,583,133) (2,204,974,608,792) (1,131,402,279,238) comprehensive Profit and loss on available 43,330,573,572 (134,816,951) 43,195,756,621 Cash inflows from investing activities 714,510,389,415 1,016,217,380,082 820,984,295,734 income financial assets for sale Decrease in short-term financial instruments 689,199,360,578 826,602,501,627 769,098,931,570 Loss on valuation of 24,855,452 36,018,324 60,873,776 investment stock using the Decrease in other current financial assets 948,000 equity method Disposition of assets held for sale 500,000,000 Gain and loss on Valuation of 6,678,963,874 6,678,963,874 Derivatives Instruments Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets 1,291,396,334 13,765,004,416 5,839,247,437 Gain or loss on overseas (1,293,464,839) (1,293,464,839) Sell investment stocks in subsidiaries 120,944,457 operations Sell investment stocks in associates 206,250,000 Remeasurements of net (43,728,076,023) (133,347,261) (43,861,423,284) Proceeds from disposal of investment property 299,950,000 531,500,000 651,227,945 defined benefit liabilities Total comprehensive income 689,892,618,679 48,740,928,059 5,313,791,044 743,947,337,782 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 18,837,721,267 22,616,853,198 37,275,028,583 Transaction Year-by dividend (86,908,876,500) (904,103,450) (87,812,979,950) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 4,554,766,779 2,353,464,248 1,003,663,985 with Decrease in other non-current financial assets 7,115,248,214 Acquire treasury stocks (113,971,516,091) (113,971,516,091) Shareholders Sell treasury stocks Cash inflows resulting from mergers 149,848,056,593 Variation caused by a merger 84,480,005,000 1,060,311,131,904 (56,445,124,504) 1,088,346,012,400 Cash outflows from investing activities (2,690,346,972,548) (3,221,191,988,874) (1,952,386,574,972) Non-controlling interest 103,745,666,413 103,745,666,413 Increase in short-term financial instruments (668,511,108,338) (830,320,560,802) (806,448,750,337) relating to business combinations Increase in other current financial assets (924,000) Additional acquisition (7,979,981,989) (21,063,508,252) (29,043,490,241) Increase in other current assets (29,430,000,000) of investment stocks in Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (895,365,000) (14,174,035,000) (4,788,585,000) subsidiaries Acquisition of investments in associates (297,000,000) (203,720,000) 31 Dec, 2015 (capital at the end of the year) 667,228,925,000 3,921,954,413,634 9,794,918,989,922 1,040,931,727,413 (183,011,255,494) 277,975,801,653 15,519,998,602,128 1 Jan, 2016 (capital at the beginning of the year) 667,228,925,000 3,921,954,413,634 9,794,918,989,922 1,040,931,727,413 (183,011,255,494) 277,975,801,653 15,519,998,602,128 Net cash flow resulting from the acquisition of subsidiaries (112,436,134,700) Total Net profit 818,763,275,714 15,215,244,849 833,978,520,563 Acquisition of investment property (3,206,500) comprehensive Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (1,975,678,163,197) (2,216,676,691,960) (1,053,776,305,350) Profit and loss on available 77,778,119,910 334,283,619 78,112,403,529 income financial assets for sale Acquisition of intangible assets (44,965,336,013) (47,581,359,912) (48,215,389,594) Loss on valuation of (109,615,129) (158,844,559) (268,459,688) investment stock using the Increase in other non-current financial assets (9,522,900,691) equity method Cash flows from financing activities (1,016,927,996,226) (746,235,646,146) (875,419,990,222) Gain and loss on Valuation of (42,343,702,850) (42,343,702,850) Cash inflows from financial activities 10,252,742,860,965 11,772,611,754,589 9,196,533,421,448 Derivatives Instruments Proceeds from short-term borrowings 7,779,049,609,999 7,840,992,912,839 7,611,772,858,264 Gain or loss on overseas (6,807,560,396) (442,754,471) (7,250,314,867) operations Proceeds from bonds 916,263,130,000 1,205,122,200,000 826,667,500,000 Remeasurements of net 32,582,248,464 298,204,727 32,880,453,191 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 1,557,430,120,966 2,726,496,641,750 758,093,063,184 defined benefit liabilities Cash outflows from financial activities (11,269,670,857,191) (12,518,847,400,735) (10,071,953,411,670) Total comprehensive income 851,345,524,178 28,517,241,535 15,246,134,165 895,108,899,878 Repayment of short-term borrowings (8,474,167,472,579) (8,227,378,410,685) (8,568,268,474,441) Transaction Year-by dividend (97,771,861,500) (97,771,861,500) with Repayment of the current portion of debentures (1,401,160,000,000) (940,000,000,000) (679,822,660,214) Acquire treasury stocks Shareholders Repayment of the current portion of long-term borrowings (939,109,903,274) (1,112,977,695,270) (608,711,762,009) Sell treasury stocks (7,601,542,381) 53,904,923,028 46,303,380,647 Variation caused by a merger Redemption of debentures (200,000,000,000) (20,000,000,000) (141,400,000) Non-controlling interest Repayment of long-term borrowings (157,461,619,838) (2,016,706,798,739) (157,069,864,006) relating to business Payment of dividends (97,771,861,500) (87,812,979,950) (57,939,251,000) combinations Acquisition of treasury stock (113,971,516,091) Additional acquisition of investment stocks in Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (6,874,996,637) 113,578,249 380,473,895 subsidiaries Net increase(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (83,071,435,682) 124,809,654,914 (69,882,590,084) 31 Dec, 2016 (capital at the end of the year) 667,228,925,000 3,914,352,871,253 10,548,492,652,600 1,069,448,968,948 (129,106,332,466) 293,221,935,818 16,363,639,021,153 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 820,293,377,680 695,483,722,766 765,366,312,850 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 737,221,941,998 820,293,377,680 695,483,722,766 78 79 Non-Financial Statement INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 81 83 Introduction Hyundai Steel Company (“Hyundai Steel”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to INDEPENDENT STAKEHOLDER undertake independent assurance of Hyundai Steel Integrated Report 2017 (the “Report”). DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. STATEMENT Scope of assurance 84 86 The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period from 1st January to 31st December 2016. This also includes: • Evaluation of the Report on the adherence to the principles for defining the sustainability report content set forth in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 Materiality Test GRI Index • Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. Basis of our opinion The assurance engagement was planned and carried out using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1), which is based on our 89 90 professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We provided the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in May through June 2017 and the site visits were made to the headquarters in Seoul and Dangjin Integrated Steelworks of Hyundai Steel. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: Non-Financial • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data UNGC and UN SDGs GHG Assurance management system, information flow and controls; Statement • interviewed representatives from the various departments; • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; • reviewed the materiality assessment report; • visited Dangjin Integrated Steelworks and tested the environmental data gathering process. Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Hyundai Steel’s subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss. or.kr) as well as Hyundai Steel’s website (www.hyundai-steel.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are Statement not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for environmental and social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. The directors of Hyundai Steel have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of Hyundai Steel in accordance with the terms of reference. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4 Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) 80 81 Non-Financial Statement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Inclusiveness Hyundai Steel is always interested in listening to the opinions of its stakeholders, who directly and indirectly exert an influence in Hyundai Steel has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Subcontractors and Suppliers, Employees, Local enterprise management activities. We define customer companies, suppliers, employees, local communities, shareholders, investors community, Shareholders and Investors, and NGOs/government/Journalist. Hyundai Steel engages with the stakeholders at the company and so on as our major stakeholders, and have a variety of communication channels so that we can listen to their opinions. By and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with selected stakeholders and relevant transparently disclosing our financial and non-financial performances, we increase our transparency and reliability. Also, we are sharing organizations are described in the Report. processing plans in the future. Sustainability Context Participation Channels for Stakeholders The Report presents ‘Vison 2025’ and roadmap to achieving this vision. In addition, the Report describes the business performance of Category Definition Position Communication channel Hyundai Steel with its business model. Hyundai Steel addresses how material issues grouped into 10 key aspects are managed and what was achieved in 2016, which would help the stakeholder understand the management approaches toward the material aspects. Customer Companies Basis of creation of •Marketing division Department meeting, technology seminar, economic and enterprise customer satisfaction survey, customers’ portal site, values homepage and newsletter Materiality Employees Vital employees for •Business management division Intranet, GWP, Smartboard, education program and laborHyundai Steel has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The relevant 34 issues selected from the analysis of the key sustainable growth •Strategy and planning division management cooperation issues in the global sustainability initiatives and international standards, sustainability reports of peers and sister companies (15 companies Suppliers Partners cooperating for a •Strategy and planning division Win-win growth pact, meeting, procurement system, including competitors, sister companies in Hyundai Motor Group, and other industry companies) The journalist reports on Hyundai win-win situation based on •Procurement division technology exchange meeting, homepage and news letter reliability •Dangjin Integrated Steelworks and Steel in 2016 are also analysed. The issues in the pool are rated by combining the level of impact on Hyundai Steel’s business and level of major works stakeholders’ interest in the issue. The prioritization is based on the stakeholder survey results. Hyundai Steel has ended up with 10 material Shareholders and Support source of energy for •Finance division General meeting of shareholders of financial department, issues through these evaluation processes. In additional, Hyundai Steel has presented the relevance of Hyundai Steel’s financial and risk Investors sustainable management performance presentation, NDR and conference, 1:1 aspects to selected key material issues. The audit team reviewed the materiality assessment process and noted that the relevant material meeting, visit to worksite and press release issues prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. Local Community Provide execution bases as •Strategic planning department Social contribution and global region development corporate citizen •Dangjin Integrated Steelworks and major works Completeness NGO, Government, Proposal of the direction for •Strategy and planning division Visit to worksites and press release The Report has covered the sustainability management approach and sustainability performances of Hyundai Steel for the reporting and Media the corporation •Dangjin Integrated Steelworks and period. The reporting boundary has been set for domestic business sites (Dangjin Integrated Steelworks, Incheon Works, Pohang Works, major works Suncheon Works, Suncheon Forging Works, Ulsan Works, Yesan Works) including headquarters in Seoul. The audit team noted that the performance results of material issues within the reporting boundary were reported without omissions in the Report. Case Study. Assessment of Social and Environmental Values Hyundai Steel is committed to creating social and environmental values as well as achieve excellent financial performance through its management activities. As a part of these efforts, we plan to quantitatively estimate the social and environmental values of our management activities. For the social and environmental values, internal Accuracy and Reliability We found a limited number of non-material errors and theses were corrected prior to inclusion in the Report. The data presented in the data of the corporation, environment data and external study data were evaluated. On the social side, dividends, interests, social contribution investments, win-win growth investments, and industrial disasters. were taken into account, while on the environment side, GHG emissions, water use and discharge of air pollutants were report were gathered from the teams responsible for data control in Hyundai Steel. The audit team verified the data and information based checked. Hyundai Steel recorded a total financial value of KRW 834 billion in 2016, and also handed over social and environmental values of KRW 487.6 billion to on sampling methodology during the verification process. The audit team interviewed the person-in-charge, reviewed the process of shareholders. gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated data. Based on sampling verification and other reported information and available evidence, nothing comes to our attention (Unit: KRW 100 million) that would cause us to believe that the data and information presented in the Report have any intentional error or material misstatement. Competence and Independence 5,225 -359 DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, 13,207 helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was Value Creation not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. The audit team has + KRW 487.6 complied with DNV GL’s Code of Conduct. 8,340 billion June 2017 Seoul, Korea In Kyoon Ahn Country Representative Financial Social Environmental Total DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. 82 83 Non-Financial Statement Materiality Test Materiality Materiality Test Process Test Result Hyundai Steel’s materiality test is based on the reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines: stakeholder HIGH inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness. It assessed the stakeholder impact and business relevance in 34 issues related to the characteristics of the steel industry and our business status. The assessment result well-reflected the nature of the steel industry, as the industrial issues of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Boards (SASB) and sustainability indices of the World Steel Association (WSA) were reviewed during the pooling and evaluating of the issues. Through the comments from stakeholders and experts that were part of the review, we found that each issue has an impact on the project. The materiality test was implemented in April 2017, and a total of 10 material issues were derived. Impact of Stakeholders Identification Assessment Prioritization • Derived 34 issues related to the • Evaluation of project relevance based • Selected 10 important issues based steel industry and Hyundai Steel by on number of articles related to steel on the results of an evaluation of the analyzing global benchmarking, industry trend and Hyundai Steel influences of stakeholders and project international standards and media • Evaluation of stakeholders’ relevance influence nce through questionnaires and interviews with stakeholders, directors and employees LOW Business Relevance HIGH Material Issues1) Impact of stakeholders Impact Material Aspects3) Page characteristics2) ➊ Reduction of environmental pollutant emissions Employees, suppliers, local Cost Raw material, water, 28~31, 57~63 communities, NGOs and emissions and overall issues government Evaluation Method ➋ Enhancement of health and safety in business Employees and suppliers Risk Occupational safety and 32~33, 64~65 offices health • Global benchmarking: Analyzed announced data targeting 15 companies including major enterprises and group ➌ Reinforcement of product Customer companies, Revenue Products and services 24~27, 50~51 subsidiaries in steel industry competitiveness through R&D employees and suppliers • International Standard: Analyzed relevant indices of GRI G4, ISO26000, UNGC, SASB, WSA, <IR> Framework and DJSI ➍ Activities to respond to climate change Employees, suppliers, Risk Energy 31, 62~63 • Media: Analyzed 2,614 articles from 29 media outlets, such as newspapers local communities, NGOs and government • Stakeholder questionnaire: Analyzed results of questionnaires targeting 136 directors, employees, NGOs, suppliers, customers, ➎ Management of wastes and resource Employees, suppliers, Cost Wastewater and wastes 29, 61~62 academy, specialists, etc. recovery, and boosting of by-products local communities, NGOs and government ➏ Development of director and Employees Risk Training and education 52~53 employee capabilities ➐ Responsibility for products and securing of safety Customer companies Risk Safety and health of 24~27 customers ➑ Establishment of good working conditions Employees Risk Employment 54~55 ➒ Fair-Trade Employees, suppliers, Risk Interference behavior in 41 NGOs and government competition ➓ Social contribution activities with works’ features Local communities, NGO and Risk Local communities 34~35, 69~73 government 1) Select 10 material issues out of 34 issues 2) Classify features of potential project impacts of issues into Cost, Risk and Revenue 3) Based on GRI G4 Aspect 84 85 Non-Financial Statement GRI Index General Standard Disclosure Specific Standard Disclosure Aspects Index Core Content Page Aspects Index Content Page References and Stated Omissions Strategy and G4-1 Core Statement from the most senior decision-maker 2~3 Environmental Analysis G4-2 Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2~3, 42~43 Materials G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 28 Organizational G4-3 Core Report the name of the organization 14 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Business report Profile G4-4 Core The primary brands, products, and services 20~21 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 60 G4-5 Core The location of the organization's headquarters 14~15 Energy G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 28 G4-6 Core The number of countries where the organizaion operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations 14~15 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 63 G4-7 Core The nature of ownership and legal form 38~39 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 63 G4-8 Core The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 14~15 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 62~63 G4-9 Core Scale of the organization 14 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 29~31 G4-10 Core Total workforce 14 Water G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 28 G4-11 Core The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 55 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 60 G4-12 Core The organization's supply chain 68 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 60 G4-13 Core Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, sutructure, ownerhsip, or its supply chain About this report G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 60 G4-14 Core Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 42~43 Emissions G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 28 G4-15 Core List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes 89 or endorses. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 63 G4-16 Core Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the 89 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 63 organization. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 63 Identified Material G4-17 Core List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Business report Aspects and G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 62~63 Boundaries G4-18 Core The porcess for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 84~85 G4-EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions 59 G4-19 Core List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 84~85 G4-20 Core 84~85 Effluents and G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 28 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization Waste G4-21 Core 84~85 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 60 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Core The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. About this report G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 62 G4-23 Core Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. About this report G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills No spill occurred Stakeholder G4-24 Core List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 83 G4-EN26 Identity, size, proteted status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and realted habitats significantly affected by the 63 Engagement organization's discharges of water and runoff G4-25 Core Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 83 Products and G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 24 G4-26 Core Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 83 Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitication of environmental impacts of products and services 25~27, 29~31 G4-27 Core Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key 83~85 topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Overall G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 28 Report Profile G4-28 Core Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About this report G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by tyep 58 G4-29 Core Date of most recent previous report (if any) About this report Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-30 Core Reporting cycle such as annual, biennial) About this report Employment G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 54 G4-31 Core Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this report G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new empoyee hires and empoyee turnover by age group, gender, and region 54 G4-32 Core Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen About this report G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant 55 G4-33 Core Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report About this report locations of operation. Governance G4-34 Core Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 38~39 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 54 G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior 38~39 Occupational G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 32 executives and other employees. Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that 65 G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental 38~39 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work65 G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 38~39 related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the 38~39 G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 33, 64~65 organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 65 G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating 38~39 and selecting highest governance body members. Training and G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 52 Educat G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. 38~39 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category 53 G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s 38~39 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and 52~53 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. assist them in managing career endings. G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and 38~39 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee 54 social topics. category G4-44 Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, 39 Society environmental and social topics Local Communities G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 34 G4-45 Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, 38~39 and opportunities. G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 35, 69~73 G4-47 38~39, 42 programs Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 14~15 G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 39 Anti-competitive G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 41 G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations 39 Behavior to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes No such actions occurred Ethics and G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Homepage(Code of Product Responsibility Integrity Conduct for Ethics Management) Customer Health G4-DMA Disclosure Management Approach 24 G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational 40 and Safety integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety No case impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to 40 organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 86 87 Non-Financial Statement GRI Index UNGC and UN SDGs Other Disclosure UNGC Aspects Index Content Page References and Stated Hyundai Steel joined UN Global Compact and complies with the Ten Principles in four areas of human rights, labor, environment, Omissions Economic and anti-corruption. The activities related to each principle can be found in the report. In addition, Hyundai Steel complies with Economic G4-EC1 Direct econmic value generated and distributed 46, 49 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework) and Performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 62~63 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 54 strives to prevent violations of human rights during its business processes. G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Business report Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 69~73 Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 73, 83 Areas Principle Page Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 68 Practices Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 54 Environmental Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 63 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 54~55 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Biodiversity 63 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 55 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 63 bargaining; G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas afected by 63 operaions, by level of extinction risk 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 54 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significatn fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with No case environmental laws and regluations 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 54 Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enviromental criteria 68 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 54 Environmental G4-EN33 significant actual and potential engative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 68 Assessment Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 57~63 Environmental G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievnce No case Grievance mechanisms 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 57~63 Mechanisms 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 28~31, 57~63 Labor Practices and Decent Work Labor/Management G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements. No regulations, but notify the union Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 40 Relations Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age 54 Opportunity group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal Remuneration G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of Business report for Women and operation. Men Supplier Assessment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria 68 for Labor Practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 68 UN SDGs Labor Practices G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 55 Hyundai Steel feels empathy on SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) and relevant activities in each objective are carried out as Grievance Mechanisms shown below. We are planning to raise the power of execution by establishing strategic proceeding assignments and expanding Human Rights Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that 68 the joint objectives in the future. underwent human rights screening. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that 100%, Sexual harassment are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. prevention training SDGs indicator Related activities Page Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. No case Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 55 Association may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere Global CSR – Local Development 73 and Collective Project in Myanmar Bargaining Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute 54~55, 68 Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Occupational Safety and Health 64~65 to the effective abolition of child labor. Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning H Science Academy, Social Enterprise 52~53, 72 Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to 54~55, 68 Compulsory Labor contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. opportunities for all Expert Program, HR Development Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant 100%, training by suppliers Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Family-Friendly Management 54 to operations. Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. 54~55 Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Management of Water Environment 60 Supplier Human G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 68 Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Energy Efficiency in Production Course 62 Rights Assessment G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 68 Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and Recruitment, Respect for Human Rights 54~55 Human Rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 55 Grievance mechanisms productive employment and decent work for all and Promotion of Diversity, Trust-Based Mechanisms Labor-Management Communication Society Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries H-Together Travel Camp, Happy Yes 35, 71 Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks 40 identified University Student Volunteer Group, G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 40 H-USR, Gift Giving Campaign Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary No donations to political parties or Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable House Repair – Energy Efficiency Project 70 politicians1) Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and No such actions occurred Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Recycling By-Products, Expansion of 61~62, 68 regulations Suppliers’ CSR Supplier Assessment G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 68 for Impacts on Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Climate Change Response 62~63 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 68 Society Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide Ethics Management 40 Grievance G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance No case Mechanisms for mechanisms access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at Impacts on Society all levels Product Responsibility Product and Service G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service No case Labeling information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 56 Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No case 1) Political contributions are illegal in Korea 88 89 Non-Financial Statement GHG Assurance Statement This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Hyundai Steel. LRQA's Opinion Based on LRQA's approach, we believe that the report is prepared in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea and the GHG emissions data in the Table 1 is materially correct. Terms of Engagement Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai Steel to provide independent assurance on its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory Report for the calendar year 2016 (the report) against GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea using Specification with guidance for verification of GHG assertions. The report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions. Dated: 21 March 2017 Management Responsibility SANG-KEUN YOO LRQA's responsibility is only to Hyundai Steel. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. The On behalf of Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Ltd. management of Hyundai Steel is responsible for preparing the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over all the data and 17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Korea information within the report. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Hyundai Steel. LRQA's Approach LRQA Reference: SEO 6046432 LRQA's assurance engagement has been carried out in accordance with our verification procedure using GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of GHG assertions to reasonable level of assurance. The following tasks were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: Table1. GHG emissions reported in the Report • Visiting sites and auditing management system to control the data and records regarding GHG emissions and energy uses Scope Year 2016 (as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea) • Interviewing the relevant persons responsible for managing and maintaining data and associated records Direct GHG Emissions 13,449,779 • Reviewing the historical data and information back to source for the calendar year 2016. Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 5,653,396 Total GHG Emissions 19,103,175 Data is presented in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Level of Assurance & Materiality The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance, and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier and at the materiality level of 2%. Lloyd's Register Group Limited , its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The Korean version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd's Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2017. A member of the Lloyd's Register Group. 90 91 About this report Reporting Outline This 2017 report is Hyundai Steel’s second Integrated Report that combines its Annual Report and Sustainability Report, and is intended to be a channel for communication with stakeholders regarding our management performance and sustainability management activities. The period report covers is from Jan 1, 2016 to Dec 31, 2016, and the report includes current data on main information having an impact on our stakeholders. The scope of the report includes the Head Office, Dangjin Integrated Steelworks, Incheon Works, Pohang Works, Suncheon Works, Suncheon Forging Works, Ulsan Works and Yesan Works. Reporting Principle The report was developed in accordance with the Global Reporting initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines based on the Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The specific details can be found on the GRI Index page. Reporting Feature The report provides Hyundai Steel’s activities and performances related to the main interests CSR Team, Strategic Planning Division of its stakeholders in the ‘Created Values’ section. The company’s main management system 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul including governance structures is described in ‘Governance’ and the main sustainable https://www.hyundai-steel.com performances of the company can be checked in ‘Sustainability Performance’. Report Assurance The report was verified by the global verification agency, DNV GL, based on the three principles of the ISAE3000: materiality, inclusiveness and responsiveness and the result can be found in pp.81~82. Reported by CSR Team, Strategic Planning Division 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul Cover The term, “BEYOND STEEL” in the middle, represents Hyundai Steel’s infinite possibilities and our company slogan, “Engineering the Story Future Beyond Steel.” At the top, we expressed our desire to better serve customers by adding new values to our products with the best technology and quality. At the bottom, we showed our intent to advance together with the society and become a responsible corporate citizen. With new products and services, Hyundai Steel will continue to grow together with our customers and society by offering differentiated value and exceeding their expectations.
