Länsförsäkringar AB Sustainability Report Extract from Länsförsäkringar AB’s Annual Report This is an extract from Länsförsäkringar AB’s Annual Report 2015 where the formal Sustainability Report is included. The extract also includes the Statement by the President from the Annual Report. Secure business for customers and a sustainable society Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB holds long-term respect for customers’ security. Extensive activities based on sustainability are carried out throughout the regional insurance companies. ­Sustainability is important in all parts of Länsförsäkringar AB’s operations. Sustainability is our social responsibility Statement by the President Länsförsäkringar applies a long-term approach to responsible investments, social commitment and claims prevention – areas where we truly can make a difference through our strong market position. For responsible investments, we firmly several Swedish sustainability surveys in ing the threat to climate and natural believe that well-managed, sustainable 2016 showed that the Swedish people and catastrophes. Integration and segregation companies are more profitable in the long our customers appreciate Länsförsäkringare also issues that we are determined to run. Claims prevention makes everyday life ar’s efforts in the sustainability area. influence. It is our social responsibility simpler for our customers and forms part New technology, new scientific results and an area in which we also can make of our environmental efforts. Preventing and changing customer requirements place a ­difference. a claim is always a win for the environment new demands on how we manage environand customers. Sustainability is also a mental and societal challenges. We will Johan Agerman ­matter of credibility – we practice what we strengthen our offering and build our role President, Länsförsäkringar AB preach. Accordingly, it is gratifying that as a partner in society, for example, regardStakeholder analysis Priority stakeholders Communication channels Issues Owners and board Reporting, decisions, Annual General Meeting Mission of operations, policies and guidelines, risks, long-term objectives Customers Self-assessment questionnaires, customer surveys Availability, service and quality, responsible investments, environmental and social responsibility integrated in offering, transparency Employees Training, employee surveys Code of conduct for employees, diversity, work environment and health, skills development Suppliers Procurement, self-assessment questionnaires, Code of conduct for suppliers, common social challenges, environmental strategic supplier control and social responsibility Partners and stakeholder Partnerships, surveys and questionnaires Responsible offering, common social challenges, climate change, environmental organisations and social responsibility Authorities Reporting, partnerships, surveys and questionnaires Responsible offering, environmental and social responsibility, standards and measurement methods Investors Reporting, partnerships, surveys and questionnaires Responsible offering, common social challenges, environmental and societal risks Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainability 1 Materiality analysis and y priority aspects lit sibi Su s on tai sp na l re ble cia ba so nk , in nd ala su ra nt n me ce on an vir dp Sustainable business en en sio r m Sustainability involves generating greater -te Social commitment Responsible investments ns ng value for customers and contributing to Lo Long-term environmental Responsible offering the sustainable development of society. work By offering banking and insurance services, Länsförsäkringar AB has many opportunities to incorporate financial, environmental and Vision: social aspects into business decisions and Responsible Together we create High sustainability operational development, which will benefit employer security and expertise among ac opportunities employees Attr customers and other stakeholders. This is Sustainability Cred ible essential for remaining a long-term partner tive requirements part for customers and business partners. on suppliers loye ner Stakeholders and materiality emp Material sustainability issues are identified r Regulatory and prioritised in cooperation with priority ­compliance stakeholders: customers, owners, employees, suppliers, partners, stakeholder organisations, authorities and investors. As owners and the recipients of services Transparency from Länsförsäkringar AB, the regional insurance companies hold a unique position among stakeholders since part of Länsringar AB strives to limit and reduce the risk 4. Long-term environmental work – pro­ försäkringar AB’s task is to create possibiliof climate impact, primarily through activiactive and preventive work to limit ties for the regional insurance companies ties in responsible investments and claims ­climate impact and reduce the use to be successful in their respective markets. prevention as well as long-term environof resources. Länsförsäkringar AB maintains a continuous mental work. 5. Responsible employer – aims to attract dialogue with these stakeholder groups, see and retain skilled employees. page 12. Direct and indirect impact 6. High sustainability expertise among Länsförsäkringar AB safeguards the Länsförsäkringar AB carries out regular analemployees – improves the offering and transparency of risks and opportunities in yses of risks and opportunities and its direct the internal operations. order to allow stakeholders to make sound and indirect impact on the entire value chain, 7. Regulatory compliance – a high level of assessments of how they can influence and from supplier to employees and customers. ambition regarding business ethics and are affected by the operations. EnvironA risk-based approach is particularly releanti-corruption. mental and societal risks can have a matevant in the areas of responsible offering, 8. Requirements on suppliers – for sustainrial impact on the business. There are also responsible investments, regulatory compliability throughout the supplier chain. opportunities to make an even greater conance and supplier requirements. A positive tribution to society and the environment, impact on the environment and society is Policies and overall governance for instance, in changing and adjusting to especially evident in the areas of social comThe eight priority aspects of sustainability a more fossil-free society. mitment and long-term environmental work. activities are detailed in a sustainability ­policy. The aim of this policy is to clarify the Most significant challenge Priority sustainability aspects governance and direction of such work, Climate change represents a major chalLänsförsäkringar AB has identified eight objectives and activities as well as monitorlenge to Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainabilpriority sustainability aspects based on ing and communication. Sustainability ity activities, as confirmed in dialogue and stakeholder dialogue and with the guidance activities are defined in the following policy collaboration with stakeholders. Climate of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): documents and instructions: owner policy, change – the result of higher carbon emis1. Responsible offering – insurance and credit policy, purchasing and procurement sions – increases the risk of global warming. bank services that take into account policy, code of conduct for suppliers, code It is likely that a warmer climate will have environmental and social risks. of conduct for employees, policy on inapmajor socio-economic consequences, and 2. Responsible investments – considers propriate benefits, anti-money laundering lead to extreme weather conditions such as environmental and social risks and genand financing terrorism policy, and guidehurricanes, torrential rain and drought. The erates higher returns for customers. lines on business travel and company cars. devastating effects for insurance compa3. Social commitment – claims prevention, nies and banks are obvious. Länsförsäkhealth promotion and research. 2 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainable bank, insurance and pensions Offering Länsförsäkringar AB firmly believes that investments made responsibly and an offering that takes into account environmental and societal risks will contribute to satisfied customers and the sustainable development of society. Responsible investments Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries invest in companies all over the world. The basic view is that well-managed, sustainable companies are a better investment in the long term. These companies should manage risks and opportunities related to business ethics, the environment and social issues in a responsible manner in order to remain competitive in the long run. Länsförsäkringar AB has signed the United Nations-­ supported Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) to mark this standpoint. Länsförsäkringar AB invests customers’ pension capital and offers both its own highly rated funds and recommended external funds. International conventions, active owner control, manager selection procedures and partnerships form the basis of responsible investments. Länsförsäkringar AB strives to transparently disclose the methods and procedures for respon­ sible investments. the analysed company to stop its breaches An area for preventive action in 2016 was and to take preventive measures to prevent the risk of child labour in the cocoa indusInternational conventions similar incidents from being repeated. If try, while another was water risks in several Working with responsible investments is dialogue does not achieve the desired companies in emerging markets. based on the international conventions results, the holdings in the company can, as signed by Sweden in the areas of environa last resort, be divested. The majority of Active owner control ment, human rights, labour rights, corruplisted share and bond holdings are analysed Owner control includes company dialogues tion and controversial weapons (nuclear in this manner. The analysis is performed for on sustainability issues, active participation weapons, cluster munitions, biological and direct investments and external funds in in the nomination committees of portfolio chemical weapons and landmines). An Länsförsäkringar AB’s investment portfolios companies to influence board compositions external ethics consultant company has and Länsförsäkringar’s own funds, and also and voting at general meetings. A long-term been engaged to analyse companies based for the recommended funds in Länsförsäkobjective is to increase diversity in terms of on these conventions. Based on these analringar’s fund market. gender, age and background, on the boards yses, Länsför­säkringar AB seeks to use diaFurthermore, as a preventive measure, of the portfolio companies. During the logue to exert influence on companies that Länsförsäkringar AB is in dialogue with annual general meeting season of 2016, the breach international norms. The aim is for companies on the subject of sustainability. percentage of women board members increased to 41% in the companies in which Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning particiActivities in responsible investments 2016 2015 pated in the nomination committee. LänsNumber of reactive1) company dialogues on sustainability pursued by ethics consultant on Länsförsäkringar AB’s behalf2) 107 105 försäkringar AB mainly votes at general Of which number of reactive company dialogues on sustainability that meetings of the companies that are part of Länsförsäkringar AB was involved in 30 38 its own funds, in which a substantial holding Number of preventive company dialogues on sustainability 19 24 exists or where it is important to vote for Number of black-listed companies regarding sustainability3) excluding coal companies 27 28 other reasons. Number of general meetings at which votes were cast4) 36 22 Participation in nomination committees 13 12 Partnerships with other investors 1) Reactive company dialogues refer to dialogues with companies in which a sustainability incident has occurred. Länsförsäkringar AB is an active member of 2) The ethics consulting firm engaged conducts dialogues with companies that appear in the firm’s ethics filter on behalf of Länsförsäkringar AB and other companies. Several of Länsförsäkringar AB’s external fund managers “Sustainable Value Creation,” a collaborative also maintain ongoing dialogues with companies on sustainability issues. 3) Pertains to black-listing direct ownership of shares and credit bonds. project comprising 17 of Sweden’s largest 4) Refers to annual and extraordinary general meetings. institutional investors and Nasdaq StockLänsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainability 3 holm, with the aim of highlighting the c­ arbon emissions. Major financial risks International partnerships on sustainability importance of working with sustainability are assessed by Länsförsäkringar AB when At the end of 2016, Länsförsäkringar Sak issues in a structured manner. In the 2016 investing in companies that base their operbecame the first Swedish insurance comcompany survey of the 200 largest Swedish ations on fossil fuels since fossil assets risk pany to sign the Principles for Sustainable listed companies, the majority stated that becoming “stranded assets.” LänsförsäkInsurance (PSI), the largest international they have processes and guidelines for their ringar AB decided in 2016 to divest mining initiative between the UN and the insurance sustainability efforts and sustainability companies and energy companies, that industry on sustainable insurance. By be-­ ­features on the board agenda. derive more than 50% of sales from thermal coming a signatory, Länsförsäkringar Sak Länsförsäkringar AB is an active memcoal, from all its funds and direct investwishes, by this action, to show a standpoint ber of Swesif, a trade association for susments to reduce its carbon footprint. on enhanced transparency on sustainable tainable investments. Swesif further develLänsförsäkringar AB has measured and insurance and social responsibility, as well oped the Sustainability Profile in 2016, an publicly disclosed the carbon footprint of as on its work on influencing and cooperatindustry standard containing information investment portfolios in accordance with ing to reduce environmental impact. on how funds apply sustainability criteria the international Montreal Pledge initiative Länsförsäkringar AB has already signed in their management, which makes it easier since 2015 and in accordance with the recthe Kyoto Statement of the Geneva Associfor fund savers to compare funds. ommendations of the Swedish Investment ation, which encourages the world’s insurDuring the year, Länsförsäkringar AB Fund Association and Insurance Sweden. ance companies to work together with cusparticipated in Insurance Sweden’s and the The analyst firm Trucost is commited to tomers, policy-makers and industry Swedish Investment Fund Association’s measure the carbon footprint of equity colleagues to help reduce environmental working groups on producing industry-wide funds. In 2016, Länsförsäkringar AB tried to impact. The Geneva Association, which has standards for measuring the carbon footpersuade more companies through dialogue existed for 40 years, has a global partnerprint of investments, and a couple of colto start reporting their emissions, since ship on economic, political and social issues laboration projects on climate issues via the many companies do not report this. in the insurance industry. CDP and PRI. CDP is an organisation that collects environmental data on negative The website lansforsakringar.se has Security for different situations environmental impact from companies more detailed information about the Länsförsäkringar has several offerings based on the needs and requirements of owner policy, owner control, the fund that provide financial security in a variety the financial community and investors. manager selection process, investor of situations that customers may find partnerships, company dialogues, themselves in. The “Bo Kvar” insurance Requirements on external managers black-listed companies and the carbon ­policy provides cover in the event of death, The majority of Länsförsäkringar AB’s footprints for Länsförsäkringar AB’s ­illness or unemployment and is offered to investments are managed by external manown funds. Länsförsäkringar Hypotek’s mortgage cusagers through funds or discretionary mantomers. Another example is the “Senior” dates. The investment philosophy is based Insurance for a sustainable society insurance policy launched at the start of on using leading managers in Sweden and Länsförsäkringar Sak supplements the 2017. It provides customised health care abroad with a variety of investment areas insurance offering of the regional insurance insurance for elderly private individuals and management styles. Sustainability companies with specialist products to meet who need health insurance after they have requirements are included in the procurecustomer needs, such as brand, liability and reached the maximum age for health care ment of new managers. The integration of special insurance, reinsurance cover and insurance. sustainability issues into managers’ models new products with growth potential. is monitored every year. The majority of The new products become part of the Sustainability requirements on reinsurance managers have signed the PRI and many regional insurance companies’ insurance companies of them intensified their focus on sustainoffering when they reach a certain volume, Länsförsäkringar Sak also handles the Länsability issues in their investment analyses, for example, the recycling service for agriförsäkringar Alliance’s reinsurance and investment decisions and dialogues in 2016. cultural customers. This service is offered underwrites assumed international reinsurby the regional insurance companies in ance. In 2016, Länsförsäkringar Sak initiated Climate risks in investments cooperation with the Keep Sweden Tidy a dialogue with partner reinsurance compaIn the management of customers’ pension Foundation and local entrepreneurs to nies to ensure that they have signed Länscapital, decisions are made that both affect reduce scrap and environmentally harmful försäkringar AB’s code of conduct for supand are affected by climate change and its waste in the Swedish countryside. pliers or support the principles of the UN consequences. Fossil energy in general and Global Compact. A survey carried out in coal power in particular generate high autumn 2016 indicated that 74% of these 4 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 reinsurance companies met at least one The credit policy, which is the foundation Funding that safeguards sustainability of these criteria. of loan origination, establishes the criteria Länsförsäkringar Bank’s main financing for acceptable risk and identifies high-risk sources are deposits and funding through Uncertain insurance cases areas in sustainability that require special covered bonds. The covered bonds have Länsförsäkringar AB’s aim is that the cusconsideration. It imposes strict requirethe highest credit rating from Moody’s tomer collective is treated correctly and ments on customers’ repayment capacity and S&P Global Ratings, which indicate that the right compensation is awarded to and the quality of collateral. Credit scoring, a low credit risk. the right person. Insurance fraud is a probcombined with local customer and market Investors’ focus on sustainability issues lem for the entire insurance industry and knowledge of the advisors, provides favourhas intensified, as can be seen in direct diait is thus essential to combat it. Länsför­ able conditions for a loan portfolio with high logue and in sustainability surveys carried säkringar AB examines uncertain insurance credit quality and low sustainability risks. out by rating agencies on behalf of invescases and suspected fraud in insurance tors. The capital market’s demand for green claims. An important part of this work is Environmental and societal risks bonds has risen and developments are contraining claims processors, cooperation and Environmental risks and environmental tinuously monitored. The bank’s aim is to targeted activities. A nationwide campaign responsibility for agriculture and companies continue to enhance the transparency of the on prearranged road-traffic accidents was are regulated by the extensive rules of a low environmental and societal risks in the held during the year. The investigation variety of supervisory authorities. Environoperations and describe its continued work organisation denied compensation claims ment-related risks are addressed in credit on sustainability in general . during the year and reclaimed large sums scoring based on, for example, licensable of erroneously paid compensation. and non-licensable operations and a comSimplicity and availability of digital prehensive assessment of the company’s services Loan origination that safeguards operations. Assessments of industry, operaLänsförsäkringar’s customers have access sustainability tions, forms of employment for employees to 125 branches throughout the country By pursuing responsible loan origination, and temporary employees and other relewhere the 23 regional insurance companies ­Länsförsäkringar Bank can increase customer vant information gathering can form the are located. Availability for Länsförsäkringvalue, financial stability and the sustainable basis of further checks in analyses of ar’s customers increases as physical cusdevelopment of society. Supporting and prohuman-rights risks, labour risks, corruption tomer meetings are supplemented with digitecting the principles of the UN Global Comor other criminal activities. The overall tal services. As well as serving customers pact are important to loan origination. assessment of identified risks may be to actively choosing digital meeting places, this refuse the loan. alternative is offered to customers who Business model with low sustainability risks have not been able to come to a branch due All of Länsförsäkringar Bank’s loans are Collaboration with the Swedish Bankers’ to long distance, disability or who require granted in Sweden with a well-diversified Association service outside normal office hours. Such geographic distribution and in SEK, and are In 2016, Länsförsäkringar Bank participated digitisation also reduces impact on the envimainly directed to retail mortgages and lowin the Swedish Bankers’ Association’s workronment since it reduces the volume of risk small family-owned agricultural operaing group together with other Swedish paper documents, letters, print-outs and tions. Accordingly, the business model for banks to produce an industry initiative in the transportation. The percentage of digitally loan origination has rel­atively low credit form of a sustainability overview, aimed at distributed customer documents was 34% risks. The bank does not grant loans to the clarifying for consumers the bank’s sustainin 2016, compared with 30% in 2015. large-corporates sector in which environable loan origination to companies. The first mentaland societal-related risks are typisustainability overview will be published by cally significantly greater. each bank in the spring of 2017. Sustainability awards According to the 2016 Sustainable Brand Index, Länsförsäkringar had the highest rating among Swedish insurance companies. In the 2016 Sustainability Ranking, Länsförsäkringar was ranked number one among Swedish banks and insurance companies. Both of these surveys are based on consumer questionnaires and show that the Swedish people and customers appreciate Länsförsäkringar’s efforts in the sustainability area. SVENSK HÅLLBARHETSRANKING Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainability 5 Long-term environmental and social responsibility Environment and society Länsförsäkringar AB’s mission from the regional insurance companies includes developing claims-prevention activities, actively entering into ­various partnerships and conducting research that leads to a sustainable society. Claims prevention is environmental work Average water damage to a home generates parts of the country. In many respects, Preventing a claim is always a win for the about 300 kg in carbon emissions. adjustment problems associated with manenvironment and customers. Claims-preWater-damage claims can be avoided by aging financial risk and reducing the consevention activities help reduce impact on the choosing the right materials and by installquences of climate change means a new sitenvironment through less waste, energy, ing warning indicators. A fire at a home uation. Using historic data and correlations materials, transportation and other emits an average of 25 tonnes of carbon risk leading to a systematic underestimatresources – for both the claim incident dioxide. Fires also cause other chemical ing of risks with this rising trend. itself and also for restoration and repairs. emissions to the air, ground and water. During the year, the Länsförsäkringar Natural catastrophe, water and fire damage Sanitising and restoring a house after a Alliance introduced a road map to prevent claims and motor insurance claims have the fire requires a vast amount of energy, new natural catastrophes and coordinators were greatest impact on the environment and are or recycled resources and results in huge appointed at almost all of the 23 regional thus Länsförsäkringar’s focus areas for volumes of waste. insurance companies by the end of the year. claims-­prevention activities. LänsförsäkLänsförsäkringar’s claims-prevention ringar AB and the regional insurance comClimate impact and natural catastrophes activities linked to climate change had the panies work together with other companies, Global warming is a financial risk for the highest rating among non-life insurance industry associations, NGOs and authorities insurance operations and the long-term companies in the 2016 Swedish Quality in Sweden and internationally. consequences are difficult to predict. A Index customer satisfaction survey. Länsförsäkringar AB produces claimswarmer climate, resulting in a greater risk prevention methods and standards on behalf of natural catastrophes in the form of Reinsurance and natural catastrophes of the regional insurance companies. The extreme weather conditions such as hurriLänsförsäkringar Sak is one of the largest regional insurance companies are primarily canes, torrential rain and drought, will purchasers of reinsurance for forests and responsible for customer relationships and probably result in a risk of higher payments land in Europe and the regional insurance inform all policyholders about claims risks for weather-related insurance claims, with companies insure a large portion of all and how they can be avoided and prevented. considerable variations over years and insured forests in Sweden. 6 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Reinsurance cover has been increasingly cated that two out of five workshops have The aim of these preventive health services impacted by elevated risk of natural general quality shortfalls, for example, in is to promote good health and prevent illcatastrophes in recent years. Länsförsäkpaintwork and rust protection. The survey ness by, for example, reducing stress, ringar Sak has access to a comprehensive showed that LUPIN-certified workshops had improving sleep and maintaining a healthier claims statistics database to continuously 45% fewer shortfalls. Work on tightening the lifestyle. Activities include a health profile monitor and assess this risk. New technolrequirements for managing environmental for employees and organisations, online ogy and measurement methods are also and societal risks began during the year. health programmes, personal counselling applied. Mapping, for example, can be used The regional insurance companies and manager support services. Effective to develop geographic information systems impose high quality demands on repairs to rehabilitation not only includes medical but (GIS) to analyse and assess risks. properties and homes. Methods and sysalso work-oriented rehabilitation, and also tems for setting requirements for compaincludes treatment for addiction and subMotor insurance nies that repair damage to buildings were stance abuse. Länsförsäkringar AB and the regional in-­ further developed with Länsförsäkringar surance companies strive to reduce the AB. Companies are also engaged in dialogue lansforsakringar.se has more infor­ number of accidents on the road. One of regarding construction methods, recycling mation about claims prevention, and the results of their efforts is a joint work and materials that reduce adverse environhealth-­promotion activities for good method and “Claims on a Map” statistics mental impacts. health. database. Every motor and motor thirdparty liability accident and incident is Health for a sustainable lifestyle Health promotion and reported geographically and the complete and a sustainable working life claims prevention for animals incident and accident statistics provide Länsförsäkringar is one of Sweden’s leading Agria is the market leader in pet insurance knowledge of where accidents occur and companies in health care, accident and in Sweden, and conducts claims-prevention why, and aid efforts to prevent long-term health insurance, and actively participates and health-promotion activities for animals insurance claims in collaboration with in public debate on good health and a susand actively supports research into animal municipal street departments and muni­ tainable working life. Health care insurance health. Customer awareness is high and cipalities. is based on preventive health services and customers are involved in matters related providing the right type of care at the right to their pets and veterinary care. Agria Sustainability of repairs time with effective rehabilitation. Indepenoffers advice and information on its webLänsförsäkringar AB has, on behalf of the dent medical examinations are used to site, app and other channels such as the regional insurance companies, produced ensure that mediated health care is based Telephone Vet service and the Pälspodden a LUPIN certification programme for car on medical grounds and provides the best podcast. Special campaigns targeted to workshops in collaboration with Autoteknik. long-term results for customers. The aim is children and young people increase awareMost regional insurance companies have for health care providers to follow the same ness of different animals and the value of joined this programme, which ensures that guidelines for the forms of treatment that having a pet. the workshops used for damage repairs are recommended for various complaints, Veterinary care is moving towards offermeet environmental requirements. Swedish thus meaning that health care and rehabiliing an increasingly comprehensive range Motor Insurers’ 2016 quality survey inidtation have better results for customers. of animal care, closer to human health care. Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainability 7 Agria wants to be involved in discussions Research fund projects Health and environment are interlinked. on ethical positions and develop insurance The Department of Management and Engi­Climate change is increasing pressure on products supporting a high level of ethics neering at Linköping University started its an already disadvantaged population in and ensuring high quality veterinary care three-year research program “Nudging my these countries. It also means that the that also meets the various care needs of future self: behavioural economics studies actual work conducted is broader than animal owners. of the financial decisions of young people” merely a straight-forward health insurance, Agria supports research into the types in 2016. The “Mutuality in the Swedish insurfor example, relating to issues on reducing of animals that Agria insures. Research ance model” project at Uppsala University environmental impact, clean water, sanitagrants, which are based on a portion of prewas also initiated. The Foundation decided tion and hygiene opportunities, which are miums earned, are targeted to animal health to award research grants to the “Geography fundamental to the development of people and the importance of animals to people of trust: local society trust in a changing and society and the combat of poverty. and society. Agria has unique, extensive Sweden” project at Ersta Sköndal Bräcke claims statistics that are used by researchUniversity College and grant funds to Partnership with ECPAT ers and breed clubs to improve animal research into urbanisation focusing on Länsförsäkringar Bank is a member of the health and sustainability. ­conditions for growth in various regional Swedish Financial Coalition against Comenvironments. mercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, agria.se has more information about which works together with ECPAT in Sweclaims prevention, health-promotion lansforsakringar.se has more infor­ den (End Child Prostitution, Child Pornogactivities for animals. mation about Länsförsäkringar’s raphy, and Trafficking of Children for Sexual research. Purposes). The aims of the Financial CoaliLänsförsäkringar regional insurance tion are to prevent the Swedish payment companies’ research fund Microinsurance partnership with ICMIF system from being abused for the purchase Länsförsäkringar AB and the regional insurLänsförsäkringar AB has supported the of child pornography and trafficking of chilance companies have supported scientific Uplift project in India since 2016, the aim dren for sexual purposes, and also to create research into security for people through of which is to deliver health insurance to opinion against such criminal activity. Memthe Foundation for regional insurance commore people. The project is taking place bers work actively to provide information panies’ research fund for many years. The under the framework of the ICMIF 5-5-5 to employees and customers, have impleresearch must contribute to greater finanMutual Microinsurance Strategy, which mented guidelines against child sex trafcial and physical security in society. The involves developing mutual microinsurance ficking and are involved in raising knowlresults are made available to the public and in five countries, reaching out to five million edge of the issue to proactively contribute are increasingly used in the operations in uninsured low-income households over five to preventive actions. customer activities. Two themes, secure years. Länsförsäkringar AB provides finanLänsförsäkringar AB is in dialogue with, homes and unprotected road-users, were cial support and expertise to existing for instance, its suppliers in the hotel and priority areas in 2016. Forskningspodden, mutual and cooperative operations in travel industry to provide information a podcast on current affairs and research ­Mumbai and Pune in India. about, prevent the risk of, and stop human findings that Länsförsäkringar has con­ trafficking and child sex trafficking. tributed to, was launched during the year. 8 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Credible partner Expertise and requirements Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability expertise, including the environment, and requirements on suppliers are key aspects of the credibility as a partner. Sustainability requirements on suppliers pliers is part of the agreement with all new C ­ arbon emissions in 2016 were somewhat Länsförsäkringar AB considers financial, suppliers. Major suppliers, corresponding to lower compared with 2015, down 1%. Sevsocial and environmental aspects in pro60% of total invoiced purchasing, comeral activities and clarifications in managecurement and purchasing to manage busipleted self-assessments in the past two rial procedures have been implemented to ness risk and safeguard the principles of years, and the responses were subsequently reduce carbon emissions, for example to the UN Global Compact. Procurement promonitored. No material risks were identified use train rather than flights or driving cedures are competitive so that goods and based on the responses and follow-ups where possible and online meetings, video services of the right quality and minimal with the suppliers. and telephone conferences instead of travimpact on society are acquired at a total Work methods and procedures will be elling. During the year 2,162 (1,477) digital cost that is the most financially advantacontinuously developed as part of the conmeetings were held. At the start of 2016 a geous in the long-term. A code of conduct tinued work on implementing the code of double climate compensation for the comfor suppliers defines requirements regardconduct for suppliers. Strategic contractual pany’s total carbon emissions was decided. ing human rights, labour conditions, enviprocedures will include a broader and ronment and business ethics. Suppliers, and deeper scope on sustainability dialogue. Efficiency and renewable energy their sub-suppliers, are expected to comply It will include assessing whether random Efforts are made to use renewable sources with the principles of this code. checks and audits with suppliers are of energy, and district heating. The electricSustainability requirements are imposed required. ity used in the properties is Good Environon external managers in the field of responmental Choice electricity. The office propsible investments and on reinsurance comCollaboration and round-table discussions erties have Green Building certification. panies in Länsförsäkringar Sak’s operations, During the year, Länsförsäkringar AB parOne of the properties also holds the Silver see page 15. ticipated in two round-table discussions rating under the Sweden Green Building with the procurement and sustainability Council’s standard, due to the choice of Purchasing, risk assessment and work heads of large companies to discuss how energy, construction materials and indoor methods to ensure supplier compliance with codes environment. Work methods are continuLänsförsäkringar AB mainly makes purof conduct and protecting the principles of ously reviewed to bring about more enerchases from suppliers in Sweden. Purthe UN Global Compact. Matters addressed gy-efficient electricity consumption and chases for IT are made from suppliers operat these discussions included industry and heating, for example, by using the Green ating in Sweden, but also other countries, country-specific social challenges, collab­ Fingerprint energy-savings app. such as India. The most important suppliers oration and third-party controls. Constant activities are made to enhance are found in the categories of IT & telecom, efficiency in order to reduce the negative health & health care, consulting services, Reduced resource use environmental impact of the office operamarketing & communication, financial serISO 14001 provides guidance on environtions in several areas as regards materials, vices and office management. Länsförsäkmental efforts. The main strategies for recycling and waste. In 2016, Länsförsäkringar AB’s approximately 90 largest supplireducing the climate impact of Länsför­ ringar AB was named “Environmental Star ers represent 80% of total invoiced säkringar’s own operations are energy effiof the Year” by the company’s partner Coor purchasing volumes. The consolidation prociency, a transition to renewable sources, for its work on reducing negative environvides opportunities for effeicient delivery, use of green electricity, reducing travel, mental impact. All waste and office materisustainability and business follow-ups. increasing the use of digital technology and als are sorted internally and recycled wherContinuous assessments of environclimate compensation for any remaining ever possible. mental and social risks related to country, areas. line of business and company are carried out in procurement processes and strategic Carbon emissions from own operations meetings with major suppliers. The aim is to The largest sources of carbon emissions in ensure that suppliers comply with and safeLänsförsäkringar’s operations are business guard the principles of the code of conduct travel and heating. Air travel generates the for suppliers. The code of conduct for suphighest amount of carbon emissions. Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainability 9 Carbon emissions in the operations Sources of carbon emissions 1) CO2 emissions, kg 2016 Consumption mWh 2016 CO2 emissions, kg 2015 Consumption mWh 2015 District heating – properties and offices 68,138 1,068 70,303 846 Electricity consumption – operations 26,111 3,072 24,955 2,934 Electricity consumption – properties 8,487 998 8,330 980 Paper print-outs 4,956 26,221 2) 5,244 27,734 2) Total 107,692 5,138 108,832 4,760 Sources of carbon emissions 3) CO2 emissions, kg 2016 Km travelled 2016 CO2 emissions, kg 2015 Km travelled 2015 Flights 556,816 4,465,921 552,350 4,423,574 Car journey – company car 177,198 1,510,907 188,239 1,608,883 Car journey – private car 29,257 230,368 31,276 236,937 Train 3 941,507 2 832,394 Total 763,274 7,148,703 771,867 7,101,788 Total carbon emissions in the operations 870,966 880,699 Sorted waste for materials recycling Recycled, kg 2016 Recycled, kg 2015 Corrugated cardboard 14,595 7,044 Office mixed paper 16,960 18,712 Metal 3,713 1,171 Fluorescent tubes 0 1,420 Low-energy bulbs 1,600 377 Glass containers 3,229 3,581 Electronic waste 6,393 3,044 1) Scope 2 under the GHG Protocol. 2) Paper printouts, kg. 2) Scope 3 under the GHG Protocol. 10 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 An attractive employer the following: create value for customers, Employees Openness and diversity are fully aligned to the compaemployees and society, make a difference ny’s culture and core values. Länsförsäkringar AB strongly believes that impacts profitability, reflects society that differences are enriching and has high ambitions in future and the customer base and broadens the recruitment base. All HR managers received ­diversity activities. diversity training during the year. The equality and diversity plan was One of Sweden’s most attractive immediate manager about development revised during the year to clarify targets, employers requirements, work environment and health. action plans and monitoring activities. The Länsförsäkringar AB’s objective is to be a Performance is defined as achieving the tarrevised plan also addresses the Equal responsible and attractive employer. Many gets of the business plans and embodying Opportunity Act and discrimination legislaopportunities for development and career values. Some 83% (83) of employees believe tion and their application. progression are available. Länsförsäkringar that they receive regular performance feedHalf of the 14 university students who AB’s recruitment process incorporates back from their immediate manager. were recruited to Länsförsäkringar AB’s sound business ethics and values as well as Lean initiatives – a structured method summer graduate programme had a diversity and equality initiatives to build a for continuous improvements – develop non-Swedish ethnic background. The procorporate culture that attracts the best talboth the business operations and employgramme provides students with excellent ents to the company. The employer offering ees. 77% (73) believe that their skills are work experience and students’ skills and is continuously communicated together developed in pace with changed working ideas are shared with Länsförsäkringar AB. with the 23 regional insurance companies requirements, as compared with the target via social and digital media and meetings of 75% in the business plan. Partnerships with potential candidates at career days The internal training activities offer A partnership with the Stockholm School of and on campus, such as the Women´s development opportunities and in-house Economics into Rapid Acceleration ManageFinance Day at the Stockholm School of courses in life assurance, banking, non-life ment (RAMP) began in 2016. The aim of the Economics and Armada at KTH Royal Instiinsurance and leadership training. A total of program is to identify new arrivals with acatute of Technology. 8,752 training courses for the employees of demic qualifications and introduce them Länsförsäkringar won the title of the Länsförsäkringar Alliance were held into the Swedish labour market. A trainee “The Insurance Industry’s Most Attractive during the year. A variety of e-courses and was recruited by Länsförsäkringar AB Employer” for the ninth consecutive year the introduction of the employee profile are during the year via the program. Other in Universum’s Career Barometer survey used to strengthen a learning and innovaexamples of partnership programmes of young university graduates, and was tive culture. include Korta vägen (“fast track”) and Welthe only insurance company in the top 100 Future strategic skills and recruitment come Talent. There is also a partnership most attractive employers. Länsförsäkrequirements for 2017 and 2019 were analwith Diversity Charter Sweden and with ringar won the same award in Universum’s ysed during the year based on digital My Dream Now for the second consecutive Corporate Barometer survey of business demand, changed external requirements, year. Some 30 employees were involved in students for the 14th consecutive year. increased business volumes and strength2016 and participated in the My Dream Now ening of specialist roles. class coaching programme aimed at helping High internal attractiveness young people in areas in Stockholm with Länsförsäkringar AB’s internal attractiveEmployeeship and leadership high unemployment and integration chalness as an employer is measured according Well-defined requirements and expectations lenges to believe in the future. to a Net Promotor Score (NPS). The NPS in are defined for managers and employees, this year’s employee survey was 21, combased on values and the employee and leader Equality pared with the benchmark of 29 for the best profile. Employeeship means that every Working towards an equal opportunity companies. All indexes in the employee suremployee is responsible for their own develworkplace is a priority. The recruitment vey achieved high results: opment in terms of performance, competenprocess endeavours to ensure more even High performing cies and health. Employeeship also involves gender distribution in working groups and Index 2016 2015 benchmark1) actively making improvements to the operaamong various senior positions. Working Employee Satisfaction (ESI) 94 94 94 tions. This responsibility is described in the groups with a 40/60 ratio of men and Leadership (LSI) 78 79 81 personnel policy and the performance manwomen increased from 27% to 31% in 2016. Commitment (CI) 812) 80 84 agement work model. See also the table on page 23 for more staLänsförsäkringar AB follows the rules tistics on equality. 1) High performing benchmark is based on results from approximately 70,000 responses from high performing companies. of collective agreements when employees The follow-up of last year’s Jämix Equal2) One of the target’s of the business plan is to increase employee commitment from 80 to 81. The survey revealed that there is leave the company or resign. All employees, ity Index resulted in 120 points, with the widespread willingness to be involved in influencing and working except for Group management, have collecmean for financial companies at 119 points towards a culture of continuous improvements, and employees are satisfied with their workplace. tive agreements. and a maximum score of 180 points. Nyckeltalsinstitutet (the Institute of Human Skills and performance Diversity Resource Indicators) believes that the comEmployees are regularly given performance Diversity activities in the operations is pany’s equality efforts are successful. Focus feedback and maintain a dialogue with their based on an approach that seeks to achieve going forward is a more even gender distriLänsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainability 11 Employee statistics Länsförsäkringar AB Group including Länsförsäkringar Liv Employees 2016 2015 2016 2015 Permanent employees, total 1,759 1,679 Age range, managers Women Men Women Men of whom, men 730 704 0–30 years of age 1 4 2 4 of whom, women 1,029 975 31–40 years of age 23 21 23 23 Permanent employees recruited externally during the year 185 182 41–50 years of age 46 55 47 57 Permanent employees who have left and now work at 51–60 years of age 33 29 24 32 another company in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance 13 7 61– – 5 2 6 Permanent employees who left during the year 125 137 Total 103 114 98 122 Total 217 220 2016 2015 Employees recruited externally Average age managers 2016 2015 during the year Women Men Women Men Women 46 46 0–30 years of age 23 17 20 20 Men 46 47 31–40 years of age 27 35 35 30 41–50 years of age 41 22 29 23 2016 2015 51–60 years of age 13 7 17 8 Gender distribution among 61– – – – – managers, change in % Women Men Women Men Total 104 81 101 81 Corporate management 50 50 58 42 Heads of department 48 52 47 53 All employees are full-time employees regardless of whether they work full or part-time. Group managers and team leaders 47 53 45 55 Employees who have children under the age of 12 can work part-time according to the industry’s collective agreement. 2016 2015 Age range, all employees 2016 2015 Gender distribution among 0–30 years of age 184 177 management and board, number Women Men Women Men 31–40 years of age 454 446 President 4 6 4 6 41–50 years of age 594 566 Management teams1) 25 37 20 41 51–60 years of age 439 411 Board members2) 28 38 30 44 61– 88 79 1) Includes union representatives. 2) Regular members including union representatives. Average age women 44 44 Average age men 44 45 Sickness absence, % 2016 2015 Total sickness absence, percentage of ordinary working hours 3.1 3.2 Percentage of total sickness, long-term absence for consecutive period of 60 or more days 44.4 46.8 bution in all groups. According to the emunhealthy work loads according to the E­ quality Committee, which monitors such ployee survey, 80% of women and 92% of Swedish Work Environment Authority’s issues as equality and diversity, sickness men believe that Länsförsäkringar AB is en new AFS 2015:4 regulation introduced on absence, occupational injuries and employee equal opportunity workplace. All employees 31 March 2016. Sickness absence is also surveys. No cases of discrimination were have the option of receiving supplementary continuously monitored. Total sickness reported in 2016. salary as a complement to the state parents’ absence has fallen from 3.2% to 3.1%. All employees have health care insurallowance. The Qnet network develops and This year’s employee survey showed that ance that provides rapid access to health coaches future female managers as part of 64% (56) of employees believe that they care. All employees have the option of structured equality measures. have a reasonable stress level in their work changing part of salary to pay extra into the Salary levels for men and women in and 80% (77) think that they have a good occupational pension scheme and take out equal positions at the same level are quality work/life balance, which can be considered group insurance at a discounted price via assured based on a salary survey that by to be a good result. Managers and health salary deductions. law must take place every three years. The and safety representatives were trained Health care insurance includes medical next survey will be completed in the first during the year in how they can improve consultations, personal counselling and quarter of 2017. The salary survey from a healthy workplace and cooperation preventive health services. A clear rehabili2013 showed no differences between between employer and health and safety tation process has been introduced to the ­gender for similar positions. representatives. Internal procedures for operations. An agreement is in place with risk assessment and cooperation between Företagshälsovården, a provider of occupaHealth and work environment employer and health and safety representational health services for work-related illLänsförsäkringar AB conducts systematic tives were developed in 2016 and will be nesses, for medical check-ups and treating work environment activities and regularly introduced in 2017. work-related illnesses, and preventive monitors its work environment in order to, Work environment activities are conhealth care activities are subsidised. for example, counteract stress and ducted by the Work Environment and 12 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Transparency Goverance and reporting The focus and governance of sustainability activities are described in several policy documents and instructions. Sustainability is high on the agenda for the board and Group management. Länsförsäkringar AB has a transparent approach to its impact on the environment and society. Corporate culture and compliance competitiveness based on various market which replaced the environmental policy, Länsförsäkringar AB’s corporate culture, challenges. Länsförsäkringar AB is, for also describes environmental considerethics and values provide guidance for susexample, a member of the Association of ation, the precautionary principle and tainability work. Policy documents and Mutual Insurers and Insurance Coopera­priority areas in banking and insurance. guidelines describe work methods and contives in Europe (AMICE), which also has an duct related to sustainability. Proactive exchange of information and experiences Code of conduct efficiency efforts are continuously implebetween members about sustainability. The code of conduct for employees is a set mented to reduce negative impact on the Länsförsäkringar AB has also signed of rules and guidelines on business ethics environment and society, increase positive international initiatives and has several that provides guidance for employees, maneffects and strengthen the offering. ­sustainability partnerships, which are outagers and board members in the expected lined in, for example, responsible investstandards of conduct and behaviour in their Policies and international initiatives ments on page 14. Partnerships in the insurday-to-day work according to LänsförsäkLänsförsäkringar AB has signed the UN ance operations are mainly described on ringar AB’s vision, values, targets, strategies Global Compact’s ten principles covering pages 15 and 18. and external requirements. the areas of human rights, labour law, the The code of conduct was revised in environment and anti-corruption. This repSustainability policy 2016 with clarifications of interpretations resents a clear standpoint in following and A sustainability policy was introduced of regulatory requirements, rules and regusafeguarding these principles. The sustainduring the year following a decision by the lations and ethical standpoints. A mandaability policy, owner policy and code of conLänsförsäkringar AB board. The purpose tory e-course called Länskompassen was duct for suppliers state that the principles of the sustainability policy is to define the launched during the year comprising three of the UN Global Compact are to be safefocus of sustainability activities to employsections: code of conduct for employees, guarded. ees, outline priority sustainability aspects safety and sustainability. Both the policy Länsförsäkringar AB is a member of sevbased on dialogue with priority stakeholdand e-course are available in Swedish eral international insurance company parters and describe the organisation and govand English. nerships to collaborate and strengthen ernance of sustainability efforts. This policy, Länsförsäkringar AB participation in sustainability initiatives and partnerships Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainability 13 Anti-corruption light the circumstances and the risks of as long as the information is not consciously Länsförsäkringar AB takes a stand against corruption within the Group. The policy on and patently incorrect. No whistle-­blower all forms of corruption and unacceptable improper benefits provides more detailed or corruption incidents occurred in the benefits, which is stated in the code of conguidance on external requirements. operations in 2016. duct and the policy on improper benefits. Employees can contact their immediate The Swedish Anti-corruption Institute’s manager or their manager’s manager if Anti-money laundering and financing of (IMM) recommendations on gifts, rewards they suspect any improprieties or make terrorism and other benefits in business are part of a whistle-blowing report. Länsförsäkringar AB makes extensive the policy on improper benefits. The overall efforts to limit the risk of the operations aim of Länsförsäkringar AB’s anti-corrupWhistle-blowing procedure being used or exposed to financial crime. tion work is to guide employees in avoiding A whistle-blowing procedure has been proMeasures include obtaining detailed cusgiving and receiving gifts and representaduced to counteract and stop crime or sustomer information and active monitoring tion that could arouse suspicions that the pected crime in the business activities or and reporting of transactions, carried out purpose is for private gain or promoting closely related to the business activities, in order to conduct efficient work on prethe interests of a third party. which allows employees, customers, partventing money laundering and financing A bribery risk analysis is regularly conners and other stakeholders related to the of terrorist activities. Also other attempts ducted at Länsförsäkringar AB with subsidoperations to report any suspected improto fraud, for example, card fraud, are moniiaries to evaluate the risk of bribery or other prietaries. This procedure is to be considtored, and a shared system for deviation improper influencing. The areas addressed ered an alternative to other reporting reporting is in place at the Länsförsäkringar are the operations of each company, size channels. Alliance. Employees are trained and reguand organisation, market, customers, distriThe code of conduct contains informalarly informed about regulatory changes bution channels, partners, sponsoring and tion about the whistle-blowing procedure. and new trends in this field. purchasing. A whistle-blowing report can be made The Länskompassen e-course has teachanonymously and the informant will not ing examples to raise awareness and highsuffer any repercussions under labour law Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Länsförsäkringar AB’s 2016 sustainability report, prepared annually, sustainability report, together with the annual report, are to provide was prepared based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiaa fair indication of Länsförsäkringar AB’s financial , environmental tive (GRI) G4 for transparency and comparison between companies and social performance and earnings. The content has been defined and over time. The Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS) is based on an analysis of material sustainability issues to the operaincluded. Länsförsäkringar AB’s self-assessment is that the sustaintions and Länsförsäkringar AB’s ability to provide disclosures. This ability report meets the necessary requirements. The sustainability report is also a “Communication on Progress” for the UN Global report has not been audited by a third party. Unless otherwise Compact. The 2015 sustainability report was prepared in accorstated, the information is about Länsförsäkringar AB Group. The dance with GRI G4 and was published in March 2016. Material issues and impact Aspects Material impact Aspects Material impact Responsible investments Internal and external A responsible and attractive employer Internal Responsible offering Internal and external High sustainability expertise among employees Internal and external Social commitment claims-prevention measures, External Regulatory compliance, business ethics Internal health-promotion services and scientific research Sustainability requirements on suppliers Internal and external for people and animals Long-term environmental efforts – prevention of External climate change and damage to the environment 14 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 GRI content index Standard disclosures Description Page reference Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement by the President 2–5, 12 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 12–17, 19, 64–73 Organisation G4-3 Name of organisation 28 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 6–7, 28 G4-5 Location of headquarters 94 G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates 28, 31 G4-7 Ownership and legal form 10–11, 28 G4-8 Markets served 6–7 G4-9 Scale of the organisation Front inside cover, 46–47 G4-10 Employees 23, 77–78 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 22 G4-12 Supply chain 19 G4-13 Significant changes 53 G4-14 Precautionary principle 24 G4-15 External principles and initiatives in sustainability that the organization endorses 13–15, 18, 24 G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international initiatives 14–15, 19, 22, 24 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Subsidiaries 28 G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries. 12–13 G4-19 Material aspects identified 12–13 G4-20 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organisation 25 G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organisation 25 G4-22 Effect of restatements of information from previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 25 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 25 Stakeholders G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 12–13 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 12–13 G4-26 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 12–13 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 12–13 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 25 G4-29 Most recent previous report 25 G4-30 Reporting cycle 25 G4-31 Contact information for questions regarding the report or its contents Back inside cover G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen 25 G4-33 External assurance report 25 Governance G4-34 Governance structure 10–11, 24–25, 38–44 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards, code of conduct and codes of ethics 24–25 Specific standard disclosures Description Page reference Economic performance Direct economic impacts Disclosures on management approach 12–13, 24–25 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14–16, 74 G4-EC2 Financial risks and other risks and opportunities for the organisation due to climate change 13, 15, 17 Indirect economic impacts Disclosures on management approach 12–13, 17–19, 24–25 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 14–15, 17–19 Environment Emissions and prevention of climate change Disclosures on management approach 13, 15, 17, 19–20 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 19–20 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 19–20 Länsförsäkringar AB 2016 Sustainability 15 Specific standard disclosures, cont. Description Page reference Supplier environmental assessment Disclosures on management approach 19 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 19 Social Labour practices and work conditions Disclosures on management approach 21–23 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 23 Occupational health and safety Disclosures on management approach 22–23 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism 22–23 Training and education, development and career opportunities Disclosures on management approach 21–22 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 21–22 Diversity and equal opportunity Disclosures on management approach 22–23, 43–44 G4-LA12 Composition of board and management and breakdown of employees from diversity criteria 23, 118–121 Equal remuneration for women and men Disclosures on management approach 22 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category 22 Supplier assessment for labour practices Disclosures on management approach 19 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 19 Investments Disclosures on management approach 14–15 G4-HR1 Total percentage of significant investment agreements that includes human rights clauses or that 14–15 underwent human rights screening Non-discrimination Disclosures on management approach 14–15, 19, 23 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken during reporting period 14–15, 19, 23 Supplier human rights assessment Disclosures on management approach 19 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 19 Points of access and simple digital services Disclosures on management approach 6–7, 16 G4-FS 13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas 6–7, 16 G4-FS 14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 6–7, 16 Anti-corruption Disclosures on management approach 24–25 G4-SO3 Part of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 24–25 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 24–25 Product and service labelling Disclosures on management approach 6–7 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 8 Financial services sector disclosures Product portfolio/Audit Disclosures on management approach 61–65 G4-FS7 Value of products and services to deliver a specific social benefit broken down by purpose 14–16, 18–19 G4-FS8 Value of products and services to deliver a specific environmental benefit broken down by purpose 17–19 Active owner control Disclosures on management approach 14–15 G4-FS10 Percentage of companies held in the institution’s portfolio that the organization has interacted on 14–15 environmental or social issues G4-FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 14–15 16 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2016
