United Nations Global Compact Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress 2016 www.exxaro.com United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 1 CEO STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Exxaro Resources is one of the largest South African based diversified resources companies, with interests in the coal, titanium dioxide, ferrous and renewable energy commodities. Exxaro became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007. As one of the foremost black-owned diversified resources companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), the signing of the UNGC marked our foundational commitment to sustainability. That commitment and focus is ongoing and we are once again proud to reaffirm our support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress for 2016, we draw on Exxaro’s Integrated and Supplementary Reports for 2016 to describe how the ten UNGC principles are incorporated into our business. The Integrated Report and Supplementary Report are both products of the company’s strategic objectives, legislative and regulatory requirements, including the Companies Act of South Africa, 71 of 2008 as amended (Companies Act), the Mining Charter, the amended Codes of Good Practice (B-B-BBEE), and the JSE Limited Listings Requirements as well as global best practice standards the International Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) framework for integrated reporting, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), UN Global Compact principles and the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009 (King III) and AccountAbility 1000SES. Sustainability related key performance indicators, including those that measure the outcomes and statuses relating to the ten UNGC Principles, are reported on a quarterly basis to three Board committees: The Sustainability, Risk and Compliance Committee; • The Social and Ethics Committee and; • The Audit Committee. The ten UNGC Principles are thus fully covered by Exxaro’s Executive and Board reporting. The Integrated and Supplementary reports can be found at www.exxaro.com Mxolisi Mgojo, Chief Executive Officer Exxaro Resources Ltd Contact: Hanno Olinger, Manager Sustainability Email: hanno.olinger@exxaro.com Fixed: +27 12 307 3359 Mobile: +27 83 609 1094 Fax: +27 12 307 5327 United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 2 Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Businesses should Exxaro complies with labour legislation in South The group’s compliance with legislation and international 1 support and respect Africa and International Labour Organisation conventions was audited by our internal auditors and the protection of guidelines. As a signatory to the United Nations confirmed in the prior period. internationally Global Compact, we encourage freedom of proclaimed human association and collective bargaining, ensure rights; child labour is not tolerated and that forced or compulsory labour is not practised. and make sure that Our induction programmes educate employees To date Exxaro has not been complicit in the violation of any 2 they are not complicit about human rights. Policies on discrimination, human rights. in human rights harassment and racism are in place, as are abuses. structures to protect employees’ human rights in the workplace. Security personnel are fully trained on human rights aspects relevant to each operation. Refresher courses also cover human rights issues. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 3 LABOUR Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Businesses should As a signatory to the United Nations Global Some 78% of our employees are represented by affiliated 3 uphold the freedom Compact, Exxaro encourages freedom of unions recognised by Exxaro subsidiaries: primarily National of association association and collective bargaining. Union of Mineworkers (NUM), Solidarity, Association of and the effective Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) and the Food Employee/management relations recognition of the and Allied Workers Union (FAWU). right to collective Constructive engagement remains the We concentrate on maintaining sound relations with bargaining; cornerstone of our approach to organised employees in bargaining units by engaging with their labour. All our trade-union engagement representatives. This is based on a pluralist approach to tradestructures are functioning well and are a vital union recognition through formal agreements. Negotiations conduit for managing issues raised. In addition, for wages and conditions of employment are conducted our employee relations strategy provides an through in-house forums and the Chamber of Mines. In 2016, effective framework for maintaining a healthy we successfully concluded a wage agreement with AMCU workplace climate. for our coastal coal region, without any negative labour Our policies and procedures are developed implications. There were no other collective bargaining within the framework of relevant labour processes in 2016, as we still have valid two-year agreements legislation, and employees are managed for Exxaro Coal and Exxaro Coal Mpumalanga. individually and collectively. In consultation with our labour stakeholders, we concluded Our disciplinary codes are based on the a number of section 189 (retrenchment) closure processes principle of fairness as required by labour across Exxaro in 2016, including Exxaro Coal Central, Arnot law, and our supervisors have the skill to and, more recently, the Exxaro improvement project (EIP), implement the codes. A key focus for 2016 was which focused on support services across the business. to build employee relations competency among The EIP was the catalyst for reviewing the Exxaro business all stakeholders to foster a healthy climate. model and although the initial worst-case scenario highlighted Various skills workshops and training were the possibility of 565 retrenchments, we finished the conducted with unions, employee relations process with only 94 retrenchments. This number could managers and line leaders. Confirming the drop if employees currently in transitional roles (deferred commitment from all parties to build solid retrenchments) are able to secure alternative permanent relationships, our external (CCMA) referral rate employment. Although these processes are challenging, our has decreased by 33%. relationships with all stakeholders were a key factor in their successful outcome. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 4 LABOUR Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved the elimination of An extract of the Exxaro Labour and Human Exxaro complies with labour legislation in South Africa and 4 all forms of forced Rights Policy states: ”Subject to the provisions International Labour Organisation guidelines. As a signatory and compulsory of the Constitution of the Republic of South to the United Nations Global Compact, we encourage freedom labour; Africa, the Company will not cause, demand or of association and collective bargaining, ensure child labour impose forced labour on any other person” is not tolerated and that forced or compulsory labour is not practised. the effective Exxaro complies with labour legislation in South No children are in the employ of Exxaro. Below is the 5 abolition of child Africa and International Labour Organization breakdown of employees by age: labour; guidelines and as a signatory of the UNGC 2016 table ensures child labour is not tolerated. Age group Bargaining Management Grand Total Unit & Specialist 18-25 292 40 332 26-30 901 130 1031 31-35 1054 206 1260 36-40 791 206 997 41-45 631 186 817 46-50 590 181 771 51-55 622 145 767 56-65 556 89 645 Grand Total 5437 1183 6620 and the elimination Eliminating discrimination and resolving Women in mining 6 of discrimination grievances in respect of As an employer, Exxaro is firmly committed to In Exxaro, women make up 20% of the workforce, and we focus employment and the concept and practice of equal opportunity, on attracting women through our talent pipelines. Although this occupation. irrespective of race, religion, gender, health is a challenge, women comprise 28% of young professionals-instatus, sexual preference or nationality. training, 34% of our full-time bursars in engineering and mining at universities. Our corporate values guide the way we do In the third quarter of 2016, we participated in a survey by the business, and discrimination on any grounds is Commission for Gender Equality. The focus of the survey was to not acceptable. Managers and supervisors are qualitatively and quantitatively assess gender mainstreaming in continuously trained on appropriately applying the mining industry. Our participation provided the opportunity disciplinary measures should the need arise. to showcase our initiatives in advancing representation and addressing issues related to women. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 5 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Businesses Natural resources like water, air, biodiversity and All Exxaro’s business units have ISO 14001 accreditation, 7 should support land are central to our business. We focus on reflecting the global industry standards in place to minimise a precautionary responsible use by conserving natural resources environmental impacts. approach to and reducing the burden of pollutants on the All our South African operations have environmental environmental environment through: management programmes (EMPs) as required under the challenges; • Ensuring all activities are properly authorised Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) • Complying with all statutory environmental and National Environmental Management Act (NEMA). These requirements as a minimum are key indicators in ensuring Exxaro remains a sustainable business. We also adopt the precautionary principle • Using energy and water as efficiently as entrenched in NEMA in evaluating the environmental impacts possible of business opportunities. • Conducting activities responsibly from the twin perspectives of compliance and natural In 2016, one environmental authorisation (under NEMA) was resource use granted for Grootegeluk. • Actively participating in voluntary Exxaro received no environmental stoppage directives during benchmarks, such as the global carbon and the review period. No fines were issued. water disclosure projects • Developing innovative policies and programmes to address environmental impacts and use of natural resources. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 6 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Comprehensive group standards have enhanced Status of integrated water use licences the implementation of legal requirements and In 2016, we completed the lengthy process of migrating our sustainable use of natural resources. These authorisations to the National Water Act (1998). All Exxaro include management standards for air quality, operations now have the required integrated water use licence. water, energy, rehabilitation and mine closure, and environmental incident management and Incident reporting reporting. Using a standardised reporting system, all business units Building blocks to exceed compliance manage incidents effectively, resulting in a safer and levels more sustainable work environment. In 2016, five level 2 incidents occurred and were reported to the relevant After a strategic review of key environmental authorities. Corrective actions to remedy the incidents and risks from Exxaro’s operations, we have prevent recurrence were approved by authorities prior to identified the building blocks required to ensure implementation. There were no significant (level 3) incidents in consistent compliance and, in time, to exceed 2016. regulatory minimums where possible. Legal compliance South African mining companies are heavily regulated, with compliance centred on receiving, converting and retaining all mining rights. To ensure we continue to meet legal requirements as a minimum, compliance across Exxaro is monitored by two board-mandated entities: the sustainability, risk and compliance committee as well as the social and ethics committee. Running all our operations with approved EMPs is fundamental to our sustainability and legal compliance. Some EMPs are being updated to align to the MPRDA and to include new developments. As applications for various projects are at different stages of regulatory assessment, we continuously engage with the relevant authorities, agencies and other stakeholders to expedite these licences. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 7 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved undertake Air quality 8 initiatives to As a mining group, air quality remains a risk to promote greater Exxaro on several levels, particularly dust and environmental other pollutants such as particulate matter responsibility; (PM) including PM10 and PM2,5 from opencast operations. Accordingly, we focus on: • Minimising impact on the receiving environment • Full legislative compliance • Air quality management planning • Risk management • Monitoring, measurement and reporting Emissions from mining operations Daily measures ensure we address the challenges Comparing Exxaro’s dust-fallout rate against the regulated of Exxaro’s dust-generating activities (blasting, non-residential and residential limit, no operation exceeded the drilling, crushing and screening, vehicle convoys, two allowable annual limits in 2016. materials handling and wind erosion of exposed operational areas). These include applying dust suppressant agents on haul roads, watering secondary unpaved operational roads, vegetating topsoil stockpiles and overburden material. All mining operations monitor daily dustfallout rates and results are assessed against national regulations. Although our operations are classified under the non-residential limit, some are close to residential areas. As such, we track our compliance against the more stringent residential limit (600mg/m2/day) instead of the non-residential limit (1 200mg/m2/day) to minimise the impact on residents. We continue to concentrate on improving our mitigation measures for operational activities that contribute significantly to dust. This will ensure fallout dust is reduced to the residential limit. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 8 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Carbon footprint Carbon disclosure Operational activities are guided by our climate The CDP is a UK-based global climate change reporting system. change response strategy. A dedicated steering This data provides valuable insights into corporate strategies committee oversees related improvement and helps channel investment to companies adhering to projects and activities, and ensures these are sustainable carbon and emissions management. aligned with Exxaro’s climate change position statement. Exxaro participates in two programmes: CDP Climate Change since 2008) and CDP Water. To facilitate our reporting This supports a clear understanding of the risks under the climate change programme, we manage a central and opportunities presented by energy and data repository that records energy consumption, energy emissions in the broader sense, and enables intensity performance, carbon emissions measurement and operations to focus on managing energy, cost performance in each business unit and the group. This emissions and other climate change-related database is externally audited and assured each year. issues. Our energy and carbon measurement, data management, accounting and reporting is maturing. Exxaro reports carbon emissions through CDP South Africa (the local arm of the international benchmark carbon and water disclosure projects), where we remain among the leading companies by reporting on scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Energy management Our coal operations account for almost all energy consumption in the group after divesting Diesel and electricity are Exxaro’s primary sources of energy. of the mineral sands and base metals businesses Total energy consumed decreased by 4% in 2016 to 4 193 151 in recent years. gigajoules (GJ), due to a 5% reduction in electricity and 3,7% reduction in diesel. As part of Exxaro’s energy and carbon management programme, our coal operations have focused on reducing energy consumption, including projects to specifically increase the efficiency of diesel and electricity use. Specific energy-intensity improvement targets were set for each operation in 2016. These targets formed part of relevant managers’ remuneration-linked performance contracts and further absolute emission reductions are expected from these initiatives in future. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 9 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Water management Under a holistic strategy, we are managing water-related risks, minimising impacts, and operating efficiently through Water is a strategic natural resource for South reduction, reuse and recycling. Most of our operations have Africa, and key to our business. The Exxaro water conservation plans that support the national strategy to water management policy therefore defines our ensure equitable distribution of water resources that allows for commitment to the sustainable use of water, business growth and protection (sustainable use). with a strong focus on efficiency through reuse and recycling. This policy is aligned to the We are also committed to protecting and improving water legislative environmental framework governed quality by ensuring the water we discharge is the same or mainly by the National Water Act 36 1998. In better than the original. Central to this are the three water support of the Act, the Department of Water treatment plants planned for our Mpumalanga region as part Affairs has issued an integrated water resource of our long-term water management strategy. These plants management hierarchy that prioritises mine and will have total capacity to treat 17,5 mega litres per day. The waste management decisions and actions. plant at Matla has been commissioned and performance tests are under way (case study). The second plant is being This hierarchy informs both our policy and commissioned at North Block Complex, and became fully strategy on mine and waste water management operational late in 2016. The plant at Arnot is being planned as as: part of mine-closure activities. • Pollution prevention Water withdrawal performance • Minimise environmental impacts Exxaro decreased water withdrawals by 4% in 2016, mainly due • Maximise water reuse and reclamation to water-saving initiatives at Grootegeluk, where the aim is to • Responsible water discharge and disposal reduce fresh water intake from Mokolo and maximise the use of pit water. Other business units, including head office, show • Water treatment a slight reduction in water withdrawals, reflecting the ongoing Translating policy into action, our management commitment to operational efficiency. standard on water for mining and industrial use articulates our commitment to develop and implement an effective integrated water and waste management plan across the lifecycle of a mine. This includes planning, construction, operation, decommissioning, closure and rehabilitation phases. The standard reflects management’s vision to: • Ensure a cost-effective integrated approach to water management • Be environmentally responsible • Be ecologically sustainable United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 10 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Progress Water management is integral to our licence to operate and, in recent years, we have made considerable progress on our focus areas, notably: • Our vision, strategy and policy for water management • Data management that facilitates water accounting and reporting • Regulatory compliance • Improving skills and knowledge in water management • Water and related technology solutions • Water business opportunities • Stakeholder engagement • Communications. Hazardous waste management Waste management is a key compliance Recycling stations in some business units divert all suitable indicator in Exxaro’s social licence to operate. waste currently being sent to landfill sites for potential and Our group standard enforces use of the waste practical reuse options that make economic sense. We are also management hierarchy, which in turn promotes exploring opportunities with industrial partners and research waste prevention or minimisation, reuse, institutions to use viable solutions in converting waste into recycling, recovering energy and ensuring renewable energy. safe disposal of waste in line with the National Environmental Management: Waste Act 59 2008 and supporting legislation. The total weight of hazardous waste generated at our managed coal operations in 2016 was 4 101 tonnes (2015: 1 814 tonnes). United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 11 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved The significant increase in volumes removed reflects the planned clean-up operation at a business unit to increase efficiency in the sewage treatment plant. This contributed to much higher volumes in June 2016, as it involved removal of contaminated soil by an external contractor and responsible disposal into a registered landfill. ECC operations produced small amounts of waste in 2016 (126t hazardous waste). Biodiversity Biodiversity means species diversity and species Approximately R7 million was spent in 2016 on biodiversity. richness in an ecological environment. In Exxaro, Some R12 million was spent in 2016 on biodiversity our goal is to conserve biodiversity for future management, including wetland offsets, delineation and generations by sustainably using the resources wetland studies, as well as biomonitoring. In addition to of our mining operations and South Africa’s complying with legislation and best practice, we aim to natural resources. develop a competitive advantage through conservation and To reach this goal, we have developed re-establishing resilient ecosystems that underscore our biodiversity action plans for our business units. commitment to duty-of-care principles. In addition, our comprehensive biodiversity The principles of these guidelines are already incorporated into management standard will be revised in 2017. our planning and execution phases. As example, the principles The guiding principles include the best-practice of best-practice standard were used in several projects to avoid standard on wetland offsets (Wetland Offsets: A constructing infrastructure in a sensitive wetland area. Best Practical Guideline for South Africa 2014), as well as the mining and biodiversity guideline Our detailed management standard guides business units in (Mainstreaming biodiversity into the mining developing infrastructure, aiming to: sector. DEA, DMR, • Ensure a cost-effective integrated approach to biodiversity Chamber of Mines, SA Mining and Biodiversity management Forum and SANBI, 2013). • Be environmentally responsible in protecting and managing biodiversity • Be ecologically sustainable by ensuring biodiversity-rich areas are contained within mining right areas, to manage and monitor protected and threatened Red Data species, and control declared category 1, 2 and 3 invasive plants.d during desktop ecological and wetland studies and includes detailed site-specific assessments to confirm the accuracy of the guidelines. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 12 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Exxaro has evaluated and identified all protected vegetation units with important conservation targets and listed as protected by the national spatial biodiversity assessment report. Exxaro also references the mining and biodiversity guideline (M&BG, 2013), the Mpumalanga biodiversity sector plan (2014), and the national freshwater ecosystem priority areas (NFEPA 2011) guidelines during proposed expansion and new projects. Information from these guidelines is considered during desktop ecological and wetland studies and includes detailed site-specific assessments to confirm the accuracy of the guidelines. Environmental liabilities and rehabilitation Risk-based external reviews Internal annual updates All business units annually review their financial In the first quarter each year, our sustainability department provisions. They also consider amendments to and each business unit perform a risk analysis based on the rehabilitation plans and closure objectives based group environment and risk assurance process, with risks on regular EMP performance assessments. The reported to appropriate management in terms of Exxaro’s cost estimates of activities in the concurrent governance process. Where mines are eligible for an external and final-closure rehabilitation programme are review, these are conducted under commercial agreements reviewed and adjusted where necessary. Waterwith competent third parties. related liabilities are calculated by site according to predicted decanted water quality and quantity. Treatment solutions are constantly questioned to include the latest technologies available. In November 2015, the DMR published the Concurrent rehabilitation plan financial provisioning regulations 2015 for All business units have a detailed concurrent rehabilitation implementation. These contain more onerous and plan and supporting material (plan, schedule and budget). detailed requirements than previously required These are revised and updated at least annually. The mine by the MPRDA. Numerous interactions with the manager or person in charge of a site reports on any deviation Chamber of Mines and industry subsequently from the rehabilitation programme (reasons and how this took place to clarify uncertainties in the affects future activities; financial provisions; corrective steps to regulations. In September 2016, the minister rectify the deviation, especially to prevent financial shortfalls published amendments to the regulations and a accumulating and closure liabilities rising). consultative process is under way to finalise this legislation. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 13 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Mine closure Liabilities Exxaro had six operations in active closure in At 31 December 2016, total land disturbed was 10 746ha 2016 – Arnot, Tshikondeni, Durnacol, Hlobane, and total rehabilitated 2 536ha. The Exxaro Environmental Strathrae and Gravelotte. All closure activities are Rehabilitation Fund (EERF) provides for most liabilities, while executed against risk-based principles. As several additional bank guarantees are taken out to provide for new Exxaro mines are nearing their end of life, mine developments and cover any shortfalls in financial provisions. closure planning is already in place to ensure Environmental rehabilitation liabilities are updated biannually the process complies with the latest legislative for internal reporting at interim and financial year end, and requirements. submitted annually to the DMR. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 14 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved and encourage Developing the body of knowledge Innovative passive water treatment systems are being 9 the development evaluated by our R&D department in collaboration with the We are committed to developing the body of and diffusion of University of the Free State and the Technology Innovation knowledge at tertiary level. In 2016, we again environmentally Agency. As part of a long-term solution to water management provided support and funded chairs in selected friendly including post-closure, Exxaro has developed a new treatment disciplines: technologies. plant for acid mine drainage. Based in Belfast, the plant • Unisa: Exxaro chair in business and climate effectively treats major contaminants found in acid mining change – promotes and advances related wastewater using a low-cost and low-maintenance passive research, teaching and advocacy-orientated water treatment system. This patented technology is capable community engagements, especially in of producing water of a quality accepted for drinking purposes developing economies. Key research themes by the South African National Standards (SANS) 241:2006 and include business response to climate 2011 regulation. The pilot plant exploration is complete and we change in key industry sectors in South are considering it as part of mine-closure plans. Africa (mining, ﬁnance and insurance, retail, We continue to collaborate with other mining houses through agriculture and automotive), and green a local research institution on a project to develop appropriate economies and green jobs. technology to deal with waste from planned water treatment • Wits: Exxaro chair in global change and plants. This will enhance the efficiency of the waste treatment sustainability – provides a research platform process and mitigate potential exposure linked to waste of global significance and local impact, management. fostering informed and innovative actions for adaptation and mitigation strategies for sustainability in the rapidly changing southern African region. Key research themes include sustainable urbanisation, healthy and productive ecosystems, and sustainable communities post mining (post-mining ecology and economy). • Pretoria: Exxaro chair in business and biodiversity leadership – focuses on thought leadership in the interface between business and biodiversity. Key research themes include implementation of voluntary ecosystem valuation, identifying and evaluating business responses to biodiversity in Exxaro and other industries, land rehabilitation, and linking biodiversity with environmental management and issues such as climate change and water, particularly wetlands. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 15 ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved • Pretoria: Exxaro chair in energy efﬁciency – participates at the forefront of research activities in energy efﬁciency to deliver world-class research and educational outputs. Key research themes include mining system components, design efﬁciency in capital projects, mine engineering for energy efﬁciency, cogeneration using waste heat to produce electricity for the same or related processes in those operations, smelter technology and efﬁciency, clean development mechanism (CDM) and carbon trading (carbon footprint and carbon-neutral study), as well as the low-carbon economy, and energy efﬁciency measurement, veriﬁcation, baseline determination and evaluation. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION Global Compact Summary of actions taken and impact Measurement of results Principle achieved Businesses Exxaro remains committed to the highest standards Social and ethics committee 10 should work of honesty, integrity and fairness. Ethics processes The committee is supported by a management ethics against all and policies are managed either by the general committee that considers and addresses matters of ethics forms of manager: risk, compliance and assurance or the group (including all hotline reports and forensic investigations) in corruption, company secretary and legal. Established policies, on detail. including which employees are regularly trained and which are extortion and frequently reviewed, include: bribery. There were 623 investigations in 2016 compared to the 457 • Code of ethics in 2015 the sharp increase in 2016 investigations mirrors the • Whistleblowing greater number of reports received which, in turn, reflects • Conflicts of interest confidence in the anonymity of the hotline, despite many cases proving unfounded. Lower values recovered are due to a • Fraud investigation sizeable single case of collusion: while we obtained judgment • Fraud prevention against the perpetrators, we were unable to recover our losses. • Fraud response • Gifts and benefits from suppliers We are confident that our robust policies and processes ensure full compliance with principle 10 of the United Nations Global Compact on anti-corruption, OECD recommendations on corruption, and international legislation and best practice. Refer to the SE committee report for more information, especially on anti-bribery and corruption training and computerbased ethics training. United Nations Global Compact | Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress | 2016 17
