Our Environmental, Social and Governance leadership is central to our responsible growth strategy and is delivering long-term value to our shareholders. Bank of America Corporation 2016 Environmental, Social & Governance Report $125B Named by Euromoney magazine as “World’s Best Bank for Diversity” goal to address climate change supporting clients connected to clean We expanded our energy, energy efficiency, water, sustainable paid parental leave transportation and other environmentally from 12 to 16 weeks supportive activities. We have directed $49 billion since 2013, with $15.9 billion in 2016 alone. for employees with a new child. $11.3B Amount that Bank of America’s investment businesses have in assets with a clearly defined ESG approach as of Dec. 31, 2016. Valuing our people We have increased our $2B Amount of philanthropic investments we minimum wage for hourly, are committed to providing by 2019 through partnerships that address issues around non-commissioned U.S. economic mobility, including workforce/education, community development and basic needs. employees to $15 per hour. Voted Asia’s Ranked No. 16 on Fortune’s “Best ESG Bank” Change the World list that honors companies driving social by The Asset change as part of core business strategy. magazine B To our stakeholders: How do individuals and institutions harness the powers of the capital markets to do good? And what’s the connection between social benefit and sound financial performance? These are questions we’ve been exploring at Bank of America through our environmental, social and governance (ESG) work. Our ESG focus reflects our values, presents tremendous business opportunity and allows us to create shared success with our clients and communities. It’s finding innovative ways to deploy capital and activate partnerships to fuel social and economic progress around the world. It’s investing in our Vice Chairman Anne Finucane employees — ​ensuring they have the resources to reach their goals at work and at home. And it’s focusing on customers — ​ developing lasting relationships through responsible products, We’re also helping to drive economic development and job creation services and advice. All of this is underscored by disciplined by responsibly extending capital to individuals and companies, risk management that ensures we’re building a company that with the aim of advancing economic mobility. One way we do this will endure as a place that people want to work for, invest in is through community development banking. In 2016, we provided and do business with. nearly $4 billion in loans, tax credit equity investments and other We’ve integrated our ESG approach into our eight lines real estate development investments to create housing for of business, helping to deliver new business and increase individuals, families, veterans, seniors and the formerly homeless. shareholder value. We believe this approach defines who we We’ve invested more than $1 billion in community development are and best positions us for sustainable growth. We believe financial institutions (CDFIs) throughout the U.S. As an example, the market will ultimately reward companies with responsible through our partnership with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, business practices and a long-term view. Uplift America is providing more than $400 million in longWhat was once considered a nice to-do has become a term, low-cost financing to help build schools and hospitals in business imperative, underscored in “ESG: good companies impoverished rural and Native American communities. can make good stocks,” a 2016 report from BofA Merrill We also launched the Affordable Loan Solution® mortgage in Lynch’s Global Research team. The report found a company’s early 2016, in partnership with Self-Help Ventures Fund (Self-Help) ESG performance is a reliable indicator of its future stock and Freddie Mac, to provide lowand moderate-income (LMI) performance. Read more on page 5. homebuyers a responsible way to buy their first home. We Highlights of our ESG work in 2016 include continued progress doubled our commitment from $500 million to $1 billion within toward our $125 billion goal to support clients connected to our first year. clean energy and other environmentally supportive activities. In the pages that follow, we highlight our work to drive responsible We’ve directed $49 billion since 2013, with $15.9 billion in growth — ​deploying capital and helping to create jobs, develop 2016 alone. We’ve also been the lead green bond underwriter communities, foster economic mobility, support our team and globally for three years, underwriting nearly double our closest address society’s biggest challenges. competitor’s business, and issuing three of our green bonds To learn more, visit our website (about.bankofamerica.com) and totaling $2.1 billion. follow us on Twitter (@BofA_News and @BankofAmerica). Our We launched the Catalytic Finance Initiative (CFI) in 2014 complete 2016 Global Reporting Initiative data will be available with a $1 billion capital commitment to drive growth and online in June. help de-risk clean energy projects, such as wind and solar innovation. In 2016, we expanded the CFI to include several leading financial organizations, resulting in a total commitment of $8 billion marked for sustainable investments. Anne Finucane Vice Chairman Chair of the Global ESG Committee 1 ESG in practice To illustrate the important role ESG plays at Bank of America and demonstrate how it is fully integrated across the company, we asked Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan, along with several members of the Global ESG Committee, to provide their perspective. Brian Moynihan, CEO We must ensure that our growth is sustainable. That means we must adhere to rigorous standards of corporate governance, we must invest in our communities, and we must strive to be the best place to work by helping our more than 200,000 teammates achieve their goals and reach their aspirations. Our ESG practices are central to growing in a sustainable manner. We are committed to best practices in corporate governance, including a strong, independent Board of Directors and other measures. You can read more about our Board of Directors in our 2017 Proxy Statement. Critical to fostering sustainable growth is the way we invest in our workforce and create an environment where they can thrive. As of early 2017, we’ve increased our minimum wage so that all U.S. employees earn at least $15 an hour. In 2016, we also increased our fully paid U.S. parental leave from 12 to 16 weeks for all new parents. To continue the strong performance we saw in 2016, we remain focused on executing our responsible growth strategy with a focus on ESG factors. Read more perspective from Brian in his letter to shareholders in the 2016 Annual Report to Shareholders. Andrew Plepler, global head of ESG ESG leadership isn’t something you roll out overnight. The trust and credibility that you build up over time reflects who you are as a company and a track record of doing what is right. It is the foundation of long-term growth. Are we fair? Are we transparent? Are we thinking about the client first? Are we being good risk managers? We constantly ask ourselves these questions and have debates internally on what these mean. We come to sound decisions that we can all feel good about because we know we’ve considered diverse views and made the decision that is best for the long-term success of our company. 2 Lee McEntire, head of Investor Relations Bank stocks are bank stocks — ​we all take deposits and make loans. What distinguishes us at Bank of America is that we focus on ESG factors. ESG is a differentiator for us with investors. Three years ago, I rarely got a question on ESG from our institutional shareholders. Today, it’s rare if there isn’t an ESG analyst in the room. We think about ESG as a business opportunity, not just something that makes us feel good. We’ve issued three corporate green bonds to date, our last for $1 billion. We are the leading underwriter of green bonds in the industry, and our wealth management business has $11 billion in assets under management with a clearly defined ESG approach. That’s real money being invested — ​and we are only seeing this opportunity grow. Candace Browning, head of BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research In our research report, “ESG: good companies can make good stocks,” we found that a company’s ESG performance signals performance of its stock over time. In fact, stocks in the top third in ESG performance outperformed those in the bottom third by 18 percent. There is also a tremendous business opportunity with ESG. We found that investors, particularly millennial investors, are increasingly focused on these factors. Across the industry, there has been a 33 percent increase in assets under management in ESG-type funds in just the last two years. And as millennials’ wealth grows, there could be an inflow of $15–20 trillion into ESG investments over the next 20 to 30 years. Thong Nguyen, president of Retail Banking and San Francisco/East Bay market president ESG has everything to do with being client-focused and doing things the right way. Our purpose of helping to make people’s financial lives better keeps us focused on exactly what we can do to improve banking. We’ve enhanced financial centers to better serve our LMI clients and neighborhoods and built products like SafeBalance Banking® to help clients stay on track, and we lend responsibly with the BankAmericard® Secured credit card and the Affordable Loan Solution mortgage. Our digital banking capabilities mean clients are able to manage their finances so simply and easily that they don’t even have to think about it, and they can get help when they need it with Better Money Habits®, alerts, and spending and budgeting tools. We’re doing business this way across the U.S., and we’re also working together in every one of our markets, doing our best to support and serve local communities through volunteerism and community engagement. This matters to our employees and our clients, and it’s crucial to how we earn sustainable, responsible growth. 3 Andy Sieg, head of Merrill Lynch Wealth Management The reason we focus on ESG in our wealth management business is simple — we are seeing clear demand from our clients. They want to know what we can offer to help them connect their values to their portfolio. We incorporate ESG into how we talk with our clients about goal-based investing, so from the very first meeting, we open the door to a deeper understanding of their priorities. It helps us serve them better. And as client demand drives innovation, we see significant opportunities for responsible growth at Bank of America. As a company, we have to continue to walk the walk on ESG. Our own credibility as an ESG leader is fundamental to our ability to engage clients on this topic. Matthew Koder, president of Asia Pacific, Bank of America Merrill Lynch We are a global bank operating in one of the fastest-growing regions in the world. As our clients and communities in Asia Pacific grapple with the challenge of sustainable growth, our leadership in ESG has never been more important. We stand ready to share with our stakeholders what we have learned from focusing on responsible growth and sustainable investing. We can do this firstly by example: in the way we conduct our business, manage risk and maintain the highest ethical and professional standards in everything we do. And secondly, by supporting business that drives positive environmental and social change. By growing our business responsibly, we deliver returns not just for ourselves, but more importantly, for our clients, shareholders and the wider community. When we grow responsibly, we are investing in the future. Global ESG Committee Our ESG approach is fully integrated into each of our eight lines Sheri Bronstein, Global Human Resources executive Candace Browning, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research head of business, helping to deliver increased shareholder value while Bill Caccamise, deputy general counsel and Global Banking and Markets ensuring we are taking ESG factors into account as we make the Legal executive decisions that drive our business. The Global ESG Committee Anne Clarke Wolff, Global Corporate Banking and Global Leasing head meets regularly to identify and discuss issues central to our John Harris, Global Corporate Services executive ESG focus — including our human capital management practices, Christine Katziff, corporate general auditor products and service offerings, and investments in creating a Matthew Koder, Asia Pacific president sustainable global economy. The committee is composed of Terry Laughlin, Global Wealth and Investment Management vice chairman senior leaders from across the company, is led by Vice Chairman Sarah Lee, Global Risk chief operating officer Anne Finucane, is accountable to CEO Brian Moynihan, and David Leitch, global general counsel provides regular reports to the Board of Directors. Jim Mahoney, Public Policy and Corporate Affairs executive Lauren Mogensen, Global Compliance executive Anne Finucane, vice chairman and chair of Global ESG Committee Thong Nguyen, Retail Banking president Andrew Plepler, ESG global head Raul Anaya, Pacific Southwest Region executive and Greater Los Angeles David Reilly, Global Banking and Markets Technology executive market president Purna Saggurti, Global Corporate and Investment Bank chairman Mick Ankrom, Enterprise Credit and Operational Risk executive Andy Sieg, Merrill Lynch Wealth Management head Dean Athanasia, Preferred and Small Business Banking president Alex Wilmot-Sitwell, Europe, Middle East and Africa president Alex Bettamio, Latin America president Sanaz Zaimi, Global Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities Sales co-head Cynthia Bowman, Global Diversity and Inclusion executive 4 Good companies can make good stocks Our BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research team authored a research report in 2016 that showed incorporating ESG factors into an investment approach can be critical to achieving one’s long-term financial goals — ​and that ignoring ESG may be costly to investment performance. Specifically, they found that those companies ranking highest in ESG criteria tended to have consistently lower future stock price volatility and higher average subsequent returns on total equity as compared to their lower-ranked counterparts. They also found a connection between ESG scores and future earnings volatility: on average, companies with two or more Standard & Poor’s common stock ranking upgrades had among the highest ESG rankings. Even more, investors who held stocks with above-average environmental and National Community social scores would have avoided investing in 90 percent of companies with Advisory Council post-2008 bankruptcies. Our National Community Advisory Council Our research team found that (NCAC), formed in 2005, provides us external perspective on the business and societal investing in ESG companies presents a challenges of the day. A diverse group of U.S. significant opportunity for potential asset leaders comprise the council from the areas of civil rights, consumer advocacy, community growth within the United States, where it’s development and environmental sustainability. While initially charged with providing guidance just beginning to gather momentum. on our community development lending U.S.-domiciled sustainable, responsible and impact investing assets have practices and investment activities, the NCAC’s grown 33 percent over the past two years to nearly $9 trillion in assets under purview has expanded to include a broader management as of December 2016. Interestingly, the focus on ESG-oriented focus on all environment and social issues that investment strategies is stronger among millennial investors than any other Bank of America grapples with as a business age cohort, with 90 percent either already engaging in “impact investing” and as a stakeholder in U.S. communities. or wanting to do so. Indeed, our analysts believe millennials could drive Among the timely discussions in 2016 are $15–20 trillion of cash inflows into ESG investments over the next two to the council’s point of view on issues of social three decades, which would roughly double the size of the U.S. equity market. justice and race that came to the forefront across the U.S. (see page 10 for more details). Governing ESG issues These issues touch each of us at home and at work, and the NCAC members have been Over the last two years, we have strengthened our governance of invaluable in sharing their perspective and environmental and social issues. Our Global ESG Committee helps engaging in dialogue with us to work through identify, raise and oversee the bank’s response to emerging ESG risks our collective thoughts and how we can help and opportunities. our communities move forward. Our Environmental and Social Risk Policy Framework (ESRPF) articulates how The council meets semiannually to provide we approach environmental and social risks across our business, and outlines perspective and input on how we can help the environmental and social issues most relevant to us. We recognize the build stronger communities and more stable impact those risks can have on our communities, clients, employees, vendors economies, including strengthening our and company, and take our role in managing them very seriously. Our ESRPF environmental business initiative, the evolution provides clarity and transparency on our approach to environmental and of our responsible business practices and our social risks, including how we identify, measure, monitor and control these approach to governance. As examples of its risks as part of our company’s risk framework. The ESRPF is reviewed and work, the NCAC has advised us on fee policies, approved by the Global ESG Committee every two years, or more frequently the development of our SafeBalance Banking as material issues develop. and Affordable Loan Solution mortgage products, and the launch of our Better Money Habits financial education partnership with Khan Academy. 5 Environmental efficiency, water conservation, sustainable transportation and other environmentally sustainability supportive activities. In 2016 alone, we provided $15.9 billion toward these efforts. Through our first and now second environmental business commitments, As one of the largest global financial institutions, we have provided a total of $70 billion in Bank of America is in a unique position to help society financing for low-carbon and sustainable transition to a low-carbon economy and support sustainable business activities since 2007. Our business activities. commitment continues as we work to address climate change. We do this by providing financial and intellectual capital to our clients to help develop A key part of our climate-finance efforts solutions to environmental challenges. By financing clean energy initiatives and includes the expansion of the green bond advancements in renewable energy, we are spurring innovation in and the growth of market, helping to increase investments environmentally focused companies, markets and jobs. in initiatives with environmental benefits such as incorporating solar energy into a Finance is addressing climate change company’s operations or making buildings more energy-efficient. In 2016, we issued and demands on natural resources our third and largest corporate green bond We recognize the deployment of our financial capital is one of our biggest opportunities for $1 billion to help finance renewable to have a positive environmental impact. That is why our second environmental business energy generation. This follows our commitment, made in 2013 and increased in 2015, is directing $125 billion in financing $600 million corporate green bond offering for low-carbon and sustainable business by 2025 to address climate change and in 2015 and our first corporate green other demands on natural resources. As part of this commitment, we have delivered bond issuance for $500 million in 2013. $49 billion over the last four years towards clients connected to clean energy, energy Through these offerings, we are advancing Through our partnership with GivePower, we helped install solar panels at a local school in Haiti. 6 renewable energy generation by financing new projects — ​such as a multistate residential Under the CFI, we served as placement solar portfolio and a wind turbine facility in Oklahoma. agent and joint arranger for Vela Energy in a €404 million solar project bond backed Equally as important, Bank of America Merrill Lynch led the underwriting of $25 billion by a portfolio of 35 solar photovoltaic in green bonds on behalf of 27 clients in 2016 alone. Bloomberg New Energy Finance projects in Spain with an output of recognized us as the number one underwriter of green bonds for the past three years. We led offerings for clients including the Chinese automobile company Zhejiang 157 gigawatt-hours of power. Project Geely Holdings ($400 million), the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority bonds and asset-backed securities focused on renewable energy are in the early ($588 million), Banco Nacional de Costa Rica ($500 million) and the European Investment stages of development, but have the Bank (five bonds in 2016 totaling $3.6 billion). Proceeds from these bonds are helping to potential to attract significant capital from finance various emissions-reducing projects. institutional investors interested in fixedExpanding our Catalytic Finance Initiative income products that can deliver reliable, No single company can tackle the challenges of financing clean energy on its own. competitive returns over long-term periods. It was with this in mind that we launched our CFI in 2014, focused on creating at least We also helped structure and co-arrange $10 billion in new investments in high-impact clean energy projects. The CFI’s goal is the world’s first innovative forestry bond in to create an environment in which clean energy innovations and infrastructure projects 2016 — ​a $152 million offering issued by are easier to finance, developing new structures that can be piloted in one location and the International Finance Corporation. This then scaled more broadly — ​in turn creating investment opportunities to address other funding will help protect 490,000 acres large-scale issues like health, education and job creation. The CFI started with our own of forest in Kenya and enhance wildlife $1 billion commitment in 2014 and now has $8 billion in total commitments with the conservation efforts in East Africa. addition of eight new partners in 2016. The expansion of the CFI served to promote the Importantly, it also demonstrated that the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals’ objectives to act on climate change and private capital markets can have an advance access to clean energy, as well as other goals such as sustainably managing important role to play in helping to protect forests and promoting availability of clean water and sanitation. the world’s forests. Leading by example: Our environmental operations goals In September, we announced new operations goals to reduce our company’s environmental impacts by 2020, including becoming carbon neutral and purchasing 100 percent renewable electricity. Our commitments listed below build on the success of our 2015 environmental operational goals. Our environmental commitments: Reduce locationbased gas emissions 50% Reduce energy usage 40% Reduce water usage 45% Reduce waste to landfill 35% 7 Driving economic and social progress We are helping to drive economic development and job creation through our business and our partnerships. We do this by responsibly extending capital to individuals and companies, which creates opportunities in the communities we serve, and by our philanthropic investments and the power of our employee volunteers. This support goes beyond the pure financial benefits — ​it helps build thriving communities by enabling nonprofits, arts and culture organizations, and others to advance economic mobility for individuals and families, addressing issues of social justice and connecting more deeply to people in their community. Enabling economic mobility and creating common spaces. The simple installation of a rooftop garden on one building, for instance, has provided fresh produce to through lending that empowers tenants and given them a sense of community. individuals and communities Community development We know strengthening local communities is fundamental to the future of our clients’ and our own businesses. That is why financial institutions we connect people to the capital they need to build, restore We also work with CDFIs — ​also known as community lending and expand local economies. This can entail offering innovative partners — ​to extend banking services to businesses and others lending — ​done responsibly — ​to individuals and businesses that may not be able to access capital through traditional throughout our footprint. Helping businesses access financing channels. These small businesses, affordable housing partners for projects that address basic human needs, such as housing for and nonprofit organizations, some of which are among the most veterans or the homeless, health care, or enabling people to live marginalized, need help accessing capital, mentoring and financial in safe and secure neighborhoods, is fundamental to helping local resources. That’s where our work with CDFIs comes in. We invest communities thrive. more than $1 billion in 250 CDFIs in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia to connect lending solutions to people Community development banking and communities. Our community development banking business uses innovative One innovative program administered through CDFIs is the Tory financial solutions to create sustainable ways to promote healthy and Burch Capital Program, powered by Bank of America. In 2016, thriving communities. In 2016, we provided nearly $4 billion in loans, we extended our commitment, pledging to lend $20 million to tax credit equity investments and other real estate development women entrepreneurs in the United States over the next two solutions to create housing for individuals, families, veterans, seniors years, totaling $30 million overall since 2014. So far, the program and previously homeless individuals across the United States. has connected nearly 1,100 women entrepreneurs to $25 million in affordable loans — ​entrepreneurs like Andréa Pedraza and her For example, after years of underfunding, San Francisco’s public daughter Cindy, who have been able to grow their chocolatier housing projects were in trouble and the San Francisco Housing business, CocoAndre, into the successful company it is today. Authority could not afford to make an estimated $270 million in They are the first women-owned, Hispanic business in Dallas’ Oak repairs. In 2016, Bank of America Merrill Lynch completed the Cliff neighborhood. More than just sourcing capital to create a second phase of the San Francisco Rental Assistance Demonstration successful business, the program has allowed them to reinvest in (RAD), the largest and most complex RAD financing in the United their community. States to date. By using a combination of $2.2 billion in debt and equity solutions in 2015 and 2016, we were able to provide Among other examples of our partnerships are Uplift America, nearly 3,500 units to more than 10,000 people. We also allocated which is providing more than $400 million in long-term, low$2.8 million of our tax credit equity investment to tenant transitions, cost financing for 26 community lenders and CDFIs working in connecting residents with health and financial wellness services, impoverished rural and Native American communities, and the 8 Residents in the courtyard at Holly Courts, one of the many housing developments transformed through the San Francisco RAD program. CDFI Bond Program, which is providing $100 million in low-cost, 30-year capital to Self-Help as part of the U.S. Treasury’s CDFI In 2016, we provided nearly Bond Program. Self-Help will use the funds to finance the $4 billion in loans, tax credit equity construction of housing and community facilities (such as charter schools and primary health care facilities) in LMI communities, investments and other real estate such as the Revolution Mills project, a 570,000-square-foot, mixed-use development in Greensboro, N.C. development solutions to create These are just some of our partnerships that have helped put housing for individuals, families, people in homes, grown small businesses that otherwise may not have flourished, and enabled low-income neighborhoods to enjoy veterans, seniors and the previously some of the economic and social benefits that come with revived homeless across the United States. housing and business. 9 Courageous conversations In 2016, we witnessed civil strife, protest and loss of life in cities around the world. These events remind us of the importance of supporting each other — ​colleagues, clients and community partners alike — ​understanding that we are all affected in personal ways, and appreciating that those feelings do not pause when people come to work at the bank or do business with us. This led us to expand our courageous conversations, which started a few years ago. Whether in small or large conversations, we encourage ongoing education and awareness to foster deeper learning and understanding. One such conversation took place in December, as we welcomed members from our NCAC for a conversation with our employees about social justice and racial equality (learn more about the NCAC on page 5). Panelists included Cornell Brooks of We encourage courageous conversations to learn and understand more about each other. the NAACP, Wade Henderson of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, and Marc Morial of the National Urban League. It was broadcast to more than 50,000 Employee Network members, and replays were shared with all employees. Arts and culture We believe that the arts help economies thrive, communities flourish and individuals connect with each other while educating and enriching societies. Our arts and culture partnerships also can put a spotlight on important issues of the day, such as social justice. In 2016, we sponsored two acclaimed documentaries on PBS: “Jackie Robinson” by Ken Burns and “Black America Since MLK: And Still I Rise” by Henry Louis Gates Jr. Additionally, in September, we marked a cultural milestone with the opening of the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C., which we are proud to serve as a founding donor. We support nonprofit arts institutions that deliver visual and performing arts, provide inspirational and educational sustenance, anchor communities, create jobs and generate substantial revenue for local businesses. Our programs include loans of our own collection to help museums drive traffic and revenue, as well as support for exhibitions and the Art Conservation Project, which provides grants to nonprofit museums to conserve historically or culturally significant works of art. Since 2010, we have provided grants to museums in 29 countries for more than 100 conservation projects. In 2016, one of these projects included restoring 10 Noé León paintings in Colombia, South America. Impact investing We are increasingly seeing clients align their money with their values to make a social impact and drive economic growth. We officially launched an impact investing program in 2013 to meet rapidly growing client demand for investments that have a positive impact on society or the environment without sacrificing performance. As of December 31, 2016, our Merrill Lynch Wealth Management and U.S. Trust clients had more than $11.3 billion National Museum of African American History and Culture in custom portfolios, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and in Washington, D.C. separately managed accounts with a clearly defined ESG approach. 10 Today, 17 percent of Merrill Lynch advisors use five or more impact investing solutions to help meet their clients’ needs — twice as many advisors compared Our workforce to just three years ago. In response to these trends and growing client demand, development investments: we will enhance our impact investing process, platform, investment guidance and resources in 2017. And in U.S. Trust, we offer six investment sleeves within our overall Socially Innovative Investing Portfolio. They include a large-cap Nearly $23M Socially Innovative Investing Strategy, a Women and Girls Equality Strategy, an in grants invested in Environmental Sustainability and Stewardship Account, a Religious Voice and Values workforce development Strategy, a Human Rights and Recognition Strategy, and an all-cap social strategy. in 2016 Supplier diversity We invest in diverse businesses to drive sustainable economic growth because when diverse suppliers succeed, the diverse communities that we serve, thrive. We support the growth of diverse businesses through our Supplier Diversity and Development Program, which develops relationships with third-party vendors Number of nonprofits we worked with in 2016 1,200+ owned by minorities, women, veterans, individuals with disabilities, and the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community. In 2016, we directed $2.3 billion in 45,000 diverse procurement spending. Our commitment to spend procurement dollars Number of students with diverse businesses and simultaneously invest in their development gives rise placed in jobs to a meaningful, long-term impact. (nonprofit estimate) In 2014, Bank of America became the first and remains the only financial services institution to gain membership into the Billion Dollar Roundtable, a nationally recognized organization that celebrates corporations that spend at least $1 billion directly with minorityand women-owned businesses. In 2016, we were honored several times over — with the National Minority Supplier Development Council’s Financial Services Corporation of the Year Award, the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council’s Platinum Top Corporation Award, and the National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce’s Best of the Best Corporation Award. Workforce development We help drive economic and social progress through our philanthropic investments focused on advancing economic mobility for individuals and families and creating thriving communities. One example is our commitment to youth employment with an emphasis on skills development and better money habits. Through national, regional and local partnerships focused on youth employment, we are helping individuals of all socio-economic backgrounds realize their potential, find meaningful employment and chart a more successful future, all of which strengthen local communities. In 2016, we committed $40 million over three years to connect youth and young adults to skills, training and jobs. In addition to partnerships with organizations such as Year Up, Boys and Girls Clubs of America, Urban Alliance and Ada, The National College for Digital Skills, our Student Leaders® program helps high school students build work and leadership skills through paid summer internships at nonprofit organizations and participation in a leadership summit. Through summer youth employment programs in partnership with U.S. mayors, we help young people learn how to manage their first paycheck and learn more about future career opportunities. 11 Enabling financial health We are achieving responsible growth by focusing on our clients’ needs. We continue to develop risk-managed products and solutions that fit their financial profiles and help clients achieve their financial goals. And as the world becomes even more digital and mobile, we have innovated our offerings to help clients live better financial lives by putting the power in their hands. Meeting clients’ needs, • The Affordable Loan Solution mortgage, a conforming loan that provides LMI homebuyers access to a responsible lending responsibly product at affordable entry prices, in partnership with Self-Help and Freddie Mac. (See page 14 for more detail.) We are committed to ensuring our policies, practices, products and programs all align to our purpose of making financial lives • BankAmericard Secured credit card, a secured credit card better for the communities we serve. We have done this in part by that is the first step in establishing financial credit; and for creating simple, safe, transparent and easy-to-use solutions that some, this type of credit card will help strengthen or even rebuild give people greater control of their finances: good credit. • SafeBalance Banking, an alternative option for clients who • Better Money Habits, developed in partnership with education want more predictability in the way they bank, no overdraft nonprofit Khan Academy, is a holistic financial wellness platform fees, and the ability to manage their finances without using that pairs Khan Academy’s expertise in online learning with our paper checks. Clients can spend only what is in their account financial know-how to help people better engage with their and can also take advantage of many of the same features finances by providing practical and personalized information of a traditional checking account — ​with a low monthly and tools. These resources — ​free and available for all — ​are maintenance fee. simple, easy to understand and span a wide range of personal 12 finance topics, including budgeting and saving, debt, credit, homeownership, retirement and more. • Our policy on overdrafts, which will not allow debit card clients to overdraw at the point of sale. In 2010, we made the decision to only allow debit card transactions at the point of sale if a customer has enough money in their account. Clients also cannot overdraw their account at an ATM, unless they proactively agree and understand that a fee will be charged. In 2016, we successfully piloted our Community Financial Center concept to better serve our LMI clients and neighborhoods. The Dudley Street financial center in the Roxbury neighborhood of Boston, Mass., opened in September and boasts new features and technology enhancements for individuals and small businesses, such as an online banking kiosk, resources to help clients learn more about their money and how to improve their credit, and marketing collateral that emphasizes the products most relevant for them. The employees in this center specialize in the products and services that can best help LMI clients reach their financial goals, such as SafeBalance Banking and Better Money Habits, while also providing tools that enhance transparency such as mobile banking and alerts. We will extend elements of this approach in our 1,300 financial centers in LMI neighborhoods, including creating 25 beacon centers, like Roxbury, that enhance our work in these communities. Spending & Budgeting tool Meeting clients and We know our clients want to simplify their financial lives consumers where they are and stay in control of their money. In late 2016 and early 2017, we introduced the Spending & Budgeting tool on our We have focused on using technology to better serve our clients mobile and online platforms. The tool — ​also available in in the ways they want — ​in turn helping them live better financial Spanish — ​helps clients more quickly see where their money lives. In 2016, we implemented a comprehensive update of our goes and encourages them to take greater control of their mobile banking app navigation, making it easier for clients to finances through Better Money Habits resources. Clients manage their finances. And as part of our commitment to serving can use it to see how much they spend by category and millions of our Spanish-speaking clients, individuals can use the compare their overall spending to their monthly income or app in Spanish or English language. to a budget. If they choose to compare their spending to a We are also delivering more convenience to clients by expanding budget, customers can automatically receive their suggested the number of cardless ATMs, so clients can authenticate budget based on their past behavior — ​or they can build it themselves at an ATM using their phone’s digital wallet instead of themselves. Since early 2017, almost 600,000 users have a physical card for an added layer of security to access their cash. created budgets — ​and 61 percent are millennials. As of the end of 2016, some 8,000 ATMs Simplifying financial lives are now cardless — ​about half of all of with artificial intelligence our ATMs. In 2017, we will introduce a powerfully personal voice and chat-driven intelligent virtual assistant — ​Erica — ​that will And we are adding convenience and better safeguards through our be integrated into our mobile banking app and other touch debit card lock and unlock. If a client misplaces their debit card, points to help improve the financial lives of our clients. they can temporarily “lock” it so no one can use it, then “unlock” it Previewed at the Money20/20 Conference in late 2016, Erica once found by the owner. will leverage the latest technology in artificial intelligence, It’s also important for us to provide financial education on demand predictive analytics and cognitive messaging to serve as and when clients are making financial decisions. In 2016, we made our clients’ trusted financial advocate. “She” will be on call our signature financial education resource, Better Money Habits, 24/7 to execute day-to-day transactions, provide proactive available within our mobile app — ​and had more than 14 million guidance, and anticipate clients’ financial needs to help them views the same year. stay on track and reach their financial goals. 13 We continue to improve Better Money Habits based on feedback Spotlight on Affordable Loan Solution from users, clients, employees, advocacy groups and nonprofit organizations. Based on their feedback, we introduced new content Homeownership is the foundation of in 2016 that was focused on money management for couples, traveling, financial goal setting and much more. Users also told us every healthy community, and we are they wanted to learn more about products that could help them through their financial journey. We now direct visitors to learn more helping individuals and families realize about our products and services when — ​and only when — ​those the American dream of owning a home. resources make sense. Complementing our tradition of helping people access homeownership opportunities, our Affordable Loan Solution Our goal is to equip visitors with the mortgage, in partnership with Self-Help and Freddie Mac, knowledge they need to make smart launched in early 2016 as a way to provide LMI homebuyers a responsible way to buy their first home. financial decisions, whether they are The Affordable Loan Solution mortgage helps borrowers with clients or not. modest incomes who can afford monthly payments and have good credit history buy a home by helping them overcome down Our technology enhancements extend beyond our online and payment barriers. The solution allows down payments as low as mobile banking capabilities. In South Africa, for instance, in 3 percent on the purchase of a primary, single-family residence, partnership with nonprofit AlphaCode, we support financial with no mortgage insurance and no reserve funds required in services entrepreneurs who are creating businesses that help most situations. As a result of the program’s potential, we doubled people by using technology to address financial inclusion, our annual commitment from $500 million to $1 billion within our financial education, housing and nutrition. first year. 14 Valuing our people We build our team and invest in our people so they can serve our clients responsibly and help make an impact in our communities. We have a culture at our company where we put the customer Increasing our minimum wage to $15 per hour first, emphasize integrity and responsibility, and encourage all Our compensation is anchored in a pay-for-performance employees to bring their whole selves to work. When we can philosophy, with a long-standing commitment to paying a create a workplace where our colleagues are engaged, empowered competitive wage. We have paid our hourly, non-commissioned and committed for the long term, we are better positioned to help U.S. employees at a rate higher than federal, state and local our clients improve their financial lives. minimum wage requirements for several years, and we have made regular increases during that period. In February 2017, we Investing in our employees continued this investment and increased our minimum wage to The way we value and support our colleagues is a reflection of $15 per hour. who we are as a company. We provide compensation, benefits Helping employees manage their health care expenses and wellness resources that reflect our commitment to being a great place to work, which is not only the right thing to We offer our U.S. employees who work 20 hours or more per week do, it is core to being a sustainable, successful bank. Recent health coverage where the company pays the majority of the total demonstrations include: cost of all health care expenses. For employees making less than 15 Our focus on equal pay $50,000 a year, we reduced their annual medical premiums by 50 percent in 2011, and have kept their premiums flat for five consecutive years. We’ve also kept our for equal work 2017 annual medical premium increase below the national average and lower than many other large companies. Additionally, we make company-funded contributions At the heart of our ESG activities is our to eligible health care accounts. goal to be the best place to work for our employees. This includes being a Expanding support for parents and caregivers diverse and inclusive company, providing Another way we demonstrate how much we value our employees is by providing competitive compensation and benefits benefits and programs to support them with their needs outside of work, such as with particular focus on our lower-paid when they have a child or have family care responsibilities. employees, and pay practices that ensure equal pay for equal work. Child care An important component of our compensation practices is the work we In 2016, we expanded our U.S. paid parental do to achieve gender equity. Our objective leaves — ​maternity, paternity and adoption — ​from is straightforward: To ensure that men and women in similar positions receive 12 to 16 weeks to allow colleagues time to bond comparable pay. with their new child. While the goal is straightforward, we Our enhanced policy allows parents the flexibility to start a parental leave when arrive at it only through rigorous processes it works best for their family within the first 12 months after the new child arrives. and analyses. Our company consists of a In addition, we also reimburse eligible U.S. employees for adoption and child care range of businesses and functions, with expenses, and our U.S. employees can take advantage of our backup care program. thousands of different types of jobs within those organizations. Elder or other family care The company sets the expectations for We also know that employees care for elder and other family members. That is gender-neutral pay, and our own analyses and why we offer a range of adult care services, such as backup adult care, access to review are embedded in our compensation experts who can assess a loved one’s well-being and elder care law services. process. This ensures that our core process Helping our employees stay well has resulted in alignment of pay for We help employees address health risks and manage health care costs: focusing performance in a gender-neutral way. on wellness, helping to educate our colleagues about their health and providing To help guide us in ensuring we achieve resources to encourage them to make healthy choices that prevent more serious, the goal of pay equity for all of our costly health issues in the long run. In 2016, we implemented several initiatives to employees, we also engage an independent focus on wellness. Thanks to this work, more than 70,000 employees have engaged compensation specialist to conduct with a health coach, 68 percent remained in a “low risk” health category, while comprehensive analyses for our U.S. 23 percent migrated to a lower-risk category. In addition, we introduced a program employees for that year, including 2016. to help employees and their families reduce hypertension. The independent specialist identifies Supporting employees in the moments that matter individual differences, if any, in pay between Our Life Event Services (LES) team is dedicated to supporting employees during women and men at the individual level, taking major life events, such as retiring from our company, taking a leave of absence, into account such factors as experience and facing a terminal illness or having a family member pass away. In 2016, we expanded work location. We adjust compensation for the team’s focus to support employees dealing with domestic violence or impacted any individual employee as appropriate based by a critical event such as a natural disaster or house fire. on these analyses. The analyses and any adjustments we make from it are integrated As part of our ongoing support of the LGBT community, in 2015, LES specialists into our compensation processes for that began helping employees who are transitioning gender. We are one of the first year, before final pay decisions are made. major employers in Hong Kong and Singapore to reimburse transgender-related treatment in a hospital or outpatient clinic, and we are also believed to be the first This work gives us confidence that we pay major company in the United Kingdom to include gender reassignment surgery for our employees equitably. employees in our health insurance package. Further detail on our pay-for-performance process and our gender-equity analysis work is available in our Proxy Statement. 16 Advancing women’s leadership and economic empowerment Being a diverse and inclusive company is essential to our ability to meet the needs of our clients, communities and employees. We promote an inclusive environment where all employees have the opportunity to achieve personal success and contribute to our company. We are focused on attracting, retaining and developing diverse talent and have been recognized as the World’s Best Bank for Diversity by Euromoney and on the 2017 Bloomberg Financial Services Gender-Equality Index. We invest in helping women make meaningful contributions within our company and in our communities. We have strong representation at all levels and exceed industry benchmarks in nearly every category. Among the programs to develop our female employees are our Investing in Women Leadership Council, Global Women’s Conference, Women’s Executive Development Program and Pathways to Progression. We also recognize that women play a vital role in driving economic growth, and we have partnerships to connect women entrepreneurs to mentoring, capital and other tools that will advance their businesses and make significant contributions to our global economy. Through partnerships with the Tory Burch Foundation, Vital Voices and the Cherie Blair Foundation, we have helped nearly 4,000 women from 80 countries grow their businesses and foster economic prosperity. Pie charts that show the percentage of women in global workforce is more than 50 percent; the percentage of What’s happening women on our management team is nearly 40 percent; and the percent of women on our board of directors is nearly 30 percent. for women at More than Nearly Nearly Bank of America: 50% 40% 30% % of women in our % of women on our % of women on our global workforce management team Board of Directors Pie chart that shows the Graphic showing that women’s full engagement in What’s happening percent of all businesses the labor force could add $28 trillion to the global worldwide owned by economy by 2025. for women globally*: women is 37 percent. 37% $28 trillion % of all businesses $ amount that women’s full engagement worldwide owned by women in the labor force could add to the global economy by 2025 *2015 McKinsey Global Institute report, “How advancing women’s equality can add $12 trillion to global growth.” Investment products: Are Not FDIC Insured Are Not Bank Guaranteed May Lose Value Global Wealth & Investment Management is a division of Bank of America Corporation (“BofA Corp.”). Merrill Lynch, Merrill Edge™, U.S. Trust, and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are affiliated sub-divisions within Global Wealth & Investment Management. Merrill Lynch and The Private Banking and Investment Group make available products and services offered by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (“MLPF&S”) and other subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Merrill Edge is available through MLPF&S, and consists of the Merrill Edge Advisory Center (investment guidance) and self-directed online investing. U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management operates through Bank of America, N.A., and other subsidiaries of BofA Corp. “Bank of America Merrill Lynch” is the marketing name for the global banking and global markets businesses of Bank of America Corporation. ARMP9N4Q Lending, derivatives, and other commercial banking activities are performed globally by banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation, including Bank of America, N.A., Member FDIC. Securities, strategic advisory, and other investment banking activities are performed globally by investment banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation (“Investment Banking Affiliates”), including, in the United States, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & www.addison.com Smith Incorporated and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp., both of which are registered broker-dealers and Members of SIPC, and, in other jurisdictions, by locally registered entities. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp. are registered as futures commission merchants with the CFTC and are members of the NFA. Banking, mortgage and home equity products are provided by Bank of America, N.A., and affiliated banks, Members FDIC and wholly owned Design by Addison subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Equal Housing Lender. Company goals are aspirational and not guarantees or promises that all goals will be met. Statistics and metrics included in this document are estimates and may be based on assumptions or developing standards. Content available at websites and in documents referenced in this document are not incorporated herein and are not part of this document. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research is equity research produced by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and/or one or more of its non-U.S. affiliates. Investors should consider this report as only a single factor in making their investment decision. The information does not take into account the specific investment objectives, financial situation and particular needs of any specific person who may receive it. © 2017 Bank of America Corporation. Made with 30% post-consumer waste (PCW) recycled paper.
