Konecranes Annual Report 2016 GROWTH As the result of our acquisition of Terex’s Material Handling & Port Solutions segment, Konecranes will achieve substantial growth opportunities in the service business as well as critical scale for further technological development. Our recent investments in business The moment has arrived to infrastructure and global footprint consolidate Konecranes’ key optimization will also provide strengths, clarify where the significant earnings leverage. CONTENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 greatest potential lies, and 2 Konecranes in a snapshot 60 Report of the Board of Directors assert a new stage on which 4 2016 highlights 71 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS to build progress. 6 CEO's letter 72 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS ENVIRONMENT 8 Company narrative 74 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS 9 Konecranes and MHPS 75 Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS A foundation for the future. There can be no solid future unless 10 Business environment 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements we take care of our people and 12 Business Area Service 115 Konecranes Group 2012–2016 The company has been poised the environment. Recent employee 15 Business Area Equipment 116 Calculation of key figures for change for some time, a satisfaction and company culture 18 Regional fact & figures 117 Company list situation which has bred both surveys have been highly positive, 19 Research & Development 120 Parent company statement of income – FAS agility and the capacity to with development points now mapped 22 Core of Lifting 121 Parent company cash flow – FAS work under pressure. Change out. We have also set targets for ISO 24 Product overview 122 Parent company balance sheet – FAS always brings opportunities, implementation and energy efficiency, 27 Corporate responsibility 124 Notes to the parent company’s financial statements but can also represent developed Environmental Product 36 GRI content index 127 Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting uncertainty. It’s time to Declarations, and launched our 38 Corporate Governance 128 Auditor’s report remove the question marks circular economy program. 46 Risk management, internal control, 131 Shares and shareholders and internal auditing 136 Investor information – Konecranes’ business 54 Board of Directors 137 Contact details transformation is now more 56 Group Executive Board fully realized than ever. 58 Senior Management ORGANIZATION Our organizational changes serve as This publication is for general informational purposes only. Konecranes reserves the right at any time, without notice, to the foundation for increased efficiency, alter or discontinue the products and/or specifications referenced herein. This publication creates no warranty on the part of lower fixed costs, and increased sales. Konecranes, express or implied, including but not limited to any implied warranty or merchantability or fitness for a particular Replacing our matrix organization with purpose. a line-based approach has provided © 2017 Konecranes. All rights reserved. ‘Konecranes’, ‘Lifting Businesses’, , ‘SMARTON’, ‘TRUCONNECT’, ‘Agilon’, ‘BOXHUNTER’, 'BOXPORTER', ‘CXT’, ‘UNO’ and ‘UNITON’ are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Konecranes. clearer accountability. In addition, business benefits are being realized in the organization owing to the new IT systems implemented under oneKONECRANES. Konecranes in a snapshot Specialized products and services through a multi-brand portfolio A market One of the Industryleader largest leading Business Area Service in industrial cranes and components, as well suppliers of port cranes and lift trucks technology and global modular as crane service product platforms With 600 service locations in 50 countries, TRUCONNECT can include access to operating Konecranes offers, through a global service data, abnormal usage alerts, and remote technical network, specialized maintenance and modernizasupport. tion services for all types and makes of industrial cranes, hoists, and port equipment. Market position Konecranes is the market leader in crane service, Products with the world’s most extensive crane service EUR 2,118 11,000 13 The extensive Konecranes service offering includes inspections, preventive maintenance network. million employees in 2016 countries with production facilities programs, remote and on-call service, repairs and Service contract base of net sales in 2016 improvements, spare parts, modernizations, and a More than 460,000 pieces of equipment are variety of consultation services. covered by Konecranes service agreements. The TRUCONNECT Remote Service connects majority of this equipment has been manufactured data, machines, and people to help businesses by other companies; Konecranes can provide identify maintenance and performance issues expert maintenance for any brand of equipment before they affect safety, productivity, or revenue. from any manufacturer. Sales and service locations in Listed on Head office in 50 Finland Nasdaq countries Helsinki Business Area Equipment Konecranes offers components, cranes, and Konecranes Agilon is a patented materials material handling solutions for a wide range of management solution for managing, storing, customers, including process industries, the picking, and replenishing components that offer nuclear sector, industries handling heavy loads, improved efficiency in material handling. container handling, intermodal terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. Products are Market position marketed through a multi-brand portfolio, that Konecranes is one of the world’s largest suppliers Sales by Business EBIT by Business Personnel by Business includes Konecranes and the group’s power of industrial cranes. It is also a global leader in Area, 2016 Area, 2016* Area, 2016 brands: SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, R&M, Morris electrical overhead traveling cranes for process Crane Systems, and SANMA Hoists & Cranes. industries and shipyard gantry cranes, and a 44% 68% 55% prominent global supplier of cranes and lift trucks Products for container handling, heavy unitized cargo, and Our product range comprises industrial cranes and bulk material unloading. 32% workstation lifting systems, including components such as wire rope hoists and electric chain hoists. Annual production In addition, we offer nuclear cranes, container and We produce thousands of industrial cranes bulk handling equipment, shipyard cranes, and lift annually, tens of thousands of wire rope hoists 45% trucks. The product offering features a number of and trolleys and electric chain hoists, as well as 56% advanced technologies, such as automation and hundreds of heavy-duty cranes and heavy-duty lift smart features, including sway control, load positrucks. tioning, and shock load prevention. Equipment 1,231.1 MEUR Equipment 51.5 MEUR Equipment 4,893 Service 968.0 MEUR Service 110.9 MEUR Service 5,998 * Excluding adjustments 2 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 3 2016 Highlights 6.6% adjusted operating margin 1,038 MEUR order book 29.1% gearing in 2016. in 2016. in 2016. Sales/orders, MEUR Adjusted EBIT, MEUR/ Order book, MEUR Adjusted EBIT margin, % 1,036.5 1,038.0 2,171.5 2,099.6 2,126.2 2,118.4 140.8 2,011.4 Sales remained at previous year’s 138.3 979.5 closed on January 4, 2017. This acquisition will 1,970.1 942.7 1,920.8 1,965.5 1,920.7 level while profitability improved prove crucial to improving our position as a global 1,903.5 115.5 119.1 117.7 893.5 • Business Area Equipment order intake declined partner in services, industrial lifting, and port slightly in 2016, but its Port Cranes business solutions. Furthermore, this addition enables us unit had another strong year as it received to realize a long list of synergies, opens up new 6.4 6.6 5.5 5.9 5.5 an order from Virginia Port Authority for 86 growth opportunities in the service business, and Automated Stacking Cranes in November. creates critical mass for future technology deveThe value of the contract exceeded EUR 200 lopment. million, making this the largest deal ever won by • In December, Konecranes signed the divestment 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 ­Konecranes. The Business Area Service order of its STAHL CraneSystems business. The intake decreased from the previous year, due divestment relates to the European Commission's Sales Adjusted EBIT, MEUR to certain markets suffering from commodity approval of Konecranes' acquisition of Terex Order intake Adjusted EBIT margin, % sectors and closure of certain underperforming Corporation's MHPS business. The selling price operations, as it prioritized efficiency over was EUR 224 million. growth. The Group order intake decreased by • In September, we announced that Konecranes and 2.3 percent on a year-on-year basis. Kito Corporation (“Kito”) have decided to dissolve Earnings & dividend Return on equity, % ROCE, %/ • Konecranes order book, as of the end of the the strategic alliance signed between the compaper share, EUR Adjusted ROCE, % year, stood 0.1 percent higher than in 2015. nies in 2010. Konecranes received approximately • Net sales decreased by 0.4 percent compared EUR 48 million from the sale of its Kito shares. 1.47 18.4 10.3 to 2015, due to negative currency rate changes. • Our new operating model based on direct product 1.05 18.8 19.2 17.0 19.2 16.7 1.28 9.5 11.6 17.4 17.2 • Adjusted operating margin improved to 6.6 line organization and P&L responsibilities became 0.85 1.05 0.53 0.64 15.6 1.05 1.05 1.05* percent of sales. effective in the beginning of July. This has improved 10.9 the efficiency and agility of our operations. 8.3 6.8 Improved profitability in • In February, Konecranes presented its repositioned both business areas TRUCONNECT Remote Service suite and improved • Net sales in Business Area Service fell by 2.5 functionality of the yourKONECRANES.com customer percent in 2016. Sales grew in EMEA, whereas portal, which became available to customers across sales were lower in the Americas and APAC. The more countries. Furthermore, Konecranes and Aalto 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 adjusted operating margin was 11.5 percent University agreed on cooperation in the area of Earnings per share, basic Return on capital employed, % of sales. Despite the decrease in sales, the Industrial Internet. Konecranes also hosted its third Dividend per share Adjusted return on capital adjusted operating margin in Service improved hackathon event: the “Maritime Hack – Automated employed, % due to the lower fixed costs. cargo handling.” At the end of 2016, the equip* The Board’s proposal to the AGM • Net sales in Business Area Equipment were ment base with technical capability for Konecranes 0.7 percent lower than in 2015. As was the remote monitoring services exceeded 13,000 units. Year-end net working Year-end net debt, Year-end market case the previous year, sales of port cranes • In June, Konecranes introduced a new Rail capital, MEUR MEUR/Gearing, % capitalization*, MEUR and lift trucks increased, whereas sales of Mounted Gantry crane (RMG) to the market: industrial cranes and components decreased. BOXPORTER. This new crane offers the clearest The adjusted operating margin was 4.2 percent view in intermodal container handling with its 317.4 1,984.6 304.3 203.2 295.5 289.4 1,495.4 187.3 1,463.8 181.8 263.7 44.6 1,380.2 of sales. Profitability improved due to lower fixed “smarter cabin,” which gives the operator superb 1,345.0 39.3 42.1 149.5 costs. visibility and comfort. Also in June, Konecranes 129.6 33.3 Lift Trucks announced an all-new container weig29.1 Acquisition of Terex’s MHPS business hing system. signed, progress in product development • The oneKONECRANES initiative reached important • May 16, 2016, marked a milestone in builmilestones in terms of the system implementation ding our future, as we signed an agreement to in 2016. By the end of 2016, the SAP ERP for acquire the Material Handling & Port Solutions finance and material management covered appro12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 business from Terex Corporation. The acquiximately 65 percent of Konecranes business, and sition, valued at EUR 1,126 million enterprise the Siebel ERP had reached approximately 50 Net debt * Excluding treasury shares value at the time of the announcement, was percent coverage of Konecranes service business. Gearing 4 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 5 CEO'S Letter Shaping our future through acquisition We begin 2017 more agile, more focused, and with greater potential than ever to deliver strong results Dear shareholders, 2016 was clearly dominated by a number of major value-creation perspective. The divestment was concluded in record time and at a satisfactory for all our stakeholders. events for Konecranes. price level. We entered the year committed to a merger In 2016, the Group’s adjusted operating of equals with Terex Corporation, but as time profit improved by 20 percent to reach EUR 141 proceeded, this began to look increasingly uncermillion, despite sales levels remaining virtually tain. It gradually became clear that the most unchanged. The adjusted operating margin rose advantageous outcome for Konecranes would be from 5.5 percent to 6.6 percent. The profitability the acquisition of Terex’s Material Handling & Port improvement ably demonstrated that our actions Solutions business (MHPS), and we reoriented our to cut manufacturing capacity and introduce a new efforts accordingly. operating model have improved our competitiveIrrespective of this acquisition, significant organess. Owing to these factors, coupled with our nizational change was an operational necessity for streamlining of middle management, we achieved us in 2016. Beginning in January, we underwent cost savings of more than EUR 30 million in 2016, a complete reorganization in three steps. We which was visible in lower fixed costs. Morereduced the number of regions, centralized our over, our cash flow was markedly strengthened functional operations, and went from a matrix to compared with 2015, which lowered gearing to a fully business-line-oriented organization. This, 29 percent. together with other restructuring activities, had The market itself continued to be challenging the effect of reducing total personnel by over 900 – Group order intake decreased by two percent positions, a significant component of which were on a year-on-year basis in 2016 – though certain in middle management. macroeconomic indicators did improve somewhat There were three main reasons for such a towards the end of the year. In order intake, the profound and wide-reaching set of changes. ports side was dominated by one huge order Firstly, as I explained this time last year, our published in Q4 – the biggest in our company’s fixed costs were too high, and actions to reduce history, in fact. This was the sale of 86 Automated them were a necessity. Secondly, the changes Stacking Cranes (ASCs) to Virginia Port Authority gave clarity to the organization; operations are (marketed as The Port of Virginia), worth over EUR in charge of the business – let them also run the 200 million. Our other businesses continued to business. suffer from low investment within the process Thirdly, and perhaps most significantly in retroindustries and commodity sectors. The demand spect, the integration of MHPS – including the situation in Europe and North America was mixed, addition of around 7,000 new colleagues – would while in emerging markets it continued to be not have been possible within the matrix organizahampered by a slow-down in economic growth tion that we formerly had in place. rates. Having reached agreement with Terex by May, During the twelve months summarized in this we used the summer to begin the necessary report, a huge amount of work has been done to anti-trust review and other legal proceedings, and bring our organization to the point at which we the planning of the integration itself started in now find ourselves. Many legal steps had to be September, by which time the organization was taken related to the MHPS acquisition, not least well prepared and ready to adapt to its many our agreements with the EU, the US competition implications. authorities, and other jurisdictions. This preparation can now be seen in our finanI would like to take this opportunity to thank all cial performance for the year. With our business our personnel for the patience, understanding and areas having had three to four months to settle hard work they demonstrated during this process. into their own changes before the integration We begin 2017 – and a new era – more agile, planning began, their operations were not too more focused, and with greater potential than ever disturbed. to deliver strong results for all our stakeholders. Another consequence of the acquisition was our voluntary divestment remedy, which reprePanu Routila sented the best available alternative from a President and CEO 6 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 7 COMPANY NARRATIVE Konecranes and MHPS The next generation of lifting MISSION – VISION – WHAT WE WANT TO VALUES – OUR GUIDE TO On January 4, 2017, we announced the completion of our acquiWHAT WE DO ACHIEVE IN THE LONG TERM DAILY DECISION MAKING sition of Terex’s Material Handling & Port Solutions (MHPS) We are not just lifting We know in real time how Trust in People business. Konecranes and MHPS, which includes Demag and things, but entire millions of lifting devices We want to be known for our businesses. perform. We use this knowledge great people. Terex Port Solutions, are now a single technology company, set around the clock to make our to build the next generation of lifting. customers’ operations safer and Total Service more productive. Commitment We want to be known for The perfect match customers with productivity-enhancing lifting solualways keeping our promises. MHPS is a leading supplier of industrial cranes, tions and services for lifting. crane components, and services under the Demag Sustained Profitability brand, and a noted port technology expert with a Strong synergies We want to be known as a broad range of solutions under the Gottwald and The financial and operational ramifications of the financially sound company. Noell brands. This offering represents a set of acquisition are sizeable. We expect synergies of products highly complementary to that of EUR 140 million to be implemented within three Konecranes, and will also strengthen our service years. These will be generated from scale benefits business on a much wider global scale. through procurement volumes, optimization in Konecranes and MHPS are also a perfect operations, and better capacity utilization. Plans match from a geographical perspective: together are also afoot to realize synergies through scale we are active in 50 countries with 18,000 benefits in our R&D capacity, as well as in SG&A employees. While Konecranes offers a particularly expenses. strong presence in markets like Northern Europe, The planning of MHPS’s integration into North America and China, MHPS adds a strong Konecranes began in September 2016 with a position in Central and Southern Europe, South kick-off meeting in Hyvinkää, Finland, amidst an STRATEGY – HOW WE GET THERE America and Southeast Asia. inspiring atmosphere. Teams from both companies There are also cultural parallels. The two and the European Works Councils were present, companies have rich histories and a similar and bold, forward-thinking initiatives were the TECHNOLOGY REAL TIME VISIBILITY END TO END SHARED & outlook; engineering, knowledge of material order of the day. President and CEO Panu Routila LEADERSHIP TO CUSTOMERS’ PROFITABILITY HARMONIZED handling, international business, and a drive for opened the proceedings, setting ambitious targets technology leadership lie at the heart of both. and objectives and stating the new organization’s EQUIPMENT PROCESSES MHPS stands for two centuries of German-origin guiding aspiration – to build the lifting company of engineering heritage and expertise, bolstering the next generation. SERVICE Lifecycle Care in Real Time EQUIPMENT Core of Lifting our own long-standing reputation for providing Service for all types and makes Direct and Indirect channels in of cranes and hoists Industrial Equipment Global service network Multi-brand strategy Improve the safety and productivity Need based customer offering of our customers' operations TACTICAL FOCUS AREAS – WHAT WE WILL FOCUS ON DURING THE NEXT 2–3 YEARS GROWTH PROFITABILITY Customer Experience Realizing potential TECHNOLOGY PEOPLE Engineering capabilities Lifting people VALUE PROPOSITION – BRAND PROMISE: LIFTING BUSINESSES™ 8 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 9 Business environment Business environment A stagnant first half of the year, followed by improved economic growth in the latter Economic activity in the US manufacturing The activity in the world’s manufacturing sector, started on a weak note in Chinese and Russian sector picked according to the aggregated JPMorgan Global manufacturing sectors, but they finished the up toward the Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), picked up steam in the second half of 2016. This year in a growth mode. Modest growth could be observed overall in India. In Brazil, the PMI pointed end of the year. followed stagnant development in the first half of to a continued contraction in manufacturing output 2016. By area, growth was generally led by the US the entire year. and Western Europe regions. However, the perforCompared to the previous year, the demand for mance of the Asia region also improved. industrial cranes improved in 2016, mainly owing According to the PMI surveys in the Eurozone, to the pick-up in orders for heavy-duty cranes in expansion of the manufacturing production accelthe Americas. The demand for industrial cranes erated toward year-end 2016. In December, the was at a par with the previous year’s level in BRIC countries Eurozone manufacturing PMI was at its highest EMEA, whereas the demand weakened in APAC. remained the level since April 2011. National data pointed to a The demand for hoists declined in all regions. broad-based improvement. Growth was strongest The global container throughput grew only by weakest links. in the Netherlands and Austria, which were closely approximately 1 percent in 2016. The number followed by Germany and Spain. Also France, of idle container ships – ships not used for where manufacturing production contracted in commercial operations – doubled in 2016 due to the three first quarters of 2016, saw a return to overcapacity. The bright spots for container traffic growth in the fourth quarter. included Europe-Middle East, Asia-North America, Konecranes Outside the Eurozone, the UK PMI posted a and Asia-Oceania routes. The weakest routes strong finish to 2016 following a short period of were between Europe-South America, Asia-South Global container volatility around the EU referendum in June as America, and Asia-West Africa. throughput growth was global market the weaker Sterling exchange rate drove export Due to weak growth in container throughput and weak in 2016. orders higher. In Sweden, manufacturing activity focus on M&A, most of the terminal operators’ continued to expand strongly throughout the year. capacity expansion plans were put under review in The European Union manufacturing capacity utili2016. This affected the demand for port cranes. zation rate slightly improved in 2016. Similar to Europe, the economic activity in the US manufacturing sector, measured by the PMI, picked up toward the end of 2016. This did not yet However, the interest in automated port solutions remained high. The demand for lift trucks declined from the previous year, mainly due to weaker demand in the positions reflect in the US manufacturing capacity utilization Americas. The demand was rather stable in EMEA, rate, which declined slightly from 2015. The total while the demand grew in APAC. industrial capacity utilization rate, which declined heavily in 2015 due to commodity sectors, stabilized in 2016. The demand for lifting equipment services grew in EMEA, whereas the demand for services decreased from the previous year in the Americas A market leader in industrial cranes and components, as well as crane service Based on the PMIs, the BRIC countries and APAC. The demand in the Americas and APAC remained the weakest links. The year 2016 was hit by commodity sectors. #2 in lift trucks #3–5 in port cranes 10 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 11 Business area service The evolution continues The number of Our online store TRUCONNECT remote monitoring is now live in a Business Area Service works to improve the safety and producgrowing number connections tivity of our customers’ operations with specialized maintesurpassed 13,000 of countries. nance services and spare parts for all varieties and brands in 2016. of industrial cranes, hoists, and port equipment. We maintain installations of every scale, from the smallest piece of equipment to entire operations. In 2016, Business Area Service continued its of course, vary across industries and regions. evolution. Profitability developed well thanks to However, with a diversified customer base and a cost containment as part of our business transforstrong value proposition emphasizing a constant mation program, which is building momentum and need for safety and productivity, our offering steadily delivering on its aims. All told, the positive continues to resonate well. indicators in our core offering look set to continue. The net decrease in our agreement base was The global perspective mainly in non-core businesses, but also included In the US, the relatively strong dollar as well as the impacts of our discontinuing certain underweakness in the oil and gas sector and other performing operations, changes to the scope of commodity-based industries created some slugcertain agreements, and a few large customers gishness in demand. Industrial production trended downsizing or closing facilities. These events were down during the year. On the positive side, we somewhat offset, however, by organic growth. made good progress in certain segments, such as Our service business transformation process, automotive. based on our Lifecycle Care approach to mainSimilarly, Western Canada was impacted by oil tenance, continued its run of successful impleand gas and other commodities. The central and mentations. This transformation entails a focus eastern parts of the country benefited from its on customers who are looking for Konecranes to industrial base. manage their assets, with increased efforts to Mexico has been a strong market for us, espedevelop our relationships beyond transactional cially in the automotive sector. In South America, business to the benefit of both parties. Chile and Peru demonstrated healthy sales, while Another development has been the expansion in Brazil, our modest service business maintained of eCommerce via STORE.Konecranes.com. Our its market position. online store is now live in a growing number of In Europe, we enjoyed good growth in the UK, countries. and continued to thrive in Spain. In Germany, the Despite adverse conditions in some of our implementation of our new business model was 11.5% adjusted customers’ business environments, there is still largely completed, and we are now in good shape a generally strong demand for service. This may, to capture more of the sizeable existing market operating margin in 2016. Key figures Proportion of Group total, % 2016 2015 Change, % Orders received, MEUR Order book, MEUR 38.9 16.7 774.5 173.3 809.5 165.8 -4.3% 4.5% Despite adverse conditions in some Net sales, MEUR Adjusted operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 44.0 68.3 968.0 110.9 992.3 102.9 -2.5% 7.8% business environments, there is still a generally strong demand for service. Adjusted operating margin (EBIT), % 11.5% 10.4% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 70.4 102.2 98.9 3.4% Operating margin (EBIT), % 10.6% 10.0% Personnel at the end of period 55.1 5,998 6,503 -7.8% 12 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 13 Business area service Business area equipment More efficient and closer to the customer Business Area Equipment provides cranes, components, and lifting equipment solutions to the general manufacturing industries, process industries, and those handling heavy loads, ports, intermodal terminals, shipyards, and the nuclear sector. Along with ­Konecranes-branded products, the equipment portfolio also includes for service. Despite challenges in certain Eastern with high quality and consistency. Today, we are European states and in Russia, these areas using the Industrial Internet to deliver Lifecycle the following power brands: SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, R&M, Morris performed relatively well for us, as did Switzerland Care in Real Time. The interest in TRUCONNECT Crane Systems and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. and Austria. and real-time service is evidenced by the growing The Middle East and Africa remained troubling number of remote monitoring connections, which environments, geopolitically speaking, but once surpassed 13,000 in 2016. again Saudi Arabia performed well thanks to the Further confirmation is evident in the steadily In 2016, the market for our equipment did not Jingjiang, in Jiangsu Province. We also adjusted large installed base we have built up over the increasing number of customers who see value demonstrate a substantial recovery from the our industrial cranes distribution model in some years. South Africa, in turn, showed good growth. in the insights and optimization to be gleaned rather muted conditions of the previous year, ASEAN countries, working with a lower cost base Our Morocco service business was divested. through our customer portal, yourKONECRANES.com. although slight positive development did noneto address the prevailing lower demand. In China, despite less than inspiring trends The site’s user figures are growing exponentially, theless occur in certain geographical regions at Additionally, our new SAP-based ERP system as a market, we have done well, and customers and it is now at the epicenter of our exchange of the end of the year. Despite this, we were able to was taken into use at the majority of our major are increasingly receptive of the improvements information in many of our major markets. Our reduce our cost base, and profitability improved component manufacturing sites. This, in conjuncin safety and productivity we offer. We continued customers have been incredibly pleased with the notably as a result. tion with other previously implemented IT system to find stronger awareness and openness to speed of delivery, validating our investment in this The cost-reducing actions we had already renewals, is expected to deliver further cost outsourcing and increased interest in and demand truly transformational platform. initiated in 2015 provided the savings they were savings in the future. for our consultation services. In combination with our mobile-enabled techniprojected to early in the year. We went on to Australia continues to be challenging in the cians and the many crane installations equipped build on this progress, continuing to bolster our The regional view commodity-based industries. However, having with TRUCONNECT remote monitoring, the portal efficiency and agility by launching a new productOver all, the market for industrial cranes and their implemented our transformation here, we are enables usage, maintenance, and asset details line-based organization with direct P&L responsibilcomponents did not recover substantially in 2016. now more able than ever to proactively serve our to be viewed, analyzed, and shared quickly. The ities. While eliminating redundancy in the way we Companies active in emerging markets were customers. We have seen some good growth in connected customer is in a unique position to optioperate, this new structure also had the effect of cautious in their investments, while the UK’s Brexit India, with indications of recovery in the process mize their operations and maintenance activities increasing customer intimacy. decision and the US presidential elections caused industries. Our modest business in Japan by leveraging these synergies. In 2016, operational costs were also reduced further uncertainty and low oil prices dampened continues to grow, with other Asian countries By concentrating our resources on service thanks to the closure of our industrial cranes oil-and-gas-related businesses. Political tensions remaining steady. process development, consistency of delivery, and manufacturing plants in the US (Franklin, Ohio), in Eastern Europe and war in the Middle East also end-to-end processes, we have made considerable Brazil (near Sao Paolo), and part of our plant worked against resurgence in market demand in Lifecycle Care in Real Time advances in many markets. And with an influx of in India (Pune). We finalized the changes to our these regions also. Lifecycle Care, our systematic approach to maintalent from the acquisition of Terex Corporation’s production operations in Shanghai, begun in 2015, Global container-handling volumes growth tenance, is well established in key markets. In Material Handling & Port Solutions – as well as the which have now been completely transferred to remained flat throughout the year. However, recent recent years, however, its tools and processes vast growth opportunities to be derived from their have been evolving, as has productization of the installed base – the next phase of transformation entire offering to facilitate delivery in all markets looks just as exciting. Key figures Proportion of Group total, % 2016 2015 Change, % Orders received, MEUR 61.1 1,216.8 1,257.6 -3.2% Order book, MEUR 83.3 864.7 870.7 -0.7% Net sales, MEUR 56.0 1,231.1 1,240.3 -0.7% Adjusted operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 31.7 51.5 33.8 52.5% Adjusted operating margin (EBIT), % 4.2% 2.7% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 29.6 42.9 18.8 129.0% Operating margin (EBIT), % 3.5% 1.5% Personnel at the end of period 43.2 4,893 5,328 -8.2% 14 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 15 Business area equipment 4.2% New ERP system is adjusted operating expected to deliver margin in 2016. further cost savings. trends for larger container ships and the need for In these prevailing market conditions, our stanproductivity and safety improvements in terminals dard industrial cranes category proved its value, kept handling-equipment investments at a reason­ securing us orders from customers concerned able level. In 2016, we saw fewer green field projwith basic general lifting needs, but whose investects realized than in previous years. ments did not require cranes with more advanced In terms of order intake, pockets of growth still features. emerged, however. Europe demonstrated growth in industrial cranes in Spain, France, Germany The route ahead and Hungary, despite generally low demand. In The integration of the acquired operations of the Middle East, we lacked bigger projects, while Terex Material Handling & Port Solutions was smaller projects were still active and provided planned throughout 2016. We expect that utilizing noteworthy growth. We also saw slightly increasing the synergies with Demag – a leading supplier activity in ports, including in Europe and in some of industrial cranes, crane components and parts of the Middle East. services – as well as the port-technology offering In China, demand for larger investment projects of manual, semi-automated, and automated was low, and we tentatively anticipate that the solutions sold under several brands such as bottom has been reached in regards to general Gottwald and Noell, we can jointly build next-geninvestment activity, as there were slight indicaeration equipment solutions which add safety and tions of emerging growth in demand towards increase productivity in our customers’ operathe end of the year. For Konecranes, this meant tions. opportunities particularly in waste-to-energy projThese concepts are deeply rooted in both orgaects, as well as some signs of minor recovery in nizations. The shared product offering is largely relation to our standard offering. This may also complementary and will allow us to develop a signal a swing towards growth for the generally cost-efficient global supply chain for the entire low prevailing demand in ASEAN countries. Investrange. This offers exciting opportunities for the ments in India showed signs of recovering gradufuture. For regulatory reasons, this acquisition ally, and we were able to gain higher growth there. was conditional on our commitment to divest our In the US, we showed good growth in ports and STAHL CraneSystems business. engineered solutions, while the market for stanWhile in 2016 we undertook the integration dard cranes experienced a slowdown, which will planning, we now have a great deal of practical hopefully recover in 2017. One particular highlight implementation work before us in the coming in ports was our sale of 86 Automated Stacking year and beyond. Our lift truck business has also Cranes (ASCs) to the Virginia Port Authority been acknowledged as a very important business (marketed as The Port of Virginia), the fifth largest globally, and has been allowed to grow organically port in the US. This order, worth over EUR 200 and make investments to sustain the trend and XX.X% XX.X% XX.X% million, was in fact the largest in the history of support further growth. Konecranes. The other changes already actioned in 2016 Demand in Canada remained subdued. In target high customer focus, operational efficiency increase in net sales operating profit excluding higher order book South America, markets were not buoyant, and and simplicity, and the resultant cost reductions in 2015 restructuring costs compared to 2014 expecting growth here in the near future is most will help us to move forward, and particularly with in 2015 probably too optimistic. these forthcoming integrated operations. In the prevailing market conditions, our standard industrial cranes category has proved its value. 16 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 17 Regional facts and figures Research & Development Being close to our customers through Reinventing efficiency a local presence Research and development is a critical aspect of our business. Illustrated below are the facts and figures of Konecranes global operThrough in-house innovation, we underscore our commitment to ations, divided into three geographical regions. making our customers’ operations more efficient in a variety of respects, while upholding safety and minimizing impacts on the EMEA – Europe, Middle AME – Americas East and Africa APAC – Asia-Pacific environment. 25% 53% 22% In 2016, R&D expenditure amounted to EUR 22.3 one percent full-scale accuracy in less than five Personnel Personnel Personnel million (28.7), or the equivalent of 1.1 percent seconds. Our fully embedded weighing solutions 2,704 5,842 2,405 (1.3) of net sales. This year our development work focused on leveraging the connected data our enable seamless interchange of data with the customer’s TOS/TMS or ERP system through a technologies provide to create superior Industrial secure, cloud-based service. Internet applications. Preventive maintenance and usage analysis Clear view to BOXPORTER solutions took priority among these, centering This year Konecranes introduced the new 38% 47% 15% Sales Sales Sales upon further development of our TRUCONNECT BOXPORTER rail mounted gantry crane (RMG). systems. The remote operation of cranes was BOXPORTER offers the clearest view in intermodal 802.5 1,001.4 314.5 another strong focus area. container handling, with its “smarter cabin” giving We have maintained our traditions of joint the operator superb visibility and comfort. It also research with leading universities and engagegives the operator an extended view to truck ment with the burgeoning start-up scene. A potent and train loading and unloading, and container example of the latter was our third industrial stacking thanks to video and control information hackathon, held in November in Helsinki, Finland, displayed on the cabin monitor. combining knowledge and enthusiasm from coders, designers, and the Company’s technical Smart Features experts. Most Konecranes overhead travelling cranes can Our efforts to generate new product concepts now be loaded with Smart Features, software and technologies to enhance our offerings are that provides control of the material handling in constantly ongoing. As well as concentrating on customers’ production processes. providing the highest lifecycle value, Konecranes Examples of these modularized features R&D continues to focus on four key priorities: include Sway Control to limit load swing, Snag 1. Safety Prevention to stop the crane if it gets caught on 2. Environmental issues something, Assisted Load Turning to reduce side 5 10 4 3. Productivity pull, Protected Areas to help keep the crane work Production Production Production 4. Industrial design, with a strong focus on area safer, and Inching to enhance final load posiplants plants plants maintainability, ergonomics, and user expetioning with a high level of accuracy. rience The crane operator may have limited visibility over the load in some applications. To address Largest markets: Largest markets: Largest markets: New Static Weighing System this, Konecranes has developed a solution using United States, Canada, Mexico, Chile, Peru Germany, United Kingdom, France, Finland, China, India, Indonesia, Australia, Singapore, In June, Konecranes Lift Trucks announced an cameras to improve the accuracy and safety of Sweden, Russia, Poland, Austria, Turkey, Thailand Operations: South Africa, Saudi Arabia, United Arab all-new container weighing system. The Static crane operation. Camera views are provided on 2,704 employees Emirates Operations: Weighing System is a much-needed response to a tablet screen when an item is lifted from the 2,405 employees new IMO requirements, which took effect on July ground or lowered to the target location. This kind Manufacturing: Operations: Five plants manufacturing industrial and process Manufacturing: 1, 2016. A container must now have a verified of bird’s-eye view of the load helps the crane oper5,842 employees cranes, including nuclear cranes, hoists, parts, Four plants manufacturing hoists, industrial gross mass (VGM) before it can be loaded onto a ator to easily position the item accurately at the and related components Manufacturing: cranes, lift trucks, and port cranes vessel – a necessity affecting shippers, carriers exact destination. Ten plants manufacturing cranes and hoists, and, of course, terminal operators. Key brands: lift trucks, and steel structures for larger Key brands: Konecranes, R&M, Crane Pro Parts and P&H® cranes Konecranes, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, The system can be retrofitted to existing The benefits of remote operation (through Morris Material Handling) Morris Crane Systems, and SANMA Hoists & machines, and allows the reach stacker to Konecranes new Remote Operating Station (ROS), Key brands: Cranes measure the weight of the lifted container with seen on page 21, is a comfortable workstation for Konecranes, SWF Krantechnik, and Verlinde 18 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 19 Research & Development EUR 22.3 million of R&D expenditure in 2016. the operators who remotely carry out truck loading and unloading operations in semi-automated container stacks, which must be carried out manuLifting education Konecranes and Aalto University have agreed on cooperation within the area of Industrial Internet. ally for safety reasons. In a container terminal, As part of this arrangement, in autumn 2016 we a number of ROSs can work in a remote control installed a smart CXT NEO-based crane on the room, which takes the form of a comfortable office Aalto University Industrial Internet Campus (AIIC) environment for personnel. Along with its ergoin Otaniemi, Finland. nomic benefits, the graphical user interface (GUI) The crane was equipped with TRUCONNECT of the ROS provides highly intuitive and precise Remote Monitoring technology and the smart control. features mentioned above, enabling large IndusA similar ROS workstation can also be used trial Internet ecosystem integration and further in other applications such as in waste-to-energy full-scale research and innovation work. plants, where the solution reduces total plant investment costs. Load handling operations can now be centralized into one control room common Focus on TRUCONNECT to the whole plant, rather than having an additional such room close to the cranes. systems and remote operation of cranes. Cooperation with Aalto University supports Industrial Internet research and innovation. 20 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 21 Core of lifting The Core of Lifting – a powerful heritage and a bold future As a technology-oriented company, there is a single unifying Unlike our principle at the heart of how Konecranes operates. It begins competitors, we with how the smallest component is made, and extends can take complete outwards to everything we do. responsibility for the final product’s performance. The Core of Lifting is the core package of motor, The catalyst for innovation gearbox, and control system that lies at the This way of thinking also provides a foundation heart of every crane that we sell, large or small, for pushing lifting technology forward. With deep basic or advanced. We keep the design of these knowledge of a crane’s core components, we are components in-house, and have done so since the able to develop deep software intelligence for 1930s. crane control. Konecranes control hardware and Integrated units The Core of Lifting can be understood as the software, with its diverse range of features, posiof dedicated ever-growing collective knowledge we share as tively affects our customers’ businesses because components Konecranes, founded on skill and derived from it is built on knowledge gathered from specific improve safety, decades of experience. It is the principle that applications in the field. eco-efficiency, guides how we design and manufacture the Konecranes is thus able to push the boundreliability, and world-class lifting equipment vital for industry aries of what cranes, and lifting equipment as a and modern society. We safeguard this expertise whole, can do for our customers. On the foundamaterial handling proudly, and build on it steadily. In many ways, it tion of the Core of Lifting, we are already building precision. is what our company is built upon, and it is what the next generation of lifting. sets us apart from our competitors. Dedication at the core From minute details to the big picture We are constantly refining our way of working to In practice, the Core of Lifting begins with how improve the efficiency, lifetime reliability, and the smallest component is made, and extends durability of our products. Integrated units of dedioutwards to everything we do. Unlike many of our cated components improve safety, eco-efficiency, competitors, who buy in generic key components reliability, and material handling precision. Our (motors, gears, controls) and assemble them for holistic approach provides transparency and clarity cranes, we are able to take complete responsiof responsibility through every product delivery. We are able bility for the final product’s performance in its to push the totality. We know exactly what lifting is made of boundaries of This approach prevents the uneven dimenLiving up to the standards we set for ourselves sioning, or incorrect sizing, of components, which in the very beginning has brought us far, and what lifting can lead to weight imbalance, a slower dynamic continues to guide us as we forge our future. equipment response, and higher inertia – all problems that The Core of Lifting is the skill in our workshops, can do for our can disrupt a crane’s lifecycle. the vision at the drawing board, and the practices customers. We also know in which conditions our dedicated proven in the demanding environments of modern components will be used. This is why we are able industry. It lives and breathes in every Konecranes to engineer and integrate every structural layer of employee. Like components carefully designed the machine to work together in harmony. Every and made for the machine that does precisely design decision is made consciously to serve a what the customer needs it to do, the right people calculated whole. with the right know-how form a single unified Not only do we design purpose-built compocompany – one dedicated to Lifting Businesses. nents, we also design the interaction between them. This results in a synergy of benefits that is greater than any crane made of generic components can offer. 22 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 23 Product overview Product overview An extensive portfolio of expert solutions Service Konecranes provides specialized maintenance services and spare parts for all types Process cranes Konecranes produces a wide range of pre-engineered and tailored cranes for almost and makes of industrial cranes, hoists, and port equipment – from a single piece of any industrial lifting need. Combining the latest in lifting technology with over 80 equipment to entire operations. Our objective is to improve the safety and productiyears of crane-building knowledge and experience, our cranes are designed to be vity of our customers’ operations. reliable, safe and more eco-efficient. Our standard industrial cranes can lift up to 500 tons, and a tailored crane even more. Our recent innovations include several Lifecycle Care is our comprehensive and systematic approach to maintenance, features and details designed to assist operators, to minimize load damages, supported by world-class tools and processes. In order to deliver Lifecycle Care in and lower running costs in addition to energy consumption. TRUCONNECT Remote Real Time, we use the Industrial Internet, connecting data, machines and people. Service offers real-time monitoring of the crane, allowing better planning, preventive We bring together usage and maintenance data and combine it with our knowledge maintenance and technical support, helping to extend the lifetime of the crane. and experience, providing insights that allow our customers to optimize their maintenance operations and activities. Industrial The Konecranes CLX chain hoist cranes and CXT wire rope hoist cranes are ideal for lifting up to 80 tons in most industrial settings. Both cranes can be bought as stanHighest Lifecycle Value results from maximizing the productivity of uptime in addioverhead cranes tion to minimizing the cost of downtime. dard packages or tailored to your specific needs. Simple to use, with a selfadjusting magnetic brake and maintenance-free gearbox, the CLX crane is espeOur crane experts apply a systematic Risk and Recommendation Method of evaluacially suited for lighter loads up to five tons. The CXT crane can be equipped with tion and a consultative, planning and review process to drive continuous improveseveral high-tech Smart Features, including Sway Control, Target Positioning, and ment in safety and productivity. Protected Areas, making the load control easier and safer for operators, in addition to improving productivity with shorter cycle times. Customers can also have the CXT crane specially adapted for various hazardous environments. TRUCONNECT Remote Service provides real-time visibility to crane usage and operating data, helping deterCLX and SLX Both reliable and versatile, the CLX and SLX hoists have a lifting capacity of up to mine maintenance investments and productivity, as well as collecting information on five tons and are ideal for various workstations. They offer many safety-enhancing electric chain safety-related issues, such as emergency stops and overloads. features and a wide range of options and speeds. In addition, the SLX uses the hoists latest technology for inverter-driven motors. Electric chain hoists are equipped with a patented chain drive that reduces stress on the chain and extends its lifetime. Forklift trucks With lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 65 tons, our forklift trucks are used in various applications and heavy-duty work in the steel, pulp and paper, and oil and gas industries, as well as at ports. Our lift trucks have an ergonomic and spacious OPTIMA cabin, which provides increased safety and visibility for the driver. Equipped Workstation cranes Designed and developed to suit demanding applications with loads up to 2,000 kg, with the latest engines, these lift trucks are both eco-efficient and more powerful. With our workstation cranes serve customers in many industries, such as general TRUCONNECT remote monitoring, one will not only be able to track the efficiency of the manufacturing and the automotive sector. The robust XM steel workstation crane lift truck fleet, but also plan the maintenance. is easy to install, modify, and extend. The extremely light yet durable XA aluminum workstation crane has easy customization options. Thanks to XA’s aluminum structure, manual operation is easy and the material highly recyclable. Container lift trucks Our container lift trucks handle empty (8–10 ton) and laden (30–45 ton) containers at ports and intermodal terminals. Our lift trucks have an ergonomic and spacious OPTIMA cabin, which provides increased safety and visibility for the driver. Equipped ATB AirBalancers The ATB AirBalancer uses a floating load unit, harnessing air pressure as the power with the latest engines, these lift trucks are both eco-efficient and more powerful. With source. It is ideal for fast pick-and-place operations and accurate load positioning, TRUCONNECT remote monitoring, one will not only be able to track the efficiency of the especially in clean environments, since it is oil-free. ATB has been designed to lift truck fleet, but also plan the maintenance. enhance the natural lifting motion of the operator, thereby improving ergonomics. Due to its silent function, ATB helps to make the operating environment userfriendly. Reach stackers With lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 80 tons, our reach stackers are used in container handling, as well as in intermodal and industrial applications. Our lift trucks Jib cranes Konecranes jib cranes are highly adaptable and can be used in various processes. have an ergonomic and spacious OPTIMA cabin, which provides increased safety and With a standard lifting capacity of 2,000 kg, they can be applied to both existing and visibility for the driver. Equipped with the latest engines, these lift trucks are both new constructions. Easy to relocate or even resell, jib cranes offer a long period of eco-efficient and more powerful. With TRUCONNECT remote monitoring, one will not only service. There are several different ways to fix the jib to a wall or floor, ensuring an be able to track the efficiency of the lift truck fleet, but also plan the maintenance. optimal solution for your facility. Goliath gantry Used for heavy-duty assembly lifts, our Goliath gantry cranes can be found at shipyards, offshore facilities, and other heavy industrial sites. Loads weighing thousands cranes of tons can be moved hundreds of meters horizontally, over a hundred meters vertically, and positioned to assembly tolerances of just a few millimeters. 24 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 25 Product overview Corporate responsibility Making responsible business a habit and tradition The remarkable events of 2016 continued to push businesses to seek opportunities offered by a responsible approach, the Paris Climate Agreement being one of the year’s highlights. At Konecranes, Yard cranes Our yard cranes for container terminals include RTGs, RMGs, automated RMGs we continued our systematic work on corporate responsibility, with a (ARMGs), and automated RTGs (ARTGs). These cranes usually have a lifting capacity of around 50 tons and can stack one over six containers high, and seven container strong focus on our Lifting People strategy, proactive safety managerows wide plus truck lane at container ports and intermodal terminals. Our RTGs can ment, efficiency improvements, and transparent communication. be diesel-powered, in which case we offer Diesel Fuel Saver technology to increase their eco-efficiency. We also offer cable reel and busbar systems for fully electric operation, increasing eco-efficiency and decreasing emissions. Our yard cranes are Corporate responsibility at Konecranes Cluster (FIMECC). In addition, Konecranes particiavailable with TRUCONNECT remote service, which provides information on how the Corporate responsibility work at Konecranes is pates in committees of the European Committee cranes are being used in real-time, allowing customers to optimize the timing of maintenance and reduce crane downtime. focused on four areas: People, Safety, Environfor Standardization (CEN). ment and Integrity. The People area is operationally driven by human resources. The Safety and Communicating on progress Automated Konecranes offers Automated Rail Mounted Gantry (ARMG) and Automated Rubber Environment focus areas are driven by the safety Our approach towards corporate responsibility Tired Gantry (ARTG) crane systems. Introduced in 2013, the Konecranes ARTG and environmental management team and funcreporting is to embed it into our business stacking crane system offers RTG-based container terminals a growth path towards fully automated systems tion, with strong links to product management and reporting, i.e. this Annual Report. The reporting operation. It includes ARTG cranes, Remote Operating Stations (ROSs), automation software, and all the required yard infrastructure, including intelligent gates for road product development. The Integrity focus area is scope is business that we have operational trucks. a collaborative effort by multiple operational funccontrol over, and reporting is aligned with the tions within Konecranes, such as Legal, Corpofinancial year’s reporting (i.e. calendar year). The rate Responsibility, Finance, Investor relations, previous report was Konecranes Annual Report BOXPORTER RMG The Konecranes BOXPORTER RMG (rail mounted gantry crane) offers the clearest Sourcing, and Marketing and Communication. 2015, which was published in March 2016. view in intermodal container handling. It incorporates a host of technological innovations, most notably the smarter cabin with video and monitoring technology, that In 2016 we continued our systematic work on Our reporting aims to provide interested parties provides superb visibility to container handling operations. corporate responsibility, focusing on the matewith information on our progress, material indirial topics that we revisited and revalidated from cators and some additional indicators, which are the previous year via stakeholder dialogue and deemed interesting to a wider audience, while not Ship-to-shore Used for loading and unloading containers from ships, Konecranes STS cranes have a lifting capacity of up to 65 tons and an outreach of up to 70 meters. We can business workshops. Our key stakeholders are necessarily considered material in our industry. (STS) cranes deliver our STS cranes with advanced noise reduction technology and camouflage our customers, employees, and shareholders. In We use Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 as a paint schemes, making the cranes very silent and inconspicuous in container termiaddition to these, we have identified other releframework and as guidance for our reporting. The nals close to urban areas. vant stakeholder groups, which are increasingly report contains Standard Disclosures from the important for Konecranes. These include our GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, but has suppliers, sub-contractors, and business partnot fulfilled all the requirements of either ‘in accorNuclear cranes Konecranes Nuclear Equipment and Services provides nuclear cranes and specianers; society, local communities, and authorities; dance’ option (Core or Comprehensive). lized lifting equipment for our customers throughout the global nuclear industry. The students, universities, and research institutes; Corporate responsibility reporting at Konecranes nuclear quality control system meets the strict regulatory requirements of our global customers and their individual specification requirements, such as NRC 10CFR50 media; and non-governmental organizations. covers our major supply chain units and operaAppendix B, ASME NQA-1, and KTA 1401. At Konecranes, corporate responsibility is tions, using data that has been gathered through integrated into our business processes and operinternal information systems, and supplemented ations on multiple fronts. The Group Executive with information sourced separately. Some of the Brands The Group’s brand strategy is centered upon the corporate Konecranes master Board has overall accountability for corporate data included has been scaled up to provide an brand, which is complemented by a portfolio of freestanding power brands. Konecranes-branded products are sold directly to end-users, while power-branded responsibility. In addition, the Corporate Responsiproducts are sold to distributors and independent crane builders. Konecranes’ bility Steering Group provides an efficient discuspower brands include R&M, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, Morris Crane Systems, and sion forum for reviewing the progress and direction Sanma Hoists & Cranes. Board of this work. The Corporate Responsibility Director at group headquarters leads the topic, coordinates CEO the work in practice, and reports about the activities to the Group Executive Board. GXB Konecranes holds positions on the boards of the European Materials Handling Federation Corporate Responsibility Steering Group / (FEM), Port Equipment Manufacturers AssociaDirector Corporate Responsibility tion (PEMA), East Office of Finnish Industries Ltd, The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries, People Safety Environment Integrity and Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence 26 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 27 Corporate responsibility INTEGRITY overall view of our performance, which may result Comparison to earlier Employee Satisfaction in inaccuracies in some figures. Surveys showed that employee satisfaction and We do not seek full verification of the corporate engagement had improved since spring 2015. responsibility components and their indicators. Clarity on expectations, sense of achievement, KONECRANES External verification is sought for safety, energy and willingness to go the extra mile had increased. CORPORATE and emission data. We express externally verified In addition, local information sharing, collaboraPEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY SAFETY data points and our indicators’ connection to GRI, tion, and feedback on one’s own performance UN Global Compact, and UN SDGs in the index on developed positively. On the negative side, stress page 36–37. levels and the prevalence of rumors had increased There were changes in Konecranes business within the organization. during 2016. These included the closure of our The long-term success of Konecranes is driven China Shanghai factory, and the transfer of operaby the well-being, competence, and motivation of tions to our Jiangsu factory at the beginning of the our people. We continued to work according to ENVIRONMENT year; our Brazil factory closing; the divestment of our updated Lifting People strategy and employour Morocco business; factory closure in Franklin, ment lifecycle processes, of which for example U.S.A.; and in Jejuri, India, the closure of our older performance-based management and development manufacturing site and focus on the newer site, discussions (Trust, People, Performance discusboth of which are in the same area, but on sepasion known as TPP), measuring employee satisrate lots. These changes did not trigger re-calculafaction, and competence development are compo11,398 10,951 tion of our historical corporate responsibility data. nents. There was significant progress in multiple areas of more systematic, harmonized and straPeople tegic human resources management during 2016. 2016 was a year of changes to our personnel. In the beginning of the year the potential merger Number of personnel, average Number of personnel at the end of the year with Terex Corporation awaited progress, when in spring time a deal was made with Terex to acquire their Material Handling & Port Solutions business Corporate Responsibility topics materiality segment (MHPS). Internally we moved from five based on stakeholder dialogue process internal operational regions into three to match our external reporting structure, and continued by consolidating the management layers and internal Very 1 1 Business integrity Gender support functions in order to streamline our opera2 Safety 16% 84% high 3 People tions and improve our efficiency. The total number 4 Smarter offering of headcount changed from 11,877 (12/2015) to 5 Supply chain sustainability Importance for stakeholders 6 Corporate responsibility 10,951 (12/2016), including reductions and volun3 management structure Female Male tary employee turnover. High 5 7 Environmental issues 2 To support our employees in these changes, we NOTE: scale on importance offered proactive change management training for from medium to very high – as 4 none of the themes involved on managers and conducted multiple pulse surveys this round were considered not to understand people’s sentiments and to be able 6 important 7 to take appropriate actions. Early in the year, there Medium was also a wider culture survey to better understand Konecranes culture and its unique characteristics. We included some parts of earlier years’ Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS) questions in Very the June pulse survey to offer continuous progress Medium High high tracking. Importance for business development 28 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 29 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility During 2016 we changed from annual to diversity and its benefits for the business were support fact-based decision-making and strategic cases to raise awareness and alarm others of semi-annual TPP discussion cycle. The TPP in focus via multiple internal channels, and an human resources management, and increase fairsimilar risks. discussion completion rate was 77 percent for the activity plan to accelerate inclusion and diversity ness and equal treatment of all personnel. There were also safety-themed awarefirst half of 2016 and 60 percent for the second was drafted. Fair labor conditions evaluations ness-raising campaigns on regional and local half (2015: 75 percent, 2014: 80 percent). As were planned to be continued in 2016, but we Safety levels focusing on current safety issues. In many employees who had completed their TPP discusdecided to delay these due to merger and acquisiAt Konecranes, we want all our employees and areas, for example, statistics show that hands are sion during the prior 12 months were more satistion plans. others working with us to arrive home in good the most commonly injured body part. The amount fied than the employees who had not had their TPP We also tracked labor union coverage of our health after a working day. Safety has always of hand injuries has led us to campaign for discussion, this continues to be a focus area for operations, and the results show that we have been and continues to be extremely important to correct working methods and appropriate safety Konecranes. organized employee representation in 21 counKonecranes. To highlight this, Konecranes Safety gloves to prevent such injuries. Another example We are fostering organizational development tries out of the 50 in which we operate, i.e. 42 Policy was renewed in 2016 and launched in its of safety-themed awareness-raising was the via individual learning and development and talent percent of those countries have formal employee even firmer statement mode in March 2016. On a internal “Summer of Safety” initiative in Region management. There are multiple improvement representation. Coverage of employee representamore practical level, we continued our efforts on Americas. This campaign offered pragmatic tips projects ongoing on this front. For example, we tion varies by country, from just a few individuals systematic safety management based on proaceach day during the campaign period and did not decided to take a common learning management to the majority of personnel being represented. tiveness and continuous improvement. limit content only to work-related issues, such as system globally into use and its implementaCooperation with employee representatives and In 2016, we continued our serious injury and fatigue management and hydration during the hot tion was completed in original pilot areas and is Konecranes European Works Council continued in fatality (SIF) prevention program, i.e. focusing on season, but also expanded to giving tips for life progressing to other countries. This supports our a good atmosphere of mutual respect. deeper analysis and incident investigations of outside work and keeping the whole family safe formalized and harmonized approach to learning In order to engage our employees to become cases with SIF potential, both in terms of incidents and healthy. management and enables established Konecranes Konecranes shareholders and contribute to the and near-misses. This is still work ongoing and it During 2016 we introduced a globally harmoUniversity work. We also started a formal mentolong-term success of the company, we continued will continue with a roll-out of company-wide Life nized template and the practice of dynamic risk ring program during 2016 with the first mentoring to offer the Konecranes Employee Share Savings Saving Behaviors, which were planned already for assessment at the job site in our service busipairs. It has been a great success as our own Plan (ESSP) also in 2016. Please read more about 2016, but were slightly delayed. In addition, we ness, where technicians’ working conditions differ top leadership, including our President and CEO, this on page 45. In addition, a more systematic have continued to implement our company-wide from job to job. We call this Point of Work Risk sees it beneficial and commits time to knowledge approach to salary management, review, and minimum safety requirements, and actively shared Assessment (PoWRA). There is still variation in transfer via mentoring. budgeting was created and implemented. and distributed information on safety-related SIF the completeness of PoWRA adaptation country to The strong focus on employee and organizaPeople key performance indicators (KPI) were tion development was clearly visible also through developed further and a common business intelinvestments to internal communications, when we ligence portal was created for automatic KPI visiSummary of renewed Corporate Responsibility roadmap with objectives renewed Konecranes intranet in 2016. There was bility to support management in fact-based deciUN Global Focus area Objective 2020 Business link Compact UN SDGs also clear progress in structured resource and sion-making. Another example of improvement is Safety • Interim goal LTA1 < 3, ultimate goal zero accidents vision, values, strategic competence analysis. Key competences for leaderthe development of pre-defined roles within Busi• Significant reduction in serious injuries and no fatalities initiatives, tactical focus ness Area Service organization, enabling efficient areas ship, for example, were clarified during the year. • Subcontractor safety tracking and management improved The main activities relating to fair labor condiplanning and understanding of the fact-based • Certified safety management systems tions during 2016 were around our ‘Respect in the resourcing. This is in place already in 13 counEnvironment • Energy consumption intensity -10% MWh/sales* and emission vision, values, strategic 7, 8, 9 Workplace’ policy communication and implementatries and the rollout continues country by country, intensity -20% CO2e-t/sales* initiatives, tactical focus • ISO14001:2015 100% coverage in manufacturing areas tion tracking. Raising awareness of inclusion and based on business needs. These a ­ ctivities Engaging employees People • Gender diversity of group management: male 75% / female values, tactical focus areas 3, 4, 5, 6 To engage our employees in corporate responsibility work, an internal engagement campaign was 25% kicked off at the end of 2016. The campaign took a wide, multi-channel approach, including nine • International diversity of group management: Finnish 50% / Other 50% different options for getting involved and spreading the message of corporate responsibility – for Integrity • Continue to have code of conduct training coverage 100% values 1, 2, 10 example, taking pictures with corporate responsibility commitment signs, arranging coffee table • 80% of existing suppliers by spend and 100% of new suppliers talks, taking part in an idea contest, and breaking the ice in meetings with the help of the Corporate monitored for sustainability Responsibility Question Cards. * Baseline year: 2013. Targets include scope 1 and scope 2 consumption and emissions (market-based). 30 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 31 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility 56% 73 Training days per employee Age structure, % by employee groups of Konecranes employees are nationalities employed at 40,164* 40,049* 30,853* operatives Konecranes 3.0 2.6 4.0 1.6 4.3 3.7 3.4 3.4 3.0 19 5 19 5 18 5 18 5 19 6 24 25 26 26 26 country, but our clear intention is to have this globtheir use. The cutting edge of our environmental ally implemented, and the necessary follow-up and work is to continuously improve energy and 30 31 31 32 33 spot-checking evaluation of implementation have resource efficiency, considering both our opera22 20 20 19 16 already begun in some areas. tions and products. In 2016, we continued our Our proactive approach to safety also extends project to have a certified environmental manage14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 to our safety reporting. We closely follow our ment system according to the ISO14001:2015 Staff <30 30–39 leading safety indicators, such as the number of standard for all our factories within a few years. Operatives 40–49 50–59 safety training hours, safety observations, and Similarly, as in occupational safety, we wished to near-miss cases. We were slightly disappointed in enforce and refresh our commitment to eco-effiAverage >60 the recent trend of reported near-misses, but then ciency and issued a completely renewed, ambitious * Total number of training days ascertained that the reason for the drop in nearKonecranes Environmental Policy in March 2016. miss numbers is purely related to our reporting Our internal efforts regarding energy efficiency system. In 2015, we changed the IT system used improvements and cutting emissions for climate for reporting near-misses, and in some areas this change mitigation is bearing fruit. Many locations pushed people back to paper reporting of near have implemented energy efficiency improving CDP rating 2016 2015 2014 material-management solution is purely built on a misses and safety observations. Not all reported solutions and helpfully shared their success B 98C 76D service concept. cases are therefore visible in our databases. In stories in our internal communication channels. Our new business models are closer to the 2017, more attention will be paid to the usability, As an example, our manufacturing unit in Ukraine When thinking about our environmental footprint center circles of the circular economy model in ease, and intuitiveness of our reporting system’s shared a story on their multiple energy effiand recognizing that the largest impacts come the picture on page 34, i.e. they are more desiruser interface, to increase reporting activity. ciency activities, including improved compressed from raw material and components manufacturing able from an environmental economy perspective. air systems and changing to LED lights – and and the product use phase, it is natural that we Modernizations and retrofits can significantly Environment achieving operational savings with these activikeep this topic on the agenda during product extend the life cycle and improve the efficiency Konecranes acknowledges its responsibility ties. Another great example of our commitment development. Usability, eco-efficiency, and safety of our products. Also Industrial Internet solutions over and opportunity to affect environmental to emission reductions came from our factory in are our guiding principles in product design along play a key role in rental and leasing business matters, especially in terms of the efficient use India, where solar panels were installed on the with lifecycle thinking. To enforce our products’ models and in preventive maintenance. of resources and mitigating the effects of climate factory roof to fuel Konecranes operations with environmental performance and highlight their change. Our most significant environmental this renewable clean energy. It is estimated that eco-efficient features, we are creating EnvironIntegrity impacts come from production of raw materials the solar panels will cover 67 percent of the factomental Product Declarations for more product As we are part of a complex ecosystem of busiand from our products’ energy consumption during ry’s energy needs, reducing its carbon footprint by families – the newest additions to be published in nesses, we want to ensure we are demonstrating approximately 1,100 CO2e tons annually. the beginning of 2017. high business ethics in our operations. One key Lost Time Accident Frequency Water-related issues continue not to be highly During 2016 Konecranes actively took part effort during 2016 was the roll-out of the so-called Business Area LTA1, 2016 LTA1, 2015 LTA1, 2014 LTA1, 2013 LTA1, 2012 material for us, as there is no production water in in creating a Finnish Circular Economy roadmap, Anti-Fraud e-Learning – an e-learning addressing Konecranes total 5.8 5.9 6.3 8.6 9.5 our manufacturing. However, we follow the develmoderated by Sitra. We also continued looking at fraud prevention and teaching employees to Equipment 3.8 5.0 5.9 7.3 9.9 opment of this issue and the geographical water our operations from a circular economy perspecrecognize the most typical signs of fraud. It also Service 8.2 7.4 7.3 10.6 10.3 risks in areas of our factories. We conducted tive and exploring the environmental efficiency highlighted the importance of our internal controls LTA1=number of work-related accidents causing at least one day of lost time / working hours performed over the reference period*1,000,000hours water risk assessments of our factory locations improvements that the Industrial Internet can and promoted our confidential whistleblower in 2015. This was to better understand potential provide. Our newest business models and pilots channel. This e-learning was made mandatory for Number of reported near misses issues the societies in which we operate may face are at the heart of the circular economy, and around 1,000 Konecranes employees, including a 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 in the future, and to understand the flooding and our more traditional business also supports the certain part of leadership and personnel handling Total 693 676 892 813 408 drought risks of our locations. concept. One good pragmatic example is the invoices. In addition, the e-learning was made The drop in number of reported near misses is estimated to be due to a change of IT system used for collecting the data. We continued reporting on our progress to shipyard crane in Turku, Finland – delivered in available to all personnel. The e-learning received external investor ratings, such as CDP. As the CDP 1975 – which is being modernized to continue its positive feedback and many employees even Fatalities rating methodology changed this year, showing service in an improved and more efficient setup. recommended and shared the e-learning invitation 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 progress year on year is not so easy on this occaOur RENTALL concept, another example of circular to their colleagues. By the end of 2016, over 70 Own personnel 0 41) 1 0 0 sion. Konecranes achieved result B, management: economy, provides the customer with an alternapercent of the target group had completed the 1) 2 traffic, which are not calculated as recordable occupational fatalities, 1 sudden complication resulting from a serious incident in the previous year, already considered recovered and back at work “company has taken actions to address environmental tive solution by leasing lifting equipment instead e-learning, and in addition to this, more than 100 issues beyond initial screenings or assessments.” of purchasing it. In addition, our Agilon warehouse other employees had completed it. 32 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 33 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Konecranes operations from a circular economy perspective Economic value created Taxes paid Taxes collected Parts supply / Recycle: 19% 7% 7% 91% 6% parts manufacturer • Design for disassembly 69% • Materials recyclable 2% Components made in-house 15% 24% Product manufacturer Refurbish/remanufacture: Products designed and made in-house • Rebuilt parts & reverse engineering • Remanufactured lift trucks 60% Service provider Reuse/redistribute: Global service network • RENTALL and leasing Dividends to owners Corporate income taxes VAT, sales, GST and similar • Second hand lift trucks turnover related taxes Salaries and wages Employment taxes Payroll taxes Taxes paid (incl. employer social Other operational taxes security contributions) Other taxes Share Taxes paid include all tax and tax-like • RENTALL crane Taxes collected payments that Konecranes has paid as Taxes collected include tax and tax-like Customer • Agilon material its own taxes. Tax-like payments include, handling – payments that Konecranes has collected on among other things, compulsory payments Maintain/prolong: leasing model of social-security contributions. behalf of the government such as VAT and • Lifecycle care similar turnover-related taxes paid, payroll • Parts, modernizations, taxes and other taxes. The economic burden Collection retrofits for such taxes ends up with the buyer or final consumer. Energy recovery & avoid/minimize landfill As we have mentioned, we are aiming for as Non-­conformities are closely followed and the transparent reporting and communication of our adequacy of corrective action reviewed. efforts as possible. To live up to our promise, Konecranes evaluates its economic value Environmental data 2016 during 2016, Konecranes trialed new ways for creation for the society. We impact society by Energy 2016 2015 2014 2013 engaging personnel and external stakeholders in creating jobs and income for employees, paying Total energy consumption (MWh) 215,700 227,100 244,600 239,500 proactive corporate responsibility dialogue and and collecting taxes and tax-like payments, and Fuel consumption1) (MWh) 141,500 151,800 169,600 161,400 work. For example, our Corporate Responsibility among others, creating added value for the shareNatural gas consumption (MWh) 14,700 16,700 18,100 18,800 Electricity consumption (MWh) 40,300 42,100 40,300 41,600 Director guest-tweeted on the Konecranes Twitter holders. District heat consumption (MWh) 19,200 16,500 16,6009) 17,7009) account in June, and Konecranes has actively Konecranes tax policy is to remit taxes as Total energy consumption / sales (MWh/M€) 102 107 1229) 1149) shared Corporate Responsibility-related news and required by applicable tax laws, rules and reguEmissions stories in social media, such as LinkedIn lations, and to comply with all reporting requireTotal emissions2) (tCO2e) 56,800 60,800 66,100 69,400 and Twitter. ments, as well as to file all tax returns and fulfill all Scope 1, direct emissions3) (tCO2e) 39,200 42,500 46,900 45,200 We continued the professional management of tax compliances within the time requirements of Location-based method 18,500 19,300 20,4009) 21,1009) Scope 2, indirect emissions (tCO2e4)) our suppliers as in previous years. In addition, we local laws where it conducts its business activities. Market-based method 17,600 18,300 19,2009) 24,2009) continued piloting deeper corporate responsibility In 2016, Konecranes paid and collected EUR Scope 3, business travel (tCO2e)5) 7,700 8,300 9,600 9,000 Total emissions2) / sales (tCO2e /M€) 27 29 33 33 audits by a third party. The first in-depth third285 million (2015: EUR 309 million) in taxes and Waste party corporate responsibility audits took place in other compulsory tax-like payments in countries Metal scrap 6) (tons) 7,400 8,200 9,500 8,500 China at the end of 2015 and the pilot continued where the Group has operations. A total of EUR Cardboard, paper and wood6) (tons) 3,100 2,900 4,200 1,600 in India during 2016. In total, over 20 in-depth 125 million (2015: EUR 117 million) was paid Hazardous and electronic and electrical waste7) (tons) 700 800 600 550 audits have been conducted so far. Overall, the (taxes borne) directly by the group itself while EUR Other waste8) (tons) 2,300 2,100 1,200 2,700 results were positive. Even though naturally there 160 million (2015: EUR 192 million) was collected Water were findings in audits and improvement oppor(taxes collected) on behalf of governments. Water consumption (m3) 120,900 139,600 138,800 160,100 tunities discovered, we did not find any serious Additional information on taxes can be found in Figures represent our manufacturing locations, except fuel consumption (includes also service vehicle fleet) and Scope 3 emission figures (represents emissions from neglects. A common theme in the findings was the financial reporting section on pages 89 and 94. business traveling. 1 MWh = 3.6 GJ. M€ = million euros. 1) Fuel consumption consists of diesel and petrol. 2) Total emissions include scope 1 and scope 2 (market-based method). CO2, CH4 and N2O included. GWP: 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. Scope 3 is not included in the total emission figures, as collecting comprehensive that of high working hours, and in some places For questions about this corporate responScope 3 data is still under progress. 3) Scope 1 includes emissions from fuel, natural gas and LPG consumption. 4) Includes emissions from electricity and district we found occupational safety improvement sibility report or its contents, contact: heat consumption. Scope 2 indirect emission are calculated according to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance dual reporting requirement: location-based and marketbased method. Konecranes Finland Oy acquired RES-GO guarantees of origin for electricity (Renewable Energy Sources Guarantee of Origin) which are subject to EECS opportunities or emergency preparedness gaps. corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com (European Energy Certificate System). These guarantees of origin covered 16,000 MWh electricity consumption for the year 2016. Production method was bioenergy. 5) Scope 3 includes emissions only from business travel. 6) Waste streams are directed to recycling. 7) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration and other adequate treatments depending on location. 8) Other waste includes plastic, organic, mixed and energy waste. Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, composting, and landfill depending on location. 9) Figures revised: improved data quality. 34 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 35 GRI content index GRI content index Link to Link to UN Global UN Global Compact 10 Link to External Compact 10 Link to External Page Comments principles UN SDGs assurance* Page Comments principles UN SDGs assurance* GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-EN5 Energy intensity 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services CDP partly covered 7, 8, 9 7, 12, 13 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS answer** G4-1 CEO's statement 6 MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 34 partly covered 7, 8 6 G4-3 Name of the organization 38 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 2, 24–26 9 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters 133 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-6 Number of countries and location of operations 3, 18 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 34 partly covered 7, 8, 9 7, 12, 13 x G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 38 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-8 Markets served 11, 18 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 15, 18 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 34 7, 8 12 G4-10 Breakdown of workforce 18, 28, MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 32–33 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and CDP 9 6, 7, 12, G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining agreements 30 3 services answer** 13 G4-12 Organization's supply chain 35 CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-13 Significant changes 4, 29, 51 SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed 32–34 MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-15 External initiatives 27, 31, G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 32 partly covered 1 3, 8 x 33 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by G4-16 Memberships in associations 27 gender IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-17 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements 117–119 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee 33 partly covered 5, 8 G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries 27, 29 category G4-19 Material aspects 27, 29, G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 29–30 8 36–37 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 27, 29 endings G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 27, 29 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 29–30 partly covered 8 development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-staments of information provided in 29 earlier reports SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS G4-23 Significant changes 29, 4 MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 30, 50 partly covered 1, 2, 6 5, 8 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 27 MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-25 Identification of stakeholders 27 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 30 partly covered 1, 2, 3 12,16 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 27, 29 and measures taken to support these rights G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 29 MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR REPORT PROFILE G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents 35 partly covered 1, 2, 5 8, 12 G4-28 Reporting period 27 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of G4-29 Date of most recent report 27 child labor G4-30 Reporting cycle 27 MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding report 35 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of 35 partly covered 1, 2, 4 8, 12 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of G4-32 GRI content index 36–37 all forms of forced or compulsory labor G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the 29, MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT report 36–37 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply 35 partly covered 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 GOVERNANCE chain and actions taken 5, 6 G4-34 Governance structure 27, 38 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ETHICS AND INTEGRITY MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 8 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 33 partly covered 10 16 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and no known 16 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC monopoly practices and their outcomes cases MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 35 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary no known CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations cases MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume not covered MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY yet, data G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health 19, 33 partly covered 3 collection in and safety impacts are assessed for improvement progress MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer no known G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 34 partly covered 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x privacy and losses of customer data cases * External assurance statement by Ecobio Oy available at www.konecranes.com ** 2015 Konecranes CDP answer available at www.cdp.net. 2016 CDP answer will be published in September 2017. 36 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 37 Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate Governance Konecranes Plc (Konecranes, the Company) is Terex Corporation became a significant shareholder General Meeting Responsibilities a Finnish public limited liability company, which in Konecranes, the EGM of Konecranes, held on The General Meeting of Shareholders is the CompaThe Board is responsible for the administration and complies with the Finnish Companies and Securities September 15, 2016, resolved to approve new Artiny’s highest decision-making body, through which proper organization of the Company’s operations. The Market Acts, the rules of Nasdaq Helsinki, and other cles of Association for Konecranes. Under the Artishareholders exercise their decision-making power Board is vested with powers and duties to manage regulations concerning public companies, as well cles of Association Terex Corporation or any member and right of supervision and control over the Compaand supervise the Company’s administration and as Konecranes Articles of Association, in its deciof Terex Group, as is designated by Terex to the ny’s business. operations as set forth in the Companies Act, the sion-making and administration. company, is entitled to nominate up to two (2) Board An Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held Articles of Association, and other applicable Finnish Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate members depending on the ownership percentage within six months after the end of a financial year. laws and regulations. The Company aims to comply Governance Code 2015 (the “Code”), which came of Terex Corporation in Konecranes Class B shares. Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting 2016 was with all applicable rules and regulations affecting the into force on January 1, 2016 and was approved by In case Terex Group’s ownership of the company’s held on March 23, 2016. An Extraordinary General Company or its affiliates (Group Companies) outside the board of the Securities Market Association. The Class B shares represents less than ten percent Meeting (EGM) must be held e.g. when the Board of Finland, provided that such compliance does not Code can be found at www.cgfinland.fi. Konecranes (10 percent) of the number of outstanding shares, Directors considers it necessary or if an auditor or constitute a violation of Finnish law. complies with the recommendations of the Code Terex’s right to nominate board members ceases. shareholders with at least 10 percent of shares so The Board has a general obligation to pursue with some exceptions. Konecranes deviates from The term of the Terex designee board members is demand in writing to consider a specific issue. the best interests of the Company and all its shareRecommendations 5 and 6. Konecranes signed on not determined. Konecranes Plc held an Extraordinary General holders, and is accountable to the Company’s shareMay 16, 2016 an agreement to acquire from Terex Konecranes has issued a Corporate Governance Meeting on September 15, 2016 to decide on certain holders. Board members shall act in good faith and Corporation its Material Handling and Ports SoluStatement and a Remuneration Statement based on matters related to the acquisition of the Material with due care, exercising their business judgment on tions (MHPS) business segment. The acquisition was the Code. See www.konecranes.com > Investors > Handling and Ports Solutions business from Terex. an informed basis in what they believe to be the best completed on January 4, 2017. As an important part Corporate Governance for details. The Board of Directors (Board) shall convene an interests of the Company and its shareholder commuof the agreed acquisition arrangements and since AGM or EGM by publishing a notice on the Companity as a whole. ny’s website or in one or more national newspapers The Board shall decide on the business strategy of Corporate Governance structure of the Konecranes Group in 2016 or by sending a written notice to shareholders by the Company, the appointment and dismissal of the mail no more than three (3) months and no less than President and CEO, the deputy to the President and three (3) weeks before a meeting. The notice shall CEO, and other senior management, Group structure, Konecranes Group include the proposed agenda. acquisitions and divestments, financial matters, and Konecranes Plc The Company shall disclose on its website the investments. It shall also continuously review and date by which shareholders shall notify the Board of monitor the operations and performance of Group Articles of Association Directors of any issue that they wish included in the Companies, risk management, and the Company’s General Meeting Auditor (Shareholders) agenda. compliance with applicable laws, as well as any other Code of Conduct The Company will publish the decisions made at issues determined by the Board. The Board shall Group’s internal rules, General Meetings as stock exchange releases and keep itself informed of issues and business activities regulations, and Group on the Company’s website without delay after meetof major strategic importance to the Company on an Board of Directors Policies ings. The minutes of the General Meeting, including ongoing basis. Laws, Audit Committee Internal those appendices of the minutes that are part of The Board shall appoint a secretary to be present rules, and Audit decisions made by the meeting, will be posted at all Board meetings. regulations Nomination and Compensation Committee on the Company’s website within two weeks of a General Meeting. Election and term of office More information on General Meetings The AGM elects the Company’s Board of Directors can be found on the Company’s website at for a term of one (1) year. According to the Articles President and CEO www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Goverof Association, the Board shall have a minimum of Group Administration nance > General Meeting. five (5) and a maximum of ten (10) members. The and Support Group Executive Board Functions Board elects a Chairman from among its members. Board of Directors The Articles of Association approved by the EGM on Senior Management September 15, 2016 and registered on September Charter of the Board of Directors 28, 2016 grants Terex Corporation or any member of The Company’s Board of Directors has approved a the Terex Group to appoint members to the Board of written charter governing its work. This supplements Directors depending on the amount of Terex Group’s BA Equipment BA Service the provisions of the Finnish Companies Act and ownership in the Company. the Company’s Articles of Association. Information Biographical details of the Board of Directors are in the charter is intended to enable shareholders presented on pages 54–55 and can also be found at Component to evaluate the operation of the Board. The charter www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate GoverBusiness units and Business units manufacturing and strategic sourcing regions can be consulted on the Company’s website at nance > Board of Directors. www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate GoverIn addition to the Board and its secretary, the nance > Board of Directors. Company’s President and CEO and CFO shall attend 38 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 39 Corporate governance Corporate governance Board meetings. The agenda of Board meetings tors > Corporate Governance > Board Committees. Board meetings 2016 and background material will be delivered to Board The Nomination and Compensation Committee Nomination and Compensation Board meetings Audit Committee meetings Committee meetings members prior to meetings. The Board shall meet as shall meet at least once (1) a year. The Chairman Member Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage often as necessary to properly discharge its responshall present a report on each Nomination and Christoph Vitzthum, Chairman of the 27/27 100% 7/7 100% sibilities. Normally there shall be approximately eight Compensation Committee meeting to the Board. Board regular meetings a year but the Board may convene The attendance at Nomination and Compensation Stig Gustavson, Vice Chairman 24/27 89% 7/7 100% Svante Adde, Board member 27/27 100% 7/7 100% whenever necessary in addition to these meetings. Committee meetings in 2016 is shown in the table Ole Johansson, Board member 27/27 100% 6/7 86% In 2016 the Board had 27 meetings due to the of Board meetings on page 41. Janina Kugel, Board member 2/4 50% 0/1 0% special circumstances resulting from ongoing acquiBertel Langenskiöld, Board member 27/27 100% 7/7 100% sition process. Remuneration paid to the Board of Directors Ulf Liljedahl, Board member 4/4 100% 1/2 50% The attendance of Board members at meetings in The remuneration paid to Board members is resolved Malin Persson, Board member 27/27 100% 7/7 100% 2016 is shown in the table of Board meetings 2016 by the Annual General Meeting. More information on Janina Kugel and Ulf Liljedahl were elected as Board members at the EGM on September 15, 2016. The average attendance at Board meetings was 97.5 percent. on page 41. the Board’s remuneration can be found on page 41 under Remuneration of the Board of Directors. Board committees The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee and President and CEO The GXB assists the President and CEO, but Decision-making process the Nomination and Compensation Committee. Both Konecranes President and CEO holds the position has no official statutory position based on legisThe AGM adopts resolutions and decides the remucommittees were first formed in 2004. of Managing Director under the Companies Act. The lation or the Articles of Association. In practice, neration of the Board of Directors and the Board’s Board decides on the appointment and dismissal however, it plays a significant role in the Company’s Committees annually. The Nomination and CompenAudit Committee of the President and CEO. The President and CEO management system, strategy preparation, and sation Committee reviews the President and CEO’s The Board shall appoint the members and the may be a member of the Board of Directors, but may decision-making. The biographical details of GXB performance. Based on the review and other relevant Chairman of the Audit Committee from among its not act as its Chairman. The current President and members can be found on pages 56–57. facts, the Board determines the total remuneration members. The Audit Committee shall have at least CEO, Panu Routila, is not a member of the Board of The SM focuses on a review of the progress of package of the President and CEO. three (3) non-executive Board members that are Directors. strategy implementation. The biographical details of The Nomination and Compensation Committee independent of and not affiliated with the Company. Panu Routila started in his position on November SM members can be found on pages 58–59. also evaluates and prepares for Board’s decision on At least one member must be independent of major 1, 2015. The GXB normally convenes on a monthly basis. the remuneration packages of GXB members who shareholders. CFO Teo Ottola is the Deputy CEO. The Deputy In 2016 the GXB had meetings more often due to report directly to the President and CEO. The remuThe tasks and responsibilities of the Committee CEO uses the powers of the CEO if the CEO position the ongoing acquisition process. Business Areas neration packages for SM members who are not part are defined in its Charter, which is based on a Board is not filled or in situations when the CEO is incapaciand Regions have their own management teams that of GXB are decided on by the President and CEO. resolution. The Charter of the Audit Committee can tated to fulfil his duties. convene on a regular basis. All Konecranes remuneration issues are decided be consulted on the Company’s website at www. by the ’one above’ principle, i.e. a manager’s supekonecranes.com > Investors > Corporate GoverResponsibilities Remuneration 2016 rior must always confirm the remuneration of an nance > Board Committees. Under the Companies Act, the President and CEO is employee. Under its Charter, the Audit Committee shall meet responsible for the day-to-day management of the Principles applied to at least four (4) times a year. The Chairman shall Company in accordance with instructions and orders remuneration schemes Remuneration of the Board of Directors present a report on each Audit Committee meeting given by the Board. The President and CEO may only All Konecranes remuneration schemes are designed The remuneration of the Board members is resolved to the Board. undertake actions which, considering the scope and to promote high performance and emphasize focus by the AGM. Fees payable to the Board members as The attendance at Audit Committee Meetings in nature of the Company’s operations, are unusual or and commitment to business targets. Remuneraconfirmed by the latest AGM are shown in the table 2016 is shown in the table of Board meetings 2016 extensive with the authorization of the Board. The tion schemes promote competitiveness and the on page 42. In case the term of office of a Board on page 41. President and CEO shall ensure that the Company’s long-term financial success of the Company and member ends before the closing of the next AGM, accounting practices comply with the law and that contribute to the favorable development of sharehe or she is entitled to the prorated amount of the Nomination and Compensation Committee its financial affairs have been arranged in a reliable holder value. annual remuneration calculated on the basis of his The Board shall appoint the members and the manner. The President and CEO is also responsible The Konecranes Group has a variable element or her actual term in office. Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation for preparing matters presented to the Board and for (i.e. incentive plan) included in its reward structure. 50 percent of annual remuneration is paid in Committee from among its members. The Nomithe Company’s strategic planning, finance, financial The usage of variable element is defined based Konecranes shares purchased on the market on nation and Compensation Committee shall have planning, reporting, and risk management. on global and local market needs, and may differ behalf of Board members. Remuneration may also at least three (3) non-executive Board members, Information on the President and CEO’s remunerabetween locations as a result. The size of this be paid by transferring treasury shares based on the majority of whom shall be independent of the tion can be found on page 42 under Remuneration of variable component varies according to a person’s the authorization given to the Board of Directors by Company. the President and CEO. position in the organization. Typically, these variable the General Meeting. In the event that payment in The Committee’s tasks and responsibilities are components are based on the financial results shares cannot be carried out due to reasons related defined in its Charter, which is based on a Board Group management of the Group and/or the unit in question, as well to either the Company or a Board member, annual resolution. The Charter of the Nomination and Konecranes has a two-tier operative management as personal achievements. These remuneration remuneration shall be paid entirely in cash. In 2016, Compensation Committee can be consulted on the structure consisting of the Group Executive Board schemes are drawn up in writing and numerical evalannual remuneration was paid entirely in cash. Company’s website at www.konecranes.com > Inves(GXB) and Senior Management (SM). uation is used whenever possible. 40 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 41 Corporate governance Corporate governance Total compensation paid to the Board of Directors in 2016* Fees payable to the Board of Directors tegic targets that can trigger an additional incentive, Annual fee and additional one-time compensation Committee and Annual fee 2016 EUR which can be a maximum of 50 percent of the PresCash Board meetings Total Chairman of the Board 105,000.00 ident and CEO’s annual base salary. For the period EUR EUR EUR Vice Chairman 67,000.00 Christoph Vitzthum, Chairman of the Board 78,750 33,000 111,750 September 2015–December 2016, 50 percent of Board member 42,000.00 Stig Gustavson, Vice Chairman of the Board 110,250 30,000 140,250 the maximum bonus is guaranteed pro rata to the Fee per Board Committee meeting 1,500.00 Svante Adde, Board member 61,500 42,000 103,500 Chairman of the Audit Committee 3,000.00 time of employment. Ole Johansson, Board member 31,500 30,000 61,500 per AC meeting The President and CEO is entitled to participate Matti Kavetvuo 3,000 3,000 Board members are also reimbursed for their travel expenses. in the Company’s long-term incentive program. Janina Kugel, Board member 1,826 1,826 According to the initial allocation, the maximum Bertel Langenskiöld, Board member 91,500 33,000 124,500 The remuneration is paid in four equal instalreward for the discretionary period 2014–2016 is Ulf Liljedahl, Board member 1,826 1,500 3,326 ments, each instalment being purchased or trans48,000 shares (gross), the maximum reward for the Malin Persson, Board member 31,500 31,500 63,000 discretionary period 2015–2017 is 48,000 shares Total 408,652 204,000 612,652 ferred within the two week period following each of There were no loans issued by the Company to the CEO as of the end of December 2016. the Company’s interim report announcements and (gross) and the maximum reward for the discre* Due to change in payout schedules, this includes only part of the annual remuneration 2016. The rest will be paid in 2017. the Company’s financial statements bulletin for tionary period 2016–2018 is 48,000 shares (gross). each year. The pension scheme for the President and CEO Compensation paid to the President and CEO The EGM decided that all members of the Board of sets his retirement age at 63, and the defined contriSalary, variable pay, and other benefits Directors are additionally remunerated for attending bution at 30.5 percent of his annual salary, excluding 2016 From Nov. 1, 2015 Until Sep. 5, 2015 meetings of the Board of Directors during the period performance-based compensation (annual or long1. Salary and benefits 467,071 EUR 73,760 427,596 EUR from Konecranes Annual General Meeting held on term incentives). 2. Annual variable pay 143,500 EUR 216,000 EUR March 23, 2016 until the closing of the Acquisition (or 3. Share rights allocated (PSP) 144,000 96,000 0 the next AGM of Konecranes, unless the Acquisition Remuneration of group management 4. Shares owned (# of shares Dec. 31) 16 0 218,476 5. Retirement age 63 years 63 years 63 years has been closed prior to that). The compensation to (Group Executive Board) 6. Target pension level Defined contribution plan Defined contribution plan Defined contribution plan be paid to each member of the Board of Directors The Nomination and Compensation Committee 7. Period of notice 6 months 6 months 6 months shall be EUR 1,500 for each meeting the relevant evaluates and prepares for Board’s decision on the 8. Severance payment (in addition to notice 18 months’ salary and 18 months’ salary and 18 months’ salary and member of the Board of Directors attended. remuneration packages of GXB members who report period compensation) fringe benefits fringe benefits fringe benefits The members of the negotiation team are paid directly to the President and CEO. Remuneration There were no loans issued by the Company to the CEO as of the end of December 2016. the following additional one-time compensation: packages for SM members who are not part of GXB EUR 60,000 to each of Stig Gustavson, Bertel are confirmed by the President and CEO. CompensaRemuneration to the Management Langenskiöld and Christoph Vitzthum; and EUR tion packages normally include basic salary, fringe Group Executive Board, excluding the President and CEO 30,000 to Svante Adde. benefits (typically company car and mobile phone), 2016 2015 1. Salary and benefits 2,047,242.60 EUR 1,587,656.95 EUR The accrued compensation per attended Board of contribution-based pension schemes, performance2. Annual variable pay 498,009.59 EUR 237,015.66 EUR Directors' meeting and the one-time compensation related annual variable pay, and a long-term 3. Option rights owned (# of options Dec. 31) 15,000 payable to the members of the Board of Directors performance-related share plan. 4. Share rights allocated (PSP) 318,000 324,000 is paid in cash. Christoph Vitzthum, the Chairman Incentive schemes are always based on written 5. Shares owned (# of shares Dec. 31) 170,921 144,517 of the Board of Directors, has informed Konecranes contracts. Incentive criteria may vary, but are usually There were no loans issued by the Company to the GXB members as of the end of December 2016. that he will forgo his one-time compensation. based on the Group’s five key performance areas: safety, customer, people, growth, and profitability. Remuneration of the President and CEO Annual variable pay is related to the individual’s of 60. However, the retirement age is set according The Board decides annually the allocation of The Nomination and Compensation Committee performance and to Group performance and/or to the Finnish Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). The shares to key personnel under a proposal made by reviews the President and CEO’s performance. the performance of the unit that he/she belongs Finnish GXB members have life insurance and the President and CEO. In allocating shares to the Based on this review and other relevant facts, the to. Numerical performance criteria are used rather disability insurances. Non-Finnish members of the President and CEO, the Board acts independently. Board determines the total compensation package than personal assessments, whenever possible. GXB participate in a defined contribution pension paid to the President and CEO. The annual variable pay percentage is based on the plan and have local insurance cover. Discretionary period 2013–2015 The compensation package includes a base individual’s responsibilities and is at maximum from The 2013 plan had one criterion: cumulative EPS salary, fringe benefits, a pension scheme, 50 to 75 percent of individual’s annual base salary. Performance Share Plan 2012 2013–2015. In the beginning of 2016, the criteria performance-related annual variable pay and a In addition to annual incentives, GXB members, At the beginning of 2012, Konecranes launched a for the plan period was not met and no rewards were long-term, performance-related share plan. The excluding CEO, are participating in an MHPS Acquisinew long-term incentive plan for key employees and paid. monthly salary of the President and CEO is EUR tion incentive scheme, in which the maximum payout discontinued the use of stock option plans. 35,000.00 excluding benefits (car, mobile phone). is 50 percent of participant’s annual salary if certain The purpose of the Performance Share Plan (PSP) Discretionary period 2014–2016 The President and CEO’s annual variable pay is criteria is met. MHPS Acquisition incentive would be is to motivate key personnel to contribute to the longThe 2014 plan has one criterion: cumulative EPS based on the financial performance of the company paid out 6 months after the transaction has closed. term success of the Company and to create share2014–2016. Earned shares will be paid out by and is, at maximum, 60 percent of the President and The Finnish members of the GXB participate in a holder value and joint sense of common ownership the end of April, 2017. In the 2014–2016 plan, CEO’s annual base salary. Additionally, the Board of defined contribution-based group pension insurance among managers. if maximum performance level is achieved, the Directors can, but is not required to, set certain strascheme, which can be withdrawn from at the age 42 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 43 Corporate governance Corporate governance ­ resident and CEO will be eligible for 48,000 shares P from the reward payment and end on December 31, the members of the Board of Directors, the President Audit and the other members of the GXB a total for 2018. and CEO and the members of the Group ExecuThe main function of statutory auditing is to verify 120,000 shares (gross). The members of the GXB, including the President tive Board. Managers and their closely associated that Konecranes financial statements represent a The members of the GXB, including the President and CEO, have an obligation to continue owning at persons have to notify Konecranes and Financial true and fair view of the Group’s performance and and CEO, have an obligation to continue owning at least 50 percent of the shares they earn annually Supervision Authority of all transactions, as defined financial position for the financial year, which is the least 50 percent of the shares they earn annually through the PSP until they own Company shares with in MAR, conducted on their own account relating to calendar year. The auditor reports to the Board’s through the PSP until they own Company shares with a value equal to their annual salary including benefits. the financial instruments of Konecranes within three Audit Committee on a regular basis and is obliged to a value equal to their annual salary including benefits. days of the transactions. audit the validity of the Company’s accounting and Stock option plans Managers are prohibited from trading in Konecranes' closing accounts for the financial year and to give Performance Share Plan 2015 In the past, the Company had stock option plans for financial instruments during a closed period starting the General Meeting an auditor’s report. Konecranes As of the beginning of 2015, Konecranes launched a its key employees, including top and middle manageon the 15th day of the month prior to the end of each auditors are elected by the AGM and will hold office new long-term incentive plan for key employees. The ment, and employees in certain expert positions. All calendar quarter and ending when the corresponding until the end of the annual general meeting following aim is to combine the objectives of the shareholders these plans were adopted by the relevant General interim report or the financial statement bulletin is the election. The same auditor with principal responand the key employees in order to increase the value Meetings. The Board has decided to discontinue the published, including the day of publication of said sibility may not serve for more than seven (7) finanof the Company, to commit the key employees to the use of these plans until further notice. The subscripreport (“Closed Period”). cial years. Company, and to offer them a competitive reward tion period for Stock Options 2009C, ended on April Konecranes keeps a record of persons who reguErnst & Young Oy, Authorized Public Accounplan based on shareholding in the Company. The 30, 2016. larly participate in the preparation of the group level tants, has been the Company’s external auditor Board of Directors shall determine the amount of the financial results or who can otherwise have access since 2006. Ms Kristina Sandin served as Principal maximum reward for each key employee belonging to Employee share savings plan to such information, and has decided that the Auditor in 2016. Ernst & Young Oy and its affiliated the target group for the discretionary period. Konecranes launched an Employee Share Savings Closed Period set by Konecranes applies to them. audit companies received EUR 4.1 million in fees Plan on July 1, 2012 for all employees except those Persons included in the Insider List’s project-specific for auditing Konecranes Group companies in 2016 Discretionary period 2015–2017 in countries where the plan could not be offered for sections are prohibited from trading in Konecranes and fees of EUR 0.6 million for non-audit services. The 2015 plan has one criterion: cumulative EPS legal or administrative reasons. Participants saved financial instruments until termination of the project The audit fee in 2016 was high due to Konecranes' 2015–2017 excluding restructuring costs. Earned a monthly sum of up to 5 percent of their gross concerned. pending acquisition of Terex MHPS that required an shares will be paid out in the first quarter of 2018. In salary, which was used to buy Konecranes shares audit based on US audit standards (PCAOB audit) for the 2015–2017 plan, if maximum performance level from the market on behalf of the participants. If the year 2016. is achieved, the President and CEO will be eligible for participants are still in possession of these shares 48,000 shares and the other members of the GXB a after an approximate three-year holding period, they total of 120,000 shares (gross). will receive one matching share for every two initially Summary of Employee Share Savings Plan The members of the GXB, including the President purchased. First matching shares, all together Timing of Expected and CEO, have an obligation to continue owning at 18,580 were delivered to 1,205 participants in Amount of Amount of matching share matching shares Plan period Savings period participants* shares acquired delivery to be delivered* least 50 percent of the shares they earn annually February 2016. 2013–2014 July 1, 2013–June 30, 2014 1,338 84,377 Feb 2017 42,189 through the PSP until they own Company shares with New plan periods began on July 1, 2013, July 1, 2014–2015 July 1, 2014–June 30, 2015 1,286 77,085 Feb 2018 38,543 a value equal to their annual salary including benefits. 2014, July 1, 2015, and September 1, 2016. The 2015–2016 July 1, 2015–June 30, 2016 1,345 100,660 Feb 2019 50,330 plan also covers top management. Participation is 2016–2017 September 1, 2016– 1,259 5,733 Feb 2020 2,867 Performance Share Plan 2016 voluntary for all concerned. June 30, 2017 * by the end of Q4 2016 In June 2016, Konecranes launched a new long-term incentive plan 2016 for the key employees of the Insider administration Konecranes Group. The plan continues the incentive The Board of Directors has approved Konecranes Plc and commitment program for the Konecranes Group Insider Regulations based on Market Abuse Regulakey employees. The aim is to combine the objectives tion (“MAR”), regulations and guidance given by Euroof the shareholders and ensure retention during intepean Securities and Markets Authority, the Finnish gration planning of Acquisition MHPS and to increase Securities Markets Act, Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd’s Guidethe value of the Company. lines for Insiders, and guidance given by the Financial Supervision Authority. Discretionary period 2016–2018 Konecranes maintains an insider list (“Insider The 2016 plan has two criteria: EBITDA for 2016 and List”) recording all persons having access to insider time base. The plan consists of one discretionary information related to the Company. The Insider List period, calendar year 2016. Any reward from the plan consists of one or more project-specific sections. will be paid out after the end of the discretionary Konecranes has determined that it will not establish period, by the end of August 2017. However, the paid a permanent insider section in this Insider List and shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged, or there are thus no permanent insiders in Konecranes. otherwise exposed during a restriction period estabIn Konecranes persons discharging managerial lished for the shares. The restriction period will begin responsibilities (“Managers”) according to MAR, are 44 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 45 Risk management Risk management Risk management, internal control, and internal auditing credit risks of our customers are mitigated with Active management of our intellectual property advance payments, letters of credit, payment rights gets constant attention. We aim to secure guarantees, and credit insurance where appliour freedom to operate. In 2016 we continued to cable. By using these tools and carefully moniactively protect our designs, innovations, tradeKonecranes Board of Directors has defined and competitiveness of our products in a specific toring customer payments, we have been able to marks, and domains. We have a regular process to adopted a set of risk management principles market and affect our customers’ businesses. successfully limit our credit risks. monitor possible violations and react on those. based on widely accepted international good Capital expenditure on industrial cranes varies During 2016, Konecranes increased its focus Our testing centers are audited to ISO 17025 management practices. The Audit Committee evalwith the development of industrial production and towards Know Your Customer (KYC) topics. Extenstandard, which ensures the quality of testing uates and reports on the adequacy and appropriproduction capacity, while demand for port equipsive internal education programs and third party processes, including proper test planning and ateness of internal controls and risk management ment follows trends in global transportation and, due diligence reports were used to support the documentation of the results. We use the results to the Board. over the shorter term, port investment cycles. The KYC process in the frontline units. actively to develop the reliability of our products. lift truck cycle follows other product segments. In 2016, our cooperation with university partRisk management principles Demand for maintenance services is driven by Technology risks ners continued. We donated a modern industrial Risk is anything that will clearly affect Konecranes the capacity utilization rates of our customers. In Konecranes recognizes that there are various crane for development and research purposes to ability to achieve its business objectives and addition to risks related to sales volumes, adverse threats and opportunities related to the developAalto University in Finland. execute its strategies. Risk management is part changes in demand can also result in overcapacity ment of new products and services in its busiTechnical training of our service technicians is of Konecranes control system and is designed to and affect market prices, as can the actions of ness. Active management of intellectual property an essential risk management effort. The same ensure that any risks related to the Company’s competitors. rights is essential in the global marketplace. applies to lifting equipment specific to training business operations, are identified and managed Konecranes aim is to increase the proportion Konecranes continuously monitors general engineers and designers. Service technician adequately and appropriately to safeguard the of service revenue in its total revenue stream and market trends, technological developments, training continued actively during the year. For continuity of Konecranes business at all times. thereby reduce its exposure to economic cycles. competitors’ actions, customer behavior, and engineers, we developed specific training material The Group’s risk management principles In general, the demand for service is less volatile developments in various industry segments, in and conducted trainings based on this. Both of the provide a basic framework for risk management than that for equipment. order to identify signs of potential changes that above practices will continue in the future. across Konecranes, and each Group company As part of its strategy, Konecranes strives to could impact us. or operating unit is responsible for its own risk maintain a reasonably wide geographical market We have developed internal processes to Personnel management. This approach guarantees the best presence to balance out economic trends in secure systematic follow-up of key technoloKonecranes ability to operate is dependent on the possible knowledge of local conditions, experidifferent market areas, while paying attention gies. Similarly, we have refined process-driven availability, expertise, and competence of profesence, and relevance. to relevant distribution costs. Konecranes also approaches, from innovations to needed technosional personnel. The Group’s risk management principles define aims to limit the risks resulting from changes in logical research, all the way to product developDuring 2016, Konecranes continued its investrisk management as a continuous and systemdemand in different customer segments, as well ment projects. The processes contain checkpoints ments in personnel development. The key focus of atic activity aimed at protecting employees from as the demand for certain products by maintaining to ensure management of commercial viability and our investment was on industry-leading technical personal injury, safeguarding the assets of all a diverse customer base and offering a wide range technical risks. We actively seek opportunities skills of service technicians, leadership developGroup companies and the Group as a whole, and of products and services. By active product develto work with external research institutes, univerment, along with customer-centric and effective ensuring stable and profitable financial perforopment, Konecranes also strives to differentiate sities, and specialized companies with specific sales and sales management skills. In these focus mance. By minimizing losses due to realized risks, itself from its competitors and reduce the competknow-how, experience, and skills. All of these areas, Konecranes invested in training efforts to and optimizing the cost of risk management, itive pressures that it experiences. reduce technical risks, provide awareness of and ensure customer satisfaction. Konecranes can safeguard its overall long-term During 2016 the rollout of new IT-systems secure access to technological development in our In addition to training, Konecranes continued competitiveness. continued and we started to see these systems field of business. investing in safety programs and proactive improve our capabilities in risk management, as We utilize our testing centers to further improve safety management, and improved its point of Significant risks for Konecranes they improved transparency to the local opersafety and reliability of our products. We carry out risk assessment process. Konecranes sought Konecranes has assessed its strategic, operaations and markets. In addition, Konecranes extensive life-time testing of our new and existing to ensure key employees’ commitment to the tional, financial, and hazard-related risks. The list adjusted its market presence, channel strategy, products, creating new knowledge to reduce techCompany given the pending M&A activities. of risks below, and the risk management methods and supply operations to address specific market nical risks. Testing centers are also an integral Furthermore, Konecranes continued employeedescribed here, are intended to be indicative only needs. part of our in-house research. engagement programs, such as our Employee and should not be considered exhaustive. During 2016, we continued to analyze techShare Savings Plan, and invested in employee Customer credit risks nical data collected from cranes via our Industrial well-being. Market risks Challenges with customer payments could Internet solution, to increase our awareness of Demand for Konecranes products and services adversely affect Konecranes financial situation. To how cranes behave in daily operations. Based on Acquisitions is affected by the development of local and limit this risk, we apply a conservative credit policy this, we continue to develop algorithms, helping Unsuccessful acquisitions or a failure to successglobal economies, regional and country-specific in respect of our customers. It is Konecranes pracus predict issues related to crane safety and operfully integrate an acquired company, could result in political issues and stability, as well as the busitice to review customers carefully before entering ations. All this limits the technical risks in crane reduced profitability or hamper the implementation ness cycles of Konecranes customer industries. into a formal business relationship with them and usage, and grants us better knowledge for crane of corporate strategy. Konecranes reduces the Currency fluctuations may cause changes in to require credit reports from new customers. The designs and service operations. risks associated with acquisitions by carrying out 46 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 47 Risk management Risk management due diligence analyses, using external advisors and supplier communications to improve our ability mutual benefits. We also continued to drive busiproduct safety and documentation, training when needed. to respond to customer needs rapidly. During the ness continuity management development efforts customers, and enhancing sales terms. On May 16, 2016 Konecranes signed an agreeyear Konecranes performed a substantial amount with selected suppliers. In 2016, Konecranes continued contractual ment to acquire from Terex Corporation its Mateof supplier assessments, striving to ensure that training, development of contract language, and rial Handling & Port Solutions segment. During supplier cooperation meets expectations. We also IT risks contracts management. 2016, Konecranes invested substantial resources initiated third-party social assessments of our Konecranes IT is responsible for all IT services, first to secure the acquisition, then to plan and supplier network. applications, and assets used by Group compaIllegal activities execute the successful closing of the transaction, nies. Konecranes operations depend on the Konecranes issues written policies to ensure and finally to prepare for a professional integration Quality risks availability, reliability, quality, confidentiality, and compliance with legislation, regulations, and our of acquired entities. Please find more details of High-quality products along with business proceintegrity of information. Any and all information own principles across the Konecranes Group. the acquisition on page 9. The scale and expected dures, processes, and services, play a key role security risks, and incidents, may affect business Particular emphasis is placed on training, to benefits of this acquisition will create unprecein minimizing Konecranes business risks. Most performance adversely. ensure that employees are aware of and comply dented opportunities for Konecranes, while failure companies in the Group and all major Group Konecranes uses reliable IT solutions and with the applicable legislation, regulations, to achieve the objectives may result in substantial operations use certified quality procedures. Our employs efficient information security manageinternal policies, practices, and principles relating risks. multisite quality certificate covers several main ment, to avoid data loss and prevent the confidento their work. production units and has supported our actions tiality, availability, or integrity of data from being Konecranes is committed to complying with Production risks to harmonize quality processes throughout the compromised. User care and support is exercised all applicable laws and regulations, but breaches Konecranes strategy is to maintain the in-house corporation. with internal and outsourced IT services to ensure of the Company’s policies resulting in illegal production of key components that have high In 2016, Konecranes continued developing the high availability, resiliency, and continuity of activities can threaten the Company. Konecranes added value, and/or provide core competitive both its local and global quality improvement services, combined with rapid recovery in the considers the potential risks to be limited, advantages. There are specific risks involved with processes. That development was supported by event of any temporary loss of key services. although it recognizes that even small-scale illegal different aspects of production, such as produccontinuing to deploy the Company’s shared IT Third party experts are utilized to audit, test, and activity could damage its reputation and affect its tion capacity management, operational efficiency, tools to better register customer experiences and improve cyber security for internally and externally financials and results adversely. Internal procecontinuity, and quality. approaches to problem-solving, with the goal of developed IT services. dures, supervision, audits, and practical tools are During 2016, activities were continued to improving our business performance. To strive for During 2016, implementation of global IT used to reduce Konecranes exposure to these further enhance our supply chain capabilities. operational excellence, Konecranes continued to applications and harmonized business processes types of risks. Our production capacity was adjusted to market use and develop the Lean Six Sigma methodology entered its final stage. All systems are either Illegal and fraudulent criminal activities demand and streamlined. Replacement investwith good results. The methodology plays a key completely or for the most part implemented into targeting Konecranes cause risks that may have ment programs continued during 2016, with role in systematic improvement of the Company’s Group companies. Focus is now gradually shifting substantial impact on our financial results. The increased focus on preventive maintenance. processes and quality. to optimizing and enhancing delivered solutions, amount of such criminal attempts targeting Safety trainings and security improvements in order to derive more value from the made ­Konecranes has remained high during 2016. continued throughout the year. Supplier risks investment, and start benefiting from created Konecranes continued its efforts to ensure Konecranes recognizes that price and contiglobal visibility. Analytics and BI capabilities have good governance and management practices Material management and nuity risks are associated with some of its key been enhanced to turn increasing amounts of throughout the year. Comprehensive training procurement risks suppliers, as they could be difficult to replace. In business-, user-, and device-generated data into programs for global target groups covered Material management and procurement operthe event of major production problems, this could new business opportunities. IT is also investing in controls, policies, and many best practices ations require a proactive approach and develundermine our delivery capability. Quality risks and infrastructure enhancements to further improve that mitigate the risks related to illegal activities. opment to avoid risks related to issues such as defects associated with subcontracted compothe operational robustness and reliability of inte­Konecranes also actively decreased the exposure pricing, quality, capacity, availability, inventory nents are also quality risks for Konecranes. grated, business-critical systems. to fraudulent and criminal activity. values, supplier Code of Conduct, and other To reduce subcontracting risks, Konecranes expectations as expressed in Konecranes Global constantly seeks competitive alternative suppliers Contract and product liability risks Damage risks Supplier Manual. Inefficiencies and deficiencies while improving cooperation with existing Konecranes can be subject to various legal Damage risks include business interruption risks, in these areas could affect the performance and suppliers. When available, alternative suppliers actions, claims, and other proceedings in various occupational health and safety-related risks, envireputation of Konecranes adversely. Konecranes enhance price competition, increase production countries, typical for a company in its industry ronmental risks, fire and other disasters, natural manages its purchases, and the logistics of capacity, and reduce risks of single supplier and consistent with a global business that encomevents, and premises security risks. Konecranes materials and components of substantial impordependency. passes a wide range of products and services. identifies and assesses these risks continuously tance for its operations, on a centralized basis. To reduce exchange rate risks, a global supply These may involve contractual disputes, warranty as part of its business processes. To mitigate Contracts with key suppliers are designed to optiarrangement strives to find a geographical balance claims, product liability (including design defects, these risks, we have adopted a number of occumize these purchases globally. that naturally adapts to long-term changes in manufacturing defects, failure to post appropriate pational health and safety guidelines, rescue In 2016, Konecranes continued to develop the exchange rates, potentially affecting the competiwarnings, and asbestos legacy), employment, auto planning, and premises security instructions. quality and scope of supplier cooperation and tiveness of our operations. liability, and other matters involving claims related Konecranes has also sought to prepare for the its audit process. We also continued to improve In 2016, Konecranes continued and enhanced to general liability. These risks are managed by materialization of these risks through various demand-supply monitoring, balancing, forecasting, the cooperation with critical suppliers to generate continuously monitoring operations, improving insurance programs and by continuously improving 48 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 49 Risk management Risk management its preparedness to deal with various potential See Note 33 on the Financial Statements and Control environment Main features of internal control related to financial reporting crisis situations. the Board of Directors’ Report for a detailed overDuring 2016, we began a program to improve view of financial risk management. our capacity to react quicker to trends from nearBoard of Directors Review of financial performance miss and incident reporting, as well as safety Insurance observations and audit data. Additionally, this The Group reviews its insurance policies as part Audit Committee Overview of financial reporting process development allows us to track completion of of its overall risk management on a continuous corrective actions. basis. Insurance policies are used to cover all risks that are economically feasible or otherwise Financial risks reasonable to insure. CEO and Group management Business supervision and monitoring External Audit Konecranes manages most of its financial risks Feedback on a centralized basis through its Group Treasury. Internal Auditing The Group Treasury operates through Konecranes Konecranes Internal Audit function is an indeManagement teams in Business Areas Business supervision and monitoring Internal Audit Feedback Finance Corporation, which acts as a financial pendent unit, which assists the organization in vehicle for the Group at Corporate Headquarters. achieving its objectives. The unit evaluates the Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit efficiency of risk management, control, and goverReporting units Business Controlling center that strives to maximize its profits, but nance processes, and investigates all reports of rather its role is to help the Group’s companies suspected incidents. The latter can be made in reduce the financial risks associated with global person or through a confidential e-mail reporting Konecranes financial reporting manual (Controller’s Manual) business operations, such as market, credit, and channel. (Whistleblower channel). In 2016 there liquidity risks. The most significant market risk were eight (8) reports of suspected misconduct relates to foreign currency transaction risk. via the Whistleblower channel; these cases did not Function Control activities The responsibility for identifying, evaluating, have a material impact on the Group's financial and controlling the financial risks arising from results. the Group’s global business operations is divided Internal Audit operates in accordance with between business units and Konecranes Finance an audit plan approved by the Board’s Audit Corporation. Committee. The unit’s working methods are based Units hedge their risks internally with Group on the professional standards laid down by the responsible for its own risk management. This In the new operating model, management Treasury. Most of the Group’s financial risks are Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) and focus on principle is also followed in risk management accounting (business controlling) and financial channeled through Konecranes Finance Corporaprocess-oriented engagement, rather than solely related to financial reporting. accounting are more segregated. Management tion, where they can be evaluated and controlled entity-based auditing. Internal audit results are Management of financial risks is described in accounting employees specialize in supporting the efficiently. reported to audited unit leads and operative the Note 33 of Konecranes Financial Statements business area management, whereas financial Almost all funding, cash management, and management. Finding remediation follow-ups are 2016. accounting primarily follows legal structure with a foreign exchange transactions with banks and coordinated by Internal Audit. close link to Group financial accounting. other external counterparties are carried out All Internal Audit activities are reported Control environment Until the end of June 2016, Business Area centrally by Konecranes Finance Corporation, to the Board’s Audit Committee on a regular In 2016, Konecranes implemented several orgaEquipment operated as a matrix organization and in accordance with the Group’s Treasury basis. Internal Audit is responsible to the Audit nizational changes to reduce fixed costs and to where business units formed one dimension and Policy. Only in a few special cases, where local Committee. improve operational efficiency. regions the other. As of July 1, 2016, Business central bank regulations prohibit the use of Group The number of internally reported regions was Area Equipment has operated as a line organizaservices for hedging and funding, is this done Internal control and risk management reduced from five to three as of March 1, 2016. tion built on clear product line profit responsibildirectly between an operating company and a related to financial reporting The new internal regional structure corresponds ities, ensuring a flawless order-delivery process bank under the supervision of Group Treasury. Internal control related to financial reporting to the geographical areas reported externally. and enabling effective decision making. Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury is designed to provide reasonable assurance The regions are Europe, Middle East and Africa The operating model in Business Area Service system that enables transactions to be processed concerning the reliability of financial reporting, (EMEA), Americas (AME), and Asia-Pacific (APAC). remained unchanged in 2016. It is managed as a in real-time and provides in-depth records of activand the preparation of financial statements for Finance and HR functions were changed to line line organization according to the regional strucities and performance. Standard reporting is done external purposes in accordance with generally organizations on April 1, 2016. The aim of the ture. However, certain small operations within the on a weekly basis and covers Group-level commeraccepted accounting principles, applicable laws changes was to globally ensure centralized control Business Area Service are managed globally, as cial and financial cash flows, foreign currency and regulations, and other requirements covering points of high quality and consistency. In the they have close ties to the respective operations transaction exposure, debt positions, derivatives listed companies. Risk management is considered new operating model, finance and HR functions within the Business Area Equipment. portfolios, and counterparty credit exposure an integral part of running Konecranes business. in different countries report directly to the same Financial targets are set and planning/follow-up for financial transactions. In addition, all Group Konecranes corporate risk management principles regionally or globally responsible functions. Other activities are executed along the business area companies participate in monthly managerial and provide a basic framework for risk management, support functions, such as IT and legal, have and business unit structure, in accordance with statutory reporting. while each Group company or operating unit is already been operating as line organizations. the overall business targets of the Konecranes 50 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 51 Risk management Risk management Group. The operations of the Service business are on time in accordance with schedules set by the During 2016 was rolled out in additional European countries typically monitored based on profit-responsible Group. Konecranes continued its IT system project (ERP, in 2015. In 2016, Siebel ERP was taken into use, service branches (210 in 2016), which are further Management follow-up is carried out through CRM and People systems for both the Service and or the project was ongoing, in the US, Belgium, consolidated to country and regional levels. The monthly management reporting routines and Equipment business areas) to further develop and France, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, and Austria. Equipment business is mainly monitored via busiperformance review meetings. These meetings are implement harmonized processes, increase operBy the end of 2016, the Siebel ERP had reached ness units (three in 2016), which are divided into conducted on a business area and business unit ational visibility and improve decision-making, and approximately 50 percent coverage of business business lines and product lines. level, based on their own management structures, reduce the overall number of various IT systems. within Business Area Service. Corporate governance and business manageas well as on the Group level. Topics covered in The SAP ERP system is being taken into use for The CRM and People systems have reached the ment at Konecranes are based on the Company’s the meetings include a review of the sales funnel, transaction handling and logistics within both targeted global coverage. Their features and funcvalues of trust in people, total service commitcompetitive situation, market sentiment, order business areas. Whereas the Siebel ERP system tionalities are being developed further to maximize ment, and sustained profitability. The control intake and order book, monthly financial perforis being taken into use to manage the field service the business benefits. environment is the foundation for all the other mance, quarterly and rolling 12-month forecasts, operations, as well as to store the data related to Konecranes continued the implementation components of internal control and for promoting as well as safety, people, and customer topics. the assets under maintenance contracts. and development of the Financial Shared Service employees’ awareness of key issues. It supports The Group management follows up separately The pilot unit of the SAP ERP system was Center (FSSC) concept to offer mainly transaction the execution of strategy and regulatory complithe most important development activities. For launched at the end of September 2011. Several handling services, financial master data mainteance. The Board of Directors and Group Manageexample, R&D projects are monitored by the new units in North America rolled out SAP during nance, and some financial accounting services ment are responsible for defining the Konecranes Product Board. Product Board convenes typically 2013. In 2014, key manufacturing units in Finland from regional centers to individual Konecranes Group’s control environment through corporate on a quarterly basis. implemented SAP in their operations. The SAP companies. policies, instructions, and financial reporting rollouts continued in Europe and Asia in 2015. The internal control environment will be frameworks. These include the Konecranes Monitoring In 2016, SAP was taken into use, or the project improved using common, unified processes Code of Conduct and the Konecranes ControlThe Group conducts an annual self-assessment was ongoing, in Finland, China, and Singapore. and a common system platform. Monitoring the ler’s Manual, which constitutes the main tool for through its managing directors and controllers By the end of 2016, the SAP ERP had reached effectiveness of internal controls will become accounting and financial reporting principles in to monitor the effectiveness of selected finanapproximately 65 percent coverage of Konecranes more transparent following the implementation respect of providing information, guidelines, and cial internal controls. The Audit Committee business. of the SAP ERP system. Financial Shared Service instructions. The interpretation and application of receives direct reports from external auditors Pilot Service units in Europe took the Siebel Centers will create a unified framework for transaccounting standards is the responsibility of the and discusses and follows up their viewpoints. ERP system into use in 2012–2013. The impleactional processing and provide an enhanced global finance function. Guidelines and instrucExternal auditors are also represented at Audit mentation continued in North America and segregation of duties. tions for reporting are updated when necessary Committee meetings. The Group’s financial perforAustralia in 2014–2015. The Siebel ERP system and are reviewed at least once a year. mance is reviewed at every Board meeting, and the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee Control activities review all external financial reports before they are Konecranes Group management has operational made public. responsibility for internal controls. Financial control activities are integrated into the business Communication processes of Konecranes Group, as well as the The Controller’s Manual, together with reporting management’s business supervision and moniinstructions and policies, are stored in the toring procedures. The Group has identified and Konecranes intranet for access by personnel. The documented the significant internal controls that Group, business areas, and regions arrange meetrelate to its financial processes, either directly ings to share information on financial processes or indirectly through other processes. Group and practices. Information for the Group’s companies have the responsiblity to implement stakeholders is regularly communicated via the the identified and documented internal controls. Konecranes Group’s website. To ensure that the During 2016, Konecranes enhanced internal information provided is comprehensive and accucontrols to cover identified risks more effectively rate, the Group has established a set of external in the processes. All legal entities and business communications guidelines. These define how, by units have their own defined controller functions. whom, and when information should be issued; Representatives from controller functions particiand are designed to ensure that Konecranes pate in planning and evaluating unit performance, meets all its information obligations and to further and ensure that monthly and quarterly financial strengthen internal controls related to financial reporting. reporting follows the Group’s policies and instructions, and that all financial reports are delivered 52 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 53 Board of directors Christoph Vitzthum Stig Gustavson Svante Adde Ole Johansson Janina Kugel Bertel Langenskiöld Ulf Liljedahl Malin Persson b. 1969 b. 1945 b. 1956 b. 1951 b. 1970 b. 1950 b. 1965 b. 1968 Chairman of the Board Vice Chairman of the Board Board Member since 2004 and Board Member and Member of the Board Member since September, 2016 Board Member since 2012 and Board Member since September, 2016 Board Member since 2005 and since March 23, 2016 since March 23, 2016 Member of the Audit Committee since Audit Committee since 2015; Vice M.Sc. (Econ.) Chairman of the Nomination and B.Sc. (Econ. and Business Member of the Audit Committee since Member of the Board and Member of Chairman of the Board 2005–2016 2004 and Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Board 2015–2016 Principal occupation: Compensation Committee since 2012 Administration) 2012; Member of the Nomination and the Nomination and Compensation Board Member since 1994 and Committee since 2008 B.Sc. (Econ.) Chief Human Resources Officer and M.Sc. (Eng.) Principal occupation: Compensation Committee 2005–2011 Committee since 2015 Member of the Nomination and B.Sc. (Econ. and Business AdministraPrincipal occupation: Member of the Managing Board, Principal occupation: President and CEO, Volito AB since M.Sc. (Eng. ) M.Sc. (Econ.) Compensation Committee since 2006 tion) Board professional Siemens AG since 2015 Board professional 2015 Principal occupation: Principal occupation: M.Sc. (Eng.), Dr.Tech. (hon.) Principal occupation: Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Primary working experience: CEO & Owner, Accuracy AB President and CEO, Fazer Group Principal occupation: Senior Adviser, Lincoln International, Wärtsilä Corporation 2000–2011: Siemens AG 2013–2015: Corporate Hartwall Capital Oy Ab 2011–2015: Husqvarna AB 2011–2015: Senior Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Board professional Board professional President & CEO; Wärtsilä NSD Vice President, Human Resources; Managing Director; Metso Paper and Vice President and CFO; Cardo AB The Chalmers University of Technology Wärtsilä Corporation 2009–2013: Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Oy 1998–2000: President & CEO; OSRAM 2012–2013: Chief Human Fiber Technology 2009–2011: Presi2007–2011: Executive Vice President Foundation: President and CEO; Volvo President Services, Executive Vice KCI Konecranes Plc 1994–2005: Pöyry Capital Limited, London 2007– Wärtsilä Corporation 1975–1998: Resources Officer; Siemens SpA, dent; Metso Paper 2007–2008: Presiand CFO; Alfa Laval 1992–2007: Group: Holder of various executive President; Wärtsilä Corporation President and CEO; KONE Cranes 2013: Managing Director; Compass Vice President, Wartsilä Diesel Inc. 2009–2012: Director, Human dent; Metso Paper's Fiber Business various financial and general managepositions including: Volvo Technology 2006–2009: President Power Plants, division 1988–1994: President; KONE Advisers, London 2005–2007: Manaand Wärtsilä Diesel Group; various Resources; Siemens AG 2005–2009: Line 2006–2007: President; Metso ment positions in Sweden, Denmark Corporation: President and CEO; AB Executive Vice President; Wärtsilä Corporation 1982–1988 and prior to ging Director; Ahlstrom Corporation positions in Finland, USA, France and Director, Corporate Development Minerals 2003–2006: President; and South Africa Volvo: Vice President, Coporate StraPropulsion 2002–2006: President; 1982: holder of various executive posi2003–2005: Chief Financial Officer; Switzerland Executive; Siemens AG 2001–2004: Fiskars Corporation 2001–2003: Current key positions of trust: tegy and Business Development; Volvo Wärtsilä Corporation 1999–2002: tions in major Finnish corporations Lazard London and Stockholm 2000– Current key positions of trust: Director, Strategy and Business TranPresident and CEO; Tampella Power/ Bulten AB: Chairman of the Board; Transport Corporation: Vice President, Vice President, Finance & Control, Current key positions of trust: 2003: Managing Director; Lazard Aker Arctic Technology Inc Oy: sformation; Accenture 1997–2000: Kvaerner Pulping, Power Division Peab AB: Chairman of the External Business & Logistics Development Marine Division; Wärtsilä Corporation Auris Kaasunjakelu Oy: Chairman London 1989–2000: Director; Citibank Chairman of the Board; Hartwall Management Consultant 1994–2000: President Nomination Committee Current key positions of trust: 1997–1999: Business Controller, of the Board; East Office of Finnish 1979–1989: Director Capital Oy Ab: Chairman of the Current key positions of trust: Current key positions of trust: Shares: Ahlström Capital Oy: Board Member; Power Plants Division; Metra Finance Industries Oy: Deputy Board Member; Current key positions of trust: Board; Svenska Handelsbanken AB: No current key positions of trust Kährs Holding AB: Board Member Independent of the company and its Becker Industrial Coatings AB: Board Oy 1995–1997: Dealer IK Investment Partners: Board Member Scandbio AB: Chairman of the Board; Board Member and member of the Shares: Shares: 3,293 significant shareholders. Member; Getinge AB: Board Member; Current key positions of trust: in the following Funds: IK 2004, Cambium Global Timberlands Ltd: Audit, Risk, Credit and Remuneration Independent of the company and its Bertel Langenskiöld is deemed to be Hexatronic Scandinavia AB: Board East Office of Finnish Industries: IK 2007, IK VII, and IK VIII Limited; Board Member; Meetoo AB: Chairman Committees significant shareholders. dependent of significant shareholders Member; Hexpol AB: Board Member; Board Member; EVA (ElinkeinoMutual Pension Insurance Company of the Board; Rörvik Timber AB: Shares: 11,151 of the company based on his previous Kongsberg Automotive AB: Board elämän valtuuskunta): Delegation Varma: Member of the Supervisory Chairman of the Board Ole Johansson is independent of the position as the Managing Director Member; Magnora AB: Board Member; Member; Finnish Food and Drink Board; Outokumpu Group: Board Shares: 7,682 company. He is deemed to be depenof Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. HTT KCR Mekonomen Group AB: Board Member; Industries' Federation: Board Member; Suomi Gas Distribution Oy: Independent of the company and its dent of significant shareholders of Holding Oy Ab held more than 10 Peab AB: Board Member; Presscise Member; Finnish-Swedish Chamber Chairman of the Board significant shareholders. the company based on his current percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares AB: Board Member; Ricardo Plc: Board of Commerce: Board Member; NCC Shares: 8,235 position as Chairman of the Board of and votes in 2016. HTT KCR Holding Oy Member AB: Board Member; Oras Invest Oy: Stig Gustavson is deemed to be Directors of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. Ab is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Shares: 7,552 Board Member; Varma Mutual Pension dependent of the company based on HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab held more than Oy Ab. Independent of the company and its Insurance Company: Member of the the Board’s overall evaluation relating 10 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares significant shareholders. Supervisory Board to his former and current positions in and votes in 2016. HTT KCR Holding Oy Shares: 722 Konecranes, combined with his subsAb is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Independent of the company and its tantial voting rights in the company. Oy Ab. significant shareholders. He is independent of any significant shareholders. 54 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 55 Group executive board Panu Routila Teo Ottola Fabio Fiorino Mikko Uhari Juha Pankakoski Timo Leskinen Sirpa Poitsalo b. 1964 b. 1968 b. 1967 b. 1957 b. 1967 b. 1970 b. 1963 President and CEO Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CEO Executive Vice President, Chief Executive Vice President, Strategy Chief Digital Officer Senior Vice President, Human Senior Vice President, General Head of Business Area Equipment Member of the Executive Board since Customer Officer, Business Area and Technology; Head of Business Member of the Group Executive Board Resources Counsel Member of the Group Executive Board 2007 Service Unit Industrial Equipment since 2015 Member of the Group Executive Board Member of the Group Executive Board since 2015 Employed since 2007 Member of the Executive Board since Member of the Group Executive Board Member of Senior Management since 2013 since July 2016 Employed since 2015 M.Sc. (Econ.) 2012 since 1997 2013–2014 Employed since 2013 Member of Senior Management 2013– M.Sc. (Econ.) Primary working experience: Employed since 1995 Employed since 1997 Employed since 2004 M.Sc. (Psy) June 2016 Primary working experience: Elcoteq SE 2004–2007: CFO; Elcoteq B. Eng. P.Eng. MBA Lic. Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA Primary working experience: Member of the Extended Management Ahlström Capital Oy 2008–2015: Network Oyj 1999–2004: Senior Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Fiskars 2009–2013: Vice President, team 2009–2013 President and CEO; Alteams Oy, Vice President (Business Control and Konecranes Plc 2011–2012: Executive Konecranes Plc Konecranes 2010–2014: Vice PresiHuman Resources; Nokia Services Member of the Executive Board Kuusakoski Group 2002–2008: CEO; Accounting); Elcoteq Network Oyj Vice President, Head of Business Area 2011-2012: Executive Vice President, Head of Business Unit Parts; 2008–2009: Director HR; Nokia 1999–2009 Outokumpu Group 1997–2002: Dire1998–1999: Group Business ContService; Konecranes Americas 2010– dent, Head of Market Operations; 2008–2010: Director, Corporate Customer and Market Operations Employed since 1988 ctor, Drawn Copper Products; Outoroller; Elcoteq Lohja Oy 1996–1998: 2011: Vice President, Head of Service, 2010–2011: Executive Vice President, Business Process Development; KCI 2006–2007: Director, HR; Nokia LL.M. kumpu Group 1995–1997: Controller, Business Controller; Rautaruukki Oy Region Americas; Morris Material Head of Business Area Equipment; Konecranes/Konecranes 2004–2008: Ventures organization 2004–2006: Primary working experience: Drawn Copper products; Partek Group 1992–1996: Financial Planner Handling, Inc. 2006–2009: President; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes; 2005– Director, Supply Operations; Tellabs Head of Operations; 2000–2004: KCI Konecranes 1997–1998: Assis1986–1995: Various financial manaShares: 28,490 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 1999– 2009: President, New Equipment Busi2003–2004: Vice President, Supply HR Manager; MPS 1999–2000: HR tant General Counsel; KCI Konecgement positions in Finland, France 2006 / Drivecon, Inc. 2002–2006: ness Areas; KCI Konecranes 2004– Chain Operations; 2002–2003: Consultant ranes/KONE Corporation, 1988–1997: and Belgium President; Konecranes Americas 2005: President, Special Cranes Regional Director, EMEA Operations; Shares: 1,943 Legal Counsel Current key positions of trust: 1998–1999: VP Business Develop(Heavy Lifting); 1997–2003: President, 2000–2002: Director, Operations; Shares: 29,664 Onvest Oy: Board Member ment, Latin America; Konecranes Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; KONE 1998–2000: Plant Manager; Philips Shares: 16 Canada, Inc. 1995–1998: Marketing Corporation 1982–1997: various Medical Systems 1997–1998: OperaManager; AECL 1989–1994: Mechamanagerial positions at Wood Handtions Manager; FujitsuICL Computers nical/Project Engineer ling Division (Andritz as of 1996) in 1993–1997: various management Shares: 7,792 Finland, Sweden and in the USA, inclupositions in operations and business ding: 1996–1997 Group Vice Presidevelopment dent, Marketing; 1992–1996: Group Shares: 506 Vice President, Project Business; 1990–1992: Director, Wood Handling Unit, Finland Shares: 102,526 56 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 57 Senior management Marko Tulokas Tomas Myntti Marko Äkräs Eerikki Mäkinen Scott Gilbey Lars Fredin Ari Kiviniitty Miikka Kinnunen b. 1972 b. 1963 b. 1967 b. 1974 b. 1962 b. 1961 b. 1957 b. 1977 Senior Vice President, Industrial Senior Vice President, Industrial Senior Vice President, Industrial Senior Vice President, Product ManaSenior Vice President, Customer Vice President, Lift Trucks Chief Technology Officer Director, Investor Relations Cranes Service, Region EMEA (Europe, Middle Service, Region APAC (Asia-Pacific) gement and Engineering Experience and Service Offering Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since East and Africa) Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since 2013 2013 2013 2013 Member of Senior Management since 2013 July, 2016 July, 2016 Employed since 2009 Member of the Extended Management Employed since 2009 Employed since 2004 2013 Member of the Extended Management Employed since 2011 Employed since 2004 B.Sc. Team 2012–2013 M.Sc. (Econ.) M.Sc. (Eng), MBA Member of the Extended Management Team 2012–2013 M.Sc. (Eng.) B. Sc. Mech. Eng., P.Eng., MBA Primary working experience: Member of the Executive Board Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Team 2011–2013 Employed since 1992 Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Bromma Conquip AB 2003–2009: Vice 2005–2012 Carnegie Investment Bank AB 2001– Konecranes 2015–6.2016: Senior Employed since 2008 M.Sc. (Eng.) Konecranes 2015–6.2016: Director, Konecranes 2012–6.2016: Director President Sales & Marketing; Metget Employed since 1983 2009: Financial Analyst Vice President, Product and ApplicaM.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: Light Lifting Product Management; of Marketing, Service and Industry; AB 2000–2003: Business Consultant M.Sc. (Eng.) tions Management, Industrial EquipPrimary working experience: Konecranes 2015–6.2016: Senior 2012–2015: Director, Engineering 2009–2014: Director of Marketing and and Sales & Marketing Director (RFID Primary working experience: ment; 2011–2015: Vice President, Konecranes 3.2016–6.2016: Senior Vice President, Customer Experience (in France 2013–2014); 2011–2012: Communications, Region Americas; technology); Kalmar 1996–2000: Konecranes 2015–6.2016: Senior Topi Tiitola Head of Industrial Crane Solutions; Vice President, Head of Region and Service Offering; 2012–2015: Engineering Manager; SKF 2010– Morris Material Handling; 2004–2009: President Kalmar AC, US and Area Vice President, Product Management b. 1969 2010–2011: Director, Head of BusiEMEA; 2012–2016: Senior Vice PresiVice President, Customer and Service 2011: Team Manager, Application various positions, GM Eastern Manager East Asia. and Development, Hoists and CompoDirector, Business Analysis ness Process Management; 2008– dent, Head of Region EUR (Europe); Technology (Global Service); 2009– Engineering; 2005–2010: Application Canada, VP Service Canada, Director Other current key positions of trust: nents; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes; Head of Integration Management 2010: Director, Delivery Process; 2011–2012: Senior Vice President, 2011: Vice President, Service, Region Engineer; Metso Paper 2004–2005: of Marketing Americas; 1985–2004: Byggning-Uddemann AB: Chairman of 2005–2015: Senior Vice President, Office since 7.2016 2007–2008: Director, Strategy and Head of Region NEI (Nordic, Eastern WEMEA (West-Europe, Middle East Senior Structural Analysis Engineer; various positions in Canada, Australia, the Board Product Management and Engineering, Member of Senior Management since Business Development, Process Europe and India); 2010–2011: and Africa); 2007–2009: Director, BU 2000–2004: Structural Analysis EngiJapan, UK. See LinkedIn. KCI Konecranes 2004–2005: Vice 2013 cranes; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Vice President, Head of Industrial Crane Service (Global Service); KCI neer; 1998–2000: Design Engineer President, Standard Lifting Equipment; Employed since 1995 2004–2007: Leadership positions Cranes, Region NEI; 2009: Director, Konecranes/Konecranes 2004–2007: Mika Mahlberg 2002–2004: Managing Director, M.Sc. (Econ) in sourcing and supply chain manaMarket Operations, Head of Global Director, Crane Service Nordic; KCI Anders Gustafsson b. 1963 Hoist factory; 1996–2001: various Primary working experience: gement in China and Finland; Asko Key Account Management and Sales Konecranes 2001–2004: General Andreas Wittke b. 1964 Senior Vice President, Ports management positions in Finland and Konecranes 2013–6.2016: Director, Appliances Uponor Plc 1998–2002: Development; 2008: Director, BusiManager, Crane Parts Center; KONE Singapore b. 1967 Senior Vice President, Supply Member of Senior Management since Business Analysis and Support; KCI Several positions in supply chain ness Development, Business Area Corporation/KCI Konecranes 1993– Senior Vice President, Components Operations 2013 Konecranes/Konecranes 2005–2013: management New Equipment; TietoEnator Oyj 2001: Various positions in service and Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since Employed since 1997 Group Business Controller; KCI Konec2007–2008: Chief Marketing Officer, equipment business areas July, 2016 April, 2016 M.Sc. (Eng.) Mikael Wegmüller ranes 2000–2005: Financial Director, Business Area Telecom and Media; Employed since 2004 Employed since 2016 Primary working experience: b. 1966 Standard Lifting Equipment; 1995– Hantro Products Oy 2000–2007: M.Sc. (Eng) M.Sc. (Eng) Konecranes 2008–2014: Vice PresiVice President, Marketing and 2000: several controller positions Senior Vice President, Sales and Bernie D’Ambrosi Primary working experience: Primary working experience: dent, Head of Business Unit Port Communications Marketing; 1994–2000: various b. 1967 SWF Krantechnik GmbH 2008–2016: Konecranes 4–6.2016: Chief Supply Cranes; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Member of Senior Management since management positions in sales and Senior Vice President, Industrial Managing Director; 2004–2008: Sales Chain Officer; Atlas Copco Secoroc 2006–2007: Director, VLC Cranes 2013 marketíng;1984–1994: various manaService, Region AME Director; Kerstner GmbH 1995–2004: 2009–2016: Vice President Global KCI Konecranes 2000–2006: Director, Member of the Extended Management gement and other positions in IT and Member of Senior Management since Sales Director; ABB Gebäudetechnik Manufacturing; Tophammer EquipSTS Cranes; 1990–2000: Various Team 2009–2013 consulting 2015 AG 1994: Mechanical Engineer ment, Atlas Copco Secoroc 2003– management positions in Finland and Member of the Executive Board Employed since 2002 2009: Vice President, Global ManufacBelgium 2006–2009 B.A. (Bachelor of Arts), Political turing; ABB 1994–2003: various Employed since 2006 Science Major, Economics Minor, management and other positions M.Sc. (Mark.) Youngstown State University, J.D. Primary working experience: (Juris Doctor), University of Toledo Publicis Helsinki Oy 2003–2006: Chief College of Law Operating Officer; SEK & GREY Oy Primary working experience: 2000–2003: Planning Group Director; Konecranes 2015–6.2016: Senior Publicis Törmä Oy 1997–2000: PlanVice President, Head of Region AME; ning Group Director; Finelor Oy (now 2012–2015: Vice President, Region L’Oreal Finland Oy) 1993–1997: Sales AME Service; 2009–2012: Vice and Marketing Manager; Chips Abp President, Industrial Crane Solutions, 1991–1993: Product Group Manager Region AME; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2002–2009: Senior Legal Counsel, Region AME; Bertin Steel Processing, Inc. 1993–2002: Vice President, General Counsel 58 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 59 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 Market review Middle East, Asia-North America, and Asia-Oceania routes. The In 2016, the regional breakdown was as follows: EMEA 47 The January-December profit before taxes was EUR 62.1 The activity in the world’s manufacturing sector, according to weakest routes were between Europe-South America, Asia(45), Americas 38 (39), and APAC 15 (16) percent. million (55.4). the aggregated JPMorgan Global Manufacturing Purchasing South America, and Asia-West Africa. The income taxes in January-December were EUR 24.5 Managers’ Index (PMI), picked up steam in the second half of Due to weak growth in container throughput and focus on Currency rate effect million (24.6). The Group’s effective tax rate was 39.5 percent 2016. This followed stagnant development in the first half of M&A, most of the terminal operators’ capacity expansion plans In a year-on-year comparison, the currency rates had a nega(44.4). The tax rate was affected by impairment of EUR 5.2 2016. By area, growth was generally led by the US and Western were put under review in 2016. This affected the demand for tive impact on the orders and sales in January-December. million (4.7) related to the previously recognized deferred tax Europe regions. However, the performance of the Asia region port cranes. However, the interest in automated port solutions The reported order intake decreased by 2.3 percent and by assets in Chinese entities. The Group’s effective tax rate was also improved. remained high. 0.9 percent at comparable currency rates. Reported sales 27.5 percent in 2016, excluding the impacts from the write-off According to the PMI surveys in the Eurozone, expansion The demand for lift trucks declined from the previous year, decreased by 0.4 percent, but increased by 1.1 percent at of the deferred tax assets and certain transaction costs. of the manufacturing production accelerated toward year-end mainly due to weaker demand in the Americas. The demand comparable currency rates. The January-December net profit was EUR 37.6 million (30.8). 2016. In December, the Eurozone manufacturing PMI was at its was rather stable in EMEA, while the demand grew in APAC. In Service, the reported January-December order intake In 2016, the basic earnings per share were EUR 0.64 (0.53) highest level since April 2011. National data pointed to a broadThe demand for lifting equipment services grew in EMEA, decreased by 4.3 percent and by 2.9 percent at comparable and diluted earnings per share were EUR 0.64 (0.53). based improvement. Growth was strongest in the Netherlands whereas the demand for services decreased from the previous currencies. In Equipment, the reported orders decreased by 3.2 In 2016, the return on capital employed was 10.3 percent and Austria, which were closely followed by Germany and Spain. year in the Americas and APAC. The demand in the Americas percent and by 1.9 percent at comparable currencies. Service (9.5) and return on equity 8.3 percent (6.8). Also France, where manufacturing production contracted in the and APAC was hit by commodity sectors. sales fell by 2.5 percent in reported terms and by 1.0 percent at three first quarters of 2016, saw a return to growth in the fourth Raw material prices, including steel, copper, and oil comparable currencies. In Equipment, the corresponding figures Balance sheet quarter. bottomed out in the first quarter of 2016 and were above the were -0.7 percent and +0.6 percent. The year-end 2016 consolidated balance sheet amounted to Outside the Eurozone, the UK PMI posted a strong finish previous year’s level at the end of 2016. The average EUR/USD EUR 1,529.9 million (1,484.9). Total equity at the end of the to 2016 following a short period of volatility around the EU exchange rate was stable on a year-on-year basis. Financial result reporting period was EUR 445.5 million (456.0). Total equity referendum in June, as the weaker Sterling exchange rate Note: Unless otherwise stated, the figures in brackets in the In January-December, the adjusted operating profit increased attributable to equity holders of the parent company at year-end drove export orders higher. In Sweden, manufacturing activity sections below refer to the same period in the previous year. by EUR 23.1 million to EUR 140.8 million (117.7). The adjusted 2016 was EUR 445.4 million (455.9) or EUR 7.58 per share continued to expand strongly throughout the year. The European operating margin improved to 6.6 percent (5.5). The adjusted (7.79). Union manufacturing capacity utilization rate slightly improved Orders received operating margin in Service improved to 11.5 percent (10.4) Net working capital at year-end 2016 totaled EUR 304.3 in 2016. In 2016, the orders received fell by 2.3 percent to EUR 1,920.7 and in Equipment to 4.2 percent (2.7). The adjusted operating million (317.4). Net working capital decreased due to lower Similar to Europe, the economic activity in the U.S. manumillion (1,965.5). Orders received decreased by 4.3 percent in margin improved due to the lower fixed costs in both Service inventories. facturing sector, measured by the PMI, picked up toward the Service and by 3.2 percent in Equipment. Orders received rose and Equipment. The previous year’s adjusted operating profit end of 2016. This did not yet reflect in the U.S. manufacturing in the Americas, but fell in EMEA and APAC. in Business Area Equipment included a provision of EUR capacity utilization rate, which declined slightly from 2015. The In the fourth quarter, Konecranes received an order from the 3.3 million related to a receivable from the Latin American Cash flow and financing total industrial capacity utilization rate, which declined heavily in Virginia Port Authority for 86 automated stacking cranes. The customer. Net cash flow from the operating activities in full-year 2016 was 2015 due to commodity sectors, stabilized in 2016. value of the contracts exceeded EUR 200 million. This was the The consolidated operating profit in full-year 2016 totaled EUR 109.6 million (39.3). The cash flow improved mainly due to Based on the PMIs, the BRIC countries remained the largest deal in the history of Konecranes. On the other hand, EUR 84.9 million (63.0), increasing in total by EUR 21.8 million. the release of the net working capital. weakest links. The year 2016 started on a weak note in the fourth quarter order intake included unusually high cancelThe operating profit includes adjustments of EUR -55.9 million Cash flow related to capital expenditures amounted to EUR Chinese and Russian manufacturing sectors, but they finished lations for approximately EUR 18 million, the majority of which (-54.7) comprising restructuring costs of EUR 19.2 million -27.3 million (-43.3). the year in a growth mode. Modest growth could be overall related to a single port crane project. (20.5), transaction costs of EUR 47.0 million (17.2), and insurCash flow before financing activities was EUR 131.4 million observed in India. In Brazil, the PMI pointed to a continued ance indemnity and returned funds related to identity theft (-1.5). This included proceeds of EUR 47.8 million from the contraction in manufacturing output the entire year. Order book of EUR +10.2 million (0.0). The previous year’s adjustments disposal of shares in Kito Corporation. Compared to the previous year, the demand for industrial The value of the order book at year-end 2016 totaled EUR included the unwarranted payments due to the identity theft Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 129.6 million (203.2) at cranes improved in 2016, mainly owing to the pick-up in orders 1,038.0 million (1,036.5), which was 0.1 percent higher than at and fraudulent actions against Konecranes in a total amount of the end of 2016. Solidity was 32.9 percent (34.8) and gearing for heavy-duty cranes in the Americas. The demand for industhe end of 2015. Service accounted for EUR 173.3 million (17 EUR -17.0 million. The consolidated operating margin improved was 29.1 percent (44.6). trial cranes was at a par with the previous year’s level in EMEA, percent) and Equipment for EUR 864.7 million (83 percent) of to 4.0 percent (3.0). The operating margin in Service rose to The Group’s liquidity remained healthy. At the end of the whereas the demand weakened in APAC. The demand for hoists the total end-December order book. 10.6 percent (10.0) and in Equipment to 3.5 percent (1.5). year 2016, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR 167.4 declined in all regions. In 2016, the depreciation and impairments totaled EUR 53.7 million (80.8). None of the Group’s EUR 300 million committed The global container throughput grew only by approximately 1 Sales million (54.0). This included write-offs of EUR 2.8 million (5.3) back-up financing facilities were in use at the end of the period. percent in 2016. The number of idle container ships – ships not Group sales in the full-year 2016 decreased by 0.4 percent to intangible and tangible assets. The amortization arising from In in April 2016, Konecranes paid dividends to its shareused for commercial operations – doubled in 2016 due to overand totaled EUR 2,118.4 million (2,126.2). Sales in Service the purchase price allocations for acquisitions represented EUR holders that amounted to EUR 61.7 million or EUR 1.05 per capacity. The bright spots for container traffic included Europedecreased by 2.5 percent and in Equipment by 0.7 percent. 4.0 million (5.0) of the depreciation and impairments. share. In 2016, the share of the result of associated companies and joint ventures was EUR 6.0 million (4.8). The EUR 5.8 Capital expenditure Net sales by region, MEUR million (0.0) gain on disposal of investment in associated In 2016, the capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and Change % at comparable company relates to the sale of shares in Kito Corporation. joint arrangements, amounted to EUR 33.8 million (49.3). This 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Change percent currency rates Net financial expenses in January-December totaled EUR amount consisted of investments in machinery, equipment, EMEA 1,001.4 960.5 4.3 6.2 AME 802.5 823.7 -2.6 -1.9 34.6 million (12.5). Net interest expenses accounted for EUR properties, and information technology. APEC 314.5 342.0 -8.1 -6.1 9.9 million (9.6) of this. Financial expenses include costs of Capital expenditure including acquisitions and joint arrangeTotal 2,118.4 2,126.2 -0.4 1.1 EUR 15.9 million (0.0) related to the terminated merger plan ments was EUR 33.8 million (49.3). with Terex and the acquisition of Terex’s MHPS business. 60 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 61 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 In 2016, Konecranes continued its IT system project to Business areas orders received and were higher than a year ago. Components Acquisition of Terex’s MHPS business further develop and implement harmonized processes, increase generated approximately 20 percent of the new orders and were On May 16, 2016, Konecranes signed an agreement to acquire operational visibility, improve decision-making, and reduce the Service below last year’s level. The combined orders for port cranes and from Terex Corporation (“Terex”) its Material Handling & Port overall number of various IT systems. New ERP for manufacThe orders in full-year 2016 totaled EUR 774.5 million (809.5) lift trucks amounted to approximately 40 percent of the orders Solutions (“MHPS”) segment (“MHPS Acquisition”) against turing, logistics, and finance was rolled out in Finnish, Chinese, showing a decrease of 4.3 percent. The order decrease was received and were at par with the previous year. The order book consideration consisting of cash and shares, and to terminate and Singaporean operations. The roll-out of the new ERP for mainly attributable to the negative currency effect and closure decreased by 0.7 percent from the previous year to EUR 864.7 the previously announced business combination agreement. service operations continued in the USA and various European of certain underperforming operations. The order book rose to million (870.7). The consideration for the MHPS business is USD 595 million countries. EUR 173.3 million (165.8) at year-end representing an increase Sales decreased by 0.7 percent to EUR 1,231.1 million and EUR 200 million in cash, and 19,600,000 new class B of 4.5 percent. Sales fell by 2.5 percent to EUR 968.0 million (1,240.3). Adjusted operating profit, excluding restructuring shares. Pursuant to the Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement Acquisitions and divestments (992.3). Sales grew in EMEA, whereas the sales were lower in costs of EUR 8.5 million (15.0), was EUR 51.5 million (33.8), dated May 16, 2016 (the “SAPA”), the final cash consideration In September, Konecranes sold its small Moroccan service the Americas and APAC. and the adjusted operating margin was 4.2 percent (2.7). The is subject to post-closing adjustments for cash, debt, working company Techniplus S.A. The disposal of the company resulted The adjusted operating profit, excluding restructuring costs adjusted operating margin in Equipment improved due to the capital, and the closing of the sale of the STAHL CraneSystems in a loss of EUR 0.8 million. of EUR 8.7 million (4.0), was EUR 110.9 million (102.9) and lower fixed costs. The previous year’s adjusted operating profit business. The final number of class B shares may be subject to the adjusted operating margin was 11.5 percent (10.4). The included a provision of EUR 3.3 million related to a receivable certain adjustments in accordance with the SAPA. Personnel adjusted operating margin improved due to the lower fixed from the Latin American customer. Operating profit was EUR The MHPS Acquisition will offer significant industrial and In January-December, the Group employed an average of costs. Operating profit was EUR 102.2 million (98.9) and 10.6 42.9 million (18.8) and 3.5 percent of sales (1.5). operational synergies targeted at EUR 140 million p.a. at EBIT 11,398 people (11,934). On December 31, the headcount percent of sales (10.0). level within three years from closing. One-time integration was 10,951 (11,887). Group’s personnel decreased by 936 The total number of equipment included in the maintenance Group overheads expenses are expected to be EUR 130 million, with expected employees from year-end 2015, mainly due to the restructuring contract base remained approximately at the previous year’s In January-December, unallocated Group overhead costs and EUR 60 million of capex. The MHPS Acquisition is expected actions. The divestment of the Moroccan service company level at 453,516 (453,634). The annual value of the contract eliminations, excluding restructuring costs, transaction costs, to be EPS accretive from inception (adjusted for non-recurring reduced the number of employees by approximately 140 people. base decreased by 2.1 percent to EUR 206.1 million (210.6) at and insurance indemnity were EUR -21.6 million (-18.9) repreintegration costs and purchase price allocation-related amortiAt year-end 2016, the number of personnel by Business Area year-end 2016. At comparable currency rates, the value of the senting -1.0 percent of sales (-0.9). zation). was as follows: Service 5,998 employees (6,503), Equipment contract base fell by 3.1 percent. The closures of certain underUnallocated Group overhead costs and eliminations in the According to unaudited special purpose carve-out finan4,893 employees (5,328), and Group staff 60 (56). The Group performing operations had a negative impact on the contract reporting period were EUR -60.3 million (-54.6) representing cial information, the sales of MHPS (including Crane America had 5,842 employees (6,237) working in EMEA, 2,704 (2,968) base value. -2.8 percent of sales (-2.6). These included restructuring costs Services) were USD 1,542 million (EUR 1,391 million) and the in the Americas, and 2,405 (2,682) in the APAC region. of EUR 2.0 million (1.4), transaction costs of EUR 47.0 million adjusted EBITDA was USD 111 million (EUR 100 million) in In 2016, the Group’s personnel expenses totaled EUR 658.3 Equipment (17.2), and insurance indemnity and returned funds related to 2015. million (661.5). The orders in full-year 2016 totaled EUR 1,216.8 million identity theft of EUR +10.2 million (0.0). The previous year figure On August 1, Konecranes signed EUR 1,500 million unse(1,257.6) showing a decrease of 3.2 percent. Orders grew in included the unwarranted payments due to the identity theft cured financing facilities to fund the MHPS Acquisition. The the Americas, but declined in EMEA and Asia-Pacific. Orders for and fraudulent actions against Konecranes in a total amount of committed credit facility includes a syndicated EUR 300 industrial cranes accounted for approximately 40 percent of the EUR -17.0 million. million term loan with a tenor of three years, EUR 600 million Service 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Change percent Equipment Orders received, MEUR 774.5 809.5 -4.3 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Change percent Order book, MEUR 173.3 165.8 4.5 Orders received, MEUR 1,216.8 1,257.6 -3.2 Contract base value, MEUR 206.1 210.6 -2.1 Order book, MEUR 864.7 870.7 -0.7 Net sales, MEUR 968.0 992.3 -2.5 Net sales, MEUR 1,231.1 1,240.3 -0.7 EBITDA, MEUR 121.6 118.0 3.1 EBITDA, MEUR 76.2 52.9 44.1 EBITDA, % 12.6% 11.9% EBITDA, % 6.2% 4.3% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -19.4 -17.9 8.2 Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -29.7 -30.0 -1.0 Impairments, MEUR 0.0 -1.2 Impairments, MEUR -3.5 -4.1 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 102.2 98.9 3.4 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 42.9 18.8 129.0 Operating profit (EBIT), % 10.6% 10.0% Operating profit (EBIT), % 3.5% 1.5% Adjustments*, MEUR -8.7 -4.0 Adjustments*, MEUR -8.5 -15.0 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 110.9 102.9 7.8 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 51.5 33.8 52.5 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT), % 11.5% 10.4% Adjusted operating profit (EBIT), % 4.2% 2.7% Capital employed, MEUR 252.5 232.3 8.7 Capital employed, MEUR 288.9 356.7 -19.0 ROCE, % 40.5% 45.7% ROCE, % 14.8% 5.3% Capital expenditure, MEUR 12.6 22.9 -44.9 Capital expenditure, MEUR 21.2 26.5 -19.8 Personnel at the end of period 5,998 6,503 -7.8 Personnel at the end of period 4,893 5,328 -8.2 * Restructuring costs * Restructuring costs 62 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 63 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 ­ mortizing term loan with a tenor of five years and EUR 400 a of the Board of Directors and the Managing Directors from is effective until the next Annual General Meeting of ShareDecisions of the Extraordinary General Meeting million revolving credit facility with a tenor of five years alongliability. The AGM approved the Board’s proposal to pay a diviholders, however, no longer than until September 22, 2017. The Extraordinary General Meeting (“General Meeting”) of Koneside a EUR 200 million bridge term loan facility. dend of EUR 1.05 per share from the distributable equity of the However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is valid cranes was held on September 15. The meeting approved all On December 29, Konecranes announced that the Board of parent company. until March 22, 2021. This authorization revokes the authorithe proposals of the Board of Directors and made the necesDirectors has decided on a directed share issue of 19,600,000 The AGM approved the proposal of the Nomination and zation for incentive arrangements given by the Annual General sary decisions to complete the MHPS Acquisition. In addition, new class B shares to the Terex’s affiliate Terex Deutschland Compensation Committee that the number of the members Meeting 2015. the General Meeting approved the shareholder’s proposal for GmbH. The decision on the share issue was based on the of the Board of Directors shall be six (6). The Board members The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on additional remuneration to members of the Board of Directors. authorization granted to the Board of Directors by the Extraorelected at the AGM in 2016 were Mr. Svante Adde, Mr. Stig directed share issue without payment needed for the impleThe General Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ dinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on September 15, Gustavson, Mr. Ole Johansson, Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld, Ms. mentation of the Share Savings Plan that the Annual General proposal that the Articles of Association of the company be 2016, to issue a maximum of 24,583,721 new class B shares Malin Persson, and Mr. Christoph Vitzthum. Meeting 2012 decided to launch. amended. The amendments to the Articles of Association to Terex or its designated affiliates. The AGM confirmed the annual compensation to the Board The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the include, inter alia, the creation of a new class of B shares to The MHPS Acquisition was completed on January 4, 2017. members as follows: issue of new shares or on the transfer of own shares held by be issued to Terex in connection with the closing of the MHPS • Chairman of the Board: EUR 105,000 the Company to such participants of the Plan who, according Acquisition, which have the same financial rights as Kone• Vice Chairman of the Board: EUR 67,000 to the terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive cranes ordinary shares but are subject to voting and transfer Divestment of Stahl Cranesystems business • Other Board members EUR 42,000 free shares, as well as to decide on the share issue without restrictions, and confer upon Terex the right to appoint up to On December 7, Konecranes announced that it has signed an payment also to the Company itself. The number of new shares two members to the Board of Directors of Konecranes, as long agreement with Columbus McKinnon Corporation (“Columbus In addition, a compensation of EUR 1,500 per meeting will to be issued or own shares held by the Company to be transas Terex’s or its Group companies’ shareholding in Konecranes McKinnon”) regarding the divestment of the STAHL CraneSysbe paid for attending the meetings of the Board Committee. ferred may in the aggregate amount to a maximum total of exceeds certain specified thresholds. As long as Terex or any of tems business (“STAHL Divestment”). The STAHL Divestment However, the Chairman of the Audit Committee is entitled to 500,000 shares, which corresponds to 0.8 per cent of all of its Group companies owns class B shares, any amendment of related to the European Commission’s approval of Konecranes’ a compensation of EUR 3,000 per attended Audit Committee the Company’s shares. The authorization concerning the share the Articles of Association relating to class B shares requires MHPS Acquisition, which was conditional on Konecranes meeting. Furthermore, the AGM approved that 50 percent of the issue is valid until March 22, 2021. This authorization is in addithe consent of Terex. divesting its STAHL CraneSystems business. annual remuneration will be paid in Konecranes shares. tion to the authorizations in the previous items. This authorizaTerex has informed the company that its initial Board appoinThe STAHL Divestment was completed on January 31, 2017. The AGM confirmed that Ernst & Young Oy will continue as tion replaces the authorization for the Share Savings Plan given tees will be David Sachs and Oren Shaffer, whose term as However, the consolidation of STAHL CraneSystems’ operations the Company’s external auditor. by the Annual General Meeting 2015. members of the Board of Directors will begin as of the closing in Konecranes’ financial statements ended already in the beginThe AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the of the MHPS Acquisition. ning of 2017. repurchase of the Company’s own shares and/or on the acceptBoard of Directors’ organizing meeting The General Meeting authorized the Board of Directors to The final selling price was EUR 224 million. Additionally, ance of the Company’s own shares as a pledge. The amount At its first meeting held after the Annual General Meeting, the decide on the issuance of a maximum of 24,583,721 new Columbus McKinnon assumed unfunded pension liabilities that of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge Board of Directors elected Mr. Christoph Vitzthum Chairman of class B shares in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive were EUR 67 million as of December 31, 2016. Konecranes based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares the Board and Mr. Stig Gustavson Vice Chairman of the Board. subscription rights during the effective period of the authorizaexpects to book an after-tax capital gain of approximately EUR in total, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all Mr. Svante Adde was elected Chairman of the Audit Committee, tion. The authorization concerns issuance of B shares to Terex 200 million from the STAHL Divestment in the first quarter of of the shares in the Company. The authorization is effective and Mr. Ole Johansson and Ms. Malin Persson as Committee or its designated affiliates as payment of the share consid2017. until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, however, no members. Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld was elected Chairman of eration, including the additional share consideration, if any, STAHL CraneSystems’ sales outside the Konecranes Group longer than until September 22, 2017. the Nomination and Compensation Committee, and Mr. Stig payable by Konecranes in the MHPS Acquisition. totaled approximately EUR 130 million and the EBITDA was The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on Gustavson and Mr. Christoph Vitzthum as Committee members. The EGM further authorized the Board of Directors to resolve approximately EUR 26 million in 2016. the issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of special With the exception of Mr. Stig Gustavson, the Board on all other terms and conditions of the issuance of shares. Konecranes will use the proceeds from the STAHL CraneSysrights entitling to shares referred to in Section 1 of Chapter members are deemed to be independent of the company under This authorization is effective until December 31, 2017 and tems divestment to amortize the loans related to the MHPS 10 of the Finnish Companies Act. The amount of shares to be the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. Mr. Gustavson is not it will not revoke the authorizations granted to the Board of Acquisition. issued based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 deemed independent of the company based on the Board’s Directors to decide on the issuance of shares and special rights shares, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of overall evaluation relating to his former and current positions in entitling to shares by the Annual General Meeting on March 23, Strategic alliance with Kito all of the shares in the Company. The authorization can also Konecranes combined with his substantial voting rights in the 2016. dissolved, Kito shares sold be used for incentive arrangements, however, not more than Company. The General Meeting confirmed the annual remuneration On September 26, Konecranes announced that Konecranes and 700,000 shares in total together with the authorization in the With the exception of Mr. Ole Johansson and Mr. Bertel payable to the members of the Board of Directors to be as of Kito Corporation (“Kito”) have decided to dissolve the strategic next paragraph. The authorization is effective until the end of Langenskiöld, the Board members are independent of signifthe closing of the Acquisition as follows: Chairman of the Board alliance signed between the companies on March 23, 2010. the next Annual General Meeting, however, no longer than until icant shareholders of the company. Mr. Ole Johansson is EUR 140,000, Vice Chairman of the Board EUR 100,000, and On September 27, Konecranes announced that it has sold September 22, 2017. However, the authorization for incentive not deemed independent of significant shareholders of the the other Board members: EUR 70,000. 5,873,900 Kito shares to Kito. Konecranes sold the remaining arrangements is valid until March 22, 2021. This authorization Company based on his current position as the Chairman of The amount of annual remuneration payable to the members 76,100 Kito shares in December. Konecranes received approxirevokes the authorization for incentive arrangements given by the Board of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. Mr. Langenskiöld is not of the Board of Directors until the closing of the Acquisition is mately EUR 48 million from the sale of the shares. the Annual General Meeting 2015. deemed independent of significant shareholders of the company based on the resolution made at the Annual General Meeting The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the based on his position as the Managing Director of Hartwall on March 23, 2016, and the proposed increased remuneration Administration transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization is Capital Oy Ab until August 31, 2015. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab would be payable pro rata for the term of office between closing limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds holds more than 10 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and of the Acquisition and the Annual General Meeting in 2017. Decisions of the Annual General Meeting to approximately 9.5 percent of all the shares in the Company. votes. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Otherwise, the annual remuneration for the members of The Annual General Meeting of Konecranes Plc was held on The authorization can also be used for incentive arrangements, Oy Ab. the Board of Directors will be paid as resolved by the Annual March 23, 2016. The meeting approved the Company’s annual however, not more than 700,000 shares in total together with General Meeting on March 23, 2016 including the payment of accounts for the fiscal year 2015 and discharged the members the authorization in the previous paragraph. This authorization 50 percent of the annual remuneration in Konecranes shares. 64 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 65 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 The General Meeting approved the shareholder’s, HTT KCR Changes to segment reporting and Group Executive Board Performance share plan Market capitalization and trading volume Holding Oy Ab, proposal for additional remuneration to the On December 15, 2016, Konecranes announced that its Board On June 15, 2016, Konecranes announced that the Board The closing price for Konecranes Plc’s shares on the Nasdaq members of Konecranes’ Board of Directors. of Directors has made decisions on the new reporting segments has resolved to establish a new share-based incentive plan Helsinki was EUR 33.78 on December 31, 2016. The volumeAll members of the Board of Directors shall be additionally and new members of the Group Executive Board (“GXB”) subject directed to the Group key employees. The long-term incentive weighted average share price in January-December was EUR remunerated for attending meetings of the Board of Directors to the closing of the MHPS Acquisition. As of January 1, 2017, plan consists of one discretionary period, calendar year 2016. 25.38, the highest price being EUR 36.89 in December and during the period from Konecranes’ Annual General Meeting Konecranes will report three business areas: Service, Industrial Approximately 200 key employees, including the members of the lowest EUR 17.92 in January. In January–December, the held on March 23, 2016 until the closing of the Acquisition (or Equipment and Port Solutions. the Group Executive Board and Senior Management, belong to trading volume on the Nasdaq Helsinki totaled 55.6 million of the next Annual General Meeting of Konecranes, unless the Mika Mahlberg was appointed as Executive Vice President, the target group of the plan. the Konecranes Plc’s shares, corresponding to a turnover of Acquisition has been closed prior to that). The compensation Business Area Port Solutions, and as a member of the KoneThe potential reward from the plan will be based on the approximately EUR 1,411.3 million. The average daily trading paid to each member of the Board of Directors shall be EUR cranes GXB. Susanna Schneeberger was appointed as Execcontinuation of the key employee´s employment or service and volume was 220,693 shares, representing an average daily 1,500 for each meeting the relevant member of the Board of utive Vice President, Strategy, and as a member of the Koneon the Konecranes Group’s adjusted earnings before interest, turnover of EUR 5.6 million. Directors has attended. cranes GXB. taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The rewards to In addition, approximately 82.5 million Konecranes’ shares The members of the negotiation team shall be paid the As of closing of the MHPS Acquisition, the Konecranes GXB be paid on the basis of the plan correspond to an approximate were traded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral trading following additional one-time compensation: EUR 60,000 to Stig will consist of the following members: maximum total number of 700,000 Konecranes Plc shares, also facilities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2016 according to Gustavson, Bertel Langenskiöld, and Christoph Vitzthum each, including the portion to be paid in cash. Fidessa. and EUR 30,000 to Svante Adde. Mr. Panu Routila, President and CEO The potential reward from the plan will be paid partly in KoneOn December 31, 2016, the total market capitalization of The accrued compensation per attended meeting of the Mr. Teo Ottola, CFO and Deputy CEO cranes shares and partly in cash after the discretionary period, the Konecranes Plc’s shares on the Nasdaq Helsinki was EUR Board of Directors and the one-time compensation payable to Mr. Fabio Fiorino, Executive Vice President, Business Area by the end of August 2017. The cash proportion is intended to 2,137.3 million including treasury shares. The market capitalithe members of the Board of Directors shall be paid in cash. Service cover taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward to zation was EUR 1,984.6 million, excluding the treasury shares. Christoph Vitzthum, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, has Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President, Business Area Indusa key employee. The shares paid as reward may not be transinformed Konecranes that he will forgo his one-time compensatrial Equipment ferred during a restriction period established for the shares. Flagging notifications tion. Mr. Mika Mahlberg, Executive Vice President, Business Area The restriction period shall begin from reward payment and end On February 23, 2016, Konecranes received a disclosure under The General Meeting approved the proposal of the NomiPort Solutions on December 31, 2018. Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according nation and Compensation Committee that the number of Mr. Juha Pankakoski, Executive Vice President, Technologies The members of the Group Executive Board and Senior to which the holding of Sanderson Asset Management LLP in members of the Board of Directors shall be increased to eight Ms. Susanna Schneeberger, Executive Vice President, Strategy Management must retain 50 percent of net shares received Konecranes Plc has decreased below 5 percent. Sanderson (8) as of the closing of the General Meeting. Mr. Timo Leskinen, Senior Vice President, Human Resources on the basis of the plan until such member´s share ownership Asset Management LLP held 3,161,739 Konecranes Plc’s The General Meeting further approved that the number of the Ms. Sirpa Poitsalo, Senior Vice President, General Counsel equals his or her annual gross base salary. Such number of shares on February 22, 2016, which is 4.99 percent of the members of the Board of Directors shall be increased to ten shares must be held as long as such member´s employment or Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. (10) as of the closing of the Acquisition when the two members Corporate Governance Statement service at Konecranes continues. On July 25, 2016, Konecranes received a disclosure under of the Board of Directors appointed by Terex join the Board of Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according Directors. Code 2015 approved by the Board of the Securities Market Employee share savings plan to which the holding of Harris Associates Investment Trust The EGM elected two new members of the Board of Directors Association. Konecranes has issued a Corporate Governance On February 23, 2016, the Board of Directors of Konecranes (Oakmark International Small Cap Fund) in Konecranes Plc has for a term of office ending at the closing of the Annual General Statement as a separate report, which can be reviewed on the Plc decided on a directed share issue related to the reward decreased below 5 percent. Harris Associates Investment Trust Meeting in 2017. The new members are Ms. Janina Kugel and Konecranes corporate website at www.konecranes.com. payment for the Savings Period 2012-2013 of the Konecranes (Oakmark International Small Cap Fund) held 3,106,800 KoneMr. Ulf Liljedahl. Employee Share Savings Plan. In the share issue, 18,580 Konecranes Plc’s shares on July 22, 2016, which is 4.91 percent of The Board of Directors elected Janina Kugel as a member of Share capital and shares cranes Plc shares held by the company were conveyed without the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. the Nomination and Compensation Committee and Ulf Liljedahl The company’s registered share capital totaled EUR 30.1 million consideration to the employees participating in the plan in On August 17, 2016, Konecranes received a disclosure as a member of the Audit Committee. on December 31, 2016 and the number of shares including accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan. under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, After the elections, the Nomination and Compensation treasury shares was 63,272,342. On June 15, 2016, Konecranes announced that the Board according to which the holding of Sanderson Asset ManageCommittee consists of Bertel Langenskiöld (Chairman), Stig On December 31, 2016, Konecranes Plc was in the posseshas decided to launch a new Plan Period. The new plan period ment LLP in Konecranes Plc has exceeded 5 percent. Gustavson, Janina Kugel, and Christoph Vitzthum. The Audit sion of 4,521,333 own shares, which corresponds to 7.1 will begin on September 1, 2016 and end on June 30, 2017. Sanderson Asset Management LLP held 3,230,546 KoneCommittee consists of Svante Adde (Chairman), Ole Johansson, percent of the total number of shares having a market value of The maximum savings amount per participant during one month cranes Plc’s shares on August 16, 2016, which is 5.11 percent Ulf Liljedahl, and Malin Persson. EUR 152.7 million on that date. is 5 percent of gross salary and the minimum is EUR 50. Each of the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. All shares carry one vote per share and equal rights to diviparticipant will receive one free matching share for every two On September 9, 2016, Konecranes received a notificaChanges in Management dends. acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to tion under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, On April 27, 2016, Konecranes announced that Ryan Flynn, a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from according to which the total holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area EquipShares subscribed for under stock option rights the plan period until the end of the designated holding period, Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes has exceeded 5 percent. ment, is leaving Konecranes to pursue other interests. PresiThe share subscription period for the stock options 2009C February 15, 2020, and if his or her employment has not ended On September 8, 2016, Blackrock Inc.’s total holding through dent and CEO Panu Routila assumed the position of Head of ended on April 30. The stock options 2009C entitled to the before this date for reasons attributable to the employee. The shares and financials instruments amounted to 5.05 percent of Business Area Equipment, in addition to his existing duties, as subscriptions of a total of 638,500 shares. There were no total amount of all savings of the commencing plan period may the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. of May 1, 2016. share subscriptions during the subscription period pursuant to not exceed EUR 8.5 million. The terms and conditions of the Plan On October 5, 2016, Konecranes received a disclosure On July 14, 2016, Konecranes announced that Sirpa Poitsalo the stock options 2009C. Period 2016–2017 are unchanged from the previous Plan Periods. under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, (b. 1963), Vice President, General Counsel, has been appointed Shares will be acquired with the accrued savings at the according to which the holding of Harris Associates L.P. in a member of the Konecranes Group Executive Board and will market price quarterly, after the publication dates of the KoneKonecranes Plc has decreased below 5 percent. Harris Associreport to Panu Routila, President & CEO. cranes interim results, commencing in October 2016. ates L.P. held 3,152,800 Konecranes Plc’s shares on October 66 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 67 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 4, 2016, which is 4.98 percent of the Konecranes Plc’s shares was made visible for the management to support fact-based One of the key strategic initiatives of Konecranes is Directors elected Oren Shaffer a member of the Nomination and and votes. decision-making. oneKONECRANES. This initiative involves a major capital Compensation Committee and David Sachs a member of the Konecranes safety policy was renewed in 2016. We expenditure for the information systems. A higher-than-expected Audit Committee. Research and development continued our serious injury and fatality (“SIF”) prevention development or implementation costs, or a failure to extract On January 5, 2017, Konecranes received a notification In 2016, Konecranes’ research and product development program, i.e. focusing on deeper analysis and incident investibusiness benefits from the new processes and systems may under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, expenditure totaled EUR 22.3 (28.7) million, representing 1.1 gations of cases with SIF potential, in terms of both incidents lead to an impairment of assets or decrease in profitability. according to which the holding of Terex Deutschland GmbH (1.3) percent of sales. R&D expenditure includes product develand near-misses. During 2016, we also introduced a globKonecranes delivers projects, which involve the risks related in the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes has exceeded 20 opment projects aimed at improving the quality and cost effially harmonized template and a practice of the dynamic risk to, for example, engineering and project execution including percent. Terex Deutschland GmbH held 19,600,000 Koneciency of both products and services. assessment at the job site in our service business. The LTA1 Konecranes’ suppliers. A failure to plan or manage these cranes Plc’s shares on January 5, which is 23.65 percent of the In 2016, our development work focused on leveraging the indicator for work-related accidents improved to 5.8 (5.9). There projects may lead to higher-than-estimated costs or disputes Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. connected data our technologies provide to create superior were no occupational fatalities. with customers. On January 5, 2017, Konecranes received a notification Industrial Internet applications. Preventive maintenance and Similarly to the occupational safety, we issued a completely Challenges in financing, e.g., due to currency fluctuations, under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act usage analysis solutions took priority among these, centering renewed environmental policy in 2016. Many locations implemay force customers to postpone projects or even cancel the according to which the holding of HTT KCR Holding Ab in the upon further development of our TRUCONNECT systems. The mented energy-efficiency enhancing actions, such as installing existing orders. Konecranes intends to avoid incurring costs Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes has decreased below 10 remote operation of cranes was another strong focus area. improved compressed air systems and solar panels and for major projects under construction in excess of advance percent due to dilution related to the Konecranes Plc’s share In February, Konecranes presented its repositioned TRUCONchanging to LED lights. payments. However, it is possible that the cost-related commitissue. HTT KCR Holding Ab held 6,870,568 Konecranes Plc’s NECT Remote Service suite and improved functionality of the We continued reporting on our progress to external investor ments in some projects temporarily exceed the amount of shares on January 5, which is 8.29 percent of the Konecranes yourKONECRANES.com customer portal, which became availratings, such as CDP. In the CDP survey, Konecranes achieved advance payments. Plc’s shares and votes. able to customers in more countries. Furthermore, Konecranes result B (98 C), which implies that Konecranes has taken The Group’s other risks are presented in the Annual Report. On January 6, 2017, Konecranes received a notification and Aalto University agreed on cooperation within the area of actions to address the environmental issues beyond initial under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, Industrial Internet. Moreover, Konecranes hosted its third hackscreenings or assessments. During 2016, Konecranes actively Litigation according to which the holding of Polaris Capital Management athon event: the “Maritime Hack – Automated cargo handling.” took part in creating a Finnish Circular Economy roadmap, Various legal actions, claims, and other proceedings are LLC in the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes has decreased In June, Konecranes announced an all-new container moderated by Sitra, a Finland-based future fund. pending against the Group in different countries. These actions, below 5 percent due to dilution related to the Konecranes Plc’s weighing system for lift trucks. The system can be retrofitted to One key effort during 2016 was the roll out of e-learning to claims, and other proceedings are typical for this industry and share issue. Polaris Capital Management LLC held 3,597,639 existing machines, and allows the reach stacker to measure the address fraud prevention and to teach employees to recognize are consistent with the global business offering that encomKonecranes Plc’s shares on January 5, which is 4.34 percent of weight of the lifted container with one percent full-scale accuthe most typical signs of fraud. It also highlighted the imporpasses a wide range of products and services. These matters the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. racy in less than five seconds. Our fully embedded weighing tance of our internal controls and promoted our confidential involve contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability On January 6, 2017, Konecranes received a notification solutions enable seamless interchange of data with the customwhistleblower channel. (including design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act er’s TOS/TMS or ERP system. We continued professional management of our suppliers warn, and asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and according to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in the KoneIn addition, in June, 2016 Konecranes introduced the new as in the previous years. In addition, we continued piloting other matters involving general liability claims cranes Plc’s shares and votes has decreased below 5 percent BOXPORTER rail mounted gantry crane. BOXPORTER offers the deeper corporate responsibility audits by a third party. The first due to dilution related to the Konecranes Plc’s share issue. clearest view in intermodal container handling, with its new in-depth third-party corporate responsibility audits took place in Events after the end of the reporting period On January 9, 2017, Konecranes received a notification cabin giving the operator superb visibility and comfort. It also China at the end of 2015 and the pilot continued in India during On January 4, 2017, Konecranes announced that it has under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act gives the operator an extended view to truck and train loading 2016. In total, over 20 in-depth audits were conducted. completed the MHPS Acquisition. On January 5, 2017, Koneaccording to which the holding of Sanderson Asset Manageand unloading and container stacking thanks to video and cranes announced that the 19,600,000 new class B shares ment LLP in the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes has control information displayed on the cabin monitor. Risks and uncertainties issued to Terex Deutschland GmbH have been registered with decreased below 5 percent due to dilution related to the KoneKonecranes operates in the emerging countries that entail politthe Finnish Trade Register and Euroclear Finland Ltd. Following cranes Plc’s share issue. Sanderson Asset Management LLP Corporate responsibility ical, economic, and regulatory uncertainties. Adverse changes entry of the Shares into the Finnish Trade Register, the total held 3,201,628 Konecranes Plc’s shares on January 6, which is 2016 was a busy year to our personnel due to M&A activiin the operating environment of these countries may result in number of the Konecranes’ shares equals 82,872,342, which is 3.86 percent of the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. ties and organizational changes. The matrix organization was currency losses, elevated delivery costs, or loss of assets. divided to 63,272,342 class A shares and 19,600,000 class B On January 9, 2017, Konecranes received a notification dismantled in favor of direct product line organization. Internal Konecranes operates a crane factory in Zaporozhye, Ukraine. shares. under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, changes continued with rationalization of the management On December 31, 2016, the value of the total assets related The new class B shares will entitle to dividends and other rights according to which the holding of Terex Deutschland GmbH layers and streamlining of the organization. to the Zaporozhye factory amounted to approximately EUR 7 as from the registration date. The class B shares will not be in the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes has fallen below 5 In June, we undertook an employee survey on the MHPS million. applied for public trading. Konecranes’ trading code changed in percent, as a result of an intra-group transfer and the holding of Acquisition, which included some parts of employee satisfaction The operations in emerging countries have had a negative the Nasdaq Helsinki’s trading system from KCR1V to KCR as of Terex Corporation in the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes has surveys in earlier years to offer continuous progress tracking. A impact on the aging structure of accounts receivable and may January 5, 2017. exceeded 20 percent. Terex Corporation held 19,600,000 Konecomparison to the earlier employee satisfaction surveys showed increase credit losses or the need for higher provisions for As approved by the Extraordinary General Meeting held cranes Plc’s shares on January 6, which is 23.65 percent of the that the employee satisfaction and engagement had improved doubtful accounts. September 15, 2016, the number of members of the Board of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. since 2015. Konecranes has made several acquisitions and expanded Directors increased to ten (10) after the closing of the MHPS On January 31, 2017, Konecranes announced that it has We decided to take a common learning management system organically into new countries. A failure to integrate the Acquisition as Terex is entitled to elect up to two members to completed the STAHL Divestment. globally into use and its implementation was completed in acquired businesses, MHPS in particular, or grow newly estabthe Board of Directors as long as Terex’s or its Group compathe original pilot areas and is progressing to other countries. lished operations may result in a decrease in profitability and nies’ shareholding in Konecranes exceeds certain agreed Market outlook Moreover, people-centered key performance indicators were impairment of goodwill and other assets. thresholds. On January 5, 2017, Terex nominated David Sachs Customers are cautious about investing due to modest volume developed further and information created by analyzing data and Oren Shaffer joined the Board of Directors. The Board of growth in manufacturing and process industries, as well as 68 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 69 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS container handling. The companies operating in emerging and According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable (1,000,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2016 Jan 1–Dec 31 2015 commodity markets are particularly under pressure to save funds of the company are calculated based on the parent Note: costs. The demand situation in Europe and North America is company’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of deter3,5,6 Sales 2,118.4 2,126.2 mixed. Low growth in global container throughput has led to mining the amount of the dividend, the Board of Directors has a slow decision-making among container terminal operators. assessed the liquidity of the parent company and the economic Other operating income 14.4 1.4 7 Materials, supplies, and subcontracting -979.7 -969.9 The quarterly Equipment order intake may fluctuate due to the circumstances subsequent to the end of fiscal year. 7,8 Personnel cost -658.3 -661.5 timing of the large port crane projects. Based on such assessments, the Board of Directors 9 Depreciation and impairments -53.7 -54.0 proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 7 Other operating expenses -356.2 -379.1 Financial guidance 1.05 be paid on each share and that the remaining non-reDue to the very recent acquisition of the Terex‘s MHPS busistricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. Operating profit 84.9 63.0 ness, Konecranes believes that it is not appropriate to provide A PDF version of the Konecranes’ full audited financial financial guidance for the new combined business at the present statements, including the report of the Board of Directors, and 16 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result 6.0 4.8 time, and intends to provide financial guidance in conjunction corporate governance statement will be available on the web 16 Gain on disposal of investment in associated company 5.8 0.0 with its Interim Report January-March 2017. on February 27, 2017, and the printed version during the week 10 Financial income 1.0 7.8 commencing on Monday March 13, 2017. 10 Financial expenses -35.6 -20.3 Board of directors’ proposal for disposal of distributable funds Espoo, February 8, 2017 Profit before taxes 62.1 55.4 The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR Konecranes Plc 258,938,606.48, of which the net income for the year is EUR Board of Directors 11 Taxes -24.5 -24.6 43,570,310.23. The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 361,016,000. PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 37.6 30.8 Profit for the period attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company 37.6 30.8 Non-controlling interest 0.0 0.0 12 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 0.64 0.53 12 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 0.64 0.53 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income (1,000,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 Profit for the period 37.6 30.8 Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss 34 Cash flow hedges 30.1 -0.6 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 0.8 16.3 16 Share of associates’ other comprehensive income -3.8 3.8 11.3 Income tax relating to items that can be reclassified into profit or loss -6.0 0.1 Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss 28 Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined benefit plans -11.9 6.0 11.3 Income tax relating to items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss 3.0 -1.4 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 12.2 24.2 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 49.8 55.0 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company 49.8 55.0 Non-controlling interest 0.0 0.0 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 70 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 71 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000,000 EUR) ASSETS Dec 31 2016 Dec 31 2015 (1,000,000 EUR) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Dec 31 2016 Dec 31 2015 Note: Note: Non-current assets Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 13 Goodwill 86.2 107.6 Share capital 30.1 30.1 14 Intangible assets 98.1 108.7 Share premium 39.3 39.3 15 Property, plant, and equipment 128.1 142.5 Paid in capital 66.5 66.5 Advance payments and construction in progress 17.4 24.0 34 Fair value reserves 15.0 -9.1 16 Investments accounted for using the equity method 8.9 50.2 Translation difference 20.8 20.1 Other non-current assets 1.0 1.0 Other reserve 31.7 29.9 17 Deferred tax assets 57.0 71.7 Retained earnings 204.4 248.4 Total non-current assets 396.6 505.7 Net profit for the period 37.6 30.8 23 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 445.4 455.9 16 Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 Current assets Total equity 445.5 456.0 18 Inventories 281.8 365.2 19 Accounts receivable 379.3 377.3 Liabilities 20 Other receivables 23.2 24.9 Income tax receivables 12.1 10.1 Non-current liabilities 6 Receivable arising from percentage of completion method 83.8 77.3 27,32 Interest-bearing liabilities 54.2 59.2 32 Other financial assets 31.1 7.5 28 Other long-term liabilities 40.0 92.3 21 Deferred assets 29.1 36.0 24 Provisions 17.1 17.8 22 Cash and cash equivalents 167.4 80.8 17 Deferred tax liabilities 12.5 19.8 Total current assets 1,007.8 979.2 Total non-current liabilities 123.8 189.1 4.1. Assets held for sale 125.5 0.0 Current liabilities 27,32 Interest-bearing liabilities 269.5 224.8 TOTAL ASSETS 1,529.9 1,484.9 6 Advance payments received 170.6 176.4 Progress billings 1.5 0.4 Accounts payable 99.1 139.1 24 Provisions 40.5 35.1 25 Other short-term liabilities (non-interest-bearing) 31.4 31.9 32 Other financial liabilities 18.2 11.4 Income tax payables 14.7 12.8 Accrued costs related to delivered goods and services 125.2 111.8 25 Accruals 95.6 96.2 Total current liabilities 866.2 839.8 Total liabilities 990.0 1,028.9 4.1. Liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale 94.4 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,529.9 1,484.9 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 72 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 73 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company (1,000,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2016 Jan 1–Dec 31 2015 Share Trans­ NonNote: Share premium Paid in Cash flow lation Other Retained controlling Total (1,000,000 EUR) capital account capital hedges difference reserves earnings Total interest equity Cash flow from operating activities Balance at January 1, 2016 30.1 39.3 66.5 -9.1 20.1 29.9 279.1 455.9 0.1 456.0 Profit for the period 37.6 30.8 Options exercised 0.0 0.0 0.0 Adjustments to net profit for the period Dividends paid to equity holders -61.7 -61.7 -61.7 Taxes 24.5 24.6 Equity-settled share based payments (note 29) 1.8 0.0 1.8 1.8 Financial income and expenses 34.6 12.5 Acquisitions -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result -11.8 -4.8 Dividends income 0.0 -0.1 Profit for the period 37.6 37.6 37.6 Depreciation and impairments 53.7 54.0 Other comprehensive income 24.1 0.8 -12.7 12.2 0.0 12.2 Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets 3.4 1.2 Total comprehensive income 24.1 0.8 24.9 49.8 0.0 49.8 Other adjustments 5.5 -2.8 Balance at December 31, 2016 30.1 39.3 66.5 15.0 20.8 31.7 242.0 445.4 0.1 445.5 Operating income before change in net working capital 147.4 115.5 Balance at 1 January, 2015 30.1 39.3 52.2 -8.6 3.7 27.8 304.7 449.2 0.1 449.2 Change in interest-free current receivables -50.3 27.2 Options exercised 14.3 0.0 14.3 14.3 Change in inventories 61.3 -17.4 Dividends paid to equity holders -61.5 -61.5 -61.5 Change in interest-free current liabilities 29.8 -37.4 Equity-settled share based payments (note 29) 2.2 0.0 2.2 2.2 Change in net working capital 40.9 -27.6 Donations -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 Acquisitions -3.1 -3.1 -3.1 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS BEFORE FINANCING ITEMS AND TAXES 188.3 87.9 Profit for the period 30.8 30.8 30.8 Other comprehensive income -0.5 16.3 8.4 24.2 0.0 24.2 10 Interest received 8.8 5.8 Total comprehensive income -0.5 16.3 39.2 55.0 0.0 55.0 10 Interest paid -19.3 -15.6 Balance at December 31, 2015 30.1 39.3 66.5 -9.1 20.1 29.9 279.1 455.9 0.1 456.0 10 Other financial income and expenses -38.5 -12.5 11 Income taxes paid -29.6 -26.3 Financing items and taxes -78.6 -48.6 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 109.6 39.3 Cash flow from investing activities 4 Acquisition of Group companies, net of cash -0.2 -0.3 4 Divestment of businesses, net of cash 0.0 0.1 Proceeds from disposal of associated company 47.8 0.0 Capital expenditures -27.3 -43.3 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other 1.5 2.6 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 21.7 -40.8 Cash flow before financing activities 131.4 -1.5 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options exercised and share issues and other 0.0 14.3 Repayments of non-current borrowings -4.6 -2.1 Proceeds from (+), payments of (-) current borrowings 47.5 38.8 4 Acquired non controlling interest -0.3 -5.9 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company -61.7 -61.5 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -19.1 -16.3 Translation differences in cash 1.1 0.6 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 113.4 -17.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 80.8 97.9 4.1. Cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale 26.8 0.0 22 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 167.4 80.8 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 113.4 -17.2 The effect of changes in exchange rates has been eliminated by converting the beginning balance at the rates current on the last day of the year. The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 74 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. Corporate information an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumchange in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the data, order book, the current market situation, and industry Konecranes Plc (“Konecranes Group” or “the Group”) is a stances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recogspecific information of the future growth possibilities. These Finnish public limited company organized under the laws of including: nized directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the assumptions are reviewed annually as part of management’s Finland and domiciled with its principal place of business in • The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of Group recognizes its share of any changes, when applicable, in budgeting and strategic planning cycles, and can be subject to Hyvinkää. The company is listed on the NASDAQ Helsinki. the investee; the statement of changes in equity. Unrealized gains and losses significant adjustment as arising from the development of the Konecranes is a world-leading manufacturer and servicer of • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; resulting from transactions between the Group and the assoglobal economy, pressure from competitors’ products as well cranes, lifting equipment and machine tools, serving a broad • The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights. ciate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest as changes in raw material prices and operating expenses. The range of customers, including manufacturing and process indusin the associate or joint venture. value of the benefits and savings from the efficiency improvetries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes operates The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee After application of the equity method, the Group determines ment programs already announced and included in certain cash internationally, with its products being manufactured in North if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to whether it is necessary to recognize an impairment loss on its flow estimates are also subjective and based on management’s and South America, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of investment in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting best estimate of the impact. The fair value of the CGUs is and sold worldwide. Konecranes has two reportable segments, a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence determined using a derived weighted average cost of capital as which it calls Business Areas: Business Area Service and Busisubsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the that the investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired. the rate to discount estimated future cash flows. The discount ness Area Equipment. subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidIf there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of rate used may not be indicative of actual rates obtained in the iary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount markets in the future. See note 13. 2. Accounting principles consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains of the associate or joint venture and its carrying value, and then control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. recognizes the loss as Share of profit of an associate and a Recognition of deferred taxes 2.1 Basis of preparation Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive joint venture in the statement of profit or loss. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent The consolidated financial statements of Konecranes Plc income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods have been prepared in accordance with International Financial of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments in which those temporary differences become deductible or in Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. which tax losses can be utilized. The tax effect of unused tax The consolidated financial statements have been prepared When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial stateEstimates losses is recognized as a deferred tax asset when it becomes on a historical cost basis, except for items that are required by ments of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with probable that the tax losses will be utilized. In making assessIFRS to be measured at fair value, principally certain financial with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group assets and IFRS requires management to make estimates and judgments ments regarding deferred tax assets, management considers instruments. liabilities, equity, income, expenses, and cash flows relating to that affect the valuation of reported assets and liabilities and the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected The consolidated financial statements including notes transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in other information, such as contingent liabilities and recognition future taxable income and tax planning strategies. The actual thereto are presented in millions of euros and all values are full on consolidation. of income and expenses in the statement of income. These current tax exposure is estimated together with assessing rounded to the nearest million (€000,000) except when otherA change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on managetemporary differences resulting from differing treatment of wise indicated. loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. ment’s historical experience, best knowledge about the events items, such as depreciation, provisions and accruals, for Due to the rounding some totals might differ from the sum If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes and other factors, such as expectations on future events, which tax and accounting purposes. When recording the deferred of individual figures as calculations are done originally in thouthe related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling the Company assess to be reasonable in the given circumtax assets judgment have been based on the estimates of sands of euros. interest, and other components of equity while any resultant stances. Although these estimates and judgments are based the taxable income in each subsidiary and country in which The financial statements were approved for issuance by the gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any investment on the management’s best understanding of current events and Konecranes operates, and the period over which the deferred Board of Directors on February 8, 2017. retained is recognized at fair value. circumstances, actual results may differ from the estimates. tax assets will be recoverable based on the estimated future Changes in estimates and assumptions are recognized in the taxable income and planned tax strategies to utilize these Principles of consolidation Investment in associates and joint ventures financial period the estimate or assumption is changed. assets. The amount of deferred tax assets considered realThe consolidated financial statements comprise the conso­ An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant The most important items in the consolidated financial stateizable could however be reduced in subsequent years if estilidated balance sheet of Konecranes Plc and its subsidiaries influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the ments, which require management’s estimates and that involve mates of future taxable income during their carry forward as at December 31, 2016 and 2015 and the consolidated financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is complex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions, periods are reduced, or rulings by the tax authorities are unfastatements of income and cash flows for the periods ended not control or joint control over those policies. some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain vourable. Estimates are therefore subject to change due to both December 31, 2016 and 2015. Control is achieved when the A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the and susceptible to change are impairment testing, recognition market related and tax authorities related uncertainties, as well Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to of deferred taxes, measurement of the fair value of assets and as Konecranes’ own future decision matters such as restrucinvolvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contracactuarial assumptions in defined benefit plans, and percentage turing. Konecranes is unable to accurately quantify the future returns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the tually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists of completion revenue recognition in long term projects. adjustments to deferred income tax expense that may occur as Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: only when decisions about the relevant activities require unania result of these uncertainties. See note 17. • Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it the mous consent of the parties sharing control. Impairment testing current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee); The Group’s investments in its associates and joint ventures The recoverable amount for goodwill has been determined Actuarial assumptions in defined benefit plans • Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement are accounted for using the equity method. Under this method, based on value in use of the relevant cash generating unit, to The net pension liability and expense for defined benefit with the investee; the consolidated financial statements show the Group’s which the goodwill is allocated. The recoverable amounts of all plans is based on various actuarial assumptions such as the • The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its investment in, and share of, net assets of the associate or material intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment assumed discount rate, expected development of salaries and returns. joint venture. Any premium over net assets paid to acquire have also been based on their value in use. The impairment pensions, and mortality rates. Significant differences between an interest in an associate or joint venture is recognized as testing of goodwill is based on numerous judgmental estimates assumptions and actual experience, or significant changes in Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights goodwill within the same line as the underlying investment. of the present value of the cash flows which effect the valuation assumptions, may materially affect the pension obligations. result in control. To support this presumption, and when the The statement of profit or loss reflects the Group’s share of of the cash generating units (CGU) pertaining to the goodwill. The effects of actual results differing from assumptions and Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any Cash flow forecasts are made based on CGU specific historical the changing of assumptions are included in Remeasurement 76 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements gains/loss on defined benefit plans in other comprehensive materials or labor, project modifications creating unanticipated c) The stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the Dividend distribution income. Discount rates are determined annually based on costs, suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform, and reporting period can be measured reliably; and The company recognizes a liability to make dividend distribuchanges in long-term, high quality corporate bond yields. delays caused by unexpected conditions or events. By recogd) The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to tions to equity holders when the distribution is approved by the Decreases in the discount rates results in an increase in the nizing changes in estimates cumulatively, recorded revenue complete the transaction can be measured reliably. shareholders. A corresponding amount is recognized directly in defined benefit obligation and in pension costs. Conversely, an and costs to date reflect the current estimates at the stage of equity. increase in the discount rate results in a decrease in the defined completion for each project. Additionally, losses on long-term Revenue from large crane construction contracts is recognized benefit obligation and in pension costs. Increases and decreases contracts are recognized in the period when they are identified according to the percentage of the completion (POC) method Employee benefits in mortality rates have an inverse impact on the defined benefit and are based upon the anticipated excess of contract costs described in IAS11 as those contracts are specifically negotiated Konecranes companies have various pension plans in accordobligation and pension costs. Increases and decreases in salary over the related contract revenues. for the construction of an asset or a combination of assets that ance with local conditions and practices. Pensions are generally and pension growth rates have a direct correlating impact on the are closely interrelated or interdependent in terms of their design, managed for the Group companies by outside pension insurdefined benefit obligation and pension costs. Judgments technology and function or their ultimate purpose or use. The ance companies or by similar arrangements. These pension The assumed discount rate, which is based on rates There have been no changes in judgments throughout the years stage of completion of a contract is determined by the proportion plans are classified either as defined contribution or defined observed at the end of the preceding financial year may not 2016 and 2015. that the contract costs incurred for the work performed to date benefit plans. Under defined contribution plans, expenses be indicative of actual rates realized. The actual development bear to the estimated total contract costs (cost-to-cost method) are recognized for the period the contribution relates to. The for salaries and pensions may not reflect the estimated future 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies at completion. When the final outcome of a project cannot be reliGroup has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further development due to the uncertainty of the global economy and ably determined, the costs arising from the project are expensed contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay various other factors. Konecranes uses generational mortality Revenue recognition in the same reporting period in which they occur, but the revenue employee benefits. The Konecranes Group accounts for the tables to estimate probable future mortality improvements. Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that from the project is recorded only to the extent that the Group will Finnish system under the Employees’ Pensions Act (TyEL) within These tables assume that the trend of increasing life expecthe economic benefits will flow to the Company, that revenue receive an amount corresponding to actual costs. An expected insurance system as a defined contribution plan. tancy will continue, resulting in pension benefit payments to can be reliably measured, and that collectability is reasonably loss on a contract is recognized immediately in statement of Under defined benefit plans, a liability recognized in the younger members being likely to be paid for longer time periods assured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the considerincome. Revenue in respect of variations to the contract scope balance sheet equal to the net of the present value of the than older members’ pensions, given that assumed retirement ation received or receivable. The creditworthiness of the buyer and claims is recognized when it is probable that it will be defined benefit obligation (calculated using the Projected Unit ages are those defined in the rules of each plan. is assessed before engaging into a sale. However, if a risk received and is capable of being measured reliably. Credit Method) less the fair value of the plan assets at the The funded status, which can increase or decrease based of non-payment arises after revenue recognition, a provision balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized on the performance of the financial markets or changes in for noncollectability is established. The specific recognition Research and development costs in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income our assumptions, does not represent a mandatory short-term criteria described below must also be met before revenue for Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development as remeasurement items when they occur. Remeasurement cash obligation. Instead, the funded status of a defined benefit the sale of goods is recognized: expenditures on an individual project are recognized as an recorded in other comprehensive income is not recycled. Past pension plan is the difference between the defined benefit obliintangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: service cost is recognized in the statement of profit or loss in gation and the fair value of the plan assets. See note 28. a) The entity has transferred to the buyer the significant risks • The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so the period of plan amendment. Net-interest is calculated by and rewards of ownership of the goods; that it will be available for use or sale. applying the discount rate to the net defined liability or asset. Percentage of completion revenue b) The entity retains neither continuing managerial involvement • Its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligarecognition in long term projects to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective asset. tion by applying the Projected Unit Credit Method. The Group Konecranes applies the percentage of completion method (cost control over the goods sold; • How the asset will generate future economic benefits. presents service cost, past-service cost, gains and losses to cost) for recognizing revenue from long term large crane c) The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; • The availability of resources to complete the asset. on curtailments and settlements and net interest expense or projects in accordance with IAS11 Construction Contracts. The d) It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the • The ability to reliably measure the expenditure during development. income as Personnel cost – Pension costs: Defined benefit percentage of completion is based on the cost-to-cost method. transaction will flow to the entity; and plans in the statement of income (see Note 8). Under this method, progress of contracts is measured by actual e) The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transacAmortization of capitalized development costs begins when A liability for termination benefit is recognized at the earlier costs incurred in relation to management’s best estimate of tion can be measured reliably. development is complete and the asset is available for use. of when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of the total estimated costs at completion, which are reviewed and termination benefit and when the entity recognizes any related updated routinely for contracts in progress. The cumulative The transfer of risk takes place either when goods are shipped Adjusted operating profit restructuring costs. effect of any change in estimate is recorded in the period in or made available to the buyer for shipment, depending on the Adjusted operating profit (a non-GAAP measure) represents which the change in estimate is determined. terms of the contract. earnings from continuing operations before income taxes (a Share based payments The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves Revenue from services is recognized when the outcome of GAAP measure), excluding restructuring, transaction and related Employees (including senior executives) of the Group and its the use of assumptions and projections, principally relating the transaction can be estimated reliably and by reference to asset impairment costs as well as other adjusting items, and subsidiaries receive remuneration in the form of share-based to future material, labor, and project-related overhead costs. the stage of completion based on services performed at the financial income and expense. See also note 3. payments, whereby employees render services as consideration As a consequence, there is a risk that total contract costs will end of the reporting period. The assessment of the stage of for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions) or receive exceed those originally estimated and the margin will decrease completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will Earnings per share settlement in cash (cash-settled transactions). or the contract may become unprofitable. This risk increases generally be based on costs incurred to the extent these relate Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing income from as the duration of a contract increases, because there is a to services performed up to the reporting date or by written continuing operations, income from discontinued operations Equity-settled transactions higher probability that the circumstances upon the estimates customer acknowledgement. and net income, all attributable to ordinary shareholders by The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by the fair were originally based will change, resulting in increased costs The outcome can be estimated reliably when all of the the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the value at the date when the grant is made using an appropriate that may not be recoverable. Factors that could cause costs to following criteria are satisfied: year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming valuation model. increase include: unanticipated technical problems with equipa) The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; conversion or exercise of all potentially dilutive share-based That cost is recognized, together with a corresponding ment supplied or developed by us which may require us to incur b) It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the payment plans. increase in other reserves in equity, over the period in which the additional costs to remedy, changes in the cost of components, transaction will flow to the entity; performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled in Personnel 78 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements cost – Other personnel expense in the statement of income. in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net over the a ­ cquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiare expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of The cumulative expense recognized for equity-settled transacinvestment, at which time they are recognized in the income able assets, liabilities, and contingent liabilities is recorded as whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to tions at each reporting date until the vesting date, reflects the statement. Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange goodwill. For each acquisition the non-controlling interest in the those units. If the carrying amount for a CGU exceeds its recovextent to which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s differences on those monetary items are also recorded in other acquiree, if any, can be recognized either at fair value or at the erable amount, an impairment loss equal to the difference is best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ulticomprehensive income. non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s recognized. Konecranes uses a discounted cash flow analyses mately vest. The expense or credit recorded in the statement Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical net assets. If the purchase consideration is less than the fair to assess the fair value of goodwill. In assessing value-in-use, of income for a period represents the movement in cumulative cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange value of the Group’s share of the net assets acquired, the differthe estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present expense recognized as at the beginning and end of that period. rates as of the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary ence is recognized directly through the profit and loss. Direct value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are transacquisition transaction costs are expensed as incurred. assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting is lated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value to the asset. The Group bases its impairment calculation on conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. These are is determined. Asset held for sale detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups separately for each of the Group’s CGUs to which the individual non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other perforForeign operations as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered prinassets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations mance and/or service conditions are satisfied. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated cipally thorough a disposal rather than through the continuing cover a period of five years. A previously recognized impairment When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the into euros at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting use. Such non-current assets and disposal groups classified as loss on goodwill is not reversed even if there is a significant minimum expense recognized is the expense had the terms date and their income statements are translated at average held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount improvement in circumstances having initially caused the not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. exchange rates for the period. The exchange differences arising and fair value less costs to sell. impairment. An additional expense is recognized for any modification that on the translation are recognized in other comprehensive The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded as increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transincome. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of met only when the sales are highly probable and the asset or Property, plant, and equipment action, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign disposal group is available for immediate disposal in its present Property, plant, and equipment are stated at cost less accuat the date of modification. operation is recognized in the income statement. condition. Actions required to complete the disposal should indimulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciation The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as addiAny goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operacate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the disposal is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful tional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per tion and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of will be made or that the decision to dispose will be withdrawn. economic life of the assets as follows: share (see Note 12). assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as Management must be committed to the disposal expected • Buildings 10–40 years assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at within one year from the date of the classification. • Machinery and equipment 3–10 years Cash-settled transactions the closing rate. Property, plant, and equipment and intangible assets are not The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured initially at depreciated or amortized once classified as held for sale. AddiNo depreciation is recorded for land. fair value at the grant date using a binomial model. This fair Income tax tional disclosures are provided in Note 4.1. Expectations made for existing property, plant, and equipvalue is expensed over the period until the vesting date with Taxes shown in the consolidated statement of income include ment that will provide future economic benefit are capitalized recognition of a corresponding liability. The liability is remea­ income taxes to be paid on the basis of local tax legislations, Intangible assets and depreciated over the remaining useful life of the asset. sured to fair value at each reporting date up to, and including tax adjustments from previous years, as well as the effect of Intangible assets include service contracts, patents, and tradethe settlement date, with changes in fair value recognized in the annual change in the deferred tax liability and deferred tax marks as well as software licenses and implementation costs. Impairment of assets subject to amortization and depreciation Personnel cost – Other personnel expenses in the statement of balances. Taxes are calculated using rates enacted or substanIntangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial The carrying values of intangible assets subject to amortization, income (see Note 8). tively enacted at the balance sheet date. recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in property, plant, and equipment and investments in associates Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are calculated a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquiand joint ventures, are reviewed for impairment whenever Foreign currency translation on all temporary differences arising between the tax basis and sition. Intangible assets with definite useful life are amortized events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying The Group’s consolidated financial statements are reported in the book value of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is not on the straight-line basis over expected useful lives, which may amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If such an indicaeuros, which is the Group’s presentation currency. Each entity recognized for non-deductible goodwill on initial recognition vary from 5 to 20 years with service contracts and patents and tion exists, the recoverable amount of the assets will be estiin the Group determines its own functional currency and items and temporary differences in investments in subsidiaries to trademarks and from 4 to 7 years with software licenses. They mated. included in the financial statements of each entity are measthe extent that they probably will not reverse in the foreseeable are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value ured using that functional currency. future. The main temporary differences arise from unused tax that the intangible asset may be impaired. less selling costs and value in use which is the present value losses, depreciation differences, provisions, defined benefit Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not amortized, of the cash flows expected from the asset’s use and eventual Transactions and balances pension plans, inter-company inventory margin, and derivative but they are tested annually for impairment in a manner equivdisposal. An impairment loss is recognized in the statement of Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional financial instruments. In connection with an acquisition, the alent to that for testing goodwill. The assessment of indefinite income when the recoverable amount of an asset is less than currency (foreign currencies) are recognized by the Group entiGroup records provisions for deferred taxes on the difference life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life its carrying amount. Impairment losses on these assets are ties at their respective functional currency rates prevailing at between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life reversed if their recoverable amounts subsequently increase. the date of the transaction. At the end of each reporting period, bases. A deferred tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the funcprobable that it can be utilized. Valuation of inventories tional currency spot exchange rate in effect at the reporting Impairment testing of goodwill Raw materials and supplies are valued at the acquisition cost date. The resulting foreign currency exchange differences are Business combinations Goodwill acquired in a business combination is tested for or, if lower, at the net realizable value. Net realizable value is recorded in the statement of income, with the exception of Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquiimpairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumthe estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, differences that arise on monetary items that provide an effecsition method according to which the acquired company’s stances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverless estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs tive hedge for a net investment in a foreign operation (such identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are able. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired necessary to make the sale. Semi-manufactured goods are as intragroup loans where settlement is neither planned nor measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, valued at variable production costs including a share of produclikely to occur in the foreseeable future). These are recognized of the consideration transferred for the business combination allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units that tion overheads based on normal capacity. Work in progress of 80 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements uncompleted orders includes direct labor and material costs, commitments and highly probable forecasted transactions to a of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with Cash flow statement as well as a proportion of overhead costs related to production cash flow hedge. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial the borrowing. After initial recognition, other financial liabilities The cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with and installation. Raw materials and supplies are valued using instruments that are designated as effective hedges of future are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effecthe indirect method. In the cash flow statement a distinction the first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis or weighted average cost. The cash flows are recognized directly in other comprehensive tive interest method. Amortized cost is calculated by taking is made between cash flows from operating, investing and inventory stock obsolescence provision is based on the best income, while the ineffective portion is recognized immediately into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on financing activities. Currency differences on cash and cash estimate of slow-moving and obsolete inventory at the balance in the income statement. See note 34. settlement. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settleequivalents are recognized separately in the cash flow statesheet date. The estimates are based on frequent review and Amounts recognized as OCI are transferred to profit or loss ment, or cancellation of liabilities are recognized respectively ment. Revenue and expenses for income tax are recognized evaluation of inventory ageing and composition. when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as in interest and other income and finance costs. This category under Cash flows from operating activities. Interest costs and when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recogof financial liabilities includes accounts payables and interest interest revenues are recognized under Cash flows from operAccount and other receivables nized or when a forecast sale occurs. When the hedged item bearing liabilities. ating activities. Cash flows as a result of the acquisition or Account and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the disposal of financial interests (subsidiaries and interests) are after which they are subsequently measured at amortised cost. amounts recognized as OCI are transferred to the initial carrying Offsetting of financial instruments recognized under Cash flows from investing activities, taking Provisions are made for doubtful receivables on individual amount of the non-financial asset or liability. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net into account the cash, cash equivalents, and repaid third party assessment of potential risks. The effect is recognized in the If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial posidebts present in these interests. Dividends paid out, as well as statement of income. or exercised without replacement or rollover (as part of the tion if, and only if, there is a currently existing, legally enforceobtained loans, are recognized under Cash flows from financing hedging strategy), or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, able, unconditional right of offset that applies to all counterparactivities. Cash and cash equivalents or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge ties of the financial instruments in all situations, including both Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call accounting, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognized normal operations and insolvency. 2.4 Application of new and amended IFRS deposits with banks and other liquid investments with origin OCI remains separately in equity until the forecast transacstandards and IFRIC interpretations inal maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are tion occurs or the foreign currency firm commitment is met. If Provisions Konecranes has adopted following new or revised IFRSs from included in current interest-bearing liabilities. a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the Group January 1, 2016. They did not have any impact on the current or cumulative gain or loss recognized in the other comprehensive has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of the comparative periods. Fair value measurement income is transferred to profit or loss for the period. a past event and it is considered probable that an outflow of Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments resources embodying economic benefits will be required to Amendments to IFRS 11 clarifies that the acquisition accounting or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in the settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of and disclosure requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, market participants. The Group categorizes assets and liabilistatement of income as they arise. the amount of the obligation. Provisions may arise from restrucmust be applied to the acquisitions of an interest in a joint ties measured at fair value into one of three levels depending The Group does not apply fair value hedging. turing plans, onerous contracts, guarantees, and warranties, operation that constitutes a business. Konecranes applies this on the ability to observe inputs employed in their measureamong other events. Obligations arising from restructuring standard prospectively from January 1, 2016 on acquisitions of ment. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for Financial liabilities plans are recognized when the detailed and formal restructuring joint operations. identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are inputs that are Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair plans have been established, the personnel concerned have The relevant new or revised IFRSs that Konecranes has not observable, either directly or indirectly, other than quoted prices value through profit or loss; derivatives designated as hedging been informed, and when there is a valid expectation that the yet adopted are the following: included within level 1 for the asset or liability. Level 3 inputs instruments in an effective hedge; or as financial liabilities plan will be implemented. The warranty provision is based on Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability reflecting measured at amortized cost, as appropriate. Financial liabilities the history of past warranty costs and claims on delivered prodits Associate or Joint Venture, Amendments to IFRS 10 and significant modifications to observable related market data or include trade and other payables, finance debt and derivative ucts under warranty. Additionally, warranty provisions can be IAS 28 requires Konecranes to recognize gains and losses Konecranes’ assumptions about pricing by market participants. financial instruments. The Group determines the classification established on a case by case basis to take into consideration on such sales or contributions only to the extent they relate of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. The measurement the potentially increased risks. to the interest in the Associate or Joint Venture that does Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as follows: When the Group expects some or all of a provision to be not constitute a business, and that is held by investors other The Group’s global operations expose it to currency risk and to reimbursed, for example, under an insurance contract, the reimthan Konecranes. The gain or loss resulting from the sale or a lesser extent interest rate risk. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss bursement is recognized as a separate asset, but only when the contribution to an Associate or a Joint Venture of assets that The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried reimbursement is virtually certain. constitute a business as defined in IFRS 3 is recognised in full. forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recogThe standard has been effective from January 1, 2016 but not associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain nized in the income statement. Derivatives, other than those Leases endorsed by EU yet. commitments and forecasted transactions and interest rate designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as Lease contracts, in which the Group assumes substantially IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces a single approach risks. Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging held for trading and are included in this category. all risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance for the classification and measurement of financial assets purposes in accordance with the Group’s hedging policy and leases. In finance leases, the assets are recognized in property, according to their cash flow characteristics and the business not for speculative purposes. These instruments are initially Derivatives designated as hedging plant and equipment at the lower of fair value or the present model they are managed in, and provides a new impairment recognized at fair value at the derivative contract date, and instruments in an effective hedge value of the minimum lease payments as determined at the model based on expected credit losses. IFRS 9 also includes are re-measured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. These derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. inception of the lease. The value capitalized is amortized on a new regulations regarding the application of hedge accounting Derivatives are presented as financial assets when the fair The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease period or the to better reflect an entity’s risk management activities espevalue is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is described above in the accounting policy for derivative financial useful economic life of the asset. The corresponding lease oblicially with regard to managing non-financial risks. The new negative. instruments and hedging accounting. gations are included in interest-bearing liabilities. standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge Other lease contracts are classified as operating leases or after January 1, 2018, while early application is permitted. accounting. The Group applied also hedge accounting to the Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost where the lease payments of these leases are recognized as Konecranes is not using the early application option. USD denominated purchase price of MHPS acquisition. The All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value. rental expenses in the statement of income on a straight line The new hedging model may lead to more economic hedging Group designates hedges of the foreign currency risk of a firm For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value basis over the lease term. strategies meeting the requirement for hedge accounting. 82 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements ­ onecranes believes that all existing hedge relationships that K the revenue over time (percentage of completion method) will at contract inception. According to analyses this will reduce the g­ enerally recognize the amount of the remeasurement of the are currently designated in effective hedging relationships change and be based on the fact that at any time during the Group’s recognized revenue to some extent when the penalties lease liability as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset. will still qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9. The Group contract term, Konecranes must be entitled to an amount that accounted for costs are to be deducted from sales according to Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially unchanged expects to continue measuring at fair value all financial assets at least compensates the Group for performance completed IFRS 15. from today’s accounting under IAS 17. IFRS 16 also requires currently measured at fair value. Accounts receivables are to date, even if the customer can terminate the contract for The Group provides warranties related to general repairs lessees and lessors to make more extensive disclosures than held to collect contractual cash flows and are expected to rise reasons other than our failure to perform as promised. and product liability. According to the preliminary analyses under IAS 17. The standard is effective for annual periods beginfrom cash flows representing solely payments of principal and The Group provides installation and maintenance services prepared, some contracts might include extended warranties ning on or after 1 January, 2019. A lessee can choose to apply interest. Thus the Group expects that these will continue to within the service segment. These services are sold either on over the normal industry standard warranty period, as well as the standard using either a full retrospective or a modified retrobe initially recorded at fair value through profit or loss, after their own service contracts or bundled together with the sale service-type warranties, and thus can effect on the timing of the spective approach. The standard’s transition provisions permit which they are subsequently measured at amortised cost under of equipment to a customer. Currently the Group accounts revenue recognition. Current practise has been to make a provicertain reliefs. The Group plans to assess the potential effect IFRS9. The Group expects to apply the simplified approach to for the equipment and service as separate deliverables, and sion for this warranty liability. Most of the warranties will still be of IFRS 16 on its consolidated financial statements during 2017 record expected credit losses on its accounts receivable. The recognizes the revenue separately according to the stand-alone assurance type warranties which will continue to be accounted and 2018. It is however expected that the right of use assets Group will estimate credit losses in the future by using a proviselling prices, and continues to recognize the service revenue for under IAS37 consistent with Group’s current practice. and corresponding liabilities will be increased significantly after sion matrix where account receivables are grouped based on when the outcome of the transaction can be estimated reliably The disclosure requirements in IFRS 15 will be more extenthe standard is implemented. different customer bases and different historical loss patterns. and by reference to the stage of completion, based on services sive than in the present IFRS standards. Under the simplified model, companies could adjust the historperformed at the end of the reporting period. The assessment IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based 3. Segment information ical provision rates, which are an average of historical outcomes of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the Payment Transactions Amendment to IFRS2 address three For management purposes, the Group is organized into busiof credit losses, for their account receivables to reflect relecontract, but will generally be based on costs incurred to the main areas: the effects of vesting conditions on the measness units based on its products and services and had two vant information about current conditions and reasonable and extent these relate to services performed up to the reporting urement of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction; reportable segments in 2016: supportable forecasts about the future. The Group does not date or by written customer acknowledgement. It is expected the classification of a share-based payment transaction with • Service business, which provides services on installation and believe that applying IFRS 9 will have a material impact on its that IFRS 15 does not have any material impact on the Group’s net settlement features for withholding tax obligations; and maintenance of production cranes and lift trucks. consolidated financial statements regarding recognition and profit and loss statement for revenue recognition of installation accounting where a modification to the terms and conditions of • Equipment business, which produces lifting equipments. measurement of financial instruments but IFRS 9 is estimated and maintenance services. a share-based payment transaction changes its classification to increase the amount of disclosures. Sales contracts could give customers the option to purchase form cash settled to equity settled. Cranes and Lift trucks operating segments have been aggreIFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers recognizes additional goods, which may be priced at a discount. These kind On adoption, entities are required to apply the amendments gated to form the above Equipment business reportable operrevenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services of options are considered to be separate performance obligawithout restating prior periods. The amendments are effective ating segment, due to the similar economic characteristics with to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration tions and the revenue can be recognized if it provides a material for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January, 2018. The respect to the nature of the production process, product type to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for right to the customers. The right is material if it results in a Group has performance share plans in which the share-based and class of customers for their products. those goods or services. Revenue is recognized when, or as, discount that the customer would not receive without entering payment transaction with net settlement features for withThe above reportable segments are based on the Group’s the customer obtains control of the goods or services. IFRS to into the contract. If the discounted price in the option holding tax obligations. According to IFRS 2 amendment, the management reporting and organizational structure. Kone15 also includes guidance on the presentation of contract reflects the stand alone selling price, it is deemed to be more existing plans at 1 January, 2018 are not divided anymore into cranes Group’s chief operating decision maker is the Board of balances, that is, assets and liabilities arising from contracts a marketing offer than a material right. According to analyses two components (cash-settled and equity-settled) but are clasDirectors. with customers, depending on the relationship between the there might be few these kind of options in the contracts that sified in their entirety as equity-settled share-based payment Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss entity’s performance and the customer’s payment. In addition, will have some effect on the timing of the revenue recognition. transactions. and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the consolthe new standard requires a set of quantitative and qualitative Current practise is to recognise the revenue when the customer IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining idated financial statements. However, the performance of the disclosures to enable users of the Group’s consolidated finanis utilizing the option. whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating investees accounted for using the equity method is evaluated cial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and Currently Group recognizes revenue from the sale of goods Leases – Incentives and SIC -27 Evaluating the Substance of using proportionate consolidation. uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts measured at the fair value of the consideration received or Transactions Involving the Legal form of a Lease. IFRS 16 sets The assets and liabilities of the reportable segments include with customers. IFRS 15 supersedes IAS 11, Construction receivable, net of estimated probable returns and allowances, out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentaonly items directly connected with the business as well as the Contracts and IAS 18, Revenue as well as related interpretatrade discounts and volume rebates. Such provisions give rise tion, and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account goodwill related to them. Also the Group Headquarters’ tax and tions. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on to variable consideration in IFRS 15 and will be required to be for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model similar financial income and expenses are managed on Group level and or after January 1, 2018; early application is permitted. Koneestimated at contract inception. Contracts with customers that to the accounting for finance lease under IAS17. The standard are not allocated to segments. cranes is not using the early application option and is expecting provide right of return, trade discounts or volume rebates are includes two recognition exemptions for lessees – leases of Konecranes reports also three geographical areas, which are to apply the full retrospective approach in transition. rarely used by the Group, thus their effect to the revenue recoglow-value assets and short-term leases (with a lease term of the main market areas: EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Revenue recognition from contracts with customers, in which nition is assessed to be immaterial. 12 months or less). At the commencement date of a lease, a AME (Americas), and APAC (Asia-Pacific). Sales are reported by sale of equipment is generally expected to be the only perforIn project business the contracts usually have clauses for lessee will recognize a liability to make lease payments and an the customer location and assets and capital expenditure by mance obligation, is not expected to have any impact on the penalties of late deliveries or penalties if the delivery cannot asset representing the right to use the underlying asset during the location of the assets. Group’s profit and loss. The Group expects the revenue recogtake place in time due to the customer reason. The penalties the lease terms. Lessees will be required to separately recogIntercorporate transfer prices between operating segments nition to occur at a point in time when control of the asset is for late deliveries are currently accounted as provisions for nize the interest expense on the lease liability and the depreare primarily based on the market prices, which are considered transferred to the customer. Goods sold as installed are considcost when their probability is more likely than not to occur. The ciation expense on the right-of-use asset. Lessees will be also to reflect the arm’s length basis. ered to be one performance obligation and the revenue recogpenalty payments received from customers have been recogrequired to remeasure the lease liability upon the occurrence of Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant, nition takes place once the commissioning has been done and nized as sales when the penalty clauses in the contract have certain events (for example, a change in lease term or a change and equipment and intangible assets. Inter-segment revenues approved by the customer. This standard may impact revenue been satisfied. Such penalties will be treated as a variable in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index are eliminated on consolidation. recognition of long term projects as the criteria for recognizing consideration in IFRS 15 and will be required to be estimated or rate used to determine those payments). The lessee will 84 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.1. Operating segments 3.2. Geographical areas Corporate 2016 EMEA* AME APAC Total functions and Service Equipment unallocated items Eliminations Total External sales* 1,001.4 802.5 314.5 2,118.4 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Assets* 883.1 387.9 258.9 1,529.9 Sales Capital expenditure 26.4 3.0 4.5 33.8 Sales to external customers 933.4 949.4 1,185.0 1,176.7 2,118.4 2,126.2 Personnel 5,842 2,704 2,405 10,951 Inter-segment sales 34.6 42.9 46.1 63.6 -80.7 -106.5 0.0 0.0 * External sales to Finland EUR 178.6 million. Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) in Finland: EUR 135.4 million and in other countries: EUR 204.2 million. Total sales 968.0 992.3 1,231.1 1,240.3 -80.7 -106.5 2,118.4 2,126.2 2015 EMEA* AME APAC Total EBITDA 121.6 118.0 76.2 52.9 -56.5 -54.6 -2.7 0.8 138.5 117.1 External sales* 960.5 823.7 342.0 2,126.2 EBITDA, % 12.6% 11.9% 6.2% 4.3% 6.5% 5.5% Assets* 844.3 368.6 272.0 1,484.9 Capital expenditure 41.5 5.2 2.7 49.3 Depreciation and amortization (note 9) 19.4 17.9 29.7 30.1 1.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 50.1 48.7 Personnel 6,237 2,968 2,682 11,887 Impairment of assets (note 9) 0.0 1.2 3.5 4.1 3.5 5.3 * External sales to Finland EUR 75.5 million. Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) in Finland: EUR 137.0 million and in other countries: EUR 297.1 million. There are no single customers which have over 10% of Group’s sales. Adjusted operating profit 110.9 102.9 51.5 33.8 -18.8 -19.7 -2.7 0.8 140.8 117.7 % of net sales 11.5% 10.4% 4.2% 2.7% 6.6% 5.5% 4. Acquisitions STAHL CraneSystems is a global supplier of hoisting technology and crane components. The business is well-known Adjustments to operating profit Acquisitions and divestments in 2016 for its capability to build engineered system solutions. Its Transaction costs 47.0 17.2 47.0 17.2 In February 2016, Konecranes purchased an additional 5% of customers include distributors, crane builders as well as Restructuring costs 8.7 4.0 8.5 16.5 2.0 0.0 19.2 20.5 the minority shareholding of its subsidiary, Zaporozhje Kran EPC companies. STAHL CraneSystems is headquartered in Insurance indemnity and returned funds related to identity theft 10.2 0.0 10.2 0.0 Holding, which is located in Ukraine. After the purchase of the Künzelsau, Germany. Unwarranted payments due to identity theft 0.0 17.0 0.0 17.0 additional shareholding, Konecranes now owns 100% of the The associated assets and liabilities of STAHL CraneSystems Total adjustments 8.7 4.0 8.5 16.5 38.7 34.2 0.0 0.0 55.9 54.7 subsidiary. The purchase price for the additional 5% amounted have been reported in the consolidated balance sheet sepato EUR 0.3 million. rately, as held for sale from September 15, 2016 onwards when Operating profit 102.2 98.9 42.9 18.8 -57.6 -55.4 -2.7 0.8 84.9 63.0 In September 2016, Konecranes sold its small Moroccan the extraordinary general meeting of Konecranes approved the % of net sales 10.6% 10.0% 3.5% 1.5% 4.0% 3.0% service company Techniplus S.A. The disposal of the company resolutions required for the completion of the MHPS Acquisiresulted EUR 0.8 million loss reported in the other operating tion. The disposal group (assets and liabilities relating to STAHL Share of associates and joint ventures result (note 16) 11.8 4.8 11.8 4.8 expenses of the statement of income. CraneSystems business) is valued at carrying amounts, which is Financial income 1.0 7.8 1.0 7.8 lower than the fair value less costs to sell and assets have no Financial expenses -35.6 -20.3 -35.6 -20.3 Acquisitions and divestments in 2015 longer been depreciated since classified as held for sale. Profit before tax 62.1 55.4 In August 2015, Konecranes purchased an additional 46% Major classes of assets and liabilities of STAHL CraneSysof the minority shareholding of its fully controlled subsidiary, tems business classified as held for sale are, as follows: Segment assets 412.9 414.9 766.3 845.7 1,179.1 1,260.6 Zaporozhje Kran Holding, which is located in Ukraine. After the Investment accounted for using the equity method (note 16) 8.9 50.2 8.9 50.2 purchase of the additional shareholding, Konecranes now owns Assets 31.12.2016 Cash and cash equivalents 194.1 80.8 194.1 80.8 95% of the subsidiary. The purchase price for the additional Intangible assets 31.7 Deferred tax assets 69.8 71.7 69.8 71.7 46% amounted to EUR 3.0 million. As part of the initial acquiProperty, plant, and equipment 6.9 Income tax receivables 12.1 10.1 12.1 10.1 sition of Sanma Hoist & Cranes Co. Ltd in 2014, the Group had Deferred tax assets 12.8 Other unallocated and corporate function level assets 65.8 11.4 65.8 11.4 accrued EUR 2.8 million of deferred consideration. This deferred Inventories 21.8 Total assets 412.9 414.9 766.3 845.7 350.8 224.3 1,529.9 1,484.9 consideration has now been paid, therefore total consideration Accounts receivables 24.3 paid in the year ended 31 December 2015 was EUR 5.8 million. Other receivables 1.3 Segment liabilities 160.4 182.6 477.3 489.0 637.7 671.6 Cash and cash equivalents 26.8 Interest-bearing liabilities 323.7 284.0 323.7 284.0 4.1. Assets held for sale Assets held for sale 125.5 Deferred tax liabilities 15.7 19.8 15.7 19.8 Income tax payables 14.8 12.8 14.8 12.8 On November 30, 2016 Konecranes signed an agreement with Columbus McKinnon Corporation (“Columbus McKinnon”) Liabilities 31.12.2016 Other unallocated and corporate function level liabilities 92.6 40.8 92.6 40.8 regarding the divestment of the STAHL CraneSystems busiDefined benefit obligation 67.3 Total liabilities 160.4 182.6 477.3 489.0 446.8 357.3 1,084.5 1,028.9 ness (“STAHL Divestment”). On January, 2017, Konecranes Interest-bearing liabilities 0.1 Deferred tax liabilities 3.2 Other disclosures Plc (“Konecranes”) completed the divestment. Konecranes Accounts payable 4.3 ROCE, % 40.5% 45.7% 14.8% 5.1% 10.3% 9.5% will receive cash proceeds of EUR 224 from the transaction. Accruals and other liabilities 19.5 Capital expenditure 12.6 22.9 21.2 26.5 33.8 49.3 Additionally, Columbus McKinnon assumed unfunded pension Liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale 94.4 Personnel 5,998 6,503 4,893 5,328 60 56 10,951 11,887 liabilities that were at EUR 67 million as of December 31, 2016. Konecranes expects to book an after-tax capital gain of approxiMajority of assets and liabilities are reported in Equipment segment. mately EUR 200 million in Q1/2017. 86 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Amounts included in accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 31.12.2016 7. Operating expenses 9.2. Impairments 11.2. Reconciliation of income before Translation difference 2.3 2016 2015 2016 2015 taxes with total income taxes Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans -21.8 Change in work in progress 40.1 -37.0 Property, plant, and equipment 2.8 2.4 2016 2015 Deferred taxes relating to re-measurement losses on defined Production for own use -1.5 -0.9 Intangible assets 0.7 2,9 Profit before taxes 62.1 55.4 benefit plans 6.4 Material and supplies 742.5 792.7 Total 3.5 5.3 Tax calculated at the domestic corporation Total -13.1 tax rate of 20.0% (2015: 20.0%) 12.4 11.1 Subcontracting 198.5 215.1 Effect of different tax rates of foreign Materials, supplies and subcontracting 979.7 969.9 The nature of the impairments is described in the disclosures of subsidiaries 1.2 0.7 5. Specification of sales goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Taxes from previous years -2.3 -1.1 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 513.6 527.1 (see notes 14 and 15). Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and tax-exempt income 0.0 1.1 Sale of goods 1,466.9 1,411.1 Pension costs 55.7 52.8 Tax effect of unrecognized tax losses of the Rendering of services 649.5 714.7 Other personnel expenses 89.1 81.6 10. Financial income and expenses current year 6.9 9.5 Leasing of own products 1.7 0.1 Personnel cost 658.3 661.5 Tax effect of utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses -0.7 -0.4 Royalties 0.3 0.3 10.1. Financial income Tax effect of recognition of previously Total 2,118.4 2,126.2 Other operating expenses 356.2 379.1 unrecognized tax losses -0.9 -2.3 2016 2015 Total operating expenses 1,994.2 2,010.5 Tax effect of impairment of previously Interest income on bank deposits and loans 0.8 1.1 recognized deferred tax assets 5.3 6.4 Research and development costs recognized as an expense in Exchange rate gains 0.0 6.5 Tax effect of recognizing the controlled temporary difference from investment in 6. Percentage of completion method other operating expenses amount to EUR 22.3 million in the Other financial income 0.1 0.2 subsidiaries 1.2 -0.9 and advances received year 2016 (EUR 28.7 million in 2015). Total 0.9 7.8 Tax effect of tax rate change 0.3 0.0 Other items 1.1 0.5 6.1 Percentage of completion method 8. Personnel expenses and number of personnel 10.2. Financial expenses Total 24.5 24.6 2016 2015 2016 2015 The cumulative revenues of non-delivered 8.1. Personnel expenses Interest expenses on liabilities 10.9 11.2 Effective tax rate % 39.5% 44.4% projects 376.7 297.5 2016 2015 Net loss on financial instruments at fair Advances received netted 290.3 216.9 value through profit or loss 14.6 0.0 Wages and salaries 513.6 527.1 The Company evaluates regularly the net realizable value of its Progress billings netted 2.6 3.3 Exchange rate loss 3.3 5.4 Receivable arising from percentage of Pension costs: Defined benefit plans 5.1 5.5 deferred tax assets. Current year effective tax rate was affected Other financial expenses 6.7 3.7 completion method, net 83.8 77.3 Pension costs: Defined contribution plans 50.6 47.3 by impairment of previously recognized deferred tax assets Total 35.6 20.3 Other personnel expenses 89.1 81.6 in certain Chinese group companies. 2015 effective tax rate Gross advance received from percentage of Total 658.3 661.5 includes impairment made for deferred tax assets previously completion method 323.5 221.1 Financial income and expenses net -34.6 -12.5 Advances received netted 290.3 216.9 recognized for Indian tax losses carry forwards. Advances received from percentage of 8.2. Average personnel The company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used to completion method (netted) 33.2 4.2 hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects as well as to the Uncertain tax positions 2016 2015 Average number of personnel 11,398 11,934 USD nominated purchase price of MHPS acquisition. The cash Konecranes estimates and accrues taxes that will ultimately be Net sales recognized under the percentage of completion Number of personnel as at December 31 10,951 11,887 flow hedges of the expected future cash flows are assessed payable when reviews or audits by tax authorities of tax returns method amounted EUR 268.9 million in 2016 (EUR 291.2 in Number of personnel as at December 31 in to be highly effective and a net unrealized effect of EUR 15.0 are completed. On August 14, 2015 Konecranes announced Finland 1,780 1,954 2015). million (2015: EUR -9.1 million) with deferred taxes of EUR -3.8 that one of its foreign subsidiaries had become the victim of Receivable arising from percentage of completion method million (2015: EUR 2.3 million) relating to the hedging instrua fraud. The perpetrators had through identity theft and other relate to construction contracts. Net asset balances are 8.3. Personnel by Reportable Segment at end of period ments is included in equity. The hedged operative cash flows fraudulent actions managed to induce the subsidiary to make balances where the sum of contract costs, recognized profits, 2016 2015 are expected to occur during the next 3–18 months while the unwarranted payments for a total amount of EUR 17.0 million. and recognized losses exceed progress billings. ConstrucService 5,998 6,503 hedged cash flow for the MHPS acquisition occurred in January Konecranes has received insurance indemnity of EUR 10 tion contracts, here and as follows, include service contracts Equipment 4,893 5,328 2017. The realized and recycled currency differences from these million relating to the fraud. Konecranes has been recorded accounted for under the percentage of completion method. Group Staff 60 56 hedges recorded in the statement of income were EUR -10.3 net of these items as tax deductible based on the information Where progress billings exceed the sum of contract costs, Total 10,951 11,887 million in 2016 (EUR -15.1 million in 2015). available about the position expected to be taken by the tax recognized profits, and recognized losses, these liabilities are authority. However the outcome of the tax assessment is not included in the line item Advance received from percentage of 11. Income taxes yet certain. completion method (netted). 9. Depreciation, amortization, and impairments 11.1. Taxes in statement of income 11.3. Tax effects of components in other comprehensive income 6.2. Advance payments received 9.1. Depreciation and amortization 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Local income taxes of group companies 31.9 24.6 Cash flow hedges -6.0 -0.1 Advance received from percentage of Intangible assets 25.2 21.9 Taxes from previous years -2.3 -1.1 Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined completion method (netted) 33.2 4.2 benefit plans 3.0 1.4 Buildings 3.5 3.7 Change in deferred taxes -5.1 1.1 Other advance received from customers 137.4 172.2 Total -3.0 1.3 Machinery and equipment 21.4 23.2 Total 24.5 24.6 Total 170.6 176.4 Total 50.1 48.7 88 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12. Earnings per share 13.3. Total goodwill in reportable segments after impairments Impairment charges amount if the discount rate would be 1.2% points higher, or if Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net 2016 2015 The impairment testing performed in 2016 and 2015 did not the present value of the cash flows would be 12.0% lower. The income attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Industrial Equipment 44.3 44.9 result in any impairments being recognized. forecasts of Machine Tool Service, Industrial Equipment and by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during Lift trucks 12.1 12.6 Agilon include also a specific key assumption for a decrease the year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting Stahl CraneSystems* 0,0 20.4 Sensitivity analyses of fixed costs. The recoverable amount of EUR 15.4 million the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the Agilon 3.9 3.9 In addition to impairment testing using the base case assumpof Machine Tool Service would be the same as the carrying year for the dilutive effect of the shares issued under the stock Goodwill in Equipment total 60.3 81.8 tions, four separate sensitivity analyses were performed for amount if the EBITDA% would be 1.8% points lower, the recoveroption plans. Weighted average number of shares is excluding each CGU: able amount of EUR 186.4 million of Industrial Equipment would the number of treasury shares. Port Service 10.7 10.7 1) A discount rate analysis where the discount rate was be the same as the carrying amount if the EBITDA% would Crane Service 10.7 10.7 increased by 5% points be 0.4% points lower and the recoverable amount of EUR 6.8 2016 2015 Machine Tool Service 4.4 4.4 2) A Group management adjustment to the future profitability. million of Agilon would be the same as the carrying amount if Net profit attributable to shareholders of the Goodwill in Service total 25.8 25.8 The cash flow of each CGU was analyzed by the Group the EBITDA% would be 1.1% points lower. There was no indicaparent company 37.6 30.8 management. Based on the CGU specific historical data and tion of impairment of goodwill for any other CGU from the sensiTotal goodwill in reportable segments as of December 31 86.2 107.6 future growth prospects the cash flows were decreased by tivity tests. Weighted average number of shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 58,748 58,542 * The goodwill reported in Stahl CraneSystems is transferred to asset held for 10% in each year including terminal year. Effect of dilution from share options (1,000 sale. 3) A higher discount rate (+5% points) analysis combined with 2015 pcs) 0 0 Weighted average number of shares lower (-10%) cash flows as mentioned above The recoverable value of CGU Machine Tool Service was EUR outstanding, diluted (1,000 pcs) 58,748 58,542 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined based 4) A decrease in the compound annual growth rate for the 6.7 million higher and the recoverable value of CGU Industrial on value in use calculations using the discounted cash flow sales for the each five forecasted years (2% points) Equipment was EUR 40.5 million higher than the carrying value Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 0.64 0.53 method. The forecasting period of cash flows is five years and it combined with the current discount rate. of the assets under impairment testing. Sensitivity tests using Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 0.64 0.53 is based on financial forecasts of the management responsible both higher discount rate (+5% points) and lower cash flow estifor that CGU, and adjusted by Group management if needed. 2016 mates (-10%) indicated that Machine Tool Service would have There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares The forecasts have been made based on the CGU specific The recoverable value of CGU Machine Tool Service was EUR been impaired by EUR 1.0 million and the goodwill in Industrial or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the historical data, order book, the current market situation, and 7.0 million higher, the recoverable value of CGU Industrial EquipEquipment would have been fully impaired. Sensitivity test for date of authorization of these financial statements. industry specific information of the future growth possibilities. ment was EUR 22.4 million higher and the recoverable value of compound annual growth rate for the sales (-2% points) with These assumptions are reviewed annually as part of manageCGU Agilon was EUR 0.8 million higher than the carrying value the current discount rate indicated that the goodwill in CGU 13. Goodwill and goodwill impairment testing ment’s budgeting and strategic planning cycles. Calculations are of the assets under impairment testing. Sensitivity tests using Machine Tool Service and Industrial Equipment would have prepared during the fourth quarter of the year. both higher discount rate (+5% points) and lower cash flow estibeen fully impaired. The recoverable amount of EUR 14.5 million 13.1. Goodwill The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is the mates (-10%) indicated that Machine Tool Service would have of Machine Tool Service would be the same as the carrying 2016 2015 weighted average (pre-tax) cost of capital and is based on risk been impaired by EUR 0.3 million, the goodwill in Industrial amount if the discount rate would be 4.6% points higher, or if Acquisition costs as of January 1 122.3 119.5 free long term government bond rates and market and industry Equipment would have been fully impaired, and the goodwill in the present value of the cash flows would be 46.5% lower. The Transfer to asset held for sale -21.1 0.0 specific risk premiums. These risk premiums are derived based Agilon would have been impaired by EUR 2.8 million. Sensitivity recoverable amount of EUR 208.8 million of Industrial EquipTranslation difference -0.3 2.8 on the business portfolio of companies which operate in a test for compound annual growth rate for the sales (-2% points) ment would be the same as the carrying amount if the discount Acquisition costs as of December 31 100.9 122.3 similar industry. with the current discount rate indicated that the goodwill in CGU rate would be 2.1% points higher, or if the present value of the Accumulated impairments as of January 1 -14.7 -14.7 The key assumptions, being the average compound annual Machine Tool Service would have been impaired by EUR 1.4 cash flows would be 19.4% lower. The forecasts of Machine Impairments for the financial year 0.0 0.0 growth rate for the sales of the five years forecasted, and the million, goodwill in Industrial Equipment would have been fully Tool Service and Industrial Equipment also include a specific Total as of December 31 86.2 107.6 discount rate are as follows: impaired and goodwill in Agilon would have been impaired by key assumption for a decrease of fixed costs. The recoverable EUR 1.7 million. The recoverable amount of EUR 15.4 million amount of EUR 14.5 million of Machine Tool Service would be 13.2. General principles Compound annual of Machine Tool Service would be the same as the carrying the same as the carrying amount if the EBITDA% would be 1.3% growth rate Discount rate Management monitors the performance of the Group through amount if the discount rate would be 5.7% points higher, or if points lower and the recoverable amount of EUR 208.8 million Industrial Equipment 5% 11.8% the monthly meetings and monthly reporting that take place on the present value of the cash flows would be 45.4% lower. The of Industrial Equipment would be the same as the carrying Port Service 5% 13.1% a business unit level. Impairment testing is done at the lowest recoverable amount of EUR 186.4 million of Industrial Equipamount if the EBITDA% would be 0.7% points lower. There was Machine Tool Service 5% 9.9% level of the Group at which goodwill is monitored internally. ment would be the same as the carrying amount if the discount no indication of impairment of goodwill for any other CGU from Agilon* 57% 17.9% rate would be 1.0% points higher, or if the present value of the the sensitivity tests. Crane Service 5% 11.7% cash flows would be 12.0% lower. The recoverable amount of Lift trucks 5% 10.3% EUR 6.8 million of Agilon would be the same as the carrying *The growth rate in CGU Agilon is 57% (104% in 2015) as the CGU is in start-up phase. The average compound growth rate for the gross profit is consistent with that of sales. Furthermore, for all the CGUs a 1% terminal growth rate has been applied. 90 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14. Intangible assets 15. Property, plant and equipment Patents and Intangible Machinery & Property, plant, and 2016 trademarks Software Other assets total 2016 Land Buildings Equipment equipment total Acquisition costs as of January 1 29.4 131.6 108.9 269.9 Acquisition costs as of January 1 7.3 69.9 258.5 335.6 Additions 0.0 11.7 14.0 25.7 Additions 0.0 7.8 18.1 25.9 Disposals 0.0 -0.1 -0.2 -0.3 Disposals -0.8 -1.4 -15.9 -18.1 Company acquisitions 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.0 -1.5 -34.8 -36.3 Transfer to assets held for sale -10.4 -2.2 0.0 -12.5 Impairment -0.1 -1.8 -0.9 -2.8 Impairment 0.0 0.0 -0.7 -0.7 Translation difference 0.0 -0.5 -0.3 -0.8 Translation difference 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.2 Acquisition costs as of December 31 6.4 72.4 224.6 303.4 Acquisition costs as of December 31 19.1 141.0 122.1 282.3 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 0.0 -19.6 -173.5 -193.1 Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -14.5 -57.0 -89.7 -161.2 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 0.8 12.6 13.4 Accumulated amortization relating to disposals 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.0 1.1 28.4 29.5 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.0 2.1 0.0 2.1 Depreciation for financial year 0.0 -3.5 -21.4 -24.9 Amortization for financial year -0.8 -19.8 -4.6 -25.2 Total as of December 31 6.4 51.0 70.6 128.1 Total as of December 31 3.8 66.4 27.9 98.1 Machinery & Property, plant and 2015 Land Buildings Equipment equipment total Patents and Intangible Acquisition costs as of January 1 7.0 65.6 247.9 320.4 2015 trademarks Software Other assets total Additions 0.1 2.0 19.2 21.3 Acquisition costs as of January 1 29.0 102.6 108.8 240.4 Disposals 0.0 -0.2 -7.9 -8.1 Additions 0.0 31.0 0.8 31.8 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.3 -0.3 0.0 Disposals 0.0 -0.2 -1.0 -1.2 Impairment 0.0 0.0 -2.3 -2.3 Impairment 0.0 -1.8 -1.1 -2.9 Translation difference 0.2 2.1 2.0 4.3 Translation difference 0.4 0.0 1.4 1.8 Acquisition costs as of December 31 7.3 69.9 258.5 335.6 Acquisition costs as of December 31 29.4 131.6 108.9 269.9 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 0.0 -16.1 -153.9 -170.0 Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -13.9 -41.2 -84.2 -139.3 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 0.1 3.7 3.8 Accumulated amortization relating to disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciation for financial year 0.0 -3.7 -23.2 -26.9 Amortization for financial year -0.7 -15.8 -5.4 -21.9 Total as of December 31 7.3 50.2 85.0 142.5 Total as of December 31 14.9 74.6 19.2 108.7 There were no buildings capitalized under finance lease at the end of year 2016 and 2015. The carrying amount of machinery and equipments under finance lease as of December 31, 2016 is EUR 6.0 million (EUR 6.4 million in 2015). The category Other consists mainly of customer lists and techGroup’s ERP systems (EUR 11.7 million) as well as capitalized Due to the restructuring actions of the Group during the year land, buildings, machinery, and equipment were written off in 2016 nology acquired in business combinations. They are stated at arrangement fees for financing the MHPS acquisition (EUR 14.0 by EUR 2.8 million (EUR 2.3 million in 2015). cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over their expected million). As the loans have been withdrawn in January 2017 useful lives. The normal amortization period of intangible the arrangement fees will be reclassified to financial liabilities assets varies from 4 to 20 years. The amortization of intangible in 2017 (decreases the value of the financial liabilities) and 16. Interests in other entities and assets is included in the depreciation and impairments line in amortized as cost using the effective interest method over the non-controlling interests the consolidated statement of income. On December 31, 2016, expected life of the instrument starting from the time the loans the intangible assets having indefinite useful life consisted of are withdrawn. 16.1. Investments accounted for using the equity method the Stahl trademark of EUR 10.4 million (EUR 10.4 million in Due to the reorganization of the business the Group has Associated Companies 2016 2015 Joint Ventures 2016 2015 2015), which is reported under asset held for sale. The carrying intangible assets of EUR 0.7 million (old customer relations) Acquisition costs as of January 1 43.9 37.2 Acquisition costs as of January 1 6.3 5.8 amount of this asset is expected to be recovered by the sales were written off in 2016 (EUR 2.9 million in 2015). Share of associated companies result after Share of joint ventures result after taxes 1.8 1.0 taxes* 4.2 3.8 proceeds of STAHL CraneSystems business. Dividends received -0.1 -0.5 Share of associates' other comprehensive The addition of EUR 25.7 million (EUR 31.8 million in 2015) income -4.7 3.8 Total as of December 31 8.0 6.3 mainly consisted of capitalized development costs of the Disposals -41.8 0.0 Dividends received -0.8 -1.0 Total as of December 31 0.9 43.9 * Including adjustments from purchase price allocation. 92 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16.2. Investments in Associated Companies and Joint Ventures 17.3. Tax losses carried forward the years 2017–2026 amounting to EUR 25.9 million. For the The following table illustrates the summarized financial information of the Group’s investments and reconciliation with the carrying At the end of year 2016, Konecranes recorded a deferred tax amount of EUR 13.0 million tax loss carry-forwards deductible amount of the investments in consolidated financial statements. asset of EUR 13.6 million (EUR 16.3 million in 2015) related to over the period 2028–2031 no deferred tax asset has been unused tax losses on the carry-forward losses of EUR 204.7 recognized due to uncertainties and limitations on deductible Profit/ million (EUR 172.2 million in 2015) in total. The tax losses, for annual amounts. Carrying loss after Total amount NonNontax from comprewhich no deferred tax assets are recognized due to the uncerDuring 2016, Konecranes recorded EUR 5.2 million impairof the current Current current Current continuing hensive Dividends tainty of the utilization of the losses, amounted to EUR 161.6 ment of previously recognized deferred tax assets in certain 2016 investment assets* assets* liabilities* liabilities* Revenue* operations* income* received Investments in associated companies million in the year 2016 (EUR 117.7 million in 2015). Chinese entities. At the end of year 2015, Konecranes recorded and joint ventures 8.9 3.1 52.7 2.5 26.7 59.4 2.0 2.0 0.9 EUR 70.1 million of these tax losses carry-forwards available EUR 4.7 million impairment of previously recognized the Total 8.9 3.1 52.7 2.5 26.7 59.4 2.0 2.0 0.9 have unlimited expiry, EUR 73.3 million expiry later than in five deferred tax assets on tax losses carry-forwards in WMI Koneyears and EUR 61.3 million expire in five years. cranes India Ltd (India). Profit/ The main portion of carry-forward losses relates to Morris To assess if the convincing evidence threshold per IAS12 Carrying loss after Total amount NonNontax from compreMaterial Handling, Inc., USA, which was acquired in 2006. The was met, Konecranes has prepared tax forecasts for future of the current Current current Current continuing hensive Dividends overall carry-forward losses of Morris Material Handling, Inc. periods in which it has given effect to the restructuring done 2015 investment assets* assets* liabilities* liabilities* Revenue* operations* income* received Kito Corporation (associated company) 42.8 173.3 301.9 153.8 124.4 366.9 15.6 32.5 1.0 amounted to EUR 38.9 million (EUR 40.2 million in 2015). The and the tax planning opportunities that were being implemented Other investments in associated companies Group has recorded a deferred tax asset amounting to EUR 9.2 at that time. The taxable income in these forecasts has led and joint ventures 7.5 2.6 46.5 0.4 27.3 72.2 2.9 2.9 0.5 million (EUR 8.8 million in 2015) of Morris Material Handling, management to recognize the deferred tax assets as recorded Total 50.2 175.9 348.4 154.2 151.7 439.1 18.5 35.4 1.5 Inc. based on the tax losses estimated to be utilized during for Netherlands and Austria. * Asset and liability values, revenue and profit/loss represent values according to the latest published financial information. Tax losses carried forward and related deferred tax assets on December 31 by the most significant countries as following: Disposal of the shares in Kito Corporation 17. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Tax losses Potential deferred Deferred tax assets Deferred 2016 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets On September 26, 2016, Konecranes announced that KoneUSA 38.9 14.5 5.7 9.2 cranes and Kito Corporation (“Kito”) decided to dissolve the 17.1. Deferred tax assets India 37.7 12.2 12.2 0.0 strategic alliance signed on March 23, 2010, between the 2016 2015 Austria 21.7 5.4 4.2 1.2 companies. Employee benefits 22.2 17.7 China 18.9 4.7 4.7 0,0 On September 27, 2016, Konecranes sold 5,873,900 Kito Provisions 20.9 24.2 The Netherlands 15.6 3.9 2.7 1.2 shares to Kito and during December, 2016 Konecranes sold the Unused tax losses 13.6 16.3 Brazil 11.2 3.8 3.8 0,0 remaining 76,100 Kito shares in Tokyo Stock Exchange. Other temporary differences 13.1 13.5 South Africa 10.5 2.9 2.9 0,0 Total 69.8 71.7 Japan 10.2 3.1 3.1 0,0 16.3. Joint operations Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0,0 Konecranes has classified the interest in Konesko A/S Other temporary differences include timing differences arising Spain 4.1 1.0 0,0 1.0 (domiciled in Estonia) as a joint operation based on the joint for example from accrued costs, advances received, and unreOther 28.2 7.6 6.7 0.8 arrangement agreement. Konesko A/S is a strategic supplier of alized currency differences that are not deductible in taxation Total 204.7 61.5 48.2 13.6 components used in Konecranes products. Konecranes has the until they occur. exclusive right to purchase certain motors and end carriages Tax losses Potential deferred Deferred tax assets Deferred from Konesko A/S at a price to be agreed upon with Konesko 17.2. Deferred tax liabilities 2015 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 40.2 14.5 5.7 8.8 A/S. However Konecranes retains ownership of the current 2016 2015 India 37.0 12.0 12.0 0.0 models of motor designs and the trademark rights to the end Intangible and tangible assets 11.7 14.3 Austria 21.9 5.5 4.2 1.3 carriages. Other temporary difference 4.0 5.5 China 9.3 2.3 0,0 2.3 Konecranes owns as of December 31, 2016 49.5% in Total 15.7 19.8 The Netherlands 6.1 1.5 0.3 1.2 Konesko A/S domiciled in Estonia. Brazil 6.1 2.1 2.1 0,0 Konecranes has recognized and accounted for the assets, The deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been South Africa 8.6 2.4 2.4 0,0 liabilities, revenues, and expenses relating to its interest in netted in a juridical company level when there is a legally Japan 9.1 2.9 2.9 0,0 Konesko A/S in accordance with IFRS11. enforceable right to offset income tax receivables against Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0,0 income tax payables related to income taxes levied by the same Spain 5.8 1.4 0,0 1.4 tax authority. The gross amount of deferred tax assets in 2016 Other 20.4 5.2 4.0 1.1 were EUR 73.4 million (EUR 77.4 million in 2015) and deferred Total 172.2 52.1 35.8 16.3 tax liabilities EUR 19.3 million (EUR 25.6 million in 2015). Konecranes has not recognized the temporary differences in investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probably will not reverse in the foreseeable future. In 2016 it has repatriated the profit from Konecranes Canada Inc and Konecranes recognized current tax expenses for the repatriated profit and deferred tax liability for distributable profits. 94 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18. Inventories 22. Cash and cash equivalents ence, and retained earnings. Consistent with local legislation 2016 2015 Konecranes’ share has no nominal value. Konecranes has only Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods 111.8 137.3 2016 2015 one class of shares and all issued shares are fully paid. Work in progress 140.3 201.0 Short-term deposits 18.6 10.7 Share premium includes the value of shares, which exceeds Finished goods 20.0 20.6 Cash in hand and at bank 148.8 70.0 the accounting par value of the shares, for shares issued before Advance payments 9.7 6.4 Total 167.4 80.8 September 1, 2006. Cash flow hedges include changes in the Total 281.8 365.2 fair values of derivative financial instruments used to hedge Short-term deposits have a maturity of three months or less. operational cash flows. Translation differences comprise the Cash and cash equivalents are carried at nominal value, which differences arising from translating non-euro functional currency Balance at Utilized Transfer to Balance at corresponds to their fair value. entities to euro, which is the Group’s presentation currency. the beginning Translation during Provision asset held the end of 2016 of the year difference the period not needed for sale Additions the year Other reserve includes the credit for equity settled share Provision for obsolete inventory 28.2 -0.1 8.4 0.8 -1.4 6.2 23.7 23. Equity based payment cost. The paid in capital includes the portion of shares’ subscription price, which is not recorded to share 23.1. Shareholders’ equity capital or to liabilities according to IFRS. The paid in capital Balance at Utilized Transfer to Balance at Number of includes also other capital contributions to the Group, which are the beginning Translation during Provision asset held the end of Number of treasury 2015 of the year difference the period not needed for sale Additions the year shares shares not recorded to some other reserve within the equity. The paid Provision for obsolete inventory 28.6 1.5 9.7 1.4 0,0 9.1 28.2 As of January 1, 2015 57,943,927 5,328,415 in capital includes also the possible amount of share capital Share subscriptions with options or share decrease, which is not netted against accumulated losses or is awards 788,502 -788,502 not distributed to shareholders. As of December 31, 2015 58,732,429 4,539,913 19. Ageing analysis of accounts receivable Dividend per share was in 2016 1.05 euro and in 2015 1.05 2016 2015 euro. Share subscriptions with share awards 18,580 -18,580 Not overdue 244.9 239.8 As of December 31, 2016 58,751,009 4,521,333 1–30 days overdue 54.7 62.2 23.2. Distributable earnings 31–60 days overdue 25.5 24.9 The total shareholders’ equity consists of share capital, share See page 127 / Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual 61–90 days overdue 18.2 17.4 premium, paid in capital, cash flow hedges, translation differGeneral Meeting. more than 91 days overdue 36.0 33.0 Total 379.3 377.3 24. Provisions The carrying amount of accounts receivable approximates to their fair value. Accounts receivable are subject to only minor credit risk concentrations due to the Group’s extensive diversified customer portfolio. Credit losses recognized for the financial year Pension 2016 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total totaled EUR 4.9 million (EUR 5.6 million in 2015). Total provisions as of January 1 26.2 4.3 8.5 13.9 52.9 Translation difference 0.1 -0.1 0.2 0.2 0.3 Balance at Utilized Transfer to Balance at the beginning Translation during Provision asset held the end of Additional provision in the period 20.8 6.4 1.1 8.4 36.6 2016 of the year difference the period not needed for sale Additions the year Utilization of provision 10.4 4.7 1.5 5.9 22.6 Provision for doubtful accounts 17.9 0.0 4.8 3.5 -1.6 10.0 18.0 Transfer to liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale -2.8 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 -3.0 Unused amounts reversed 2.6 0.3 0.0 3.8 6.7 Total provisions as of December 31 36.7 5.7 8.3 12.8 57.6 Balance at Utilized Transfer to Balance at the beginning Translation during Provision asset held the end of 2015 of the year difference the period not needed for sale Additions the year Pension Provision for doubtful accounts 18.0 0.8 5.4 6.3 0,0 10.8 17.9 2015 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total Total provisions as of January 1 22.1 2.2 7.9 12.9 45.2 The release of the provision for doubtful accounts relates to the cash received from individual receivables which were historically Translation difference 0.1 0.0 0.8 0.7 1.6 provided for due to management’s uncertainty of their collectability. Additional provision in the period 16.3 4.2 1.5 9.4 31.4 Utilization of provision 9.5 2.0 0.9 6.8 19.2 Unused amounts reversed 2.9 0.1 0.7 2.3 6.0 Total provisions as of December 31 26.2 4.3 8.5 13.9 52.9 20. Other receivables 21. Deferred assets 2016 2015 2016 2015 The provision for warranties covers the expenses due to the recognized when the Group has prepared a detailed reorganizaNotes receivable 4.6 5.6 Interest 0.7 0.3 repair or replacement of products during their warranty period. tion plan and begun implementation of the plan or announced Value added tax 18.6 19.3 Prepaid expenses 12.0 14.1 The warranty liability is based on historical realized warranty the matter. Pension commitments include provisions for local Total 23.2 24.9 Unbilled revenue 1.0 4.5 costs for deliveries of standard products and services. pension schemes. Other 15.4 17.1 The usual warranty period is 12 months. For more complex Other provisions include provisions for claims, litigations Total 29.1 36.0 contracts, mainly including long-term projects, the warranty and provisions for loss contracts, in which the amount is reserve is calculated contract by contract and the warranty not provided for as part of work in progress or percentage of period can be significantly longer. The restructuring provision is completion receivable of the loss making project. 96 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Restructuring costs 27. Interest-bearing liabilities 27.3. Maturity tables of financial liabilities and liquidity risk Konecranes has recorded EUR 19.2 million restructuring costs The following table reflects the maturity of interest bearing liabilities. during 2016 (EUR 20.5 million in 2015) of which EUR 2.8 million 27.1. Non-current has been impairment of assets (EUR 5.3 million in 2015). 2016 2015 2016 Loans from financial institutions 49.9 54.5 Maturity 25. Current liabilities Finance lease liabilities 3.5 4.5 Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR Other long-term loans 0.7 0.1 EUR 0.9 years 0.67 220.4 54.0 0.0 274.4 25.1. Accruals Total 54.2 59.2 INR 0.1 years 9.43 23.1 0.0 0.0 23.1 2016 2015 CNY 0.2 years 3.92 17.7 0.0 0.0 17.7 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 65.4 71.7 27.2. Current Others 0.0–1.3 years 0.0–8.38 8.3 0.2 0.0 8.5 Pension costs 6.0 3.8 2016 2015 Total 1.51 269.5 54.2 0.0 323.6 Interest 2.2 1.2 Loans from financial institutions 26.0 139.5 Other items 22.0 19.5 Pension loans 0,0 3.8 Total 95.6 96.2 Finance lease liabilities 2.2 1.7 2015 Maturity Commercial papers 214.9 45.0 Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR 25.2. Other current liabilities (non-interest bearing) Other short-term loans 0.4 0.3 EUR 1.7 years 1.07 167.9 48.1 7.1 223.1 2016 2015 Overdraft 26.1 34.5 INR 0.3 years 9.26 27.6 3.9 0.0 31.5 Notes payable 0.0 0.1 Total 269.5 224.8 CNY 0.3 years 4.24 22.7 0.0 0.0 22.7 Value added tax 16.4 17.1 Others 0.1–1.4 years 0.12–16.64 6.6 0.1 0.0 6.7 Payroll tax liability 6.6 6.6 On October 13, 2011 the Group signed a bilateral term loan Total 2.30 224.8 52.1 7.1 284.0 Other short-term liabilities 8.4 8.0 facility of EUR 100 million with a commercial bank. The term of Total 31.4 31.9 the loan is 5 years and repayment can occur in full at the end of the agreement. The loan was repaid on October 13, 2016. 27.3b Liquidity risk, containing undiscounted cash flows of non-derivative financial liabilities by currency On July 16, 2014 the Group signed a loan of EUR 50 million The following table reflects all contractually fixed pay-offs for settlement, repayments, and interest resulting from recognized finan26. Lease liabilities for financing of the research and development program until cial liabilities, excluding derivatives. The amounts disclosed are undiscounted net cash outflows for the respective upcoming fiscal 2017. The term of the loan is 7 years and repayments start in years, based on the earliest date on which Konecranes could be required to pay. Cash outflows for financial liabilities (including 26.1. Finance lease 2018 on a semi-annual basis. interest) without fixed amount or timing are based on the conditions existing at December 31. 2016 2015 The interest period is semi-annual for the EUR 50 million Minimum lease payments R&D loan. The interest on the EUR 100 million loan facility was 2016 within 1 year 2.2 2.1 hedged at December 31, 2015 in full to a fixed rate through Maturity 1–5 years 2.9 3.8 three different interest rate swaps signed between 2011 and Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR over 5 years 0.4 0.7 2014 which were terminated when the loan was repaid in EUR 1.0 years 0.67 221.3 55.4 0.0 276.7 Total 5.5 6.7 October 2016. The interest rate was fixed in a range of 0.665% INR 0.2 years 9.43 23.4 0.0 0.0 23.4 to 1.765%. The weighted average fixed interest rate was CNY 0.1 years 2.72 12.4 0.0 0.0 12.4 Present value of finance lease 1.033% for 2015. The Group has no open interest derivatives at Others 0.1–1.5 years 0.0–12.7 8.4 0.3 0.0 8.7 within 1 year 2.2 1.7 the end of 2016. Total debt 1.51 265.5 55.7 0.0 321.2 1–5 years 2.9 4.0 The Company is in compliance with the quarterly monitored Other financial liabilities 130.5 6.9 0.0 137.5 over 5 years 0.0 0.5 financial covenant for the loan. No specific securities have been Total financial liabilities 396.0 62.7 0.0 458.7 Total 5.1 6.2 given for it. The Group has an INR denominated debt relating to short 2015 Konecranes has finance leases mainly for vehicles with an term working capital needs and with a portion remaining for Maturity average of four years leasing time. capital expenditure for the Indian crane factory. In addition the Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR Group has certain revolver facilities the details of which can be EUR 1.7 years 1.07 169.7 50.2 7.2 227.1 found in Note 33.3. INR 0.3 years 9.26 28.0 4.4 0.0 32.4 The average interest rate of the non-current liabilities CNY 0.3 years 4.24 23.0 0.0 0.0 23.0 portfolio at December 31, 2016 was 1.37% (2015: 1.92%) Others 0.1–1.4 years 0.12–16.64 6.8 0.1 0.0 6.8 and that of the current liabilities portfolio was 1.54% (2015: Total debt 2.30 227.5 54.7 7.2 289.4 2.4%). The effective interest rate for EUR-loans varied between Other financial liabilities 171.0 3.6 0.0 174.6 0.00%–3.50% (2015: 0.00%–4.39%). Total financial liabilities 398.4 58.3 7.2 464.0 98 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27.4. Maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities The following tables summarize the components of net Movements of the fair value of plan assets The following table reflects the maturity of all financial liabilities. benefit expense recognized in the statement of profit or loss 2016 2015 and the funded status and amounts recognized in the balance Fair value of plan assets as of January 1 63.2 61.5 2016 Maturity of financial liabilities sheet for the respective plans: Translation difference -9.4 3.5 Amount Less than Reclassification of plan assets 5.6 0.0 Liability type drawn 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years 28.2. Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Transfer to liabilities directly attributable to Loans from financial institutions 76.0 26.0 49.9 0.0 assets held for sale -0.4 0.0 2016 2015 Finance lease liabilities 5.6 2.2 3.5 0.0 Interest income 2.1 2.1 Present value of obligation wholly unfunded 30.0 88.2 Commercial paper program 214.9 214.9 0.0 0.0 Employer contributions 1.9 1.8 Present value of obligation wholly or partly Other long-term debt and short-term loans 1.1 0.4 0.7 0.0 funded 75.7 63.6 The return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in the net interest Overdraft 26.1 26.1 0.0 0.0 Defined benefit plan obligations 105.7 151.8 expense) 12.0 -1.3 Derivative financial instruments 18.2 18.2 0.0 0.0 Fair value of plan assets -72.6 -63.1 Benefits paid (-) -2.4 -4.5 Account and other payables 137.5 130.5 6.9 0.0 Total net liability recognized 33.1 88.7 Fair value of plan assets as of December 31 72.6 63.1 Total 479.3 418.2 61.1 0.0 28.3. Components of defined benefit plan 28.5. Major categories of plan assets at 2015 Maturity of financial liabilities recorded in comprehensive income the end of the reporting period Amount Less than Liability type drawn 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years 2016 2015 2016 2015 Loans from financial institutions 193.9 139.5 47.3 7.1 Service cost: Equity instruments 23.1 26.3 Finance lease liabilities 6.2 1.7 4.5 0.0 Current service cost 2.8 2.6 Debt instruments 37.5 29.7 Commercial paper program 45.0 45.0 0.0 0.0 Net interest cost 2.3 2.4 Insurances 0.0 0.7 Pension loans 3.8 3.8 0.0 0.0 Past service cost 0.0 0.5 Others 12.0 6.4 Other long-term debt and short-term loans 0.6 0.3 0.2 0.0 Components of defined costs recorded in Total plan assets 72.6 63.1 profit or loss 5.1 5.5 Overdraft 34.5 34.5 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 11.4 11.4 0.0 0.0 The plan assets do not contain any Konecranes shares or assets. Remeasurement on the net defined benefit Account and other payables 174.6 171.0 3.6 0.0 liability: Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices Total 470.0 407.2 55.7 7.1 The return on plan assets (excluding in active markets. The plan assets originate from the United amounts included in the net interest expense) gains (-) / losses (+) -12.0 1.3 Kingdom. It is the policy of the UK fund to invest approximately 28. Other long-term liabilities to make changes to the investments to repatriate the gains to Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from changes in demographic assumptions -0.3 -0.1 40–50% to growth assets such as equity instruments as well achieve full funding position. The UK plan is subject to the UK’s Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from as property and growth funds and 50–60% to risk reducing 2016 2015 changes in financial assumptions 24.1 -7.2 pensions legislation, is regulated by the UK Pensions Regulator, assets such as corporate bonds and fixed or index-linked gilts. Employee benefits 33.1 88.7 Components of defined benefit plan costs and is exempt from most UK taxation through its registered recorded in other comprehensive income 11.9 -6.0 The actual return on plan assets was EUR 14.0 million (2015: Other non-interest-bearing long-term liabilities 6.9 3.6 status. The UK plan was closed to new members in 2005. Under EUR 0.8 million). Total 40.0 92.3 the UK plan the employees are entitled to post-retirement installTotal (income (-) / expense (+)) 17.0 -0.5 ments calculated as an average annual basic salary from the 28.6. Defined benefit plan: the main actuarial assumptions 28.1. Employee benefits best three years within the last ten years. The net liability in the The actuariall losses in 2016 and actuaria gains in 2015 were With the objective of presenting the assets and liabilities of the The Company and most of its subsidiaries offer retirement United Kingdom was EUR 0.0 million (EUR 0.3 million in 2015). mainly caused by the change of discount rates in the defined defined benefit plans at their fair value on the balance sheet, plans which cover the majority of employees in the Group. Many In Germany the obligations are unfunded and payments to benefit plans of Germany and the United Kingdom. assumptions under IAS 19 are set by reference to market of these plans are defined contribution, where Konecranes’ plan participants start after retirement. Retirement benefits are conditions at the valuation date. Qualified independent actucontribution and resulting charge is fixed at a set level or is a based on the number of years worked and salaries received 28.4. Movements of the present value aries have updated the actuarial valuations under IAS 19 of the set percentage of employees’ pay. However, the Group has a during the pensionable service. The commencement of pension of defined benefit obligation major defined benefit schemes operated by the Group to 31 significant defined benefit pension plan in the United Kingdom payments is being coordinated with the national pension 2016 2015 December, 2016. The assumptions used by the actuaries are and Germany as well as individually insignificant plans in other scheme retirement. The biggest defined benefit pension plan in Obligation as of January 1 151.8 154.9 chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, countries. In addition the defined benefit plans of the German Stahl CraneSystems GmbH has been closed to new members Translation difference -9.7 4.2 due to the long-term nature of the schemes, may not necescompanies have other long-term employee benefits such as since 1997. The post-retirement installments are calculated Reclassification of pension liabilities 5.7 0.7 sarily be borne out in practice. The actuarial assumptions used part-time pension benefits and jubilee benefits. as 0.35% of the last month’s salary times the years of employTransfer to liabilities directly attributable to to calculate the benefit liabilities therefore vary according to the assets held for sale -67.8 0.0 The UK defined benefit plan is administered by an indement (maximum of 42 years). The defined benefit plan of Stahl country in which the plan is situated. The following table shows Settlements and curtailments 0.4 0.0 pendent trustee company that is legally separated from the CraneSystems GmbH is being presented in liabilities directly the assumptions, weighted by liabilities, used to value the prinCurrent service cost 2.8 2.6 Group. The investments are managed by a professional and attributable to assets held for sale. The net liability in Germany cipal defined benefit plans. Interest cost 4.4 4.5 independent Fiduciary Manager who is appointed by the truswas EUR 82,5 million (EUR 74.8 million in 2015) of which Stahl Past service cost 0.0 0.5 tees. The Fiduciary Manager appoints Investment Managers as CraneSystems Gmbh was EUR 66,5 million. Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from they see fit in order to achieve the Trustees’ stated objectives The defined benefit plans typically expose the Company changes in demographic assumptions -0.3 -0.1 Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from for the scheme funding level and taking into account the agreed to actuarial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, changes in financial assumptions 24.1 -7.2 risk appetite. The Fiduciary Manager has trigger points set in longevity risk, and salary risk. The investment risk is being mitiBenefits paid (-) -5.9 -8.3 conjunction with the Trustees which when reached allows them gated by investing the funds both to equity and debt instruments. Obligation as of December 31 105.7 151.8 100 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2016 2015 Tranche 1: 2009A 11.6.2009–1.4.2012 basis of the Plan until the value of his or her shareholding in the 29.3.Changes in the number of share Germany Tranche 2: 2009B 27.4.2010–1.4.2013 Company in total corresponds to the value of his or her annual rewards in Performance Share Plan Discount rate % 1.80 2.40 gross salary. Such number of shares will be held as long as his Tranche 3: 2009C 27.4.2011–1.4.2014 2016 2015 Expected development of salaries % 2.10 2.10 or her employment or service in a Group company continues. The Number of Number of Expected development of pensions % 1.50 1.50 shares shares A service condition is satisfied and the option vests at the target group of the Plan consisted of approximately 150 people. Mortality table: Richttafeln 2005 G von As of January 1 1,849,000 1,500,801 Klaus Heubeck option exercise date if the option holder remains employed by The fair value of the equity-settled portion of the share options Share rewards granted 692,000 745,000 the Company. Options subscription date commences at the granted is estimated at the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo Share rewards awarded 0 -107,315 UK respective vesting date and ends after a two-year time. The fair simulation model, taking into account the terms and conditions Discount rate % 2.70 3.90 Share rewards expired -523,000 -107,152 value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant upon which the share options were granted. The model simulates Expected development of pensions % 3.30 3.20 Share rewards forfeited -140,000 -182,334 using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms the TSR and compares it against the group of principal competTotal as of December 31 1,878,000 1,849,000 Mortality table: SAPS base table of S1NA, applied at year of birth, and CMI 2014 (2015: CMI 2014) projections with a long term improvement parameter of and conditions upon which the share options were granted. itors. It takes into account historical and expected dividends, 1.5% (2015: 1.5%) per annum However, the above service condition is only considered in and the share price fluctuation covariance of the Group and its determining the number of instruments that will ultimately vest. competitors to predict the distribution of relative share perfor29.4.Changes in the number of share rewards Other Discount rate % 1.50–12.00 2.15–13.00 There are no cash settlement alternatives and the Company mance. Fair value of the cash-settled portion is measured at in Employee Share Savings Plan Expected development of salaries % 1.50–8.00 1.50–10.00 has never historically settled these share options for cash. There each reporting date using a binomial option pricing model taking 2016 2015 Expected development of pensions % 1.50–6.00 1.50–6.00 were no more open share-option plans at the end of 2016. into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruNumber of Number of shares shares ments were granted and the current likelihood of achieving the Outstanding as of January 1 142,081 105,185 The below table shows the % effect of a change in the signifiPerformance Share Plan specified target, such as the Group’s EPS. Share rewards granted 46,420 45,322 cant actuarial assumptions used to determine the retirement The Board of Directors resolved in 2013 to amend the PerforShare rewards awarded -36,984 0 benefits obligations in our main defined benefit pension obligamance Share Plan launched in 2012 so that two three-year Employee Share Savings Plan Share rewards expired 0 0 tion countries. The effect shows the increase or decrease in the discretionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 will follow The Group has launched an Employee Share Savings Plan Share rewards forfeited -14,043 -8,426 liability. In the calculation of the sensitivity of the discount rate the discretionary periods commenced in 2012. The perfor(ESSP) in which each participant will receive one free matching Outstanding as of December 31 137,474 142,081 any effect from the return of plan assets has been ignored. mance criterion for the discretionary periods 2013–2015 share for every two acquired savings shares. Matching shares and 2014–2016 is the cumulative Earnings per Share (EPS) will be delivered to a participant if the participant holds the Sensitivity analysis Increase Decrease excluding restructuring costs of the financial years 2013–2015 acquired shares from the plan until the end of the designated 29.5. Assumptions made in determining the fair 0.5% points change in the discount rate -7.5% 8.5% and 2014–2016 correspondingly. holding period. The matching shares will be paid in Konecranes value of Key Personnel Share-option Plan 0.5% points change in the expected The Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc resolved in 2015 on shares and partly in cash. The expenses of the plan are recogdevelopment of salaries 1.1% -1.5% 2009C 0.5% points change in the expected a new three-year plan with the same aim. The plan consisted of nized over the vesting period based on the quarterly acquired Subscription price of the share, EUR 27.22* development of pensions 6.0% -4.9% one three-year discretionary period. Earning during the three-year savings share amounts. Fair market value of the share, EUR 32.3 discretionary period beginning on 1 January, 2015 will be based The fair value of the equity-settled portion of the share options Dividend per share, EUR 1.00 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on the Konecranes Group’s cumulative EPS excluding restrucgranted is estimated at the date of grant using a binominal option Expected volatility, % 20% on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions turing costs. The potentially earned reward will be paid in spring pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon Risk-free interest rate, % 2.82% occurring at the end of the reporting period and may not be repre2018. If a key employee’s employment or service ends before which the share options were granted. Fair value of the cash-setGrant date fair value of the stock options, EUR 8.17 sentative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the the end of the discretionary period, no reward will be paid on the tled portion is measured at each reporting date using a binomial Model used Black-Scholes key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. basis of such a discretionary period. option pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions * The original subscription price was EUR 31.37. A linear extrapolation of these amounts based on alternative The Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc resolved in 2016 upon which the instruments were granted and the current likelichanges in the assumptions, as well as an addition of combined to establish a new share-based incentive plan directed to the hood of achieving the specified target. changes in the individual assumptions is not possible. Group key employees. The long-term incentive plan consists 29.6.Assumptions made in determining the There are no changes in the way the sensitivity analyses were of one discretionary period, calendar year 2016. The potential 29.1. Expenses for employee service fair value of Performance Shares Plan performed compared to the previous years. reward from the plan will be based on the continuation of a 2016 2015 The fair value for the cash settled portion is remeasured at The average duration of the defined benefit obligation key employee´s employment or service and on the Konecranes Expense arising from equity-settled each reporting date until the possible share delivery. The fair share-based payment transactions 1.8 2.2 weighted by the present value of the defined benefit obligation is Group’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation value of the liability will thus change in accordance with the Expense arising from cash-settled 17 years (2015: 16 years). and amortization (EBITDA). The rewards to be paid on the basis share-based payment transactions 3.7 3.4 Konecranes Plc share price. The Group expects to contribute EUR 2.1 million to the above of the plan correspond to an approximate maximum total of Total expense arising from share-based For the 2014–2016 as well as for 2015–2017 vesting payment transactions 5.5 5.6 defined benefit pension plans in 2017 (Employer contribution). 700,000 Konecranes Plc shares including also the proportion to periods granted in 2014 and in 2015, the fair value for the be paid in cash. The potential reward from the plan will be paid The carrying amount of the liability arising from cash settled equity settled portion based on non-market vesting condition 29. Share based payments partly in Konecranes shares and partly in cash after the discreportion was EUR 6.9 million (2015: EUR 3.6 million). (EPS) and for the 2016–2018 vesting periods granted in 2016, tionary period, by the end of August 2017. The cash proportion the fair value for the equity settled portion based on non-market Key Personnel Share-option Plan is intended to cover taxes and tax-related costs arising from the 29.2. Changes in the number of shares from vesting condition (EBITDA) has been determined at grant using On March 12, 2009 the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders reward to a key employee. The shares paid as reward may not Key Personnel Share-option Plan the fair value of Konecranes share as of the grant date and of Konecranes Plc has approved the Key Personal Share-option be transferred during a restriction period established for the 2016 2015 expected dividend yield. Plan. This stock option can be granted to key personnel throughout shares. The restriction period shall begin from reward payment Number of shares of option rights outstanding as of January 1 638,500 1,372,044 the Group, including subsidiaries. In each of the three tranches and end on December 31, 2018. Exercised during the year 0 -733,495 there are 750,000 stock options with the maximum value of The Board of Directors requires that each member of the Expired during the year -638,500 -49 2,250,000 stock options with the following vesting periods: Extended Management Team holds a half of shares paid on the Total number of shares from option rights outstanding as of December 31 0 638,500 102 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2016 plan 2015 plan 2014 plan Number of Value of Compensation Total shares as part of compensation paid in cash, compensation, Share price at grant, EUR 25.74 29.50 24.94 2015 compensation in shares, EUR EUR EUR Share price at reporting period end 31.12 33.78 33.78 33.78 Chairman of the Board 1,805 52,499 52,501 105,000 Expected volatility, % * 34.0% 29.0% 40.0% Board members 4,761 138,476 228,524 367,000 Risk-free interest rate, % 0.0% 0.0% 0.5% Total 6,566 190,975 281,025 472,000 Expected dividend per share, pa , EUR 1.0 1.0 1.0 Expected contractual life in years 2.4 1.3 0.3 President and CEO Weighted average fair value of the share rewards at the grant date 24.75 26.51 21.14 The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and relevant Model used Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes facts, the Board sets the total compensation package for the President and CEO. Konecranes CEO changed during the autumn * Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Konecranes share using monthly observations over corresponding maturity. 2015. 30. Related party transactions of the Board of Directors is increased as of the closing of the 2016 2015 The related parties of Konecranes include subsidiaries (see MHPS Acquisition as follows: the annual remuneration to the Salary and benefits, EUR 467,071 501,356 Company list), associated companies, joint ventures, and joint Chairman of the Board of Directors would be EUR 140,000, to Annual variable pay, EUR 143,500 216,000 operations, pension fund in the United Kingdom and the key the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors EUR 100,000, and Variable pay related to time abroad, EUR 0 0 management personnel of the Group and major shareholders. to the other Board members EUR 70,000. The amount of annual Total 610,571 717,356 The key management personnel of the Group is comprised of remuneration payable to the members of the Board of Directors the Board of Directors, the CEO, and the Group Executive Board. until the closing of the MHPS Acquisition would be based on Expense of statutory pension plans 85,114 124,820 the resolution made at the Annual General Meeting on March Expense of voluntary pension plans 142,456 84,268 30.1. Key Management compensation 23, 2016, and the proposed increased remuneration would be Total 227,570 209,088 payable pro rata for the term of office between closing of the Board of Directors MHPS Acquisition and the Annual General Meeting in 2017. Shareholding in Konecranes Plc (number of shares) 16 0 The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved by The Extraordinary General Meeting also approved the sharethe Annual General Meeting (AGM) on proposal by the Nominaholder’s, HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab, proposal for additional remuPerformance share rights allocated 144,000 96,000 Share-based payment costs, EUR 457,545 119,406 tion and Compensation Committee. The AGM 2016 confirmed neration to members of Konecranes’ Board of Directors. All an annual fee of EUR 105,000 for the Chairman of the Board members of the Board of Directors shall be additionally remuRetirement age 63 years 63 years (2015: EUR 105,000), EUR 67,000 for the Vice Chairman of the nerated for attending meetings of the Board of Directors during Period of notice 6 months Board (2015: EUR 67,000), and EUR 42,000 for other Board the period from Konecranes’ Annual General Meeting held on 18 months salary members (2015: EUR 42,000). In addition, compensation of March 23, 2016 until the closing of the MHPS Acquisition (or Severance payment and fringe benefits EUR 1,500 was approved per meeting for attendance at Board the next Annual General Meeting of Konecranes, unless the committee meetings (2015: EUR 1,500). However, the chairman MHPS Acquisition has been closed prior to that). The compensaof audit committee is entitled to a compensation of EUR tion to be paid to each member of the Board of Directors shall Group Executive Board & Senior Management Team The Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board 3,000 (2015: EUR 3,000) per meeting for attendance at audit be EUR 1,500 for each meeting the relevant member of the In 2016, Konecranes had a two-tier operative management reviews Group compensation policies and issues guidelines committee meetings. Board of Directors attended. The members of the negotiation structure consisting of the Group Executive Board (GXB) and for the same. In accordance with these guidelines, the NomiAccording to the proposal, 50% of the annual remuneration is team shall be paid the following additional one-time compenthe Senior Management (SM). The GXB convenes as frequently nation and Compensation Committee confirms compensation to be used for acquiring shares in the company. The remunerasation: EUR 60,000 to each of Stig Gustavson, Bertel Langenas necessary, normally on a monthly basis. The SM convenes packages for those Group Executive Board members who report tion may also be paid by transferring treasury shares based on skiöld and Christoph Vitzthum; and EUR 30,000 to Svante twice a year, in April-May and in December. Business Areas directly to the President and CEO. For other Group Executive the authorization given to the board of directors by the general Adde. The accrued compensation per attended Board of Direchave their own management teams that convene on a regular Board members, the compensation packages are confirmed by meeting. In case such purchase of shares cannot be carried tors’ meeting and the one-time compensation payable to the basis. Only the GXB is classified to key management personnel the President and CEO. out due to reasons related either to the company or to a board members of the Board of Directors shall be paid in cash. Chrisdue to the decision making power. The retirement age of the Finnish members of the Group member, the annual remuneration shall be paid entirely in cash. toph Vitzthum, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, informed The GXB includes the President, the CEO, and the Chairman Executive Board (excluding the President and CEO) is set The Extraordinary General Meeting in September 2016 Konecranes that he will forgo his one-time compensation. of the Group Executive Board and the following: according to the Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). The Finnish approved that the annual remuneration payable to the members Travel expenses will be compensated against receipt. • the Executive Vice President, the Head of Business Area members of the Group Executive Board also participate in the Service, contribution-based group pension insurance scheme offered Total compensation to the Board of Directors • the Executive Vice President, Strategy and Technology and to key personnel in Finland. The defined contribution payment Number of Value of Compensation Total Executive Vice President, Industrial Equipment, by the company is 1% of annual salary excluding performance shares as part of compensation paid in cash, compensation, 2016 compensation in shares, EUR EUR EUR • the Chief Financial Officer, based compensation (annual or long term incentives). The Chairman of the Board 0 0 111,750 111,750 • the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Finnish Group Executive Board members also have life insurBoard members 0 0 500,902 500,902 • the Vice President, General Counsel and ance and disability insurances. Non-Finnish members have local Total 0 0 612,652 612,652 • the Chief Digital Officer. insurances. 104 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Group Executive Board excluding the President and CEO 31.1. Operating leases 32. Financial assets and liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 Salary and benefits, EUR 2,047,243 1,587,657 Minimum lease payments 32.1. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities Annual variable pay, EUR 498,009 237,016 within 1 year 34.7 35.7 2016 2015 Total 2,545,252 1,824,673 1–5 years 67.4 71.8 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets / Financial over 5 years 8.4 4.6 Financial assets / assets / assets / liabilities assets / Expense of statutory pension plans 237,208 263,859 Total 110.5 112.1 assets / liabilities liabilities liabilities at fair liabilities liabilities at fair value measured Carrying at fair value measured Carrying Expense of voluntary pension plans 9,155 9,577 at fair value through at amounts value through at amounts through income Loans and amortized by balance through income Loans and amortized by balance Total 246,364 273,436 Operative rental expenses during the year 38.8 40.9 Financial assets OCI statement receivables cost sheet item OCI statement receivables cost sheet item Current financial assets Shareholding in Konecranes Plc The Konecranes Group has major operating lease agreements Account and other receivables 0.0 0.0 402.8 0.0 402.8 0.0 0.0 402.2 0.0 402.2 (number of shares) 170,921 144,517 of factory and office buildings in Hyvinkää and Hämeenlinna. Derivative financial instruments 3.0 28.1 0.0 0.0 31.1 4.1 3.5 0.0 0.0 7.5 Option rights owned (number of options) 0,0 15,000 Finland. They are valid for 10–12 years unless the lessee Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 167.4 0.0 167.4 0.0 0.0 80.8 0.0 80.8 Performance share rights allocated 318,000 324,000 extends the lease period by five years. The lessee is entitled to Total 3.0 28.1 570.1 0.0 601.3 4.1 3.5 482.9 0.0 490.5 Share-based payment costs, EUR 485,868 950,406 exercise the 5-year extending option three consecutive times. The Group has various other operating leases for office equipFinancial liabilities There were no loans outstanding to the Group Executive Board ment vehicles and premises with varying terms and renewal Non-current financial liabilities at end of the period 2016 and 2015. rights. Leasing contracts comply with normal practices in the Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 54.2 54.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 59.2 59.2 There are no guarantees on behalf of the Group Executive countries concerned. Derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Board in year 2016 and 2015. From time to time Konecranes provides customers with Other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.9 6.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.6 3.6 Current financial liabilities The employee benefits to the key management personnel of guarantees that guarantee Company’s obligations pursuant to Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 269.5 269.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 224.8 224.8 the Group were in total EUR 5.2 million in year 2016 (4.6 million the applicable customer contract. In sales of investment goods Derivative financial instruments 11.0 7.2 0.0 0.0 18.2 5.1 6.3 0.0 0.0 11.4 in year 2015). (machinery) the typical guarantees are the following: Account and other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 130.5 130.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 171.0 171.0 • tender guarantees (bid bonds) given to the customer to Total 11.0 7.2 0.0 461.1 479.3 5.1 6.3 0.0 458.6 470.0 30.2. Transactions with associated secure the bidding process companies and joint arrangements • advance payment guarantees given to the customer to secure Additional information on financial instruments is presented in Note 34. 2016 2015 their down payment for project Sales of goods and services with associated • performance guarantees to secure customers over the 32.2. Fair values companies and joint arrangements 14.6 14.9 Company’s own performance in customer contracts, and Set out below is a comparison, by class, of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities: Receivables from associated companies and joint arrangements 5.5 3.6 • warranty period guarantees to secure the correction of defects during the warranty period. Carrying amount Fair value Purchases of goods and services Financial assets 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note from associated companies and joint arrangements 48.1 45.6 Contingent liabilities relating to litigation Current financial assets Liabilities to associated companies and Various legal actions, claims, and other proceedings pend Account and other receivables 402.8 402.2 402.8 402.2 19,20 joint arrangements 4.3 4.6 against the Group in various countries. These actions, Derivative financial instruments 31.1 7.5 31.1 7.5 34.1 Sales to and purchases from related parties are concluded claims, and other proceedings are typical of this industry and Cash and cash equivalents 167.4 80.8 167.4 80.8 22 using terms equivalent to arm’s length transaction. consistent with a global business offering that encompasses Total 601.3 490.5 601.3 490.5 a wide range of products and services. These matters involve 30.3. Transactions with Pension Fund in the United Kingdom contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (including Financial liabilities 2016 2015 design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to warn and Non-current financial liabilities Employer contributions 1.4 1.8 asbestos legacy), employment, vehicles, and other matters Interest-bearing liabilities 54.2 59.2 54.2 59.2 27.1 involving claims of general liability. Derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 34.1 While the final outcome of these matters cannot be predicted Other payables 6.9 3.6 6.9 3.6 Current financial liabilities 31. Guarantees, lease commitments and contingent with certainty, Konecranes has the opinion, based on the inforInterest-bearing liabilities 269.5 224.8 269.5 223.8 27.2 liabilities mation available to date and considering the grounds presented Derivative financial instruments 18.2 11.4 18.2 11.4 34.1 for such claims, the available insurance coverage and the Account and other payables 130.5 171.0 130.5 171.0 25.2 2016 2015 reserves made, that the outcome of such actions, claims and Total 479.3 470.0 479.3 469.0 For own commercial obligations other proceedings, if unfavorable, would not have a material, Guarantees 447.0 437.3 adverse impact on the financial condition of the Group. Operating lease liabilities (note 31.1) 110.5 112.1 Other 0.2 0.3 Total 557.6 549.7 106 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements The management assessed that cash and short-term deposits, IFRS 7 requires that the classification of financial instru33. Management of financial risks Foreign exchange risk trade receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts, and other ments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of The nature of Konecranes business and its global presence The Group’s global business operations generate foreign current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due inputs used to derive the fair value. This classification uses the exposes it to a range of financial risks. These risks include (i) exchange risk. However, most of the business units only have to the short-term maturities of these instruments. following three-level hierarchy: market risks, which include potential unfavorable changes in transactions in their own currency, i.e. these units have their The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is • Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical finanforeign exchange rates, interest rates and commodities (ii), sales and costs as well as internal funding from Konecranes included at the amount at which the instrument could be cial instruments liquidity risk and (iii) credit and counterparty risk. Finance Corporation in their local home currency. Only 20 out exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, • Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within of some 100 Group companies operate regularly in a foreign other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Long-term fixed-rate level 1 that are observable for the financial instrument, either 33.1 Market risk currency. These companies hedge their foreign exchange risk and variable-rate borrowings are evaluated by the Group based directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) The responsibility of identifying, evaluating, and controlling the with Group Treasury. Depending on the business area and the on parameters such as interest rates and the risk characteris• Level 3 – inputs for the financial instrument that are not financial risks arising from the Group’s global business operprobability of the cash flows, the hedging covers operative cash tics of the loan. based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) ations is divided between the business units and the Group flows for the next 1–24 months and is done by using internal Treasury. However, the Group uses an approach in which most foreign exchange forward contracts. In this way, Konecranes of the management of financial risks is centralized to Konecranes Finance Corporation can manage the foreign exchange risk 32.3. Hierarchy of fair values Group Treasury. The Group Treasury functions within the legal of the whole Group. The foreign currency funding of the other The following table allocates financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value to the three levels of the fair value entity Konecranes Finance Corporation. By centralization and Group companies and possibly some external foreign currency hierarchy. netting of internal foreign currency cash flows, the Group’s funding can net some of these foreign currency items. The external hedging needs can be minimized. residual net exposure can be covered with commercial banks 2016 2015 Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center in the using foreign exchange forward contracts or currency options. Financial assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 sense that it would pursue to maximize its profits. The Company Currency derivatives belonging to hedge accounting are Derivative financial instruments aims to serve the operating companies of the Group in reducing managed in a separate portfolio than derivatives hedging other Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 4.7 0.0 0.0 7.5 0.0 their financial risks. commercial flows and funding and cannot thus be netted out Currency options 0.0 26.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The Group’s global business operations involve market risks against other internal items. These instruments are used when Fuel oil derivate 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 in the form of currency, interest rate, commodity, credit, and the hedging effect cannot be obtained through internal netting Total 0.0 31.1 0.0 0.0 7.5 0.0 liquidity risks. The Group’s objective is to increase the shortand matching of cash flows within the Group. term stability of the financial environment for the business operThe business units’ commercial bids in a foreign currency Other financial assets ations by reducing the negative effects caused by price fluctuacan be hedged by using currency options or exchange forwards, Cash and cash equivalents 167.4 0.0 0.0 80.8 0.0 0.0 tions and other uncertainties in the financial markets. but, in general, using currency clauses covers the risk. Total 167.4 0.0 0.0 80.8 0.0 0.0 Business units hedge their risks internally with the Group For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge Total financial assets 167.4 31.1 0.0 80.8 7.5 0.0 Treasury. As a result of this, most of the financial risks of the accounting under IAS 39. Hedges are done by using foreign Group are concentrated into one company, Konecranes Finance exchange forward contracts. Currently, only USD denominated Financial liabilities projects are included in the hedge accounting. The hedge Corporation, and can be evaluated and controlled in an efficient Derivative financial instruments way. accounting portfolio comprises both USD sales and purchases Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 18.0 0.0 0.0 9.7 0.0 Almost all funding, cash management and foreign exchange where gross flows are hedged separately. At the end of 2016, Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 with banks and other external counterparties are centralized to the hedge accounting net cash flows totaled USD 265 million Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.1 0.0 Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance with the Group’s (USD 185 million in 2015). Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.0 Treasury Policy. In a few special cases, when the local central The following table shows the transaction exposure of KoneTotal 0.0 18.2 0.0 0.0 11.4 0.0 bank regulation prohibits using group services in hedging cranes Finance Corporation as of December 31, 2016 and and funding, this must be done directly between an operating December 31, 2015 (in EUR millions): Other financial liabilities company and a bank under the supervision of the Group Interest bearing liabilities 0.0 323.6 0.0 0.0 284.0 0.0 Treasury. Other payables 0.0 0.0 6.9 0.0 0.0 4.0 Total 0.0 323.6 6.9 0.0 284.0 4.0 Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system, Total financial liabilities 0.0 341.8 6.9 0.0 295.4 4.0 which enables practically a real-time processing of transactions and in-depth records of activities and performance. The There were no significant changes in classification of fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities in the period 2015 to standard reporting is done on a weekly basis and it covers 2016. There were also no significant movements between the fair value hierarchy classifications. group-level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign The level 3 valuations in other payables are contingent consideration liabilities resulting from business combinations or the currency transaction exposure, debt positions, portfolio of acquisition of non-controlling interest and the cash settled share based payment liability. derivatives, and counterparty credit exposure for financial transactions. In addition, all Group companies participate in the monthly managerial and statutory reporting. 108 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2016 2015 See Note 34 for the notional and fair values of derivative finanThe portion of the Group’s long term debt of total debt is policy towards customers. It is Konecranes practice to review AUD 8 5 cial instruments. related to the Group’s gearing ratio. The higher the ratio is, the customers carefully before entering into formal business relaBRL 2 1 Changes in currency rates can affect the profitability and bigger the share of long term debt is of the total loan portfolio tionships and to require credit reports from new customers. CAD -6 3 equity of the Group. The US dollar has the biggest impact, as in line with principles set in the capital structure management. Customer credit risks are mitigated with advance payments, CLP 1 0 many of the large crane projects outside the United States are The interest rate risk related to long term loans may be hedged letters of credits, payment guarantees, and credit insurance CNY 5 -3 denominated in USD and because the Group has a lot of local with interest rate derivatives such as interest rate swaps for where applicable. With these actions and careful monitoring of GBP -5 5 business operations in the United States. A decline in the USD which hedge accounting is applied. Other instruments that the customer payments credit risks can be mitigated. IDR 5 3 would have a negative impact. can be used for which no hedge accounting is applied are The business units manage credit risks related to their NOK 2 1 forward rate agreements, interest rate futures, and interest rate commercial flows. There is currently no significant concentration The following table shows the theoretical effects that PLN 1 1 changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate would have on the options. of credit risk regarding the commercial activities, as the number SEK -46 -67 Group’s annual EBIT and equity. A decline of the average rate A change of one percentage point in interest rates in the of customers is high and their geographic distribution is wide. SGD 4 -3 of US dollar against euro for 10% increases EBIT by EUR 25.6 Group’s long term debt portfolio would have the following effect It is the Group’s policy not to fund its customers beyond regular THB 4 1 million (22.2 million in 2015) and equity by EUR 1.2 million (2.2 on the Group’s income statement and equity: payment terms. See note 19 for a table of an aging analysis TRY 0 1 million in 2015). The below table provides a sensitivity analysis 2016 2015 of accounts receivable. The theoretical maximum credit risk USD 328 255 Change in Income 2016 Income 2015 over the past two years: interest rates statement Equity statement Equity equals the carrying amount of all receivables. ZAR 1 5 +1 -0.0 +0.0 -0.6 +0.9 Counterparty risk arises from the potential failure of a The following table shows the translation exposure, which Change in 2016 2016 2015 2015 -1 +0.0 -0.0 +0.0 -0.9 financial institution to meet its payment obligations regarding EUR/USD rate EBIT Equity EBIT Equity represents the equity of the Group in a local currency as of financial instruments. All credit risks related to other financial +10% -20.9 -1.0 -18.1 -1.8 December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (in EUR millions): The effect on income statement is comprised of the Group’s instruments than the regular accounts receivable are managed 10% +25.6 +1.2 +22.2 +2.2 floating long term debt which is recognized through the stateby Konecranes Group Treasury. There is no substantial concen2016 2015 The EBIT effect comprises transaction exposure for euro based ment of income. The effect on equity is comprised of the tration of credit risk regarding the financial instruments, since AED 7 7 companies having frequent sales in USD and the translation changes in fair value of interest rate swaps which are hedging investments are rare and hedging instruments are done with a AUD 6 6 exposure from EBIT generated in USD translated into euros. the debt portfolio. The effect of a one percentage point decline number of banks. However, counterparties for financial instruBRL 5 -3 The transaction position is estimated for 2016 as the USD is calculated with a 0% interest rate floor. The proportion of ments are limited to the core banks of the Group. These are CAD 29 31 positions changes from one year to another, and these changes fixed interest loans in the loan portfolio can be increased all major banks with good credit ratings. The majority of all CHF 1 4 are mainly due to timing of major ports projects and currenby means of interest rate derivatives. As a consequence of financial instruments are of short-term nature, with maturity of CLP 15 11 cies used in them. The estimate of the effects is based on the this treasury policy, the Group’s average interest rate level, less than one year. There are no significant deposits or loans CNY 68 56 assumption that the USD denominated transactions are not in general, can be higher than the market level of short-term granted with external counterparties. DKK 1 1 hedged. In practice, however, all large projects with long maturinterest rates when low rates prevail and, on the other hand, The Group has counterparty risk in form of cash holdings GBP -1 3 ities generating a substantial portion of the annual changes lower than the market level when high rates prevail. in several banks around the world. Despite the active cash HUF 4 3 in the transaction position are hedged and subject to project management structures the Group has in place, cash holdings INR 7 -11 specific pricing. The change in equity is the translation exposure Commodity risk globally with several banks are needed to ensure the liquidity of IDR -5 -5 on the Group’s equity in USD. By using electricity derivatives, the Group strives to reduce Group companies. The Group Treasury follows closely the expoJPY -8 -7 sure in the Group according to principles set out in the Treasury Appreciating US dollar has a positive impact on Group’s the negative effect caused by electricity price fluctuation. The MAD 0 -6 operating margin when it impacts the revenues and costs overall importance of the energy price risk is small compared to Policy and takes necessary actions for reducing the risk. MXN 4 3 reported in euros asymmetrically. This is due to the fact that other financial risks and cannot be described as significant. A credit risk is run on the financial assets of the Group, MYR 1 1 the exchange rate change impacts mostly both Group’s reveSee note 34 for the notional and fair values of derivative which consist of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and NOK 3 -3 nues and costs and partly only either of these. If from the sensifinancial instruments (including electricity forwards). certain derivatives arising from default of the other party, with a PEN 4 3 tivity analysis the EBIT generated in USD based entities as well Steel prices are fixed as a normal part of the procurement maximum risk equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. PHP 1 1 as cash flows from long lasting projects, as they are subject process. Price changes naturally affect the future procurement, PLN 2 2 to project specific pricing which in practice may be adjusted to but these changes can be taken into consideration in the price 33.3 Liquidity risks RUB 10 7 reflect the currency rate changes, are excluded the effect on quotes to the end customers. Liquidity risks concern the availability of liquid assets or SAR 15 14 EBIT is estimated to be approximately a EUR 6 million increase In large crane projects, the steel structures are sub-confunding. Lack of funding might jeopardize normal business operSGD 27 22 SEK 26 -19 (EUR 6 million in 2015) when the dollar appreciates 10 percent. tracted and as a normal part of the sub-contracting process, ations and eventually might endanger the ability to fulfill daily THB -1 -1 the steel is included in the price of the sub-contracting (i.e. the payment obligations. TRY 0 1 Interest rate risk price is fixed with the sub-contractor). For managing the liquidity risks, the Group has established UAH -16 -20 Changes in market interest rates have an impact on the Group’s The Group can procure steel and steel components and thus EUR 300 million committed revolving credit facilities with an USD 12 20 net interest expenses and the market value of interest rate derivamay have an inventory of those. Market price fluctuation of steel international loan syndication (2014–2019 and 2015–2020). ZAR 1 -9 tives. The objective for interest rate risk management is to reduce can impact the profitability of customer projects or cause invenBoth facilities at the end of 2016 were unutilized. To cover the the volatility impact the market interest rate changes cause by tory obsolescence. short-term funding needs, Konecranes Finance Corporation optimizing the allocation between fixed and floating interest rates can borrow from institutional investors through five domestic according to principles set in capital structure management. 33.2 Credit and counterparty risks commercial paper programs (totaling EUR 480 million). In addiApproximately 85% of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities Credit risk arises from the potential failure of a commercial tion, business units around the world have overdraft facilities are denominated in euro (79% in 2015). See note 27.3 for the counterparty to meet its commercial payment obligations. totaling some EUR 200 million to cover the day-to-day funding currency split of outstanding debt. To limit this risk, the Group applies a conservative credit needs. 110 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements In 2016 the Group has agreed on a new committed financing accounting) are measured at fair value, and the change in fair whether the actual results of the hedge are within a range of Terex received USD 595 million and EUR 200 million in cash facility for the MHPS acquisition with a loan syndication of value is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. 80–125%. As a result, no hedge ineffectiveness aroused that and 19.6 million in newly issued Konecranes class B shares, Group’s core banks. The facility size is EUR 1,500 million and it When the derivative is designated as a cash-flow hedge (hedge would require recognition through profit or loss. making Terex a 25-percent shareholder. Pursuant to the Stock became effective in 2017 at the time of the acquisition. accounting) the effective part of the change in fair value is and Asset Purchase Agreement dated May 16, 2016 (the It is the Group’s policy under normal conditions to keep a recognized in other comprehensive income. Any ineffective part Interest rate risk “SAPA”), the final cash consideration is subject to post-closing minimum amount of cash in the balance sheet as deposits is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. The At December 31, 2015, the Group had interest rate swap adjustments for cash, debt, working capital, and the closing or any other liquid assets to maximize the return of capital foreign exchange forward contracts are measured based on the agreements in place with a notional amount of EUR 100 million, of the sale of the STAHL CraneSystems business. The final employed. Cash and cash equivalents totaled EUR 194.1 million closing date’s observable spot exchange rates and the quoted whereby the Group received a variable interest rate equal to number of class B shares may be subject to certain adjust(including EUR 26.8 million related to assets held for sale) at yield curves of the respective currencies. Interest rate swaps EURIBOR 1 month and paid interest at a fixed swap rate on the ments in accordance with the SAPA. the end of 2016 (EUR 80.8 in 2015). are measured based on present value of the cash flows, which notional amount. The swap was being used to hedge the cash Terex MHPS is a leading supplier of industrial cranes, crane See note 27.3 for the maturity profile of the Group’s financial are discounted based on the quoted yield curves. flow exposure on interest. components, and services under the Demag brand, as well liabilities. The cash flow hedges in 2016 and 2015 for the expected as port technology with a broad range of manual, semi-auto34.1. Nominal and fair values of future sales were assessed to be highly effective and a net mated, and automated solutions under several brands, such 33.4 Capital structure management derivative financial instruments unrealized loss, with a deferred tax asset of relating to the as Gottwald. According to unaudited special purpose carve-out The primary objective of the Group’s capital structure manage2016 2016 2015 2015 hedging instruments, is included in OCI. The amounts recogfinancial information (USGAAP), the sales of Terex MHPS Nominal Fair Nominal Fair ment is to ensure that it maintains a good credit status and a value value value value nized in OCI are shown in the table below and the reclassifi(including Crane America Services) were USD 1,542 million healthy capital ratio to support its business operations. At the Foreign exchange forward contracts 878.1 -13.2 788.7 -2.2 cations to profit or loss during the year are as shown in the (EUR 1,391 million) and the adjusted EBITDA was USD 111 same time, the Group also aims to maximize shareholder value Currency options 1,571.8 26.3 0.0 0.0 consolidated statement of income. million (EUR 100 million) in 2015. In 2015, Terex MHPS generby effective use of capital. Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 100.0 -1.1 ated 31 percent of its sales from maintenance services and The Group manages its capital structure and fine-tunes it Fuel oil derivative 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.0 34.2. Fair value reserve of cash flow hedges spare parts. It employs approximately 7,200 people. to adjust to probable changes in economic conditions. These Electricity forward contracts 0.8 -0.2 1.3 -0.6 2016 2015 Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total actions may include adjusting the dividend payment to shareTotal 2,451.2 12.9 890.0 -3.9 Balance as of January 1 -9.1 -8.6 purchase price is allocated to the tangible and identified intanholders, buying back own shares or issuing new shares. Gains and losses deferred to equity (fair gible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their value reserve) 30.1 -0.6 The Group monitors its capital structure using gearing ratio. See note 32.3 for the fair values of the derivatives recognized preliminary fair values as of the date of the acquisition. The Change in deferred taxes -6.0 0.1 This is calculated as a ratio of interest-bearing liabilities less in assets and liabilities . preliminary purchase price allocation below has been prepared Balance as of December 31 15.0 -9.1 liquid assets less loans receivable to total equity. At the end of based on preliminary estimates of fair value using the esti2016, the gearing ratio was 29.1% (44.6% in 2015). Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments mated financial statements of MHPS as of December 31, 2016, The Group has no quantitative targets for the capital strucThe Group enters into other foreign exchange and electricity 35. Fraudulent transactions in 2015 prepared in accordance with USGAAP. As of the date of these ture but the optimal long-term gearing ratio is in the range of forward contracts or currency options with the intention of and insurance indemnity in 2016 financial statements, Konecranes has not yet completed the 50–80%. However, in the short-term, the gearing can also be reducing the risks of expected sales and purchases, these On August 14, 2015, Konecranes announced that one of detailed valuation studies necessary to conclude on the fair significantly higher or lower than this range depending on the other contracts are not designated in hedge relationships and its foreign subsidiaries had become a victim of a fraud. The value of MHPS assets to be acquired and the liabilities to be short-term changes in working capital. are measured at fair value through profit or loss. perpetrators had through identity theft and other fraudulent assumed and the related allocations of purchase price. ThereThe Group decides on the split between long-term and shortactions managed to induce the subsidiary to make unwarfore, the allocation of the purchase price to acquired intangible term debt in relation to the gearing ratio level. The following Cash flow hedges ranted payments in a total amount of up to EUR 17 million. This assets is based on preliminary fair value estimates and subject table shows the rough guidelines for the portion of long–term amount was booked as other operating expenses in the third to final management analysis, with the assistance of third party debt of total debt under different gearing ratio levels: Foreign currency risk quarter of 2015. valuation advisors, following the completion of the acquisition. Gearing ratio level Portion of long–term of total debt Foreign exchange forward contracts and options measured at Konecranes has received an insurance indemnity of EUR The preliminary intangible asset values and their useful lives Under 50% Under 1/3 fair value through OCI are designated as hedging instruments in 10 million, which was the maximum sum insured and returned could be affected by a variety of factors that may become Between 50–80% Between 1/3 and 2/3 cash flow hedges of forecast sales and purchases in US dollar. funds of EUR 0.3 million. Konecranes has recorded the insurknown to Konecranes only upon access to additional informaOver 80% Over 2/3 These forecasted transactions are highly probable, and they ance indemnity as other operating income to its result for the tion and/or changes in these factors that may occur prior to The Group monitors the gearing ratio level on a weekly basis. comprise about 84.7% of the Group’s total hedged transaction second quarter of 2016. the effective time of the acquisition. The preliminary estimated During 2016, no changes have been made in the objectives, flows of which 64.2% is related to the hedging of the purchase intangible assets consist of customer relationships, developed policies, or processes concerning the past year. The MHPS price of MHPS acquisition denominated in USD (595 million). 36. Subsequent events technology, sales order backlog, and trade name. The prelimiacquisition in 2017 will change the capital structure significantly The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with nary useful lives range between one year and fifteen years. The and the Group considers new quantitative targets for capital the level of expected foreign currency sales and purchases and 36.1. Material Handling & Port Solutions segment preliminary fair values of the intangibles were based primarily structure management. The objectives of the Group’s capital changes in foreign exchange forward rates. acquisition from Terex Corporation on current estimates of MHPS’s expected future cash flows and management have been met in recent years. At the inception of these deals the Company assess whether On May 16, 2016, Konecranes signed an agreement (the “Stock may change as estimates and assumptions are refined. Addithe critical terms of the foreign currency forward contracts and Asset Purchase Agreement”) to acquire from Terex Corpotional intangible asset classes may be identified as the valua34. Hedge activities and derivatives match the terms of the expected highly probable forecast transration (“Terex”) its Material Handling & Port Solutions (“MHPS”) tion process continues. Derivatives are initially recorded in the balance sheet at fair actions. On a quarterly basis, the Company performs a quantitasegment (the “Acquisition”) against consideration consisting The preliminary fair values of the identifiable assets and value and subsequently measured at fair value at each balance tive effectiveness test using the dollar value method approach of cash and shares and to terminate the previously announced liabilities of the acquired MHPS businesses at the date of acquisheet date. All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value by comparison of past changes in the cash flows of the hedged business combination agreement. On January 4, 2017, Konesition are summarized below. The purchase price consideration is positive and liabilities when fair value is negative. Derivaitem that are attributable to the hedged risk with past changes cranes Plc (“Konecranes”) completed the acquisition. paid in cash includes the estimate of post-closing adjustments tive instruments that are not designated as hedges (hedge in the cash flows of the hedging instrument, and reviews 112 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes Group 2012–2016 for cash, debt, and working capital, as well as the effect of the Business development 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 hedging of MHPS purchase price. It is expected that the actual Orders received MEUR 1,920.7 1,965.5 1,903.5 1,920.8 1,970.1 outcome of post-closing adjustments are immaterial compared Order book MEUR 1,038.0 1,036.5 979.5 893.5 942.7 to the preliminary purchase price consideration paid in cash. Net sales MEUR 2,118.4 2,126.2 2,011.4 2,099.6 2,171.5 The acquisition will offer significant industrial and operational of which outside Finland MEUR 1,939.8 2,050.7 1,942.5 2,025.1 2,081.5 Export from Finland MEUR 792.7 633.4 621.3 653.7 638.9 synergies which is reflected in Goodwill. Personnel on average 11,398 11,934 11,920 11,987 11,917 Personnel on December 31 10,951 11,887 11,982 11,832 12,147 Recognized on Capital expenditure MEUR 33.8 49.3 60.0 65.7 41.7 acquisition as % of net sales % 1.6% 2.3% 3.0% 3.1% 1.9% Intangible assets Research and development costs MEUR 22.3 28.7 28.9 25.6 25.8 Clientele 223.0 as % of Group net sales % 1.1% 1.4% 1.4% 1.2% 1.2% Technology 101.0 Trademark 206.0 Profitability Property, plant, and equipment 290.0 Investments accounted for using the Net sales MEUR 2,118.4 2,126.2 2,011.4 2,099.6 2,171.5 equity method 100.0 Inventories 357.0 Operating profit (including restructuring costs) MEUR 84.9 63.0 115.8 84.5 132.5 Account receivables 207.0 as percentage of net sales % 4.0% 3.0% 5.8% 4.0% 6.1% Other assets 31.0 Cash and cash equivalents 44.0 Income before taxes MEUR 62.1 55.4 107.4 75.5 124.2 Total assets 1,559.0 as percentage of net sales % 2.9% 2.6% 5.3% 3.6% 5.7% Deferred tax liabilities 104.0 Net income (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 37.6 30.8 74.6 49.4 84.8 Defined benefit plans 223.0 as percentage of net sales % 1.8% 1.4% 3.7% 2.4% 3.9% Account payables and other current liabilities 439.0 Total liabilities 766.0 Key figures and balance sheet Net assets 793.0 Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 445.5 456.0 449.2 444.5 462.6 Balance Sheet MEUR 1,529.9 1,484.9 1,477.4 1,482.0 1,576.3 Purchase consideration transferred 1,534.0 Return on equity % 8.3 6.8 16.7 10.9 18.8 Goodwill 741.0 Return on capital employed % 10.3 9.5 17.0 11.6 18.4 Current ratio 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.2 1.4 Cash outflow on acquisition Solidity % 32.9 34.8 35.2 34.0 34.0 Net working capital MEUR 304.3 317.4 263.7 289.4 295.5 Purchase consideration, paid in cash 848.0 Interest-bearing net debt MEUR 129.6 203.2 149.5 187.3 181.8 Purchase consideration, paid in shares 686.0 Gearing % 29.1 44.6 33.3 42.1 39.3 Transactions costs* 64.2 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -44.0 Shares in figures Net cash flow arising on acquisition 1,554.2 Earnings per share, basic EUR 0.64 0.53 1.28 0.85 1.47 Purchase consideration: Earnings per share, diluted EUR 0.64 0.53 1.28 0.85 1.46 Purchase consideration, paid in cash 848.0 Equity per share EUR 7.58 7.79 7.75 7.56 7.97 Purchase consideration, paid in shares 686.0 Cash flow per share EUR 1.87 0.67 2.56 2.08 2.77 Total purchase consideration 1,534.0 Dividend per share EUR 1.05* 1.05 1.05 1.05 1.05 * Transaction costs of EUR 47.0 million in 2016 and EUR 17.2 million in 2015 have Dividend / earnings % 164.1 199.8 81.7 123.4 71.4 been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. Effective dividend yield % 3.1 4.6 4.4 4.1 4.1 Price / earnings 52.8 43.6 18.5 30.4 17.4 Trading low / high** EUR 17.92/36.89 20.98/34.98 18.63/27.60 20.45/28.89 14.34/26.67 Average share price** EUR 25.38 27.73 23.47 25.30 21.39 Share price on December 31** EUR 33.78 22.90 23.82 25.86 25.55 Year-end market capitalization MEUR 1,984.6 1,345.0 1,380.2 1,495.4 1,463.8 Number traded*** (1,000) 138,110 141,080 111,667 105,051 206,014 Stock turnover % 235.1 240.2 192.7 181.7 359.6 Average number of shares outstanding, basic (1,000) 58,748 58,542 57,909 57,684 57,228 Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (1,000) 58,748 58,542 58,034 57,877 57,517 Number of shares outstanding, at end of the period (1,000) 58,751 58,732 57,944 57,828 57,291 * The Board’s proposal to the AGM ** Source: Nasdaq Helsinki *** Source: Fidessa 114 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 115 Calculation of key figures Company list Net profit for the period (1,000 EUR) Return on equity (%): X 100 Total equity (average during the period) Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Book value of shares Parent company’s share, % Group’s share, % Finland: Konecranes Finance Oy 46,448 100 100 Konecranes Finland Oy 17,163 26 100 Income before taxes + interest paid + other financing cost Return on capital employed (%): X 100 Konecranes Global Oy 102,391 100 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities non-interest bearing debts (average during the period) Subsidiaries owned by the Group Book value of shares Group’s share, % Australia: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 185 100 Current assets Austria: Konecranes Ges.m.b.H. 22,557 100 Current ratio: Current liabilities Bangladesh: Konecranes (Bangladesh) Ltd. 104 100 Belgium: S.A. Konecranes N.V. 730 100 Brazil: Konecranes Talhas, Pontes Rolantes e Serviços Ltda. 18,066 100 Shareholders' equity Solidity (%): X 100 Canada: 3016117 Nova Scotia ULC 0 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities advance payment received Hydramach ULC 0 100 Kaverit Cranes and Service ULC 0 100 Interest-bearing liabilities liquid assets loans receivable Konecranes Canada Inc. 893 100 Gearing (%): X 100 MHE Canada ULC 0 100 Total equity Overhead Crane Ltd. 0 100 Cayman Islands: Morris Middle East Ltd. 0 100 Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Chile: Konecranes Chile SpA 1 100 Earnings per share: Average number of shares outstanding China: Dalian Konecranes Company Ltd. 2,049 100 Konecranes Manufacturing (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. 28,470 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 0 100 Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 4,223 100 Earnings per share, diluted: Average fully diluted number of shares outstanding Konecranes Port Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 7,517 100 Morris Crane Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 117 100 Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co., Ltd. 1,366 100 Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Equity per share: Stahl CraneSystems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 0 100 Number of shares outstanding SWF Krantechnik Co., Ltd. 665 100 Czech Republic: Konecranes CZ s.r.o. 1,168 100 Net cash flow from operating activities Denmark: Konecranes A/S 922 100 Cash flow per share: Estonia: Konecranes Oü 0 100 Average number of shares outstanding Finland: Leporinus Oy 5 100 Nosturiexpertit Oy 10 100 Dividend per share Permeco Oy 113 100 Effective dividend yield (%): X 100 Share price at the end of financial year Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy 5,811 100 France: KCI Holding France S.A. 461 100 Konecranes (France) SAS 17,788 100 Share price at the end of financial year Price per earnings: Stahl CraneSyste ms SAS 901 100 Earnings per share Verlinde SAS 10,720 100 Germany: Eurofactory GmbH 1,239 100 Non interest-bearing current assets + deferred tax assets Konecranes GmbH 4,300 100 Net working capital: Konecranes Holding GmbH 15,262 100 Non interest-bearing current liabilities deferred tax liabilities provisions Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 804 100 Stahl CraneSystems GmbH 30,776 100 Interest-bearing liabilities (non current and current) cash and SWF Krantechnik GmbH 15,500 100 Interest-bearing net debt: cash equivalents loans receivable (non current and current) Greece: Konecranes Hellas Lifting Equipment and Services S.A. 60 100 Hungary: Konecranes Kft. 889 100 Konecranes Supply Hungary Kft. 3,899 100 Year-end market capitalization: Number of shares outstanding multiplied by the share price India: Stahl CraneSystems India Pvt. Ltd. 59 100 at the end of year Konecranes Private Limited 31,865 100 Indonesia: Pt. Konecranes 0 100 Average number of personnel: Calculated as average of number of personnel in quarters Italy: Konecranes S.r.l. 5,390 100 MHPS Italia S.r.l. 1,000 100 Japan: Konecranes Company, Ltd. 5,141 100 Number of shares outstanding: Total number of shares treasury shares Latvia: SIA Konecranes Latvija 2 100 116 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 117 Company list Company list * Konecranes Group has the majority representation on the entity’s board of directors and approves all major operational decisions and thereby, Konecranes consolidates Subsidiaries owned by the Group Book value of shares Group’s share, % them in the Group’s financial statements. Lithuania: UAB Konecranes 139 100 Luxembourg: Materials Handling International S.A. 300 100 Other shares and joint operations Assets value Group’s share, % Malaysia: Konecranes Sdn. Bhd. 788 100 Estonia: AS Konesko 4,448 49.46 Mexico: Konecranes Mexico S.A. de C.V. 2,188 100 Finland: Kiinteistöosakeyhtiö Kuikantorppa 261 50 The Netherlands: Konecranes B.V. 3,000 100 Konecranes Holding B.V. 13,851 100 Investments accounted for using the equity method Assets value Group’s share, % Norway: Konecranes AS 6,211 100 China: Guangzhou Technocranes Company, Ltd. 813 25 Konecranes Norway Holding AS 3,588 100 Jiangyin Dingli High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 644 30 Peru: Konecranes Peru S.R.L. 0 100 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 2,259 28 Philippines: Konecranes Philippines Inc. 165 100 France: Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 172 25 Poland: Konecranes Sp. z o.o. 810 100 Levelec S.A. 219 20 Portugal: Ferrometal Limitada 752 100 Manulec S.A. 241 25 Konecranes Portugal, Unipessoal Lda 0 100 Manelec S.A.R.L. 101 25 Romania: S.C. Konecranes S.A. 98 100 S.E.R.E. Maintenance S.A. 135 25 Russia: AO Konecranes 161 100 Saudi Arabia: Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 2,808 49 Saudi Arabia: Saudi Cranes & Steel Works Factory Co. Ltd. 13,396 100 United Arab Emirates: Crane Industrial Services LLC 1,418 49 Singapore: KCI Cranes Holding (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 49,117 100 Konecranes Pte. Ltd. 2,038 100 Stahl CraneSystems Pte. Ltd. 0 100 Available-for-sale investments Book value of shares Group’s share, % SWF Krantechnik Pte. Ltd. 164 100 Austria: Austrian CraneSystems GmbH 86 19 Slovakia: Konecranes Slovakia s.r.o. 200 100 Finland: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 50 5,26 Slovenia: Konecranes, d.o.o. 200 100 Fimecc Oy 120 5,69 South Africa: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 3,356 100 Levator Oy 34 19 Spain: Konecranes Iberica S.L.U. 16,299 100 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 345 3.3 Stahl CraneSystems S.L. 0 100 France: Heripret Holding SAS 53 19 Sweden: Konecranes AB 1,431 100 Societe d'entretrien et de transformation d'engins mecaniques 0 19 Konecranes Lifttrucks AB 24,325 100 Indonesia: Pt. Technocranes International Ltd. 3 15 Konecranes Sweden Holding AB 1,682 100 Malaysia: Kone Products & Engineering Sdn. Bhd. 13 10 Ulvaryd Fastighets AB 1,360 100 Venezuela: Gruas Konecranes CA 20 10 Switzerland: Konecranes AG 1,719 100 Others: 258 Thailand: Konecranes (Thailand) Ltd.* 111 49 Total: 982 Turkey: Konecranes Ticaret Ve Servis Limited Sirketi 93 100 Ukraine: Konecranes Ukraine PJSC 2,048 100 PJSC Zaporozhje Kran Holding 692 100 PJSC Zaporozhcran 198 90.43 United Arab Emirates: Stahl CraneSystems FZE 221 100 Konecranes Middle East FZE 1,774 100 United Kingdom: J.H. Carruthers Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes Machine Tool Service Ltd. 0 100 KCI Holding UK Ltd. 13,656 100 Konecranes UK Limited 6,617 100 Lloyds Konecranes Pension Trustees Ltd. 0 100 Morris Material Handling Ltd. 6,264 100 Stahl CraneSystems Ltd. 16 100 U.S.A. KCI Holding USA Inc. 53,901 100 Konecranes Acquisition Company LLC 0 100 Konecranes, Inc. 50,555 100 Konecranes Nuclear Equipment & Services, LLC 0 100 Merwin, LLC 0 100 MMH Americas, Inc. 0 100 MMH Holdings, Inc. 0 100 Morris Material Handling, Inc. 67,772 100 PHMH Holding Company 0 100 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 7,779 100 Stahl CraneSystems, Inc. 0 100 Vietnam: Konecranes Vietnam Co., Ltd 214 100 118 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 119 Parent company statement of income – FAS Parent company cash flow – FAS (1,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2016 Jan 1–Dec 31 2015 (1,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2016 Jan 1–Dec 31 2015 Note: Sales 0 94,863 Cash flow from operating activities Other operating income 2,500 0 Operating income -37,359 -15,040 Adjustments to operating profit 2 Depreciation and impairments -51 -15,359 Depreciation and impairments 51 15,359 3 Other operating expenses -39,807 -94,544 Extraordinary income 25,000 0 Operating income before changes in net working capital -12,307 319 Operating profit -37,359 -15,040 Change in interest-free short-term receivables 893 -12,871 4 Financial income and expenses 24,757 156,494 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 2,278 7,152 Change in net working capital 3,171 -5,719 Income before appropriations and taxes -12,601 141,454 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes -9,136 -5,399 5 Appropriations 60,450 25,002 6 Income taxes -4,278 -1,639 Interest received 308 504 Interest paid -2 -10 Net income 43,570 164,817 Other financial income and expenses -4,531 -1,276 Income taxes paid -1,402 2,237 Financing items and taxes -5,627 1,454 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES -14,764 -3,945 Cash flow from investing activities Investments in other shares 0 -3 Capital expenditure to tangible assets -209 -1,156 Capital expenditure and advance payments to intangible assets 0 -13,566 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 0 126 Dividends received 129,000 57,300 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 128,791 42,702 Cash flow before financing activities 114,027 38,757 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options excercised and share issues 312 17,879 Repayments of long-term receivables -52,651 4,832 Dividends paid -61,689 -61,468 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -114,027 -38,756 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0 1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 3 3 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0 1 120 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 121 Parent company balance sheet – FAS Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 (1,000 EUR) Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Note: Note: ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES NON-CURRENT ASSETS 13 EQUITY Intangible assets Share capital 30,073 30,073 7 Intangible rights 0 0 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Advance payments 0 0 Paid in capital 68,691 68,378 0 0 Retained earnings 146,678 43,549 Net income for the period 43,570 164,817 Tangible assets 328,318 346,124 8 Machinery and equipment 361 13 9 Other tangible assets 0 0 APPROPRIATIONS Advance payments 0 190 Depreciation difference 58 7 361 203 LIABILITIES 10 Investments Investments in Group companies 153,040 153,040 Current liabilities Other shares and similar rights of ownership 170 170 Accounts payable 3,715 3,116 153,210 153,210 Liabilities owed to Group companies Accounts payable 406 961 Total non-current assets 153,572 153,414 14 Accruals 3,868 11,361 Other short-term liabilities 101 187 CURRENT ASSETS 14 Accruals 15,360 5,547 Long-term receivables 23,450 21,172 Loans receivable from Group companies 122,695 70,044 122,695 70,044 Total liabilities 23,450 21,172 Short-term receivables TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 351,825 367,303 Accounts receivable 1 513 Amounts owed by Group companies Accounts receivable 2,683 15,488 12 Deferred assets 62,047 126,104 Other receivables 509 491 12 Deferred assets 10,315 1,246 75,556 143,842 Cash in hand and at banks 3 3 Total current assets 198,254 213,889 TOTAL ASSETS 351,825 367,303 122 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 123 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 1. Accounting principles 4. Financial income and expenses 8. Machinery and equipment 12. Deferred assets The financial statements of the company have been prepared 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 in euro and in accordance with accounting principles generally Financial income from long-term Acquisition costs as of January 1 0.0 8.2 Group contributions 60.5 25.0 investments accepted in Finland. Increase 0.4 0.2 Income taxes 0.0 0.8 Dividend income from Group companies 29.0 157.3 Decrease 0.0 -8.3 Payments which will be realized during the Dividend income total 29.0 157.3 next financial year 11.8 101.5 Statement of income Acquisition costs as of December 31 0.4 0.0 Interest 0.0 0.0 (1,000,000 EUR) Accumulated depreciation January 1 0.0 -4.0 Interest income from long-term receivables Total 72.4 127.4 Accumulated depreciation relating to From Group companies 0.3 0.5 disposals 0.0 4.7 2. Depreciation and impairments Other interest income 0.0 0.0 Accumulated depreciation -0.1 -0.8 2016 2015 Interest income from long-term receivables Total as of December 31 0.4 0.0 13. Equity Intangible rights 0.0 12.7 total 0.3 0.5 2016 2015 Machinery and equipment 0.1 0.8 Share capital as of January 1 30.1 30.1 Financial income from long-term Other tangible asset 0.0 0.0 investments total 29.3 157.8 9. Other tangible assets New issue 0.0 0.0 Impairments 0.0 1.8 2016 2015 Share capital as of December 31 30.1 30.1 Total 0.1 15.4 Interest and other financial income 0.2 0.0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 0.0 0.2 Interest and other financial income total 0.2 0.0 Increase 0.0 0.0 Share premium account January 1 39.3 39.3 3. Other operating expenses and personnel Decrease 0.0 -0.2 New issue 0.0 0.0 Costs and expenses in the Statement of Income were as Interest expenses and other financial Acquisition costs as of December 31 0.0 0.0 Share premium account as of December 31 39.3 39.3 expenses follows: Accumulated depreciation January 1 0.0 0.0 Other financial expenses 4.8 1.3 Accumulated depreciation relating to Share issue January 1 0.0 0.0 2016 2015 Interest expenses and other financial disposals 0.0 0.0 Wages and salaries 2.7 17.8 expenses total 4.8 1.3 Increase 0.0 17.0 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Pension costs 0.2 3.3 Decrease 0.0 -17.0 Total as of December 31 0.0 0.0 Other personnel expenses 0.0 0.6 Financial income and expenses total 24.8 156.5 Share issue December 31 0.0 0.0 Other operating expenses 0.2 72.9 Paid in capital January 1 68.4 50.5 Total 3.1 94.5 5. Appropriations 10. Investments Increase 0.3 17.9 2016 2015 2016 2015 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Wages and salaries in accordance with the Statement of Difference between planned and untaxed Acquisition costs as of January 1 153.2 51.2 depreciations -0.1 0.0 Paid in capital as of December 31 68.7 68.4 Income Increase 0.0 102.4 Group contributions received from 2016 2015 subsidiaries 60.5 25.0 Decrease 0.0 0.3 Retained earnings as of January 1 208.4 105.1 Remuneration to Board 0.5 0.5 Total 60.4 25.0 Total as of December 31 153.2 153.2 Dividend paid -61.7 -61.5 Other wages and salaries 2.2 17.3 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Total 2.7 17.8 6. Income taxes Investments in Group companies Retained earnings as of December 31 146.7 43.6 2016 2015 2016 2015 Domicile Book value Book value The average number of personnel 5 294 Taxes on appropriations 12.1 5.0 Konecranes Finance Corp. Hyvinkää 46.4 46.4 Net income for the period 43.6 164.8 Taxes on ordinary operations -8.3 -3.4 Konecranes Finland Corp. Hyvinkää 4.2 4.2 Auditors fees Taxes from previous years 0.5 0.0 Konecranes Global Corp. Hyvinkää 102.4 102.4 Shareholders' equity as of December 31 328.3 346.1 Audit 0.1 0.2 Total 4.3 1.6 Total 153.0 153.0 Other services 3.1 3.8 Distributable equity Total 3.2 4.0 Balance sheet Other shares and similar rights of ownership Paid in capital as of December 31 68.7 68.4 7. Intangible rights 2016 2015 Retained earnings as of December 31 146.7 43.5 2016 2015 East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 0.1 0.1 Net income for the period 43.6 164.8 Acquisition costs as of January 1 0.0 87.7 Fimecc Oy 0.1 0.1 Total 259.0 276.7 Increase 0.0 14.4 Total 0.2 0.2 Decrease 0.0 -102.1 14. Accruals Acquisition costs as of December 31 0.0 0.0 11. Treasury shares 2016 2015 Accumulated depreciation January 1 0.0 -25.2 2016 2015 Income taxes 2.1 0.0 Accumulated depreciation relating to Number of shares as of January 1 4,539,913 5,328,415 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 0.9 0.5 disposals 0.0 39.7 Decrease -18,580 -788,502 Other items 16.2 16.4 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 -12.7 Number of shares as of December 31 4,521,333 4,539,913 Total 19.2 16.9 Impairments 0.0 -1.8 Total as of December 31 0.0 0.0 124 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 125 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting 15. Contingent liabilities and pledged assets The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR 258,938,606.48 of which the net income for the year is EUR 43,570,310.23. 2016 2015 Contingent liabilities The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 361,016,000. For obligations of subsidiaries According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable funds of the company are calculated based on the parent company’s Group guarantees 472.0 276.4 non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount of the dividend the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity of the parent company and the economic circumstances subsequent to the financial year-end. Other contingent and financial liabilities Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.05 will be Leasing liabilities paid on each share and that the remaining non-restricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. Next year 0.5 1.4 Later on 0.3 1.6 Total 0.9 3.0 Espoo, February 8, 2017 Leasing contracts are valid, in principle, for three years and they have no terms of redemption. Christoph Vitzthum Svante Adde Chairman of the Board Board member Other liabilities 0.0 0.0 Total by category Stig Gustavson Ole Johansson Guarantees 472.0 276.4 Vice Chairman of the Board Board member Other liabilities 0.9 3.0 Total 472.9 279.4 Janina Kugel Bertel Langenskiöld 16. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments Board member Board member 2016 2016 2015 2015 Fair Nominal Fair Nominal value value value value Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 6.9 0.0 1.6 Ulf Liljedahl Malin Persson Board member Board member Derivatives are used for currency rate hedging only. The derivative financial instruments are recognized according David A. Sachs Oren G. Shaffer to KPL 5:2a at fair value in the parent company financial stateBoard Member Board Member ments and the company does not apply hedge accounting for these derivatives. Panu Routila President and CEO 126 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 127 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report (Translation) We have also addressed the risk of management override of 2) Valuation of goodwill tions with supporting evidence. We have tested the amounts internal controls. This includes consideration of whether there Refer to note 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments, note 2.3 recognized as current and deferred tax, including the assessTo the Annual General Meeting of Konecranes plc was evidence of management bias that represented a risk of Summary of significant accounting policies and note 13. ment of judgmental tax positions. In this area our audit procematerial misstatement due to fraud. As of balance sheet date December 31, 2016, the value of dures included, among others, assessment of the impact of the Report on the Audit of Financial Statements goodwill amounted to EURm 86.2 representing 6 % of the total Group’s correspondence with relevant tax authorities and the 1) Revenue recognition of long-term assets and 19 % of equity (2015: EURm 107.6, 7% of the total evaluation of tax exposures. In addition, with respect to deferred Opinion contracts and related provisions assets and 24 % of equity). Valuation of goodwill is tested annutax assets we assessed management’s assumptions to deterWe have audited the financial statements of Konecranes plc Refer to note 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments, note 2.3 ally through goodwill impairment test. Valuation of goodwill is a mine the probability that deferred tax assets recognized in the (business identity code 0942718-2) for the year ended 31 Summary of significant accounting policies, note 5, note 6, and key audit matter because statement of financial position will be recovered through taxable December, 2016. The financial statements comprise the consolnote 24. • The assessment process is complex and is based on numeincome in future years, and available tax planning strategies. idated balance sheet, income statement, statement of compreIn accordance with its accounting principles, Konecranes rous judgmental estimates; We assessed the Group’s disclosures in notes 11 and 17 in hensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement applies the percentage of completion (PoC) method for recog• It is based on assumptions relating to market or economic the financial statements. of cash flows and notes, including a summary of significant nizing revenue from long term fixed-price crane projects. The conditions; and accounting policies, as well as the parent company’s balance percentage of completion is based on a cost-to-cost method. • Of the significance of the goodwill to the financial statements. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows, and notes. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves Konecranes has allocated goodwill to 6 cash generating Managing Director for the Financial Statements In our opinion the use of significant management assumptions, estimates units (CGUs) which is the level for goodwill impairment test. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are respon• the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view and projections, principally relating to future material, labor The recoverable amount of a cash generating unit is based sible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that of the group’s financial performance and financial position in and project-related overhead costs and the estimated stage of on value in use calculations, the outcome of which could vary give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards completion. In year 2016, approximately 13 % percent of the significantly if different assumptions were applied. There are a Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and of financial (IFRS) as adopted by the EU sales of 2.1 billion euro were recognized under the PoC method. number of assumptions used to determine the value in use of statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Revenue recognition of long-term contracts is a key audit matter the cash generating units, including revenue growth, developlaws and regulations governing the preparation of financial stateparent company’s financial performance and financial posias we have identified revenue from fixed price projects as a ment of fixed costs, the operating margin, and the discount rate ments in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. The tion, in accordance with the laws and regulations governing significant risk. applied. Changes in the above-mentioned assumptions may Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responthe preparation of financial statements in Finland and comply Our audit procedures to address the risk of material result in an impairment of goodwill. sible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to with statutory requirements. misstatement in respect of the long-term fixed price contracts Our audit procedures included, among others, involving valuenable the preparation of financial statements that are free from included among others: ation specialists to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Basis for Opinion • Assessing the Group’s accounting policies over revenue methodologies used by the Group, in particular those relating to In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing pracrecognition of long-term fixed price contracts; the forecasted cash flow estimates and weighted average cost and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the tice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice • Gaining an understanding of the PoC revenue recognition of capital. We specifically focused on the cash generating units parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as going are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the process; for which reasonably possible changes in assumptions could concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going Audit of Financial Statements section of our report. • Examination of the project documentation and testing the cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount. concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The We are independent of the parent company and of the group PoC calculations and inputs of estimates in the calculations We also assessed the historical accuracy of managements’ financial statements are prepared using the going concern companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are and comparing the estimates to actuals; estimates. We assessed the Group’s disclosures in note 13 in basis of accounting, unless there is an intention to liquidate the applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have • Analytical procedures throughout the audit period 1.1.– the financial statements about the assumptions to which the parent company or the group or cease operations, or there is no fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 31.12.2016; outcome of the impairment tests were more sensitive. realistic alternative but to do so. these requirements. • Assessing the significant judgments made by management We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffibased on an examination of the associated project docu3) Income taxes Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. mentation and discussion on the status of projects under Refer to note 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments, note 2.3 of Financial Statements construction with finance and project managers of the Summary of significant accounting policies, note 11 and note 17. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance on whether Key Audit Matters Company; and The Group operates in a number of jurisdictions around the the financial statements as a whole are free from material Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional • Assessing the Group’s disclosures in respect of revenue world, with differing tax regimes, resulting in different subjective misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the finanrecognition. and complex interpretation of local tax laws and is therefore auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurcial statements of the current period. These matters were Konecranes makes several types of provisions related to open to assessment from multiple tax authorities. In the normal ance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that addressed in the context of our audit of the financial staterisks associated with long-term project contracts and PoC course of business the Group makes judgments and estimates an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice ments as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we accounting. These PoC related provisions require high level of in relation to tax issues and exposures resulting in the recogwill always detect a material misstatement when it exists. do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. management judgment and are a key audit matter due to that nition of other tax. The future actual outcome of the decisions Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Audireason. We have designed our audit procedures to be responconcerning these tax exposures may result in material higher or material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be tor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements sive to this specific audit area and our procedures included lower amounts than accrual included in the accompanying finanexpected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on section of our report, including in relation to these matters. among others: cial statements. The amount of deferred tax assets recognized the basis of the financial statements. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures • Gaining an understanding of the PoC related provisions could be reduced in subsequent years if estimates of future As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of mateprocess; taxable income during their carry forward periods are reduced, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional rial misstatement of the financial statements. The results of • Testing the provision calculations and the inputs of estimates or rulings by the tax authorities are unfavorable. skepticism throughout the audit. We also: our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to in these calculations and comparing estimates to actuals; and In our audit procedures we included both local and interna• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit • Performing inquiries with management with regards to any signitional tax specialists to analyze and assess the assumptions financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design opinion on the accompanying financial statements. ficant events or legal matters that could affect the provisions. used to determine tax positions and corroborating the assumpand perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, 128 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 129 Auditor's Report Shares and shareholders Shares and shareholders and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting matter should not be communicated in our report because a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the communication. Shares and share capital Board authorizations override of internal control. As of December 31, 2016, Konecranes Plc’s fully paid-up share On February 23, 2016, the Board of Directors decided on a • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the Other Reporting Requirements capital entered in the Trade Register was EUR 30,072,660, directed share issue related to the reward payment for the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate divided into 63,272,342 shares (63,272,342 in 2015). At the Savings Period 2012-2013 of Konecranes Employee Share in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing Other information end of 2016, Konecranes had one class of shares and each Savings Plan. In the share issue, 18,580 Konecranes Plc an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responshare entitles its holder to one vote at the Annual General shares held by the Company were conveyed without considerthe group’s internal control. sible for the other information. The other information comprises Meeting and an equal dividend. Konecranes shares are regisation to the employees participating in the plan in accordance • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used information included in the report of the Board of Directors and tered in the Finnish book entry system. with the terms and conditions of the plan. The decision on the and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial stateOn December 31, 2016, Konecranes Plc was in the possesdirected share issue was based on the authorization granted to disclosures made by management. ments and our report thereon. We obtained the report of the sion of 4,521,333 own shares (4,539,913), which corresponds the Board of Directors by the Annual General Meeting of Share• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ Board of Directors prior to the date of the auditor’s report, and to 7.1 percent of the total number of shares having a market holders held on March 26, 2015. and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis the Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after value of EUR 152.7 million on that date. In 2016, 18,580 The Annual General Meeting held on March 23, 2016, authoof accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, the date of the auditor’s report. treasury shares were conveyed without consideration to the rized the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the employees participating in the Employee Share Savings Plan, in the Company’s own shares and/or on the acceptance of the conditions that may cast significant doubt on the parent other information. accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan. Company’s own shares as a pledge. The amount of the Compacompany’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going In connection with our audit of the financial statements, ny’s own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, our responsibility is to read the other information identified Market capitalization and share trading based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information As of the end of 2016, the total market capitalization of in total, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our Konecranes Plc on Nasdaq Helsinki was EUR 1,984.6 million of the shares in the Company. The authorization is effective such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be (1,345.0), excluding treasury shares. until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, but no later conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to materially misstated. With respect to report of the Board of Konecranes shares closed the year at EUR 33.78 (22.90) on than September 22, 2017. The Board of Directors did not use the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether Nasdaq Helsinki. The volume-weighted average trading price for this authorization in 2016. conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accorthe year was EUR 25.38. The highest quotation for the Konecranes The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the going concern. dance with the applicable laws and regulations. share was EUR 36.89 in December and the lowest was EUR issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of special rights • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the In our opinion, the information in the report of the Board 17.92 in January. entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10 of Section 1 of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial The traded volume of Konecranes shares totaled some 55.6 Finnish Companies Act. The number of shares to be issued financial statements represent the underlying transactions and statements and the report of the Board of Directors has been million on Nasdaq Helsinki. In monetary terms, this was valued based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, events so that the financial statements give a true and fair view. prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. at EUR 1,411.3 million. The daily average trading volume was which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all shares • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that 220,693 shares, representing a daily average turnover of EUR 5.6 in the Company. The authorization can also be used for incenfinancial information of the entities or business activities there is a material misstatement in the information included in million. In addition, approximately 82.5 million Konecranes shares tive arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated the report of the Board of Directors, we are required to report were traded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral trading faciltotal together with the authorization in the following paragraph. financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. ities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2016, according to Fidessa. The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain General Meeting, but no longer than until September 22, 2017. solely responsible for our audit opinion. Opinions based on assignment of the Audit Committee We communicate with those charged with governance We support that the financial statements should be adopted. regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant distributable equity shown in the balance sheet for the parent deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. company is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies We also provide those charged with governance with a stateAct. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors Monthly price and volume on the ment that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements and the Managing Director of the parent company should be Nasdaq Helsinki 2012–2016 regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationdischarged from liability for the financial period audited by us. EUR Number of shares, million ships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Helsinki, February 14, 2017 50 25 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most Ernst & Young Oy 40 20 Konecranes significance in the audit of the financial statements of the Authorized Public Accountant Firm 30 15 Nasdaq Helsinki Industrial current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We 20 10 Goods & Services Index describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or Nasdaq Helsinki Cap Index 10 5 regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or Kristina Sandin 0 0 Monthly trading volume Authorized Public Accountant 12 13 14 15 16 130 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 131 Shares and shareholders Shares and shareholders Changes in the share capital and the number of shares which corresponds to 1.1 percent of all of the Company’s will be delivered to a participant if the participant holds the Change in Total number Change in Share capital shares. If the targets determined by the Board of Directors acquired shares from the plan period until the end of the number of shares of shares share capital EUR are attained, the reward payout may be a half of the maximum designated holding period, 15 February 2018, and if his or her 1999 March 11, Conversion of share capital into EUR 15,000,000 30,000,000 2002 December 20, invalidation of shares held by the company and reduction of share capital -691,370 14,308,630 -1,382,740 28,617,260 reward. The maximum reward payout requires that the targets employment has not ended before this date for reasons related 2004 New shares subscribed for with the 1997 stock options 1,400 14,310,030 2,800 28,620,060 are clearly exceeded. to the employee. Approximately 1,286 Konecranes employees 2005 New shares subscribed for with the 1997, 1999A, 1999B, 2001A, and 2003A stock 176,000 14,486,030 352,000 28,972,060 In 2016, the Board resolved to establish a new sharesigned up for the plan that commenced on July 1, 2014. The options based incentive plan directed to the Group’s key employees. number of new shares to be issued or own shares held by the 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, and 2003A stock options 286,700 14,772,730 573,400 29,545,460 pre-split The long-term incentive plan consists of one discretionary Company to be transferred under the terms and conditions 2006 March 17, 2006 Share split 1:4 44,318,190 59,090,920 0 29,545,460 period, calendar year 2016. Approximately 200 key employees, of the plan may be a maximum total of 38,543 shares, which 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2003A, and 2003B series stock 986,800 60,077,720 493,400 30,038,860 including the members of the Group Executive Board and Senior corresponds to 0.1 percent of all of the Company’s shares. post-split options Management, belong to the target group of the plan. The potenThe fourth plan period began on July 1, 2015 and ended on 2007 February, new shares subscribed for with 2003B stock options 67,600 60,145,320 33,800 30,072,660 tial reward from the plan will be based on the continuation of a June 30, 2016. Each participant will receive one free matching 2007 March–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2001B, 833,460 60,978,780 0 30,072,660 2003B, and 2003C stock options key employee's employment or service and on the Konecranes share for every two acquired savings shares. Matching shares 2008 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001B, 2003B, 633,540 61,612,320 0 30,072,660 Group’s adjusted EBITDA. The rewards to be paid on the basis will be delivered to a participant if the participant holds the and 2003C stock options of the plan correspond to an approximate maximum total of acquired shares from the plan period until the end of the 2009 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 2001B and 2003C stock options 260,600 61,872,920 0 30,072,660 2010 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2001B stock options 129,200 62,002,120 0 30,072,660 700,000 Konecranes Plc shares, including the proportion to designated holding period, February 15, 2019, and if his or 2011 January, share issue directed to the shareholders of KCR Management Oy 281,007 62,283,127 0 30,072,660 be paid in cash. The potential reward from the plan will be paid her employment has not ended before this date for reasons 2011 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2007A and 2007B stock options 958,300 63,241,427 0 30,072,660 partly in Konecranes shares and partly in cash after the discreattributable to the employee. Approximately 1,345 Konecranes 2012 May–June, new shares subscribed for with 2009A stock options 30,915 63,272,342 0 30,072,660 tionary period, by the end of August 2017. The shares paid as employees signed up for the Plan Period that commenced on reward may not be transferred during a restriction period estabJuly 1, 2015. The number of new shares to be issued or own lished for the shares. The restriction period shall begin from the shares held by the Company to be transferred under the terms payment of the reward and end on December 31, 2018. The and conditions of the plan may be a maximum total of 50,330 members of the Group Executive Board and Senior Manageshares, which corresponds to 0.1 percent of all the Company’s ment must retain 50 percent of net shares received on the shares. However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is valid Directors of Konecranes decided on December 29, 2016, on basis of the plan until such members' share ownership equals The fifth plan period began on September 1, 2016 and end until March 22, 2021. The Board of Directors did not use this a directed share issue of 19,600,000 new class B shares to his or her annual gross base salary. Such number of shares on June 30, 2017. The maximum savings amount per particauthorization in 2016. Terex Deutschland GmbH. The shares were issued to Terex must be held as long as such member's employment or service ipant during one month is 5 percent of gross salary and the The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the as share consideration in addition to the cash consideration at Konecranes continues. minimum is EUR 50. Each participant will receive one free transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization is payable to Terex for the purchase of Terex's MHPS business For a more detailed description of the performance share matching share for every two acquired savings shares. Matching limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds under the Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement between plan, see Note 29 on Page 102 of the Financial Statements. shares will be delivered to a participant if the participant holds to approximately 9.5 percent of all the shares in the Company. Konecranes and Terex dated May 16, 2016. the acquired shares from the plan period until the end of the The authorization can also be used for incentive arrangements, Employee Share Savings Plan designated holding period, February 15, 2020, and if his or however, not more than 700,000 shares in total together with Stock option plans Konecranes Plc’s AGM 2012 approved the Konecranes her employment has not ended before this date for reasons the authorization in the previous paragraph. This authorization is The share subscription period for the stock options 2009C Employee Share Savings Plan. The second plan period began on related to the employee. The total amount of all savings of effective until the next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, ended on April 30, 2016. The stock options 2009C entitled to July 1, 2013 and ended on June 30, 2014. Each participant will the commencing plan period may not exceed EUR 8.5 million. but no later than September 22, 2017. However, the authorizathe subscriptions of a total of 638,500 shares. There were no receive one free matching share for every two acquired savings Approximately 1,300 Konecranes employees signed up for the tion for incentive arrangements is valid until March 22, 2021. share subscriptions during the subscription period pursuant to shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a participant if the plan period that commenced on September 1, 2016. The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2016. the stock options 2009C. participant holds the acquired shares from the plan period until For a more detailed description of the employee share savings The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on a the end of the designated holding period, February 15, 2017, plan, see Note 29 on Page 103 of the Financial Statements. directed share issue without payment, needed for the continuaPerformance Share Plans and if his or her employment has not ended before this date tion of the Share Savings Plan that the Annual General Meeting In 2012 and 2015, the Board of Directors resolved to implefor the reasons related to the employee. Approximately 1,338 Flagging notifications 2012 decided to launch. The number of new shares to be ment a performance share plan according to which earning Konecranes employees signed up for the plan that commenced On February 23, 2016, Konecranes received a disclosure under issued, or own shares held by the Company to be transferred, reward is based on attainment of targets determined by the on July 1, 2013. The number of new shares to be issued or own Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according may in the aggregate amount to a maximum total of 500,000 Board of Directors. The performance criterion for the discreshares held by the Company to be transferred under the terms to which the holding of Sanderson Asset Management LLP in shares, which corresponds to 0.8 percent of all the Company’s tionary periods 2014–2016 and 2015–2017 is the cumulative and conditions of the plan may be a maximum total of 42,189 Konecranes Plc has decreased below 5 percent. Sanderson shares. The authorization concerning the share issue is valid Earnings per Share (EPS) excluding restructuring costs for shares, which corresponds to 0.1 percent of all of the CompaAsset Management LLP held 3,161,739 Konecranes Plc’s until March 22, 2021. The Board of Directors did not use this the respective years. The target group of the plans consists ny’s shares. shares on February 22, 2016, which is 4.99 percent of authorization in 2016. of approximately 190 people. The rewards to be paid on the The third plan period began on July 1, 2014 and ended on Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. Based on the authorization granted by the Extraordinary basis of each discretionary period correspond to the value of June 30, 2015. Each participant will receive one free matching On July 25, 2016, Konecranes received a disclosure under General Meeting held on September 15, 2016, the Board of an approximate maximum of 700,000 Konecranes Plc shares, share for every two acquired savings shares. Matching shares Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according 132 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 133 Shares and shareholders Shares and shareholders to which the holding of Harris Associates Investment Trust which the holding of Harris Associates L.P. in Konecranes Plc Shares and options owned by the members of the Board and of Directors (Oakmark International Small Cap Fund) in Konecranes Plc has decreased below 5 percent. Harris Associates L.P. held and of the Group Executive Board on December 31, 2016 has decreased below 5 percent. Harris Associates Investment 3,152,800 Konecranes Plc’s shares on October 4, 2016, which Change in Number of % of shares shareholding in 2016 shares owned and votes Trust (Oakmark International Small Cap Fund) held 3,106,800 is 4.98 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. Board of Directors * -16,392 38,635 0.1% ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on July 22, 2016, which is 4.91 Group Executive Board 26,420 170,937 0.3% percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. Shareholders Total 10,028 209,572 0.3% On August 17, 2016, Konecranes received a disclosure under Konecranes had 19,523 (19,915) shareholders on December * O  n December 28, 2011 Konecranses Plc received information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors Stig Gustavson had donated all of his shares in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according 31, 2016. At year-end 2016, 53.2 (48.7) percent of the Compathe voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompassed in total 2,069,778 shares. to which the holding of Sanderson Asset Management LLP in ny’s shares were nominee registered. More information on the Konecranes Plc has exceeded 5 percent. Sanderson Asset breakdown of share ownership and board and management Management LLP held 3,230,546 Konecranes Plc’s shares on interests can be found in the Shares and Shareholders section August 16, 2016, which is 5.11 percent of Konecranes Plc’s on page 135. shares and votes. Breakdown of share ownership by number On September 9, 2016, Konecranes received a notificaKonecranes Plc share trading information of shares owned on December 31, 2016 tion under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, • Date of listing on Nasdaq Helsinki: March 27, 1996 Number of shares Shares Number of shareholders % of shareholders and votes % of shares and votes according to which the total holding of BlackRock, Inc. in • Segment: Large Cap 1–100 9,267 47.5% 473,342 0.7% Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes has exceeded 5 percent. • ICB classification: Industrials, Industrial Goods & Services, 101–1 000 8,901 45.6% 3,043,168 4.8% On September 8, 2016, Blackrock Inc.’s total holding through Industrial Engineering, Commercial Vehicles & Trucks 2753 1 001–10 000 1,194 6.1% 3,232,407 5.1% shares and financials instruments amounted to 5.05 percent of • ISIN code: FI0009005870 10 001–100 000 129 0.7% 3,908,063 6.2% Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. • Trading code: KCR 100 001–1 000 000 17 0.1% 4,279,553 6.8% Over 1,000,001 5 0.0% 14,651,954 23.2% On October 5, 2016, Konecranes received a disclosure under Registered shareholders total 19,513 99.9% 29,588,487 46.8% Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according to Nominee registered shares 10 0.1% 33,683,855 53.2% Total 19,523 100.0% 63,272,342 100.0% Largest shareholders on December 31, 2016 Number of shares % of shares and Breakdown of share ownership by shareholder category on December 31, 2016 and votes votes % of shares and votes 1 HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab 6,870,568 10.9% Private companies 20.2% 2 Gustavson Stig and family* 2,078,013 3.3% Financial and insurance institutions 2.3% 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,190,275 1.9% Public sector organizations 4.7% 4 The Local Government Pensions Institution, Keva 598,542 0.9% Households 13.7% 5 Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svensk-Finland 535,600 0.8% Non-profit organizations 5.0% 6 The State Pension Fund 480,000 0.8% Foreigners 0.7% 7 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 446,500 0.7% Nominee registered shares 53.2% 8 Evli Funds 349,986 0.6% Total 100.0% 9 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 326,603 0.5% Source: Euroclear Finland Oy, December 31, 2016. 10 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 250,766 0.4% Ten largest registered shareholders' total ownership 13,126,853 20.7% Nominee registered shares 33,683,855 53.2% Other shareholders 11,940,301 18.9% Shares held by Konecranes Plc 4,521,333 7.1% Total 63,272,342 100.0% 134 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 135 inVeStor inForMAtion INVESTOR RELATIONS • Danske Markets tered on the record date in the Company’s • DNB Markets shareholders’ register maintained by Euroir principles • Handelsbanken Capital Markets clear Finland Ltd. The main objective of Konecranes Investor • HSBC • Record date of dividend payment: March Relations function is to assist in the • Inderes 27, 2017 correct valuation of the Company’s shares • Kepler Cheuvreux • Date of dividend payment: April 4, 2017 by providing capital markets with infor• Nordea Bank mation on its operations and financial • Pohjola Bank Financial reports in 2017 position. Konecranes pursues an open, • SEB Enskilda • Financial Statements for 2016: reliable, and up-to-date disclosure policy, Konecranes takes no responsibility for February 8, 2017 aimed at giving all market participants the opinions expressed by analysts. More • Interim report, January–March: access to correct and consistent informainformation on Konecranes as an investApril 27, 2017 tion regularly and equitably. ment can be found at • Half year financial report, January–June: Investor Relations is responsible www.konecranes.com > Investors. July 26, 2017 for investor communications and daily • Interim report, January–September: contacts. The President and CEO, together INFORMATION FOR October 25, 2017 with the Chief Financial Officer, participate SHAREHOLDERS in IR activities and are regularly available Konecranes annual and interim reports for meetings with capital market represenAnnual general Meeting are published in English, Finnish, and tatives. The function regularly gathers and Konecranes next Annual General Meeting Swedish. The Annual Report is available analyzes market information and investor will be held on Thursday, March 23, 2017 in pdf format on the company website and feedback for use of top management and at 10 a.m. at Hyvinkääsali, Jussinkuja 1, in print form. Copies are mailed to shareholders on request: orders can be placed Sales and service locations the Board of Directors. 05800 Hyvinkää, Finland. Shareholders registered no later than through the company website. Silent period March 13, 2017 in the Company’s list All press and stock exchange releases Konecranes observes a silent period prior of shareholders maintained by Euroclear can be consulted on the Company’s to the publication of its financial stateFinland Ltd. are entitled to attend the AGM. website (www.konecranes.com) and can Corporate Regional ments and interim reports starting at the Holders of nominee-registered shares be received by e-mail by subscribing Headquarters Headquarters end of the quarter in question. During this intending to participate in the AGM shall at www.konecranes.com > Investors > notify their custodian well in advance of Releases > Order releases. The Annual Konecranes Plc Americas time, Company representatives do not comment on Konecranes financial position. their intention and comply with the instrucReport can also be ordered from: P.O. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) Konecranes, Inc. tions provided by the custodian. FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland 4401 Gateway Blvd. investor relations in 2016 A shareholder wishing to participate Konecranes Plc Tel: +358 20 427 11 Springfield, OH 45502, U.S.A. In 2016, Konecranes participated in two in the AGM must notify the Company (Ms Investor Relations Tel: +1 937 525 5533 investor seminars and held 23 roadshow Laura Kiiski) of his/her participation no P.O. Box 661 Corporate days. All in all, we took part in approxilater than March 20, 2017: FI-05801 Hyvinkää responsibility Europe, Middle East and Africa mately 220 investor meetings and conferFinland For corporate responsibility Konecranes Region EMEA ence calls: in Amsterdam, Boston, BrusInternet: www.konecranes.com/agm2017 Phone: +358 20 427 2960 matters please contact: P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) sels, Chicago, Copenhagen, Edinburgh, E-mail: agm2017@konecranes.com Fax: +358 20 427 2089 FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com Frankfurt, Geneva, Helsinki, London, Fax: +358 20 427 2099 (from abroad) Web: www.konecranes.com > Investors > Tel: +358 20 427 11 Milan, New York, Oslo, Paris, Stockholm, or 020 427 2099 (Finland) Reports and result presentations > Order Toronto, and Zurich. Phone: +358 40 770 0301 (from abroad) annual report Asia-Pacific or Konecranes (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. investor contacts 040 770 0301 (Finland) Shareholder register Building D, No.100, Lane 2891, Miikka Kinnunen, Vice President, Investor Mail: Konecranes Plc, Laura Kiiski, Konecranes shares are covered by the South Qilianshan Road, Relations P.O. Box 661, Finnish Book Entry Securities System. 200331, Shanghai, China Tel: +358 20 427 2050 FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Shareholders should notify the relevant Tel: +86 21 2606 1000 E-mail: miikka.kinnunen@konecranes.com holder of their book entry account about Shareholders are requested to inform changes in address or account numbers Anna-Mari Kautto, Assistant, Investor the Company of any proxies for the AGM for the payment of dividends and other Relations in connection with their registration. A matters related to their holdings. Tel: +358 20 427 2960 sample proxy can be found on the CompaE-mail: anna-mari.kautto@konecranes.com ny’s web site. IMPORTANT DATES Record date of the AGM: March 13, 2017 equity research Payment of dividend Registration for the The following banks, investment banks, The Board of Directors will propose to the AGM closes: March 20, 2017 and equity research providers cover Annual General Meeting of Shareholders The AGM: March 23, 2017 Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, Konecranes: that a dividend of EUR 1.05 per share Dividend ex-date: March 24, 2017 shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment of all makes. The • ABG Sundal Collier should be paid for 2016. The dividend will Dividend record date: March 27, 2017 Group has 18,000 employees at 600 locations in 50 countries. Konecranes is listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki (symbol: KCR). • Carnegie Investment Bank be paid to shareholders who are regisDividend payment date: April 4, 2017 136 Konecranes Annual Report 2016 Change always brings opportunities, Konecranes’ business transformation is now more fully realized than ever. Panu Routila, President and CEO
