UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Gebrüder Weiss GmbH UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Company name Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Address Bundesstrasse 110, 6923 Lauterach Country Austria UNGC member since November 3, 2011 Contact name Wolfram Senger-Weiss Contact position Managing Director Sector Industrial Transportation Date December 2017 Portrait of Company Mission Gebrüder Weiss Statement With around 6,500 employees, 150 company“We aim to fill our customers with enthusiasm, owned locations and a turnover of 1.36 billion which is why our daily work is based on an ­euros in 2016, Gebrüder Weiss ranks among exceptional quality of service.” the leading transport and logistics companies in Europe. Based on its home markets in the Alpine-Danube region as well as Asia and North America, In addition to its core business of land transport, Gebrüder Weiss develops sectorand customerair & sea freight and logistics, the company also specific transport and logistics solutions that operates a number of highly specialised industry enable the seamless meshing of production, solutions and subsidiaries under the umbrella of business and transport processes. Gebrüder Weiss Holding AG, based in Lauterach (Vorarlberg, Austria). This includes logistics For some time now, sustainability has involved consultancy x|vise, tectraxx (industry specialist much more than simply regulating our level of for hi-tech businesses), inet-logistics (software traffic on the roads. Intelligent logistics begins with solutions for TMS transport management), dicall the analysis of the entire system of procurement (telephone service, consulting and telemarketing), and distribution processes of our customers. Railcargo (railway transport) and the Gebrüder We review existing supply chains and select the Weiss parcel service GWP, a shareholder in the appropriate means of transport on an individual Austrian company DPD. This bundling of services basis. When logistics chains are optimally matched allows us to respond to customer needs quickly with one another, everything works like clockwork. and flexibly. Synergies are used, CO2 emissions are reduced and profitability increases. Having implemented a variety of ecological, economic and social initiatives, the family-owned company, which has a history going back 500 years, is considered a pioneer in terms of sustainable business today. Who we are, what we do and what we stand for: watch our corporate film 2|6 The Orange Strategy Added value for customers. As well as goods and data, Gebrüder Weiss We aim to impress with our services and products, also moves people who come into contact with to move our customers. We are aware of our the orange network, internally or externally. We financial and social responsibility as a business are moving forward with our customers, with a and seek environmentally-friendly solutions. As forward-looking approach and innovative ideas. an independent company with a good capital As a logistics specialist, GW controls global supply base, marginal dependency on banks and a chains. We offer global solutions through our broad range of services, we will direct our actions international network. Our main aim is Service towards sustainability and act responsibly and Excellence. economically. The GW vision is rooted in the mentioned independence. We don’t think in quarters, we think in generations. That is why we don’t act with merely short-term goals in mind but, on principle, with our long-term objective before us: we want to be the best, not the largest transport and logistics service provider. Best in class ce Su den st ai n Ind op lity ep er bi e r– k a na r regional p tio na l global net aye ell l exc ence wo Ser t log r a n s p o rt – s t vi c en e istics olution itm E xc s el m le n m ce Co 3|6 Statement of Support Dear Stakeholders, Only a healthy company is able to act in a sustainable manner and to fully live up to its corporate responsibility. The successful business performance achieved strengthens and expands our sound financial position. For us, sustainability means taking active responsibility; this has been the case for generations and remains one of our core values to this day. Today’s global economy is based on the division of labour and relies on the ability to smoothly overcome barriers of distance and time. That is why our business model at Gebrüder Weiss entails optimising the flow of goods and commodities. At the same time, we aim to save resources through intelligent control of the supply chain as well as by indicating and facilitating more resource-efficient transport solutions. At all levels of corporate activity, economic, social and environmental factors are taken into consideration as equally as possible, in order to create long-term values for the company, the environment and society. In our Code of Conduct, we have set down the values we live by and which form the basis for our decisions and business practices. Our staff enjoy the freedom to place an individual emphasis or indicate new potentials, and are encouraged to do so – whether for CSR initiatives or with a view to process improvement. We offer attractive working conditions in a challenging environment and provide our employees with numerous opportunities for personal development. In 2011, Gebrüder Weiss joined the UN Global Compact and we will continue to support this initiative. The ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption correspond with our values and are included in our Code of Conduct. With this Communication on Progress, we like to share our 2016 activities with our stakeholders. We are looking forward to continuous exchange with you. Wolfram Senger-Weiss, MBA Managing Director Gebrüder Weiss GmbH 4|6 Facts and Figures The Gebrüder Weiss Group GW Service Portfolio 15th Century As of 1989 – 2005 – As of 2009 Global Expansion Generational GW is the oldest Macedonia, Montenegro, Change transportation CEEC, China, Far East, Georgia, Turkey, Russia company in the USA, Canada, UAE, and Kazakhstan world and India 598,000 m2 Logistics area 150 3,500 GW locations Trucks on the road for GW every day 1,360 11.6 Millon euros net Million shipments sales (2016) forwarded worldwide annually 6,500 Employees Certificates within the GW group • Quality Management EN ISO 9001 • TAPA Certificate • Environmental Management ISO 14001 • Certification IFS Logistics • Information Security Management System ISO 27001 • HACCP Certificate • Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) • SQAS-Testat 5|6 Gebrüder Weiss Progress on the UNGC’s Principles in 2016 The principles Our commitment Systems Measures to progress Principle 1 We have stipulated our binding • GW Code of • Groupwide training on the Code of Support and respect commitment to international Conduct Conduct implemented the protection of interhuman rights and human dignity • GW Occupational • Health and Safety Management Human rights nationally proclaimed without exception in our Code of Health and Safety System implemented human rights Conduct. By integrating the Code System • Works Council active, in countries of Conduct into our General Terms Principle 2 • GW HSEQ Policy where compliant with local laws and Conditions, we involve our Make sure that we are suppliers in our commitment to • Contact points defined, for not complicit in human observe human rights. questions as well as reporting rights abuses violations Principle 3 Competent employees are our • GW Code of • Groupwide training on the Code of Uphold the freedom success factor. Gebrüder Weiss Conduct Conduct implemented of association and the advocates freedom of assembly • GW Human • Annual appraisal interviews effective recognition of and collective bargaining. Our Resource implemented the right to collective cultural diversity is regarded as an Development • Active participation in the annual bargaining asset and discrimination against • GW payroll collective bargaining for the individuals or groups of people will Principle 4 accounting Austrian freight forwarding sector not be tolerated. Gebrüder Weiss The elimination of all strictly condemns child labour and • Provision of a flexible working hour Labour forms of forced and any form of forced or compulsory model compulsory labour labour. • Contact points are defined, for Principle 5 questions as well as reporting The effective abolition violations of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of ­discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 At Gebrüder Weiss, the environ• GW Code of • Only the current highest “EURO” Support a precautionary ment holds a 'very special place', Conduct class of heavy goods vehicles is approach to environand we regularly show this in • GW Environmental considered for new purchases mental challenges the selection of transport modes Management • Transport route optimisation, to and how we carry out our daily System (ISO increase load factor of vehicles Principle 8 business. We are committed to the 14001 certified) • Vehicle telematics implemented, Undertake initiatives responsible use of resources and to promote more • GW HSEQ Policy to increase fleet efficiency recognise the subject of environEnvironment environmentally friendly mental protection as a long-term • Measuring energy consumption technologies challenge and worthy objective • Testing alternative fuel trucks for investment. We are doing our (LNG, electric) Principle 9 utmost to reduce our environmenCalculation of greenhouse Encourage the • tal impact, by investing in state-ofgas emissions for transports development and diffuthe-art technology, and improving performed sion of environmentally infrastructure and processes. friendly technologies • Modernising and increasing efficiency of facilities • Waste disposal and waste separation system Principle 10 Gebrüder Weiss adheres to • GW Code of • Groupwide Compliance Online Work against corruption the principles of transparency, Conduct Training implemented in all its forms, including responsibility, integrity, solidarity, • GW Compliance • Supplier Relationship Anti-Corruption extortion and bribery civil courage, justice, democracy System Management System and supremacy of the rule of law. implemented, including ­ • GW Anti-Corruption GW expressly distances itself from compliance screening of Policy any form of corruption, including business partners extortion and bribery. Our emplo• Compliance Office implemented yees and business partners are therefore bound to neither offer nor • Contact points are defined, for accept any improper benefits which reporting violations could influence commercial decisions. 6|6
