Open joint-stock company «BYELORUSSIAN STEEL WORKS — management company of «Byelorussian metallurgical company» holding» PROGRESS REPORT on social responsibility and corporate sustainability 2015 OPEN JOINT-STOCK COMPANY «BYELORUSSIAN STEEL WORKS – MANAGEMENT COMPANY OF «BYELORUSSIAN METALLURGICAL COMPANY» HOLDING» PROGRESS REPORT on social responsibility and corporate sustainability for 2015 Zhlobin 2016 Content Preface to the report  5 General Director’s Appeal 6 Description of the enterprise  8 General information 8 Business approach 12 Strategy and goals in the area of sustainable development 14 Enterprise’s approach to sustainable development  14 Principles of strategy implementation 15 Management of sustainable development 16 History of sustainable development 19 Participation in external initiatives 30 Interaction with stakeholders  30 Interaction with the community 31 Interaction with mass media 32 Interaction with authorities 34 Interaction with science 35 Process of determination of essential subjects 36 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of sustainable development38 Economic effectiveness38 Financial-economic activity 38 Key indicators 39 Profit 40 Payment to the owner 40 Taxes and compulsory payments 40 Enterprise’s risks 41 Investment risks 41 Industry risks 41 Country and regional risks 42 Legal risks 42 Industrial safety, labor protection and ecological risks43 Financial support by the government 43 Market presence  44 Indirect economic impacts 45 Medium-term targets of the plant 46 Information on achievements and awards 47 Environmental activity50 Environmental policy50 Key principles and approaches50 Implementation of the ecological strategy51 Minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s vital activity51 Minimizing of the plant’s impact on flora and fauna52 Efficient use of natural resources56 Efficient use of energy resources56 Air basin protection58 Water basin protection62 Utilization of industrial wastes64 Training66 Improvement of ecological culture of the personnel66 Development and implementation of resource-saving, low-waste and environmentally safe technologies67 Expenses for environment protection and monitoring. Ecological payments68 Medium-term targets of the Company69 Social activity70 Labor relations and adequate labor70 Personnel management policy 70 Key principles and approaches71 Description of the personnel72 Employees rights75 Professional and career development76 Training and education77 Motivation system82 Material stimulation82 Non-financial incentives86 Short-term targets in the area of social responsibility87 Labor protection and ensuring of industrial safety87 Improvement of labor conditions89 Training and competence evaluation91 Social control of observance of human rights in the area of labor protection91 Health protection 92 Effectiveness of medical and health promotion programs 94 Social package of privileges and guarantees for employees 95 Health promotion and rest time of the employees and their families 97 Physical culture and sport development 97 Cultural life of the plant employees 98 Solving of employees housing problems 101 Support for large families 101 Social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids and other categories of people not sufficiently provided for 101 Social partnership 103 The trade union organization of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding 103 Primary organization RPO «Belaya Rus» 106 Primary organization PO BRYU 106 Veterans’ union 108 Women’s union 108 Union of soldiers-internationalists 109 Union of young specialists 110 Union of foremen 111 Union of physical training and sport 111 Monitoring of public opinion about social programs effectiveness 111 Responsibility for the goods produced114 General provisions 114 Product life cycle 115 Customer’s health and safety 117 Product marking with appropriate information 118 Marketing communications 119 Mutually beneficial cooperation with consumers of the plant’s products  120 Mutually beneficial cooperation with suppliers 122 Annexes Aims of the enterprise for medium-term outlook 124 List of abbreviations 125 General standard reporting components of GRI (G4) 127 Specific standard reporting components 129 Feedback questionnaire 133 Notes134 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Preface to the Report This Report on the plant’s activity in the area of The Report is prepared in conformity with the gensustainable development for 2015 (hereinafter reeral version of reporting according to GRI G4 Guidferred to as «the Report») prepared by Open Jointance. Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works – ManContent and significance of the Report agement Company of «Belorussian Metallurgical Company» Holding is the eighth Report of the enTaking into consideration the approach recomterprise. Maintaining the tradition of sustainability mended by GRI G4, the process of determination of reporting, the enterprise confirms its readiness for the Report content was carried out in compliance an open dialogue with the stakeholders. BSW implewith the principles of significance, coverage of the ments the obligations undertaken and follows the stakeholders, development sustainability context and chosen course of improvement and reorganization in completeness of the information disclosure. To deall directions: management of sustainable developtermine the Report context and to form its content, ment, economic activity, work with the staff in the the enterprise carried out assessment of important area of social activity of the enterprise in the region topics in correspondence and cooperation with suppliers and customers, and with the requirements of In the reporting policy of environmental and industrial safety. GRI Guidelines. Topics year the enterprise The Report discloses the plant’s achievements in and questions disclosed in started to use GRI, the area of sustainable development. Its priority isthe Report are considered version G4 to report sue is BSW activity directed towards production of significant in terms of their on sustainable quality goods, provision of safe and adequate labour influence upon BSW activdevelopment. conditions for the employees, decrease of the ecoity and interests of the key logical impact and promotion of healthy way of living. stakeholders: customers, suppliers, employees, authorities and local communities. Special attention is Scope of the Report paid to development of the projects of the national The enterprise adopted an annual report cycle. This and regional level in the Report; complex informaRe[port reflects the results of BSW activity in tion about implemented initiatives aimed at improvethe period from January 1, 2015 till December 31, ment of ecological efficiency of the production is 2015 including main approaches to achievement of presented, labour protection and industrial safety the goals and task fulfillment as well as plans and issues are disclosed in detail as well as personnel goals of the Organization. Electronic versions of and social policy and interaction with local communithe Reports can be found on our corporate web-site ties and suppliers of the plant. belsteel.com. The Report does not contain informaSo as to maintain a constructive dialogue with all tion regarding joint-ventures and the enterprises interested parties, the plant values every opinion located outside the Republic of Belarus. about its activity in the area of sustainable developEssential changes in the Report ment. That is why contact information and a feedback form are given in the report. This Report conThe key measures tains essential Your opinions and proposals regarding the form and realized and permit changes of the incontent of the Report as well as questions may be ting to improve the enter formation disclosed sent to: secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by or to the postal prise ’ s image were events in the previous readdress: Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian marked with a «Novelty» ports of the plant. Steel Works – Management Company of «Belorussign in the R eport . Economic indicators sian Metallurgical Company» Holding (OJSC «BSWare given in US dollars corresponding to the averManagement Company of «BMC» Holding), 37 Proage annual rate of the National Bank of the Republic myshlennaya str., Zhlobin, Gomel region, 247210, of Belarus existing in 2015 equaled to Br15 864,62. Republic of Belarus. SOCIAL REPORT 2015 5 General Director’ message result was achieved due to the professionalism, diligence and understanding of the situation by our specialists. Taking into consideration changing conditions, we continued to follow the established concept of the plant’s development directed towards strengthening of our technical potential and increase of its operation effectiveness. The main achievement of Byelorussian Steel Works is a formal commissioning of section producing shop No. 2. This is one of the large-scale investment projects implemented by our plant in its history. Its significance for Belarusian economy was underlined by the visit of President Alexander Lukashenko who participated in the solemn ceremony of the plant startup. This project, impressive due to its scale and the level of the technologies used, represents high expectations and prospects of the plant confirmed by successful customer audits held and contracts signed. The new shop allows BSW to increase its presence on traditional steel markets and occupy new niches thanks to manufacture of new types of products This document reflects information about all directions of the enterprise’s activity. Dear Friends! Speaking about modernization, it is necessary to I’m glad to acquaint you with the Report of OJSC underline that it was directed not only towards «Byelorussian Steel Works – management compagrowth of volumes of the product output and exny of the «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» pansion of its range but to improvement of employholding in the area of sustainable development for ees working conditions and minimization of the nega2015. This document contains information about all tive impact on the environment. Gross emission of directions of the enterprise’s activity in the reportcontaminants in the air in 2015 that fell by 12% as ing period and the outlook of its development. compared to 2014 serves the best evidence of the The year 2015 unlike any other period put BSW above statement. It became possible due to instalteam for test. Drop of steel prices and other exlation of bag filters made of spark-proof cloth on ternal economic factors made serious corrections gas cleaning plants of the electric-arc furnaces of the usual rhythm of the enterprise’s operation. (main sources of emissions) ensuring stable and Occurring difficulties made us search for extra sustainable operation of environment conservative reserves for plant’s operation efficiency growth, equipment. A considerable contribution to the endecrease of its product cost. Operative measures vironmental activity of BSW is made by the use of taken by the plant made it possible for us to achieve reclaimed water and production waste handling as a very significant goal: withstand and retain our well as improvement of the ecological culture of presence on global markets. This is one of the most the employees. We realize that our production is important victories of our team in 2015. Thus, durconnected with a negative environmental impact of ing 12 months of 2015 the enterprise delivered its the region of operation and purposefully continue products to 56 countries including Belarus. This improvement of our production process so as to 6 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS decrease its influence on the environment of our and correspondence to the highest responsibility to native land to the minimum level. its partners, employees and the state. The year 2015 was announced a year of youth in We arrange our work so as not simply to produce Belarus. It is symbolic that an unprecedented nummore tons of steel and effectively sell them to our ber of young employees were hired by the plan this customers but to create adequate labour conditions year: 338 initiative young people joined our plant and ensure a decent level of living of our employteam. These are specialists who will build our ees, actively participate in the development of the plant’s future due to their up-to-date knowledge region of operation and strengthening of Belaruand based on traditions laid down by our veterans. sian economy. I hope that our report on the plant’s That is why the personnel policy of the plant supactivity in the area of sustainable development for poses a comprehensive support of young employees: 2015 will serve you as a confirmation of the above. the plant provides conditions for the development of their professional and personal qualities. We do our best to make our plant not only their first Best regards, work place, but make it became an organization A.N. Savianok, where they can obtain quick promotion. This is the General Director only way to provide for succession of working generations, transition of experience and bringing up of the staff required for BSW effective operation SOCIAL REPORT 2015 7 Plant’s Profile Byelorussian Steel Works is the largest enterthe Ministry of Industry (Minprom) of the Republic prise not only in the Republic of Belarus, but also of Belarus which determines a set of annual tarin Europe, and is a basic enterprise for the national gets, obligatory individual decisions, coordinates steelmaking. It has been among competent steelmakstrategy of the plant’s development and investment ers for almost three decades already. projects. The plant determines strategic directions of development and approaches for achievement of Adherence to the principles of sustainable develthe targets set, makes decisions of operative naopment and implementation of the strategy focused ture, form financial budget on its own. on customers helps the enterprise to disclose new possibilities and prospects for further development Description of the key structural in the conditions of the unstable economic situation. subdivisions General information The whole production is carried out on a single production site in the Republic of Belarus that alIn terms of marketable products, BSW is among five lows the plant to save due to the scale and manulargest enterprises of the country. facture products with low expenses. A wide set of production facilities makes it possible to flexibly The contract for the design and erection of the form production streams considering market conplant and all required infrastructure was signed on March 19, 1982 by Austrian company VOESTditions and maintain stable sales volumes during a ALPINE AG and Italian DANIELI. Project devellong period of time. opment, supply of equipment and F rom the structural point of view , the plan con 245 development of technology was sists of two main productions metallurgical fulfilled with participation of ( steelmaking and rolling ) and hardware produc 30 companies from Germany, Ittion, infrastructural shops and divisions control BSW aly, Sweden, Hungary and other ling vital activity of the enterprise . S teelmaking area (ha) countries with consideration of includes a scrap yard , two electric melt shops , and the latest global achievements a technological transport shop . T he rolling pro of science and technology. October 15, 1984 is duction consists of rolling shop N o .1 including considered the birthday of the plant. three rolling mills producing different sections , A t the end of A ugust 2012 O pen J oint -S tock section rolling shop No .2 and a pipe mill . A solemn C ompany «B yelorussian S teel W orks » was re ceremony of commissioning of rolling shop No .2 took place at BSW on 25.09.2015. P resident A l named in O pen J oint -S tock C ompany B yelorus exander L ukashenko took part in it . H ardware pro sian S teel W orks – management company of duction includes three steel wire shops and a tare «B yelorussian M etallurgical C ompany holding and die shop . Configuration of the plant infra ( hereinafter BSW) which refers to the class of structure is represented by shops repairing steel mini plants . BSW is a compact enterprise in terms making , power and mechanical equipment , shops of its territory located on one industrial site providing the production process with media and (245,0165 ha ) in the town of Z hlobin with the electric power and other divisions . Plant producpopulation 75 956 people ( as of D ecember 31, tion catalogue includes : concast and hot rolled 2015) in 220 km from M insk , the capital of the billet , shaped rolled products , rolled sections , R epublic of B elarus . reinforcing material for concrete structures , pipe Legal address of the plant (mailing address), headbillet , wire rod , tire cord , hot deformed seamless quarters address: 37 Promyshlennaya str., Zhlopipe , steel anchor and wavy fiber , microfiber and bin, Gomel region, 247197, Republic of Belarus. steel wire for various applications . 100% BSW shares belong to the state, namely to OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» 8 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS holding is a highly technological steelmaking facilof a competi 11 944 Total number of BSW employees ity with a complete production cycle. Total productive innova tion is carried out on a single production site in tive production , strengthening of financial and the Republic of Belarus which allows saving due to economic condition , improvement of management the scale of production and manufacture products structure of the enterprises in the holding , re with low expenses. A large set of production faciliduction of non production expenditures , modern ties makes it possible to form flexible production ization and technical revamping of the existing flows taking into consideration market conditions productions of the holding ( investment volume : and maintain stable amount of sales during a long approximately $3330 million during 2012-2020), period of time. growth of export potential and increase of asset capitalization . «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» Holding Organizational structure of management M inprom determines BSW as the parent company The organizational structure is based on a hierarof «B yelorussian M etallurgical C ompany » hold chical principle. The plant is headed by the general ing . T he holding comprises 22 enterprises ( steel director who acts in accordance with the national making , engineering , agricultural productions , law and Articles of Association of the organizaetc .). T otal number of employees is over 24 000 tion, determines policy and objectives, distributes people . M ain aims of its establishment are : use responsibilities and authority among the heads of of BSW possibilities for development of lagging the plant divisions. As of December 31, 2015 total enterprises included in the holding , formation number of employees equaled to 11 944 people. General shareholders' Auditing committee meeting Supervisory Board Office work Assistant director General director Directorate Press secretary Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director for technical development – for FER and sales for economy and finances for personnel and ideological for hardware production of OJSC for commercial issues for technology and quality chief engineer of OJSC of OJSC «BSW-management of OJSC «BSW-management work of OJSC «BSW«BSW-management of OJSC «BSW-management management company of OJSC «BSW-management «BSW-management company company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding of «BMC» holding Marketing Associate general Associate general Director for capital Production director – director – director for production Associate general director and technical issues – construction – Head of the production head of (for economic safety Head of production director for FER Head of CCB department and contractual activity monitoring and corporate issues marketing dpt. and legal work) department Chief Chief Chief Chief Chief Deputy chief Deputy chief engineer for Deputy chief engineer for Chief specialist mechanical electrical power specialist specialist Chief specialist Chief specialist reconstruction engineer for labour protection, for transport Chief engineer engineer engineer for steelmaking for rolling and technical industrial safety for hardware for economic development logistics accountant revamping – and environment production issues of section rolling protection Head of D&RDpt. Capital Deputy chief SP&AD Repair CMEDpt. CEEDpt. CPEDpt. Production Labour Construction organization Steelmaking specialist Environment Accounting, Technical for rolling – protection board Marketing payment Personnel Board and technical department D&RB Product Legal board reporting board (TB) diagnostics Head of rolling and industrial Transport board organization board and control board logistics sales board board department sanitary board board department Planning and economic RMS MSEERS PS Rolling analysis Personnel Quality Repair and SY production Labour Consumables L&B Automation Rolling department development Auditing technical PTD TAS management construction board development protection RMPD and by-products and assessment Economic PAMD board department department department shop department department sales department safety board of PA “BSW” (RPTDD) and OJSC Staff “BSW” Material MERS MD&A PERS EMS-1 SRS Industrial Dispatch Finance board RWS training Housing TCD and resource safety SWS-1 and declaration and refresher department rating MTPD department department department training centre М TL NS&TMS EMS-2 Protocol Price Information Preschool Tender department Security CPL PM SWS-2 and visa and ideological establishment OKDSKS department department department work department sector EPD Radiation TA&EDL Mode RSPS Representative Chief Medical control adjustment SWS-3 office in Minsk МC metrological department service and Moscowv department lab Stores Written TDS “Metallurg” Nondestructive off TTP Tare Palace newspaper testing dismantling and of Culture dies shop editorial laboratory department office И сследоваEnergy тельский saving SHIF центр bureau Private trade and producti Private trade and Private agricultural Private construction Private transport on unitary enterprise “BSW Service Centre” production unitary enterprise “Metallurgtorg” unitary enterprise “Paporotnoe” unitary enterprise “Metallurgstroi” unitary enterprise “Metallurgtrans” Organizational management structure  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 9 Plant’s Profile  Geography and activity scale ume of supplies (71,9%) falls on such countries as G ermany, Poland, L ithuania, L atvia , I taly, and the I n 2015 main export regions were European marNetherlands; their share in value terms equaled kets and R ussian markets . 77,3% of the total ex to 59,8%. G rowth rate of steel supplies in natu ports fall on these regions . D uring 12 months of ral terms was 154,9%, in value terms – 103,7%. 2015 our products were delivered to 56 countries, I reland appeared in the list of European supplies Belarus included. During the (supplies of rebar), but the market of Cyprus 56 whole period of operation of disappeared from the list ( in 2014 2660 tons of OJSC «BSW – management reinforcing bars were supplied there). Besides, Number of countries company of «BMC» holding, supplies of some rolled metal were restored (afexporting BSW it has supplied products to ter a three year break ) to a number of E uropean products in 2015 117 countries. G rowth rate countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina (pipe), Hunin natural terms made up gary ( rebar , wire rod , fiber ), G reat B ritain ( re 104,1%, and 76,4% in value terms. bar ), G ermany ( rebar ), S pain ( rounds ) L atvia ( wire Due to commissioning of a new small -section mill rod), the Netherlands (rebar), Poland (wire rod), (section rolling shop No .2) a planned reduction Slovakia (steel wire), Finland (BBW), Switzerland of sales of such semis as cast billet / bloom takes ( rounds ). place at BSW with subsequent expansion of the I ncrease of the European market in value terms by rolled product range . T he largest importing 15,8 % is caused by two main reasons: countries in 2015 were : R ussia , G ermany , P o land , E gypt , L ithuania , T urkey , L atvia , the USA, • reorientation of sales of reinforcing material the N etherlands , and I taly . A t present , an active from the market of R ussian F ederation to this work directed to maintaining and growth of pres market ence of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding on the existing outlets is carried • commissioning of a new small -section wire mill which main product market is the E uropean region out as well as search for new economically profit able regions . (growth of wire rod and round coils sales). D etailed supply distribution in 2015 CIS market, including the R epublic of B elarus . T he market of CIS countries is the second European market. I n 2015 main export share in size market from the point of view of sales of of BSW steel belonged to the E uropean market . products of OJSC «BSW – management company The plant supplied its products to 31 countries of of «BMC» holding . T he key role among CIS counthis market (29 countries in 2014). T he main vol tries is played by the market of the R ussian F ed Destination 2015 Rating 2014 Rating Europe 59,8 1 44,0 1 Middle East 7,9 4 10,3 3 Africa 9,9 3 10,0 4 South-East Asia 0,2 7 0,4 8 America 4,1 5 4,9 5 Russian Federation 17,5 2 26,9 2 Ukraine 0,6 6 2,2 6 Moldova, Armenia 0,1 8 1,3 7 Table: Shipment of products for export, USD thou., % 10 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS eration . The enterprise supplies the entire range amount of product 83,1% was shipped to Egypt . of its products to this market . Totally, supplies I n 2015 this market was the main one in terms of were performed to 4 countries of this region (in sales of semis . Export share equaled to 9,9 %; 2014 5 countries): the Russian F ederation, Arin 2014 it was 10,1%. Decrease of the share of menia , the U kraine , and T ajikistan . E xport to the the A frican market in the total export amount is Russian Federation makes up 96,7% of the total related to its changed structure . T he strategy of export to CIS. sales of the products of the new small section mill is directed first of all towards reorientation Domestic market in the RB is one of the largest of sales from the semis market in the M iddle E ast markets in terms of volume of BSW product sales. and North Africa to more expensive markets of I t is assessed that BSW occupies 100% of the do high-tech metallurgical products of the European mestic market sales of steel cord and bronze plat Union with a high share of added value. ed bead wire , 84% — of wire rod sales , 39% — of rebar sales , 25% — of rounds from mill 850 and M arket of M iddle E ast A sia . T he enterprise 6% — of seamless pipes. supplied its products to 6 countries of M iddle География экспорта и доли крупнейших стран – импортеров продукции за 12 мес. 2014-2015 гг., в стоимостном выражении, % M iddle E ast and A frican market . T he enEast Asia (in 2014 5 countries): Vietnam , India, terprise supplied its products to 4 countries of J apan, Singapore, Thailand, and Korea. the market ( in 2014 6 countries ): T urkey , J or A merican market. Drop of oil prices lead to dan , S yria , and I srael . T he main amount 86,7% decrease of oil production in the USA and pipe or was shipped to Turkey. The export share of the der in Q4 2015 from A merican oil producers . T he M iddle East countries made up 7,9 %; in 2014 it plant supplied steel products to 5 countries ( in was 10,3%. 2014 3 countries): Ecuador, M exico, the USA, Drop of the sales market in the M iddle East by Brazil , and Columbia. The main products supplied 2,4 % was caused by an aggravation of competito this market are seamless pipes and steel cord. tion with C hinese producers which lead to a sharp T he export share is insignificant and it made up decrease of the regional prices . only 4,1% in value terms in 2015. T he main outlet in this market in 2015 were the USA with 93,2% The organization supplied its products to 5 Afof the American market and 6,8% are made up by rican countries ( in 2014 9 countries ): G hana , S outh A merican countries : C olumbia , E cuador Egypt , Tunisia, Senegal , and M orocco . The main and M exico. I n 2015, growth rate of shipments  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 11 Plant’s Profile  to American countries equaled to 76,0%, which through difficult times , integrity of strategy , its conditioned by a considerable (almost 3 times ) realization efficiency and unity of the team play decrease of seamless pipe supplies to the USA. a very important role in the plant ’ s achievement But, there were diversified supplies of wire rod to of positive results of its activity and business the US market ( in 2015 there volume was a little growth . So as to determine bottlenecks and to higher than 26 187 thousand tons ). T here is one overcome them , the plant carries out regular more new country in the export geography : C o assessment of its activity and effectiveness of lumbia . T he plant supplied 1 033 tons of seamless achievement of financial and non financial targets . pipes there . Values and strategic principles Competitive advantages of OJSC «BSW – of the enterprise management company of «BMC» holding»: OJSC «BSW — management company a strong position on global steel markets; of «BMC» holding is a stably developing and continuously renewing organization considering a complete metallurgical cycle aiming at producchanges , tendencies and risks of the external en tion of goods with the highest added value ; vironment . cooperation with the largest tire producing conM ission – production of high-tech steel prodcerns ; ucts ( including products for automotive industry ) to improve productivity of the enterprise taking diversified commodity distribution network into consideration environment and employees ’ worldwide ; health safety , provision of a high living level of own training centre; the staff and stakeholders satisfaction . innovative activity, Vision – be the best supplier of steel products (including products for automotive industry) meetinvestment in research and development activity; ing requirements of national and foreign custom ers on all developed segments of the steel market own metallurgical research centre; due to use of up to date and environment friendly the enterprise is one of the ten global tire cord safe technologies , effective use of resources and producers ; optimal organization of production processes and management . leader in hose wire production; Values – employees ; environment , natural and the largest European producer of bead wire , a other types of resources ; partners , quality , monopolist in the CIS market ; knowledge and community . favorable geographic position of the plant; Strategy of the enterprise is directed towards satisfaction of interests of all stakeholders in : employees’ professionalism ; high competitiveness of products; — output of products of required quality and range ; timely investment program ; — provision of sustainable development , person high reputation among customers due to product nel included ; quality level . — retention and strengthening of its position on B usiness approach the developed markets ; At present , the macroeconomy of Belarus goes — improvement of the employees welfare; 12 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS — preservation of health and life of every member tion of corrective and preventive measures direct of the employees team ; ed towards prevention of occupational diseases and accidents in the production ; — continuous decrease of environmental impact of the production activity ; • prevention of environment contamination , inju ries and worsening of the employees ’ health during — retention and further development of corpo their production activity ; rate management standards . Implementation of the strategy and mis • activity in the area of quality , social responsi sion supposes : bility , protection of information , finances , energy saving , labour protection and industrial safety , • achievement of the targets set for the plant; environment in accordance with the requirements of international standards , existing law and other • timely respond to continuously changing exter requirements , including those related to ecologi nal conditions with the use of P-D-C-A cycle (plan cal aspects of activity , production or services , – do – check act); dangers in the area of occupational health and • introduction of progressive technologies during labour safety; design , and development of production processes of new competitive types of products , reduction • fulfillment of regular monitoring of the produc of dangers and risks of the production processes , tion processes and management ; prevention of harmful impact of the production • improvement of product quality, provision of lafactors on the employees , decrease of contami bour safety and health protection , environment nant emission in the air , discharges into water ba protection , energy saving including suppliers , sin , waste generation , use of natural and energy subcontractors and customers of the enterprise ; resources ; • continuous improvement of the effectiveness • implementation of purposeful training of the staff , arrangement of conditions for high quality of the management system functioning in corre labour , demonstration of personal abilities and spondence with the requirements of international standardsв ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, initiative by each employee and the staff interest in 26000 and industrial requirements of the automo provision of high product quality level, efficient use of raw materials , auxiliary materials and en tive and oil industry ISO/TS 16949, API spec Q1; ergy resources ; development and inclusion of subsections «E ner gy saving management » according to ISO 50001, • mprovement of production culture and ensuring «F inancial management » according to ISO 10014, of personal moral and material responsibility for «I nformation protection management system » acthe quality of work done . cording to ISO 27001 into the management system ; • forecast of risks related to the enterprise’ s acM anagement of the organization is interested in fulfillment of the C orporate P olicy and will ar tivity ; range conditions required for that so as to pro • fulfillment of continuous control of the risks vide for an adequate level of living of the employrelated to the production processes , implementa ees and their confidence in the future . SOCIAL REPORT 2015 13 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development Enterprise’s approach to sustainable At present , the existing production capacities of development the plant are fully loaded . G rowth of production volumes is possible only in the result of the con Byelorussian Steel Works actively introduces printinued large-scale modernization of steel melting , ciples of sustainable development into its business rolling and steel cord and steel wire production activity. The main aim of the plant development is by way of introduction of state of the – art tech development of economy of the enterprise based on nologies and equipment , commissioning of new pro innovative renewal, increase of economic effectiveduction facilities . This work is planned up to 2015 ness, environmental safety, resource saving and imwithin the framework of the program «I nnovative provement of product competitiveness, achievement development of «B yelorussian S teel W orks » of an adequate level of living of BSW employees. for 2010-2015». BSW development program for Management and employees of the plant carry out 2011-2015 determines goals and tasks. Priorities their activity in accordance with the Code of Ethand the most significant parameters of social and ics which is brought to the notice of the staff and economic development of the enterprise , a system external partners. The Code of Ethics of BSW is of measures of production , organizational , eco developed considering key values such as truthfulnomic and ecological nature are substantiated . ness, sincerity and respect for mutual interests, Proposals for improvement of the mechanism of and their obligatory fulfillment leads to mutual their realization are determined . T he required re confidence, openness and transparency of relasources and measures ensuring achievement of the tions. Stakeholders’ confidence is one of the key development parameters in the medium term period values for our plant. are determined . Taking into consideration the specific character of A peculiar feature of the investment projects improduction, the priority directions of the enterplemented in compliance with the BSW Development prise in the area of sustainable development include: Program is their direction towards stepwise fulfill— increase of the technical and economic level of ment of a complex full-scale reconstruction and production due to reconstruction, modernization modernization of all stages of the production. The and new construction, further decrease of specific program provides for introduction of technologies consumption of raw material, fuel, energy, and laand equipment considering the latest technical and bour resources for steel product manufacturing; technological achievements in steelmaking implemented with participation of leading companies from — introduction of progressive technologies ensurAustria, Italy, Germany, and the USA. Besides, a ing energy and material resource saving; transition to output of products of a principally new quality and consumer properties in compliance — expansion of production of steel with a high with the best world similar products, decrease of added value; specific power consumption of the production and ecological purity of technology and production in — improvement of the export supplies structure in general is improved. the direction of growth of the share of products of downstream processing; Directions of the plant development strategy suppose achievement of an adequate level of living of — improvement of environmental characteristics of BSW employees, ensure growth of the output volthe existing productions (introduction of environmentume of industrial products and determine key paramfriendly technologies, reduction of waste generation eters of social and economic development. and specific emission of contaminants into the air and water basins, increase of volumes and improvement of Increase of industrial production, as in previous effectiveness of production waste processing). years, is supposed to be carried out with a relative 14 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS September 25 – a symbolic event took place at BSW which was also important for the country and global steelmaking: commissioning of section rolling mill No.2. President Lukashenko participated in this solemn arrangement. The head of the state launched the small-section wire rolling mill into operation. reduction of the volume of material and fuel and strategy suppose achievement of an adequate level power resources consumption based on the usage of living of BSW employees, set conditions for the of resourceand energy-saving technologies as growth of industrial product output and determine well as structural shifts in production. Along with key parameters of social and economic development. realization of investment projects, a complex solving of questions of selection, training and retrainSimilar to previous years, industrial production growth is supposed to be fulfilled with a relative ing of employees is foreseen. decrease of consumption volume of material, fuel, To strengthen the position of the plant on the exand energy resources based on usage of resourceisting markets and develop new markets in 2012saving technologies and structural improvement in 2016, we plan to fulfill the following measures: the production. confirmation of the existing conformity certificates for the system of quality management and manufacAlong with implementation of investment projects, a ture of products; homologation (approval of cuscomplex resolving of the issues of selection, traintomers) of the hardware products; obtaining new ing, and retraining of the staff is foreseen. certificates for the plant products at the proposal To strengthen the plant’s position on the existing of the MD (judging from the review and analysis of markets and develop new outlets in 2015 the folthe market situation and prices) and traders. lowing measures were taken: Directions of the strategy implementation —4 existing conformity certificates for the proDirections of realization of the plant development duction of reinforcing material, seamless pipes, and  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 15 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development hot-rolled sections, cold-deformed reinforcing and services quality, for the EFQM Excellence  wire, finer (anchor, wavy, microbifber) were conAward, etc. firmed; Management of sustainable development — Scope of the license for the right to apply API Spec 5CT monogram for pipe billet for couplings In accordance with the Corporate Policy, the plant was expanded as well as the scope of the certificate management ensures development and realization of for production of rolled sections and steel hottechnical, production, and investment programs dirolled pipes; rected towards improvement of product quality and making an actual contribution to sustainable devel—3 new certificates for the plant products (reopment of the plant. inforcing rolled metal class B500B, ribbed coils and bars class B500А, nonprestressed reinforcing A set of measures aimed at provision of high concoils class S500) were obtained; sumer characteristics of the product manufactured is included in a business-plan which development — customers’ approval for hardware products. procedure is regulated by STP 840-SMK-4.1.2. Participation of the plant in quality contests conTo improve product quality and ensure its competitributes to improvement of the plant’s image and tiveness, the plant develops a long-term program competitiveness of the product manufactured and of BSW development for 2011-2015; plans of reallows assessment of the enterprise’s activity and search work, development (technological) кactivity making comparison to the best enterprises of difare approved and fulfilled by the plant’s own force. ferent countries for further improvement. BSW participates and plans to continue participation in Main measures for product quality improvement national competitions in the area of quality, in the and production effectiveness growth are included contest for the CIS award in the area of product in annual special-purpose orders approved by the Ministry of Industry I Level  General Director II Level  Deputies General Director, III Level Main specialists  Production shop heads, IV Level Heads of structural subdivisions  Heads of shifts / departments V Level Foremen of shifts / departments  Shift personnel VI Level Organizational structure of sustainable development management 16 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS General Director and specifying the timeframe and In 2015 the plant conresponsible persons: tinued the to implement requirements of 2008 № 1 «About improvement of business activity and Directive No.1 dd. The year of BSW joining the investment programs»; 11.03.2004 «About local network of the UN measures of strength№ 2 «About measures for improvement of quality ening of public safety Global Compact and competitiveness of marketable products»; and discipline». Many times questions of labour discipline, implementation standard, and labour № 3 «About measures insuring safe labour condiprotection have been considered at the meetings tions»; of executive organs of the community, and per№ 4 «About measures ensuring fire safety of the sonnel meetings; reports of the subdivision heads plant’s facilities»; were heard. 12 such issues were examined during 2015. To meet the requirements of Directive No. № 5 «About personnel development»; 1, indicators of labour discipline and implementation standards, provision of labour protection and in№ 6 «About progressive technologies, mastering dustrial safety are included in the list of criteria of new types of products, rationalization and invenof manager work assessment; contract termination tive work»; is foreseen in case of their breach. № 7 «About measures for environmental protecF ollowing the D irective «A bout measures for tion»; strengthening of public safety and discipline », the law of the R epublic of B elarus «A bout № 8 «About measures to decrease production struggle against corruption » and supporting the costs». principles of the UN G lobal C ompact , the plant established a service responsible for prevention In 2008 BSW joined the local network of the UN of corruption display and abuse in this area , op Global Compact which is based on the principles of timization of risks when selecting raw material ethic and fair business. Such principles include resuppliers and users of the product manufactured spect for the employee’s right to join trade unions in the conditions of a strong market competition , and inadmissibility of discrimination of the employprovision of safety of the state property man ees, struggle against corruption in any occurrence. aged by the enterprise . The enterprise does not admit corruption activity, Legal support and economic safety board excludes bribery, and fraud. To ensure economic safety and any possibility of unlawful acts occurrence at the prevent corruption occurrence, the plant carries enterprise including acts of corruption in respect out its production and economic activity openly and of new employees and those working at OJSC responsibly. «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding. All employees of the security service have special According to the generally accepted international higher education. In 2015 the employees of the serprinciples of a free economic activity specified in vice were trained in the policies and procedures rethe UN Global Compact, OJSC «BSW – managelated to human rights. ment company of «BMC» holding considers fair competition to be a guarantee of realization of the BSW has developed and implemented the P lan right to free business activity. No legal actions of anti corruption measures in accordance with were undertaken regarding the Organization in conwhich continuous monitoring of the results of nection with resistance to competition. financial and economic activity of the O rganiza  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 17 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  tion is carried out and normative acts regulating Due to openness, transparency, partnership, mutual the order of preparation and execution of tender respect of interests of all stakeholders and acdocuments and supplier selection are updated . To cording to the information of the law machinery of minimize business risks and to fulfill functions the Republic of Belarus, no corruption crimes comof the economic safety control , a pre contract mitted by employees of OJSC «BSW – management check is performed to control legitimacy of po company of «BMC» holding inside the Organization tential counteragents and agreements supplied were registered in 2015. for examination from structural subdivisions of the enterprise . A ll structural subdivisions imple T he O rganization takes unprecedented measures ment a number of measures to prevent corrup to prevent corruption crimes and unlawful ac tion and law infringement : control of purposeful tions . A ll employees of the enterprise are ac and rational consumption of tangible property is quainted with the content of the articles of the strengthened , unplanned random check of assets law of the R epublic of B elarus «A bout struggle is carried out , rotation of the employees of com against corruption » and corresponding articles mercial services of the O rganization is fulfilled , of the C riminal C ode of the R epublic of B elarus presentations of the organs of internal affairs related to them and managers bear personal re and C ommittee of I nquiry of the R epublic of B e sponsibility for that . A commemorative booklet larus regarding the facts of corruption crimes containing main concepts and articles of the an committed by the employees of the organizations ticorruption law is placed on the internal site under the M inistry of I ndustry , financial investi « info -BMZ» continuous access to which have gations are studied . more than 3500 employees ; 85 executives and specialists were trained in legal and organiza The progress of the anticorruption plan implementional aspects of the struggle against corrup tation is controlled by the anticorruption commistion delinquency at special courses on the basis sion which held 4 meetings in 2015. of different educational establishments in 2015. D uring training of foremen and their reserve at the course «L inear manager » studying of legal and organizational aspects of struggle against corruption delinquency is organized ; 47 people studied at the course in 2015. When human resource decisions are taken regarding persons occupying leading positions in the Organization, an obligatory assessment of effectiveness of the measures taken by them to ensure adherence to the anticorruption law is carried out. No penalties and fines were applied to the Organization for breach of the law and order in 2015. Fulfilling its obligations to investors, employees, business partners, and community in general, Byelorussian Steel Works strictly follows the existing law, civil liability norms, the Code of Ethics of business activity and is guided by the principles of effective management, information openness, financial discipline, lawfulness, and ethics. 18 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Dates and events July 13, 2007 – commissioning of the pipe mill in the presence of President A.G. Lukashenko. March 19, 1982 – signing of the contract for the plant erection. January 17, 2008 – inauguration of a water block for health improvement at the Hockey and Swimming CenOctober 15, 1984 – start of the electric melt shop tre of the Olympic Reserve. It includes modern water operation, production of the first heat of steel. attractions, saunas, a solarium, a café, and other facilities. A.S. Yakobson, Chairman of Gomel Regional November 4, 1984 – start of the rolling production Executive Committee, L.N. Opanasyuk, Chairman of operation – first shipment of section metal produced Zhlobin District Executive Committee, and N.V. Anin rolling mill 320/150. drianov, General Director of BSW, A.M. Ryabkov, director of construction and erection organization November 21, 1987 – start of operation of the secondary metallurgy unit and continuous casting No.27, had the honor to cut the red ribbon. machine No.3 (CCM-3) in electric melt shop No.2 March 6, 2008 – 62nd meeting of the Board of pro(EMS-2); large section mill 850 in section rolling ducers and exporters of ferrous materials of CIS shop; production facilities of steel wire shop No.1 countries was held at BSW. Members of the Board (SWS-1) and production of the first shipment of Bediscussed the situation of the ferrous materials marlarusian steel cord. ket, made assessment of the prospects of its develMarch 1, 1991 – start of operation of steel wire opment, and worked out an outlook for export price shop No. 2, lime kiln No. 2, EAF-3 and a ladle vacuum average level for key types of ferrous materials. degasser in the electric melt shop. June 18, 2008 – Belarusian Metallurgical Forum August 1, 1996 – opening of Zhlobin metallurgical «Integration of science, production and education in technical school. development of metallurgy in the Republic of Belarus up to 2020» was held at BSW. The event allowed September 15, 2000 – commissioning of a new wire us to determine a concept of the national metallurgy rolling mill 150, visit of President A.G. Lukashenko. development in the nearest future. November 30, 2000 – start of operation of steel June 30, 2008 – reconstruction of the sulfuric acid wire shop No. 3 (SWS-3). regeneration unit of the chemical plant of SWS-2. May 19, 2002 – start of operation of the 2nd stage August 8, 2008 – modernization of dust removof the oxygen plant. ing units of electric-arc furnace No.2 (EAF-2) of May 24, 2005 – start of erection of the pipe mill. EMS-1. February 24, 2006 – commissioning of brass plating December 2008 – the pipe mill reached its designed line No.6 after reconstruction in SWS-2. capacity. October 2006 – new six-block and ten-block drawing March 2009 – modernization of the finishing line of machines were installed in SWS-3 within the framerolling mill 320. work of the Dnepr project. July 9, 2009 – presentation of a new type of BSW December 28, 2006 – commissioning of a new bead product – steel fiber. bronzing line No.2 at SWS-1. October 9, 2009 – country first public hearing of December 30, 2006 – commissioning of a new ionthe Corporate Social Report of the enterprise preexchange unit at SWS-1. sented to participants of the UN Global Compact.  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 19 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  December 6, 2009 – completion of a large investment No.1 and No.3 signed with Water Group. The projproject – reconstruction of continuous casting maect was developed exclusively for steel furnaces chine No. 3 (CCM-3). operating at BSW. December 14, 2009 – A.N. Savianok, General DirecOctober 2010 – members of team No. 4 of rolling tor of BSW, was appointed to the position of the mill 150 set up a new record –1200 tons of wire rod vice-president of the International Union of Metalproduced during one shift. Previously, maximum perlurgists. formance raised only up to the mark of 1070 tons. 2009 –this crisis year the plant expanded its export November 2010 – 20 years ago the first tons of deliveries by 17 countries. steel were produced in electric-arc furnace No.3. Now EAF-3 produces 12 heats per shift, not 4 as February 2010 – start of operation of the departbefore. ment of mandrel and disc saw preparation at the pipe mill. The department is equipped with the equipment November 2010 – a jubilee ton of steel cord – the which is unique for our country. 500th one! – was produced in SWS-2. March 2010 – methods of production of sectional December 2010 – SWS-2 crossed the boundary of (square) wire for high-pressure hoses mastered at one million tons. This is the amount of goods prosteel wire shop No.2. duced by the shop from 1991 till 2010 included. April 2010 – mastering of pipe rolling from round December 2010 – the team of rolling mill 320 probillet diameter 200mm cast in CCM-3 started at the duced one millionth ton of reinforcement in 2010. pipe mill. From February 1 till March 7, 2011 80 specialists March 29, 2010 –contract for erection of the third from Slovak Republic were trained in the section lime kiln signed with TECHCOM (Germany). rolling and electric steel-making shops within the June 2010 – implementation of one of the 11 projframework of international cooperation of steelmakers. ects for expansion of the rough and medium drawing departments of SWS-1. Two new rough drawing maFebruary 2011 – two universal machines for wire rechines installed. winding for fiber production manufactured by GCR July 2010 – a contract for delivery of equipment for Eurodraw, Italy, were installed at thermal etchingthe lime kiln signed with Maerz (Austria) in the result galvanic department of SWS-1. of negotiations between BSW and Тесhcom. March 17, 2011 – the 1st International conference July 2010 – 10th International scientific and techniof suppliers was held with 90 representatives of difcal conference «Metal-2010» held at BSW; it united ferent companies cooperating with BSW in the area 80 employees of the plant and 45 representatives of of supplies of materials, raw materials, and equipthe enterprises and educational establishments of ment. Belarus, Russia, the Ukraine, Lithuania, and Kazakhstan. March 23, 2011 – team of rolling mill 320 of the section rolling production started to roll rebar August 2010 – a new method of flat wire production No.14 with the help of a 4-strand slitting process. for high-pressure hoses mastered. The rollers needed a little more than a month to start commercial production of the material. September 2010 – a contract for reconstruction of the unit for cleaning of gases discharged from EAF March 24, 2011 – IXth meeting of the members of 20 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS In commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the victory of the soviet people in the Great Patriotic war and in memory of those heroic days a Peace Alley was planted near engineering building No. 1 of the plant’s headquarters as a tribute paid to all veterans who struggled for the Great Victory and who made possible present labour achievements of Byelorussian Steel Works. April 16, first seventeen spherical maples were planted by the plant’s employees headed by General Director A.N. Savianok and employees of BSW commodity distribution network representing the plant all over the world. the Club of Quality Leaders of Central and East ritory of total area of 11 hectares previously beEuropean countries. Representatives of more than longing to Agrotechservice for the expansion of the 10 enterprises of different countries participated in scrap yard. This additional area allowed the plant the meeting. to increase the storage area of the winter stock of scrap. April 6, 2011 – 1st significant milestone in the history of the pipe mill: а 250 thousandth ton of prodJune 20, 2011 – 35-millionth ton of steel was proucts was manufactured. duced by the plant. April 2011 – a machine for flame processing of steel July 2, 2011 – The first in the plant’s history Open was installed at the mechanical repair shop. The new Day was held. equipment produced by Turkish AKYAPAK opens new possibilities for maintenance personnel in terms of July 7, 2011 – the 11th International scientific and recovery and production of largesize parts. technical conference of young employees «MetApril 21, 2011 –10-millionth ton of steel was cast al-2011» was held at Zhlobin metallurgical techniin electric melt shop No.2 since commissioning of cal school. Apart from Belarusian representatives, CCM-3. young specialists from Russia, the Ukraine, Latvia, Great Britain, and Austria participated in the conferJune 2011 – the plant bought by auction the terence.  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 21 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  July 2011 – new equipment for air drying produced cast in machine No.2 of EMS -1 after the machine by Atlas Copco, Belgium, was commissioned at the reconstruction. compressor station of the repair shop block. December 20, 2011 – a constituent assembly was August 18, 2011 – Ministry of Industry signed an held by Byelorussian Steel Works, DUFERCO S.A. order on joining of GO «Belvtormet» comprising six (Switzerland), Pisec Group GmbH (Austria) to esregional plants procuring and processing ferrous tablish a joint-venture for OSTG pipe processing as scrap and UE «Beltsvetmet» with the daughter coma limited company named BMZ TUBULARS. pany «Tsvetmet» (the town of Zhodino) to the PA «BSW. During last years, three more enterprises January 1, 2012 – the tare and packing shop and the joined «Belvtormet»: OJSC «Technopribor» (Mopowder metallurgy shop merged into one tare and gilyov), OJSC «Polesieelectromash» (the town of dies shop (T&DS). Luninets), OJSC «Kobrinsky Tool plant» «Sitomo». January 2, 2012 – Open Joint-Stock Company «ByeAugust 26, 2011 – SWS-3 crossed the border of 1 lorussian Steel Works (OJSC «BSW») was regismillion ton of produce. tered in the Unified State Registry of Legal Entities and Individual Entrepreneurs with the registration August 31, 2011 – a contract for erection of a new No. 400074854. section rolling mill with the designed capacity 700 thousand tons per year with an outlook to produce 1 March 7, 2012 – the first foundation with a capsule million tpy was signed with Danieli, Italy. containing a message to our descendants was laid for construction of lime kiln No.3 by A.B. Savianok, DiSeptember 22, 2011 – electric melt shop No.2 had rector General. produced 10 000 000 tons of steel since its commissioning. March 11, 2012 – the first Belarusian museum of steelmaking for children was opened in kindergarten October 20, 2011 – the 1st scientific-practical semiNo. 34 of Byelorussian Steel Works. nar «Main directions of innovative-technological development of the Production Association «ByelorusMarch 2012 – based on March results, electric melt sian Steel Works» with participation of rectors of shops achieved the best in the plant’s history steel the leading higher institutes of Gomel region. output 233 thousand 880 tons, it is an increase by over 4 thousand tons of the record established in October 2011 – labour teams of electric melt shops October 2011. No. 1 and No. 2 established a record in production of concast billet: 229 673 tons. April 1, 2012 – Metallurg hockey team became the champion winning the match with Neman team from November 28, 2011 –a decision was made to reorthe city of Grodno in the extra-league final series ganize the republican unitary enterprise in an open tournament of play-off of the Open championship of joint-stock company at the conference of the plant’s Belarus. employees. April 4-5, 2012 – the Second International conferDecember 2011 – rolling mill 850: 9 millionth ton of ence of suppliers was held at the plant. cast billet rolled in it. April 22, 2012 – awarding of Metallurg hockey team December 8, 2011 – rolling mill 320 crossed the champions of Belarus, winners of the 20th Open boundary of 1 million tons. Championship of the Republic of Belarus 2011/2012. December 2011 – first square billets 140х140mm May 15, 2012 – a capsule containing a message to 22 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS our descendants was laid in the foundation of the steelmakers as well as research institutes carrying new small-section rolling mill for wire production. out investigations in this area. May 16, 2012 – a visit of B.B. Makey, head of the August 17, 2012 – 5 million tons produced in mill President’s administration, to BSW. 150. This amount had been manufactured since rolling mill 320/150 was divided in two separate mills May 17, 2012 – business conference «Belarus Rus(September 15, 2000). sia: cooperation of steel market players». Over 50 leaders of metallurgical enterprises met at BSW. August 24, 2012 – Registration of Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works – management May 24-25, 2012 – scientific and technical confercompany of «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» ence of young specialists of OJSC «BSW» «Metholding (OJSC «BSW – management company of al-2012» was held at the plant. «BMC» holding) in the Unified State Registry of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs with the May 25, 2012 – 20 years since commissioning of the registration number 400074854. shop of networks, substations and technical maintenance (NST&MS). August 31, 2012 – a ceremonial commissioning of the first stage of pipe finishing line No.3 (PFLD No.3) June 11, 2012 – OJSC «BSW» took the first place in of the pipe mill. the nomination «Export Sales Leader» among clients of OJSC «Priorbank». It was a high appraisal of our September 3, 2012 – the plant is recognized as the work by the Board of Experts of one of the leading winner of the Republican professional contest «The banks of our country. On June 11 a special badge was best construction product of the year 2012» for its awarded to General Director A.N. Savianok. steel fiber (anchor, wavy, microfiber) for concrete reinforcement. June 20, 2012 – BSW became a laureate of the contest for the Award of CIS in 2011 in the category September 10, 2012 –20th anniversary of metallur«Manufacture of goods for production application» gical equipment repair shop (MERS). (in the organizations with over 250 employees). September 14, 2012 – 30th anniversary of BSW July 4-6, 2012 –12th International scientific and foundation laying. Derozhant Akopov, director of technical conference of the young employees «Metal the plant, and Alfred Probst, Voest-Alpine chief 2012». Representatives of Russia, the Ukraine, Kaengineer, laid down a capsule with a message to our zakhstan, and Belarus participated in it. descendants in two languages. It was concreted in the foundation of electric melt shop No. 1. July 7, 2012 – the second BSW Open day that had become traditional was held on the eve of the Day of October 11, 2012 – a ceremonial opening of the gamMetallurgists. ily hostel No.3 after reconstruction. July 13, 2012 – 5 years since the pipe mill commisOctober 31, 2012 – public hearing of the Social sioning. Progress Report of the plant for 2011. July 18, 2012 – 20th anniversary of the Palace of November 6, 2012 – an unofficial hockey match beCulture of Metallurgists. tween the champions of 2011/2012 of two countries: Belarus and Austria. The match between Metallurg July 20, 2012 – OJSC BSW joined the World Steel (Zhlobin) and Austrian Black Wings (Linz) was timed Association (WSA) – a prestigious professional to the 30th anniversary of the beginning of the plant industrial association numbering over 170 global construction.  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 23 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  November 20, 2012 – the first column was erected was opened on the basis of the administrative building on the site of the small-section mill. of electric melt shop No.1 (EMS-1) of Byelorussian Steel Works. Here plant’s employees may receive the November 21, 2012 – 25 years since commissioning required medical assistance, including first aid. of SWS-1. March 1, 2013 – based on the work results of 2012 November 21 2012 –the 25th anniversary of electric Byelorussian Steel Works became the winner in the melt shop No.2 (EMS-2) and rolling mill 850 of the nomination «Best investor and exporter» among ensection rolling shop (SRS). terprises of Zhlobin and Zhlobin district. December 2, 2012 – 30 years since establishment of March 28, 2013 – 10 years since establishment of BSW personnel service. the unitary enterprise «Metallurgtorg». December 2012 – at the night shift December 6 – 7, April 1, 2013 – 20 years since commissioning of the one millionth ton of rolled section was produced in fourth stage of BSW: the pump station. mill 320. Reference point January 2012. April 1, 2013 – «Metallurg» hockey team became the January 1, 2013 – two auxiliary shops merged: the silver prize winner of the 21st Open Championship of power shop and the oxygen plant. A new structural the Republic of Belarus. subdivision was formed – energy department (EnD). April 5, 2013 – Gomel regional executive commitJanuary 13, 2013 – «Metallurg» hockey team suctee expressed gratitude to the work collective of cessfully played in the super-final of the ContinenBSW for a considerable contribution in social and tal Cup and took the second place in the prestige economic development of the region. European tournament. April 16, 2013 –to implement investment project January 24, 2013 – according to the results of an «Organization of a section bar production with conexpert assessment of EcoVadis (Michelin), BSW struction of a small-section mill» General Director achievements in the social area in 2012 and in the A.N. Savianok issued order No.340 to establish rollarea of environment protection exceeded the level ing shop No.2 (BRM-2). determined by Michelin for suppliers in the purchasing chain. April 18, 2013 – 10 years since Byelorussian Steel Works receipt of the first ecological certificate in The achieved results showed the level of a signifiGomel region. This event required a two-year work cant maturity of BSW in the area of social responof the employees. BSW got two environment mansibility and environment and were an integral part of agement certificates at a time to evidence correMichelin criteria for choosing suppliers. spondence of the plant to the requirements of the international standard ISO 14001-1996 and national February 2013 – Byelorussian Steel Works became standard STB ISO 14001-2000. a laureate of the award of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus in the area of science April 17-18, 2013 – the fourth scientific conference and engineering in 2012. This prize is awarded every of young employees was held at BSW. This forum year for development and introduction of new types gathered over 170 representatives of various strucof materials and technologies enabling the national tural subdivisions and students of leading higher inscience to reach the international level and increase stitutions of the country efficiency of the industrial facility. April 20, 2013 – a national subbotnik was held at the February 11, 2013 – a new eighth ambulance room plant. 24 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS April 25-28, 2013 – the second international chilJuly 18, 2013 – BRM (mill 850, team No.1) produced dren hockey tournament «Steel cup» for the awards 10-millionth ton of rolled steel since its commissionof General Director of OJSC «BSW-management ing in 1987. company of «BMC» holding A. N. Savianok was held in Zhlobin. «Metallurg» team was awarded bronze July 18, 2013 – an agreement was reached and corresponding documents signed with Eurasian Bank of medals. Development regarding joint financing of the conMay 18, 2013 – at Belarusian industrial forum-2013 struction of the small section mill at BSW by EBD BSW was awarded the 1st degree diploma for the and OJSC OAO Belarusbank. project «Development and introduction of energotechnological modes of electric-arc furnace opJuly 19, 2013 – a capsule with a message to our descendants was laid down in the foundation of aireration aimed at increase of productivity of EAF-3 heating unit No. 3 of the limited liability joint-venture and reduction of power consumption for steel melting». «BSW-OP». Cost of the project – over USD33,8 million, cost of equipment – USD19,4 million, cost May 18, 2013 – Byelorussian Steel Works was of civil and erection work – USD7,9 million. awarded a diploma for active participation in the XIV August 2013 – based on the results of the annual International Exhibition «Spring in Gomel-2013» republican professional contest «Best construction within the framework of the X Gomel economic foproduct (article) of the year» welding reinforcing rum. bar class В500С for concrete reinforcement proMay 25, 2013 – based on the results of competitions duced by BSW was announced the best construction held by Gomel regional trade union organization, priproduct of 2013. mary trade union organization of BSW was declared August 29, 2013 – first audit of correspondence the best among 31 industrial enterprises of Gomel with the Code of Ethics of Pirelli’s supplier was region in 2012. held at the plant. Requirements of the international June 5, 2013 – coach of Zhlobin «Metallurg» team standard of social responsibility SA8000 were met. was announced the best coach of the season 2012September 6, 2013 – BSW primary organization with 2013 of the open hockey championship of Belarus. the rights of a district committee of the Public Association «Belarusian Republican Youth Union» became J une 15, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 Pri the winner of the Republican contest for the best vate joint stock company «ROSAVA» – the larg primary organization of the PA «BRYU». est tire producer in the U kraine – awarded the « excellent supplier» rating to Byelorussian Steel September 20, 2013 – 30 years since establishment Works. of the repair-mechanical shop (RMS). June 21, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 the December 12, 2013 – a parking for our 410 employunion of veterans of Byelorussian Steel Works beee’s private cars was put into operation at BSW. came the winner in the completion for the best primary organization of Zhlobin district. January 4, 2014 – EMS-2 had produced 9 million tons of steel since its commissioning. The jubilee heat July 6, 2013 – the third traditional Open Day was was manufactured by team No. 3 under the leadership held at BSW. of the head of the shift N.E. Rozhkov, foreman of EAF-3 and SMD P.E. Rozhkov. July 10, 2013 – 50th birthday of the General Director of OJSC «Byelorussian Steel Works-manageJanuary 16, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of ment company of «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok. the power repair shop (PRS).  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 25 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  January 17, 2014 – ceremonial commissioning of the of Belarus» 2013 in the nomination «Industrial – reconstructed objects of steel making production: technical application products » for the follow EMS-1, EAF-1 and DP-1. ing items : rolled rounds of alloy structural steel 40Х acc. to GOST 4543-71; reinforcing cold-deJanuary 28, 2014 – 750-thousandth ton of steel formed plain nonprestressed steel for concrete cord produced at SWS-1. The jubilee lot was shipped reinforcement diameter 5,0 mm class S acc . to the Continental plant in Ecuador. STB 1341-2009. February 1, 2014 – 20 years since establishment of February 21, 2014 – transfer for operation of two the repair and construction shop (RCS). important facilities: a new lime kiln (LK-3) and reconstructed continuous casting machine No. 2 (CCM-2). February 3, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of the metallurgical shops electric equipment repair April 24, 2014 – the Third International supplier shop (MSEERS) conference was held; it gathered 100 delegates from 11 countries of the world. February 14, 2014 – according to enactment No .4 of G osstandart, OJSC «BSW-management May 3, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of the company of «BMC» holding became the winner central plant laboratory (CPL). of the tournament «B est goods of the R epublic May 3, 2014 – 20 years since opening of Slavyanskaya Hotel located in the central street of the town at the address: 13 Pervomaiskaya str. June 5, 2014 – a ceremonial commissioning of a reactive-power static thyristor compensator at the substation Stal to ensure a more stable operation of the furnace transformers. June 11, 2014 – 15 years since laying down of a capsule with a message to our descendants at one of our main new projects of the decade – rolling wire mill 150. June 12, 2014 – the first in the plant’s history football match between plant’s managers and young employees of BSW at the Locomotive stadium. July 26, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of the Technical Control department (TCD). October 1, 2014 – 20 years since establishment of «Zhlobinmetallurgstroi». October 8, 2014 – General Director of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok was elected the Chairman of the Association of casters and metallurgists (AS&M of the Republic of Belarus. 26 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS October 14, 2014 – the day of the formal opening of rector A.N. Savianok. The scientific and practical the renovated Training Centre. manual summarizes the 30-year experience of the enterprise in systematization and analysis of variOctober 15, 2014 –the 30th anniversary of Byeloous defects ever detected in BSW semis and finished russian Steel Works. products. October 15, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of January 23, 2015 — 30-years since signature of electric melt shop No.1 (EMS-1). the contract for the design, erection and commissioning on the turn-key basis of the second stage of October 15, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of BSW. With the support of reliable partners — Austhe automation board (AB). trian Voest-Alpine and Italian Danieli— the history October 15, 2014 – a bust of the first BSW direcof Belarusian steel cord and steel wire production started. tor D.L. Akopov was opened opposite the engineering building No.2 on the 30th anniversary of BSW. January 27, 2015 the first hot testing of the equipment in SWS-2. During testing, three billets were November 5, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of rolled and a trial square was made in the roughing the section rolling shop (SRS). train. November 6, 2014 – renovated Palace of Culture of Metallurgists was opened after reconstruction. January 28, 2015 – signature of the agreement on The Chairman of Gomel Regional Executive Commitextending a revolving credit line in the amount of &35 million granted by UniCredit Bank Austria to OJSC tee, member of the Council of the Republic of the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus V.A. «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding» in Vienna. Loan agreements for credit line extension Dvornik took part in the ceremony. for Belmet Handelsgesellschaft mBH (Austria), a November 20, 2014 – During a working visit to BSW joint-venture and a subject of the commodity distriof the first deputy prime-minister of the Republic of bution network of the plant, were also signed. These Belarus V.L. Semashko based on the decision of the loan facilities are used for pre-financing of export team of employees and the management of the plant, transactions for buying products from BSW. This is his name was recorded in the Book of Honor and a a very important evidence of reliability of the plant in badge «Honorable worker of BSW» was handed to the opinion of its international partners. him thanks to his inestimable contribution, assistance and support for Byelorussian Steel Works in its February 11, 2015 – second hot test with the use of a current activity and implementation of the investment hot billet in section rolling shop-2. Square 140х140 program. mm heated in the furnace was rolled in the roughing train and a number of stands of the intermediate November 25, 2014 – 30 years since signature of the train (stands 8-13), after that the rolled square was acceptance report on the first stage Byelorussian cut with the second shears of intermediate train and Steel Works commissioning. thrown into the container for cutting. December 18, 2014 – employees of Byelorussian February 24, 2015 – hot tests of 19 stands of Steel Works V.N. Zuev, Y.G. Nikolaenko, and M.Y. SRS -2. Tereshchenko were awarded a high state award medal «For labour services». March 4, 2015 – one millionth ton of steel was cast in CCM-2 at EMS-1 after reconstruction of the maJanuary 20, 2015 – Presentation of the guidebook chine. From 8.37 till 9.27 heat No. 351417 weighing – atlas of steel defects edited by BSW General Di108,038 t was cast. 54th ton of the heat became one SOCIAL REPORT 2015 27 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development millionth ton. The honor to cast is fell to team No.1: May 14, 2015 – based on the results of 2014 per acting foreman of steel casting D.I. Olkhovik, senior formance, OJSC «BSW – management company of steel caster S.G. Danchikov, upper caster S.N. Zhu«BMC» holding was acknowledged as «The best exkovets, and casters D.G. Murar, D.I. Korotkevich, porter of 2014». The honorable prize of the winner V.N. Timoshenko, D.S. Rabtsevich, M.S. Tarnovsky, of the similar tournament was presented to General O.V. Bruenkov, and operators A.I. Ganak and D.N. Director of the enterprise Anatoly Nikolaevich SaviZhuravlev. anok. March 16, 2015 – the first four coils of wire rod diMay 28, 2015 – commissioning of a limited JV BMZameter 13,5mm were produced at SRS -2. Hot trials OP founded by OJSC «BSW – management company of the entire technology of the line showed a comof «BMC» holding, Belmet (Austria), «Belastahl plete functionality of the equipment for this product (Germany), Iron Trade Limited (Russia), and OJSC manufacturing. «Pskovvtorchermet» (Russia). The new oxygen plant allows us to satisfy BSW demand for technical gasMarch 26, 2015 – employees teams of EMS -1 and es and direct about 10% of the products to satisfy EMS-2 managed to achieve another record — daily needs of other enterprises of Gomel region. production of steel in the three furnaces equaled to 9134 tons. Main contribution was made by the emJune 12, 2015 – based on the results of BSW opployees of electric melt shop No. 2 who produced eration in 2014, the plant occupied the 2nd place in 3310 tons. Steel making and casting daily record of the regional tournament for the best organization EMS -2 was established by teams Nos. 3 and 1 headed of ideological work among the enterprises of the inby Nikolai Evgenievich Rozhkov and German Valentidustry. The diploma of the winner was awarded to novich Derevyanko. General Director A.N. Savianok at the republican seminar of ideological activists of Gomel region. March 31, 2015 – the first shipment of products manufactured in section rolling shop No. 2 (SRSJune 18, 2015 – canteen No. 10 of the UE «Metal2) was dispatch for export. These were 20 tons of lurgtorg» was opened in the administrative building wire rod sold to our customer from Bulgaria via of the new section rolling mill No.2 (SRS-2). The BSW commodity distribution network limited company canteen is designed for 80 seats and it can accept up Belmet (Austria). From 16.03.2015 till 31.03.2015 to 500 visitors during a shift. over 190 tons of marketable products were rolled in mill 370/150. The largest part of it was directed June 18, 2015 500th employee was hired in the new to Rechitsa hardware pant. section rolling shop No.2 (SWS-2). It was a 5th grade maintenance electrician Konstantin AleksanMarch 2015 – teams of EMS-1 and EMS-2 estabdrovich Gaev. lished a new production record: their total production made up 246 170 tons. Previous maximum perJune 30, 2015 – technological forum «Innovative formance was demonstrated in October 2012 — 236 technologies for modernization and production per728 t. formance improvement of Belarusian enterprises» was held at BSW. It was participated by represenApril 16, 2015 – a maple peace alley was laid down in tatives of business community of Saxony federative front of engineering building No.1 in commemoration land (Germany) and enterprises of «Byelorussian of the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. It is Metallurgical Company» holding. a kind of tribute paid to all veterans who struggled for peace and made possible present achievements of July 1, 2015 – the plant newspaper «Metallurg» the employees of Byelorussian Steel Works and its crossed the 30-year boundary of its operation. Durbusiness partners. ing these 30 years its circulation grew from 2 000 28 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS copies to 8 500 copies. At present the newspaper is September 22, 2015 during XIX economic forum distributed not only in the region of the Organization «Neighbourliness 2015» Polish Chamber of Comoperation but in Rogachov and Svetlogorsk districts merce awarded BSW General Director A.N. Saof Gomel region. vianok for a long-term work on the Polish market, contribution to development of international trade July 16, 2015 commissioning of the project «Modrelations, strength and tenacity in achievement of ernization of recycling water supply circuit of EMSthe goals set. 1 and SRS» which permitted to increase amount of water used for equipment cooling, improve qualitaSeptember 25, 2015 a symbolic event both for BSW tive composition of water and its temperature mode. and the country as well as for the global steelmaking: commissioning of section rolling mill No.2. PresJuly 16, 2015 – acceptance of the new facility of the ident Lukashenko participated in the event. scrap yard: site for cutting of large scrap to outline dimensions. October 7, 2015 employees of SWS-2 produced 500-thousandth ton of hose wire. This symbolic for July 19, 2015 – a star in the Orion constellation was BSW lot was shipped to a well-known European comgiven the name of Byelorussian Steel Works. This pany Eaton (Germany). present was given to the BSW by its partner Baltic Shipping (Klaipeda) in commemoration of its achieveOctober 16, 2015 – BSW was acknowledged as the ments and successes. winner in the nomination «Power-efficient technologies and processes» at the national contest «Leader August 8, 2015 – a field college of the Ministry of effectiveness -2015’. The project «Oxygen techof Industry of the Republic of Belarus was held on nology of steelmaking in the EAF» was awarded a the basis of OJSC «BSW – management company of diploma. «BMC» holding. During the meeting the results of operation of enterprises and organizations of the inOctober 19, 2015 – team No. 4 produced the first dustry in January June 2015 were summed up and 100 thousand tons of high-tech product in section goals for fulfillment of the forecast performance rolling shop No. 2. of social and economic development during 9 months of the current year were determined. October 21-22, 2015 the 23rd International scientific and technical conference «Foundry engineering August 2015 – electric melt shop No. 2 reached a and steelmaking 2015. Belarus» was held at BSW. It new production boundary. Steel melting in EAF-3 gathered over 130 delegates from different counmade up 76 876 tons. Previous performance indicatries. BSW was acknowledged the best in the nomitor of the furnace was 76 042 tons in March 2013. nation «The best innovative project implemented in foundry and steelmaking production» and «The best August 2015 – rolling mill 150 reached maximum perscientific – production work of a young scientists formance: 51 200 tons of hot-rolled material. The or an engineer» at the ceremony of award presentaprevious figure of rolling mill 150 reached in 2012 tion to laureates of the Award of the Association was 49 521 tons. of founders and steelmakers of the Republic of Belarus. September 8, 2015 winners of the Republican professional contest «The best construction product October 30, 2015 on the day of its 15th anniver-2015» were announced. BSW products were marked sary, SWS3 crossed the boundary of 2 million tons in the nomination «The best construction material output. The «jubilee» metal was shipped to BSW (product) of the year». Such title was awarded to trading firm «Baltiya». reinforcing welding rolled section class А500С according to GOST R 52544-2006. November 2015 – BSW won the cup for the best  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 29 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  product presented at the 21st International exhi– I nternational Union of Rollers; bition «Metal-Expo 2015» (10-13.11.2015). The metallurgical forum replenished the collection of – B elarusian -G erman N on governmental U nion of awards of the enterprise with two «Nikas» for the B usiness C ooperation ; best videoproduct in steelmaking. – World Steel Association (WSA); November 17, 2015 – the plant KVN team «Vse V Stali» became the winner of the KVN prime league – European Foundation of Q uality M anagement (Minsk) of 2015. (EFQM); December 16, 2015 – specialists of the plant – Q uality L eaders Club of Central and East Euresearch centre became the winners of the na ropean countries . tional contest of innovative projects . The project «O rganization of production of high tech bear M embership in these organizations allows the plant ings with a nano composite coating on the basis to champion its interests in the world community of OJSC «M insk Bearing plant» won the second more effectively and develop its business considplace in the nomination «T he best innovative proj ering general tendencies and strategic tasks . ect »; the project «M anufacturing application of the stretching process for production of rein Cooperation with stakeholders forcement class 500 MP a in coils with a row wind ing up to 5 tons , ductility class B and C, diameter The long -term successful development of the en6,0 mm to 16,0 mm at BSW» won the third place terprise is based on construction of confidential relations with the stakeholders . BSW strives for in the nomination «T he best innovative project of a active engagement of different groups of stake young specialist ». holders into its activity in the area of sustainable Participation in external initiatives development guided by the principles of social partnership , mutually advantageous cooperation , OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» respect, openness, and trust holding has its representatives in different na tional organizations including the organs of leg OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» islative authorities of all levels ; this allows the holding cooperates with an extensive number of pant to participate in lawmaking activity , exert in the stakeholders , which goes beyond the frame fluence on decision making in the area of economic works of its production activity . B yelorussian development of the region , carry out an open dia S teel W orks sets forth a unified approach to log with authorities and thus steadily decrease its the social activity management , including a great activity risks . majority of various instruments ; thereat , the principle of targeted and individual approach is To cooperate with the international professional always preserved with respect to every group community and represent its interest , the plant be of the parties concerned . S uccessful business came a member of the following associations : is impossible without favorable socio economic environment both internal and external . I nvest – Belarusian Chamber of Commerce; ing into the development of the region of our presence now , we are currently creating poten – Council of Business Cooperation Belarus EU; tial for economic , social , material and spiritual – Belarusian Union of Casters and M etallurgists; growth of thousands of people . It also means that we form a stable and free society confident – I nternational Union of Steelmakers; in tomorrow . 30 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Being a socially responsible enterprise, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding cooperates with the stakeholders adhering to the following approaches : – observance of the legislation and legal norms of the Republic of Belarus as well as principles of the UN G lobal Compact; – engagement of all elements and partici pants of cooperation ; – disclosure of a complete and reliable information about the results in the field of economic , ecological and social activ ity ; – promotion of responsibility for the as sumed obligations and their fulfillment ; By Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus – observance of universal norms and val dd June 8, 2015 Alesya Vladimirovna Miranovich, a crane operator of the warehousing, was awarded Mother’s Orues ; der for bringing up five children. At present, 199 women having many children work at BSW: they do not only bring – formation of favorable internal and exup children, but take an active civic stand. ternal environment ; cational schools , 9 nursery schools , 7 stores , – maintaining of reasonable balance of interests a restaurant , a hotel , children ’ s department for of the plant and the community . 120 people and a surgical building for 240 pa tients of the regional hospital . For a convenient Byelorussian Steel Works is a part of the soci highroad service , a viaduct over the rail track was ety and it supports civil initiatives in the field of build connecting two parts of the town . economic , social and cultural development of the region of operation , preserving cultural heritage , There was time when we had no stable reception national originality , environmental protection , of the republicans and regional TV programs. This healthcare and welfare of the population and em problem was solved with the help of a relay sta ployees . tion installed by the plant . L iberators ’ S quare be came a real adornment of the town . A new building Interaction with the civil society of school N o .1 was built by the plant as well as a Byelorussian Steel Works is a town forming en sport centre with a skating rink and an aqua park . terprise defining not only the appearance but also With the help of BSW financing Sports game pal the character of Z hlobin. Throughout its history ace was built . the plant was involved into construction creating industrial and social infrastructure of the town . The town streets were renewed , convenient The first facility built by BSW was the boiler transport communication of the developing « methouse «Severnaya» commissioned in1983. allurgic capital » is assured by 3 viaducts . T oday Zhlobin is a rapidly developing town with modern Due to BSW Zhlobin takes advantage of 5 edu districts , various sport and cultural facilities .  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 31 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  The plant ’ s management realizes that social and – development of partnership relations with the economic stability in the region of its operation regional authorities and local administration ; affects the long term stability of business . That is why it is strategically expedient to abide by the – creation of comfortable living conditions for corporate responsibility policy both with respect the plant employees and population of the region ; to the employees and with respect to the local – establishing and maintaining the image of consci communities . I nvestigating the peculiarities of the entious and attractive employer . social and economic development of the region of its operation , the plant defines the priority direc Interaction with mass media tions and forms of social activity . Besides fulfill ing tax obligations , OJSC «BSW – management E fficient communication with mass media being company of «BMC» holding initiates cooperation an important channel of appeal to potential au with regional partners and supports programs and dience of the enterprise , state structures , cli projects aimed at social infrastructure develop ents , competitors , and community is the basis of ment . successful activity of the O rganization . OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding Helping the region, the plant thereby establishes closely cooperates with the regional mass media . effective relations with the local authorities and OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» community opening opportunities to develop its holding realizes importance of work in this di business over the certain territory , to implement rection and pays much attention to the informa new projects and engage qualified personnel . tion policy . T he enterprise closely cooperates with various mass media : newspapers , journals , OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» and internet portals and informs the community holding is searching for optimal correlation of its about results of its production activity , impor social obligations and actual potential , maintain tant events and arrangements , supplies actual ing balance between the needs of the region and and reliable information . business concerns . Ast for its practical activity , the plant creates relationship with the civil soci Forming its informational policy , BSW aims at ety with due consideration of the results of the openness and transparency . O nly such approach comprehensive research «External impact of the allows us to build up effective relations with enterprise on the community , the plant ’ s image in mass media and as a result , to achieve a high level the town ». Annual multidimensional research is of awareness of the target audiences . carried out with the purpose to study the opin ion of the townspeople within the region of the To improve awareness of the people about the plant ’ s operation as concerns the degree of BSW plant ’ s activity and strengthen BSW image , the influence on the vital activity of the region . plant carries out an active information policy closely cooperating with mass media of various Steady development of the region of operation is levels and orientation . Newspapers, TV, news an important component of the plant development tapes of information agencies , and internet re strategy aimed at solving the priority tasks within sources are used as channels for dissemination of the field : important and actual information . T his comprehensive approach allows the plant to achieve a wide – assistance to steady development of the terri coverage of different target groups , and conse tory of operation ; quently , a maximum effect . – maintaining stable social and economic environ D uring 12 months 2015 102 materials about ment in the local communities ; the plant ’ s activity were allocated on pages of 32 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS printed mass media ( newspapers : «S ovetskaya B e BSW partners are larussiya », «R espublika », «G omelskaya P ravda », foreign companies, «N ovyi D en » and journals : «E conomy of B elar the site is executed us », M etals of E ura , etc . 22 items were shown in two versions : R us 102 Number of information on TV (B elarus 1, B elarus 2, ONT, STV, TRK sian and E nglish . materials about BSW on pages «G omel »); 50 publications were allocated on the of printed mass media in 2015 news tapes of informational agencies (B el TA, A long with the ex PRIME-TASS, B usiness news ) 62 information ternal site, there is items were allocated on the external site of the our internal site – info BMZ – to be used exclu enterprise . sively by the plant ’ s employees . Key information topics : modernization , perfor Key news about the plant ’ s life and the industry mance results , expansion of outlets , achievements in general is allocated on this resource . There is in specialized contests . Heroes of the publications an access to the archive of our plant newspaper were BSW employees who achieved the best re »M etallurg », leading national publications and sults in their work and in social life of the enter special periodicals . There is also a reference to prise . A key event which drew a wide response was the plant ’ s electronic library . Every day over 2,5 commissioning of section rolling shop N o .2. O ver thousand employees visit the site . 40 journalists covered this issue. The main function of info BMZ is operative provi Specially for our business partners – suppliers , sion of the employees whose working places are customers , financial organizations and other equipped with computers , with housekeeping infor stakeholders a review of BSW key news has been mation . On this resource any specialist can find prepared since N ovember , 2013. I t is executed in an electronic version of the required information , two languages – E nglish and R ussian – and every clearly sorted out according to the sections : quarter it is supplied via e mail . quality , labour protection , environment , economy , personnel . OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding strives for informational openness and It is necessary to point out that recently B ye transparency of its activity as it understands the lorussian S teel W orks pay much attention to importance of interaction and exchange of experi dissemination of image related information via ence with all parties concerned . Press releases internet channels . E xactly this channel permits are prepared in relation with all important events to achieve maximum operability and maximum cov of the plant life . I ts regular distribution base in erage of the young audience . I n particular , we cludes 6 information agencies, 6 periodicals, 5 TV speak about social networks . N owadays , B ye channels , and 4 I nternet portals. lorussian S teel W orks is represented in such social networks as V kontakte , F acebook ( news Speaking about effective communication with tarin E nglish ), T witter , P lus . google . W e also have get audiences it is important to underline that BSW our own channel in the largest video hosting pays much attention to introduction of the enter Y ou T ube . I t is necessary to underline that BSW prise in the I nternet environment . O ur corporate groups in T witter and P lus . google were estab site www . belsteel . com has functioned since 2003. lished in 2015. I t is a modern resource of the international level addressed to a wide audience of users . I t does not BSW group V kontakte is the most popular among only contain useful information and is a communica the above . A t present , more than 2200 people are tion channel , but serves the aim of strengthening subscribed to its updates . I n addition to regularly of BSW image . T aking into consideration that most updated news tapes , the subject group contains  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 33 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development subject photo albums , and different sections al P rospects of G omel region development , prog  lowing achievement of most efficient feedback . ress of the socially important programs , ex According to the statistics of the community , the tension of the plant ’ s export policy , plans for news is read not only by users of the region of achievement of the designed capacity of the BSW operation, but by users in such countries as small section mill , and reconstruction of the the U kraine , R ussia , G ermany , C hina , the USA. steelmaking production were regularly dis cussed by the general director at his meetings I n accordance with the principles of the UN G lobwith P resident A.G. L ukashenko , D eputy P rime al C ompact OJSC «BSW – management company M inister of RB V.I. S emashko , F irst D eputy of «BMC» holding ensures free access to infor M inister of I ndustry of RB G.B. S vidersky , mation , develops external communication , and ac D eputy C hairman of the N ational A ssembly of knowledges its readiness for open dialogue with the R epublic of B elarus A.M. R usetsky , D eputy the stakeholders . C hairman of G omel R egional E xecutive C ommit tee B.K. P irshtuk , C hairman of the C ommittee Interaction with authorities on L abour , E mployment and S ocial D efense of G omel R egional E xecutive C ommittee A.V. M ata OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» ras during their multiple visits to B yelorussian holding builds up cooperation with all stakehold S teel W orks ers on the basis of the following basic principles : respect and consideration of interests , opinions The plant’ s management believes that participaand preferences , openness and transparency , tion of its representatives in the work of elected trust and sincerity , implicit abidance by the leg authorities would be important for the formation islation , international and B elarusian standards , of parity relationships with the governmental bod responsible fulfillment of the assumed obliga ies and formation of the state policy . T he loyalty tions , respect of the history , culture , traditions , of the region population to the plant and its em way of living and heritage of the people residing ployees is proved by the outcomes of the election within the business territory . campaigns resulted in 11 plant employees being elected to local , regional and republican regula 11 Number of employees electEnsuring the activity and strategy of the compliance of plant develop tory bodies : – Zhlobin District Soviet of Deputies – 10 per ment with the general ed in district and regional sons ; social and economic di governmental bodies rection and interests of – G omel Regional Soviet of Deputies – 1 per the country and region son . of the business activity is a highly important task for the plant employees . Constructive interaction Alongside with that, OJSC «BSW – management with the governmental bodies helps OJSC «BSW company of «BMC» holding has not provided dona– management company of «BMC» holding to find tions in favor of any political party or individual solution of this rather complicated task . politicians . Decisions on burning issues of the social and eco Interaction with science nomic development of the region , work with the youth , holding joint events , and optimization of I nnovative development of industry is a guaran medical care for the population are taken by the tee of economic security of B elarus . T he plant plant ’ s management and local authorities in the follows the route of innovative development course of monthly business meetings . courageously implementing new projects . B y the 34 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS decision of the State Committee on science and tor of OJSC «BSWtechnologies of the in Republic of Belarus adopted 2008 BSW was included into the register high tech enterprises of our country . of management company of «BMC» holding A.N. S avianok 21 Specific weight of innovative products in total output in So as to strengthen its positions on the market A paramount task and withstand tough competition it is not enough the SPC faces is 2015 (%) for an industrial enterprise to show good pro increase of the ef duction results . I t is necessary to manufacture ficiency of work of the enterprise due to recon products characterized by high quality and opti struction , modernization and improvement of the mal prime cost . B esides , one should not forget production processes so as to improve quality of about meeting customer requirements and fill products and increase productivity . ing free market niches with new types of prod ucts . A chievement of all components of success I t is worth mentioning that the specific weight of is impossible without scientific and research innovative products in the total output of BSW support . during 12 months 2015 equaled to 21,1% while planed target was 17,5% in accordance with BSW T he enterprise clearly understands the impor business plan for 2015. D uring the above period tance of innovative activity being a key tool of the enterprise mastered manufacture of the fol the production development and pays much at lowing types of innovative products : steel carbon tention to it . T here are 7 candidates of science , quality pipe 4 dimension types ; carbon quality 4 undergraduates , and 35 bachelors working stock pipe 17 dimension types ; nickel boron mo at BSW. T he O rganization established strong lybdenum steel stock pipe 3 dimension types ; alloy partnership relations with such establishments steel stock pipe 3 dimension types ; reinforcing as BNTU, GSTU named after P.O. S ukhoi , DMI coils diameter 8,0 mm class S500; round Ø 13,5 of the NAS of the U kraine , MIA&A, FTI of the and 16,0 mm of steel 20 in accordance with the re NAS of B elarus , and other divisions of the NAS quirements of GOST 10702-78; super high tensile of B elarus . T he plant cooperates with institutes steel cord construction 2 х 0,30 SHT; reinforcing of powder metallurgy , hot rolled metals , metal die section N o .8 class S500. I n 2015 the following technologies and mechanics of polymer systems . technologies were developed : technology of lime S cientists do much for BSW developing special production in lime kiln N o . 3; technology for pro technologies . E conomic effect of this coopera duction of the new steel grades :С10С, WA-1010, tion equals to hundreds of USD thousand . T o F1018, С60, С10, 20M nCr5, C9D, 12X2H4A, coordinate scientific research activity of OJSC C18D, 38XФР; technology of production of re«BSWmanagement company of «BMC» holding inforcing coils diameter 8,0 mm , steel В500В, and N ational A cademy of S cience of B elarus a А500С class S500; technology of production of S cientific production center (SPC) was estab round diameter 13,5 mm and 16,0 mm steel grade lished in 2013 including representatives of the 20 in accordance with the requirements of GOST M inistry of I ndustry of the R epublic of B elarus , 10702-78; technology of production of carbon G omel regional executive committee , OJSC R e quality steel pipe – 4 dimension types ; technology chitsa H ardware P lant , OJSC «M ogilyov M etal of production of carbon quality steel stock pipe . lurgical P lant », OJSC «L egmash P lant », OJSC «M insk bearing P lant », OJSC «P olesieelectro A number of arrangements were carried out at mash », N ational A cademy of S cience of B elarus BSW to promote development of scientific activ and B yelorussian S teel W orks . C o chairmen of ity of its employees : the B oard are : head of the office of NAS of B e larus academician P.A. V ityaz and G eneral D irec • M arch 23, 2015 – a seminar «P rospects of mas  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 35 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development tering of new steel grades for the automotive for students of institutes and universities. A branch  industry of Belarus» was held at OJSC «BSW of the department «Machines and technology of – management company of «BMC» holding to deforging» was established together with Belarusian velop technical cooperation of the O rganization National Technical University. For further develand industrial enterprises of the R epublic of B e opment of cooperation with educational establishlarus , develop new steel grades and use them in ments in the area of development and implementaproduction . tion of programs of employees training branches of the departments «Metal forming» and «Metallurgy • July 14, 2015 – a delegation of representatives and forging» of Gomel state university named after of A ustrian H orst W iesinger C onsulting G mb H P.O. Sukhoi were established on the basis of OJSC and mining university of the town of L eoben (M on «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in tanuniversität L eoben ), a large educational and 2011. An agreement on two-sided cooperation in the research centre of the mining and steelmaking area of training of specialists of the 1st and 2nd industry of A ustria , visited OJSC «BSW – man stage of higher education as well as rendering free agement company of «BMC» holding . N egotiations aid in the development of the material and techniwere held within the framework of the visit to dis cal basis of the establishment for 2011-2015 was cuss issues of production development and organi signed with this university. zation of scientific and technical cooperation . The process of determination of essential • J une 30, 2015 a B elarusian-Saxon technological topics forum «I nnovative technologies for modernization and production effectiveness improvement at B e E ssentiality is a principle of determination of the larusian enterprises » was held . R epresentatives most important economic , social , and environmen of the business circles of the federative S axony tal aspects having the highest importance both for land (FRG) took part in it as well as representa the enterprise and its stakeholders . tives of «B yelorussian M etallurgical C ompany » holding , SSU «P hysical and technical institute BSW approach to the process of determination of of the NAS of the R epublic of B elarus », and the essentiality was based on the principles specified forging plant ( the town of Z hodino ). in the G uidelines of the global reporting initiative in the area of sustainable development (GRI) ver • S eptember 21-22, 2015 – 23rd I nternational sion G4. scientific and technical conference «F orging pro duction and metallurgy 2015» was held at OJSC I n the process of essentiality determination the «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding O rganization followed the recommendations of in cooperation with the A ssociation of forgers and GRI G uidelines . T he process comprised the fol metallurgists of the R epublic of B elarus and an lowing steps : information exhibition of forging and steelmaking technologies . 1. Analysis of internal sources of information in cluding materials of presentation of the sustain Cooperation of Byelorussian Steel Works and sciable development progress report for 2015 tak ence has a many-sided character. The enterprise ing into consideration the opinion of stakeholders acts together with leading higher educational esregarding the topics that are most interesting for tablishments of the country in training progressive them . engineers. Seminars and refresher training of managers and specialists of the Company is organized 2. C ompilation , discussion and approval of a list of on the basis of higher educational establishments of essential topics to be included in the sustainable the country, practical training at BSW is organized development progress report for 2015. 36 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS In 2015 results of regional tournaments for the title of «The best trade union organization» and «The best publication about trade union movement in mass media» became known. The primary trade union organization of Byelorussian Steel Works is among the winners, and N.A. Kozlova, a reporter of the plant’s newspaper «Metallurg» was awarded for the best publication about the trade union movement. All essential topics are compared with the disclo promotion of a healthy way of living. sures of GRI G4. T he list of essential topics to be included in the P rogress report is given below : 2 Environment protection: C ustomers and employees : minimization of production activity impact; importance for customers and customers ’ pref improvement of the employees ’ ecological cul erences ; ture . pants employees. The above essential aspects became the basis of C ommunity: the Progress Report in the area of sustainable development for 2015 and are disclosed in it in cooperation with the local community; detail . SOCIAL REPORT 2015 37 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity A strategic goal of the plant in the economic area – maintenance of a reasonable balance of the in is achievement of maximum sustainable and effective terests of the enterprise and the community . development of production , high financial results along with a reasonable balance of interests of all Along with growth of productivity, operation intenstakeholders , satisfaction of social and economic sity, product quality, and complication of the technineeds of the civil and business community of the cal level of the production processes, rate of deregion of the plant ’ s operation . cision making, requirements to the personnel of all services grow. The economic service team existing at OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» the plant consists of qualified specialists with higher holding considers social responsibility to be an education whose professionalism is very high. They integral part of the business strategy and its cor are regularly trained in policies and procedures reporate ethics based on the principles of respect lated to the issues of production process efficiency ability and justice , sincerity in relations with all and effectiveness of business-processes. partners and competitors . Financial-economic activity 98 Economic effect Economic development of the plant means in Main tasks of the enterprise in 2015 were: retention crease of its profit of production, search for new customers, strict savability through growth ing of resources at each work place, improved saving of the measures of output of high tech of material and power resources, strict observance taken to decrease the products in compliance of financial discipline by a tough control of fulfillproduct cost ($ mln) with the strategy , and ment of the budget of cash flow. The year 2015 is growth of the produc characterized by complicated conditions on global tion effectiveness . I n this activity the Organization markets, drop of business activity, decrease of deis guided by the law of the Republic of Belarus, mand from engineering industry and as a result, drop parameters of sustainability and development of of prices of steel products. These factors caused the production activity , economic reasonability as some decrease of economic performance as compared well as its responsibility to the owner , investors , to 2014. To oppose all negative processes taking employees , and business partners , local communi lace on global markets, the plant developed a comties , and other stakeholders . plex program for stabilization and development of production, and decrease of product cost. Byelorussian Steel Works carries out its economic activity adhering to the following approaches : Strict control of fulfillment of the program at all levels gave a positive result . Economic effect – observance of the law and legal norms of the of the measures directed towards decrease of Republic of Belarus; prime cost in 2015 was USD97,9 million or 9,2% of the product prime cost . T he saving was achieved – engagement of all levels and participants of the due to production output growth and improvement business processes ; of the production processes as well as due to ful fillment of energy saving measures and decrease – disclosure of a complete and reliable information of general production and business expenses . about the results of the plant operation ; To obtain a substantiated expert opinion concerning – improvement of responsibility; the representation of the results of financial ac countability , an international independent auditing – provision of optimal relation of the costs and the company carries out audits at OJSC «BSW – man economic results achieved ; agement company of «BMC» holding in accordance 38 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS with the requirements of the I nternational finance The priority directions of development of OJSC reporting standards (IFRS). «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in 2015 were : growth of productivity of high Top management is informed about production and tech products with a large level of processing , financial economic activity by means of monthly improvement of the production structure and summary reviews , economic councils , and analyti sales of quality steel grades , rolled materials , cal reporting . hardware products , development of power saving technologies , modernization of production , build For the purposes of communication development ing and commissioning of new production facilities . and expanding opportunities of interaction with the The plant implemented a number of strategic in stakeholders , employees ’ professional advance vestment projects aimed at steel production in ment and exchange of experience , the enterprise crease or retention of the market share by way arranges the annual international scientific con of commissioning of new facilities , expansion of ference «Metal.» Apart from participants from the the stock list and improvement of the manufac CIS countries, the «Economics and Finance» sectured product range . T he most important of them tion of the conference includes specialists from were : organization of rolled section production the plant ’ s financial , economic and marketing de and building of a new small section wire rolling partments . During the conference, its participants mill . The designed capacity of the new mill is about make reports on current issues and exchange their 700 thousand tons per year with the possibility to experience in implementation of strategic objectives increase the annual output up to 1 million tons of and introduction of recent engineering solutions finished products . I n 2015 the commission accept in the field of sustainable production development ed 13 main objects commissioned , in A ugust this and corporate social responsibility . facility was set to work . S ince S eptember 2015 the production facility started to fulfill the plant Economic efficiency for finished product manufacture . In 2015 the global market did not experience any movement, stagnation of the world steelmaking, decrease of demand and prices continued due to collapse of the Key performance indicators Russian rouble rate (sales portion in In spite of all difficulties, 1 117 Marketable the RF is about 20%). All these had a direct effect the results of the plant’s product sale proceeds on the outcome of the Company activity. The plant operation in 2015 are rath in 2015 ($ ,ln) experienced considerable difficulties in servicing er significant . G rowth rate accounts payable. In the conditions of reconstrucof the manufactured product output based on the tion carried out to develop production technology, annual results was 100,4%. M arketable product support product quality and competitiveness, desale proceeds amounted to USD1 116,8 million . 2 crease of production output and prices inevitably 509,9 tons of steel were produced , investments in lead to the progressing growth of accounts paythe capital asset equaled to over USD183,2 mil able, impairment of liquidity indicators, deficit of lion which exceeds the target set . F oreign trade circulating assets and instability of payments. balance made up USD436,6 million . In spite of this difficult financial situation, this period Power saving indicator equaled to minus 7,0 % as of the plant’s development is characterized by implecompared to the target set at minus 5,9. mentation of large investment projects carried out within the framework of the approved «Complex proSelf-cost of the products , works and services gram of modernization of the existing and arrangement sold in the USD equivalent decreased due to de of new highly efficient work places for 2012-2015». valuation of the national currency .  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 39 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity  Denamics Динамика of products, вы ручки services, продукции, от реализации works sales,работ,USD mln услуг в 2500 млн.долл. США 2000 1500 1000 2027 2040 1892,7 1567 1548,2 1543,5 1126 1116,8 500 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Profit and compensating payments , additional payments to non working pensioners , as well as maintenance of In 2015 product sales were unprofitable , losses social facilities in the amount of USD 5,8 million. equaled to USD7,7 million . These results were caused by a disastrous drop of external market Payment to the owner prices . Currency proceeds loss and consequential loss of profit due to price decrease made up USD D ue to the loss from financial business activity 313,3 million which is practically comparable with based on the results of 2015 part of the profit the product sale proceeds for 3month operation was not transferred . of the plant . Taxes and compulsory payments Net loss of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding made up USD165,4 million. To miniOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» mize after effects of the negative macroeconomic holding is a responsible taxpayer and provides for factors on the financial results , the enterprise consolidation of the state ’ s financial foundation by pursues the policy of strict assets saving , devel regular tax payments made into budgets of various ops and strictly controls measures for reduction levels . T imely and correct tax payment by the plant of self cost . E conomic effect of the measures in in favor of the state determines economic stability troduced amounts to USD 97,9 mln or 9,2% of in the region of its active production activity and in the product prime cost . B ut this is not enough to particular opportunities of infrastructure devel compensate the effect of the price decrease on ex opment by regional and local authorities . I n 2015 ternal markets . the C ompany transferred income tax amounting to USD8,9 million (Br140,6 billion), and USD23,6 The enterprise disbursed payments to its employmillion (Br374,4 billion) to the population social ees in the amount of USD2,8 million , stimulating protection fund ). 40 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Enterprise’s risks – production costs , which depend on prices for melting stock , energy resources and other materi Investment risks als and services essential for the production pro Any project implementation is associated with cercesses ; tain organizational, technological and financial risks However, investment projects launched by OJSC – investment amounts which largely depend on con«BSW – management company of «BMC» holding are tractual prices for equipment; implemented at an operating enterprise which has suf– debt-to-equity ratio. ficient experience in use of the process equipment and construction of new production facilities. That’s why The sensitivity analysis included evaluations con organizational, technical and technological risks are cerned with the ways in which the above factors of little significance in this case. High qualifications influence the two major efficiency indices – simple of the enterprise’s employees, application of modern pay back period and internal rate of return . technological, organizational and administrative solutions in the production activities ensure enhanced Industry risks efficiency and sustainability of the implemented projects against probable contingencies, while availabilMetallurgic industry is distinguished by its suscepity of invested funds makes it possible to minimize any tibility to cyclic variations of prices for raw mate financial risks. rials and steel . D emand for steel is determined by country specific levels of economic development To mitigate and account for probable risk effects and consumption by major steel consuming indus in business plans , the Company carries out multi tries . V ariations in raw materials prices are of sig variant calculations to identify projects ’ financial nificant influence on the financial economic state performance and efficiency indicators against vari of B elarusian steelmaking as most of raw materials ous variable factors ( capital input amounts , prod consumed by steel works are imported . R ecently , uct selling price , manufacturing costs , debt to steel pricing trends have been rather unfavorable . equity ratios ). That’s why potential metallurgy-inherent risks due to cyclic price reductions are still present . A t Results of the cost efficiency evaluation given in the same time , world ’ s market prices for primary the project were calculated for the basic pricing raw materials and consumables used by the plant , conditions , effective at the time of business plan namely for scrap metal , cast iron and ferroalloys , validation . However, as projects proceed to sub are exhibiting a growth trend . R eduction of prices sequent stages of implementation , these pricing for metal products with simultaneous increase of conditions could change due to global economic raw materials prices significantly affects the en changes . Based on the above , it was important terprise ’ s operational activities and its financial and essential to carry out a reliability ( sensitiv performance . ity ) analysis , providing for evaluation of possible effects on project efficiency due to variations of Along with the price variations , steelmaking , on a external factors and identification of acceptable global scale , faces risks of excessive production and critical scopes of changes capacities . Currently, a bunch of new large en When carrying out the sensitivity analysis , pos terprises appeared all around the world , while a sible changes in the following factors of major great number of leading producers have plans for influence on economic indicators were considered : a substantial expansion of their production capaci ties , particularly , those associated with manufac – selling price as a factor which is most suscep ture of reinforcing bars . With a view to advances tible to changes due to metal market variations ; in steel production technologies and transition  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 41 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity from blast furnace and open hearth furnace melt Industry risk management should be based on estab ing of cast irons and steels to electric furnace lishing long term and mutually beneficial relations melting , giving steels of improved quality , scrap with major suppliers and optimization of procure metal acquires still more significance . Alongside ment and resource management processes . with that , resource saving technologies intro duced at industrial enterprises result in relative T he fact that metal production is partly intended ly reduced scrap production rates in developed for in country supplies , where prices are regu countries with simultaneous growth of demand lated by the state , accounts for respective risks , for unused metal . Consequently , Europe is ex which , just like on foreign markets , are associated periencing an unsatisfied demand for metallurgic with possible negative effects due to price varia raw materials , such as scrap metal . The planned tions . And this could produce a certain effect on steelmaking industry expansion ( increases of melt the enterprise ’ s activities . However, with a view to ing capacities at the already existing plants , con gradual transition to the market controlled price struction of new enterprises equipped with elec setting observed in the republic , it is possible to tric furnaces ), first of all , in the E uropean part consider this risk as negligible . of the Russian Federation, aggravate the situation Country and regional risks even more and could result in total termination of scrap metal supplies from the Russian Federation. Production and business activities of OJSC «BSW Besides, supplies of this kind of raw materials in – management company of «BMC» holding are most countries are either substantially monopo largely dependent on cooperation with Russia. lized ( in B elarus , for instance , these activities are Such close interaction with a single independent represented by a single enterprise – B elvtormet ) region presents certain risks associated with difor under a stringent state control ( licensing of ferences in legislation and regulatory framework, activities , setting export quotas , export duties which could affect sustainable development of the levied ). A s a result , consumers are rather depen enterprise. The perspectives of a common customs dent on a limited group of scrap suppliers and ( or ) space and further economic integration will make it bound by certain geographical limits of scrap sup possible in time to consider such risks as negligible. plying regions . Besides, geographical position of the Republic of By consolidating, manufacturers of metal prodBelarus will contribute to minimization of regional ucts provide for a reduction of risks associated economic risks and possible effects on the enter with market environments , however , for B elaru prise ’ s activities resulting from them . P riorities sian enterprises the said risks still present a cer will include flexible supply geography , ensuring tain hazard . C oncentration of mining companies prompt response to the environment challenges and take over of scrap producing enterprises by and protection against possible regional crises . steelmaking companies can result in an additional increase in prices for raw materials with rather Winter supplies of major raw materials can be af limited alternative opportunities for steel raw ma fected by weather conditions . To minimize risks asterial supplies . Lately, metallurgic enterprises are sociated with interrupted raw materials supplies , it more and more actively engaging in modernization is essential to provide for availability of «winter of the equipment installed at the enterprises of buffer » reserves of such raw materials . their scrap metal suppliers and in activities in con nection with take over of the most efficient scrap Legal risks producing companies . Notwithstanding the state-implemented policy aimed So, it is possible to minimize the above risks by deat reduction of tax burden assumed by economic enveloping a scrap producing network of one ’ s own . tities of the R epublic of B elarus , legal provisions 42 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS on taxes and duties are constantly changing . Every novative development of the Republic of Belarus year , an entirely new package of tax regulations approved by resolution No. 669 «About the state comes into force and the previous regulations are program of innovative development of the R epublic amended . A t that , the amendments are partly for of B elarus for 2011-2015» dd . M ay 26, 2011 of the benefit of taxpayers and partly – to their dis the C ouncil of M inisters of the R epublic of B e advantage . S imilar situation is observed in the field larus , BSW started to implement the investment of tax administration . H owever , taken the state ’ s project «B uilding of a small section wire mill at aspiration to ensure a sustainable growth of pro O pen J oint -S tock C ompany «B yelorussian S teel duction rates and the stable political situation , a W orks » since M ay 2012. significant increase in the enterprise ’ s total tax burden in the near future is highly improbable . In the result of the expertise a positive conclusion of the M inistry of E conomy of the R epublic of B e Also, one could consider as negligible those risks larus No. 23-02-12/4902 dd. 30.06.2012 was made which are associated with changes in the regula and implementation of the above project was sup tory framework as related to customs control . ported by the M inistry of I ndustry of the R epublic But there are certain risks associated with cusof Belarus, State Council of Experts in engineertoms regulations and duties in the countries of the ing and metal working and the M inistry of E conomy enterprise ’ s exports . of the R epublic of B elarus . Industrial safety, labour protection and ecological Planning of the realization procedure of this projrisks ect was carried out with consideration of tax and customs privileges in connection with entering into We are aware that metallurgy is a potential hazard an investment agreement with Gomel regional exto the environment and to people, as such producecutive committee in accordance with D ecree of tion activities involve high-temperature processes, the P resident of the R epublic of B elarus N o . 10 invasive chemicals, volatile by-product emissions «About creation of additional conditions for inand require special arrangements in connection with vestment activity in the R epublic of B elarus » dd . disposal of solid and liquid industrial waste. Due to 06.08.2009. the above, steelmaking enterprises have to provide for strict compliance with rather stringent regulaIn accordance with the resolution No.1001 dd. Notions with regard to labour protection, industrial vember 21, 2013 of the Council of Ministers of the and fire safety and environmental protection. Republic of Belarus, Open Joint-Stock Company «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding is Ecological requirements include compulsory payincluded in the List of legal entities implementing ments for air and land pollution and installation investment projects which starting with January and modernization of special pollution control 1, 2011 receive compensation of bank credits purequipment . S hould any critical concentrations set suant to resolutions of the Council of Ministers for industrial wastes be exceeded , the enterprise of the Republic of Belarus; the list was approved will have to pay fines . P ossible reinforcement of by resolution No. 1262 dd. September 20, 2011 environmental regulations and lowering of critical «About some measures for realization of Decree of pollutant concentrations could result in increased the President No.231 dd. June 6, 2011. December amounts of obligatory payments and fines stipulat 30 2013 the Company received compensation of the ed for violations of the law . interest for use of bank credits for implementation of the project of construction of a small-section Financial support provided by the G overnment mill in the amount of Br144,0 billion (USD8,1 mln or Euro7,5 mln) according to the National bank Within the framework of the state program of in rates as of the date of compensation.  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 43 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity  The above amount of state support received by Growth in the countries with a forming market O pen J oint -Stock company «BSW-management and in developing countries had reduced during company of «BMC» holding reduced the net loss five subsequent years ( though still was over 70 generated due to the plant ’ s activity in J anuary percent of the global growth ) at the time when a December 2015 and allowed the Company to use slight recovering growth continued in the counthis source of assets to effect payments for con tries with a developed economy . struction and erection work under the project «Arrangement of production of section rolled Three main transition processes continued to in material and building of a new small section wire fluence the global prospects : gradual growth rolling mill » and replenishment of own circulating deceleration and rebalancing of economic activity assets . in China on the basis of reorientation from invest ments and processing industry to consumption and P ursuant to R esolution N o .583 dd . J uly 4, 2013 services ; reduction of prices on power resources «A bout attraction of a loan of E urasian B ank and other stock goods ; gradual toughening of the of D evelopment and granting a guarantee for monetary and credit policy in the USA in the conits repayment of the government of the R epub ditions of a stable recovery if the USA whereas lic of B elarus » and resolution N o . 584 «A bout central banks of a number of other main countries granting a guarantee of the government of the with a developed economy continue to soften mon R epublic of B elarus », in 2013 the government etary and credit policy. of the R epublic of B elarus issued guarantees of repayment of 10year loans granted by the above F or diversification and more effective sales level , banks for financing of the investment project the plant management planned reorganization and «A rrangement of rolled section production with a number of measures to improve effectiveness construction of a small section mill » to E ur of own commodity distribution network activity in asian B ank of D evelopment and OJSC «S avings 2015. B ank «B elarusbank ». Contract campaign for 2015 at BSW was direct Presence on markets ed towards maintaining and active growth of its presence on the existing outlets and search for M arketing strategy of BSW is directed towards new , economically effective markets . Main export retention and active growth of its presence on the existing market outlets as well as search for new , regions of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in 2015 were E uropean coun economically profitable regions . T raditionally , tries and the R ussian F ederation . T hese regions key markets of OJSC «BSW – management com consume 77,3% of the total steel export . D uring pany of «BMC» holding are E uropean countries and CIS. 12 months of 2015 BSW products were delivered to 56 countries , B elarus included (58 countries Similar to previous years, the range of products during 12 months of 2014). The new markets of sold in 2015 was represented by the following : BSW products supply were I reland , C olumbia , and cast billet and bloom , reinforcing bar , wire rod , S outh K orea . M ain changes in the supply geogra structural rolled section , seamless pipe , tire phy are related to change of the regional steel cord , bead wire , hose wire , other steel wire and its price condition . produce . K ey segments consuming BSW products are steelmaking , construction , engineering , oil and T o achieve the planned performance and taking into gas industry , tire making , and industrial rubber in consideration dynamics of development and change dustry . of the situation in the key consuming industries , a number of mechanisms of product sale was used . In 2015 global economic activity remained low. In accordance with the developed sale strategy, 44 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS the existing electronic site was used to sell a spot developing countries and countries with a transient group of goods , long term contracts were signed economy 74,2%,including China 49,8%. and distributed by regions among the subjects of the commodity distribution network of BSW in Indirect economic impacts terms of rolled products , pipes , tire cord and steel wire . Byelorussian Steel Works’ policy in the field of charity and sponsorship is aimed at facilitation of Based on BSW long term work with customers , a the formation of the socially accepted image of clients ’ base for the coming contractual campaign the efficiently operating and socially responsible has been formed considering reliability of a con enterprise, to affect the public recognition of the sumer company , its ability to pay and fulfill obli social importance of metallurgy, to consolidate its gations undertaken , possibility to work in case of standing and enhance the loyalty to BSW on the a declining market and positive dynamics of devel part of all interactive groups and the civil society opment . Taking into account experience acquired in steel sales , a list of permanent customers is The priority directions of corporate charity and formed and approved ; the customers are assigned sponsorship are determined as follows : environ the name of a joint venture , trading firm , distribu ment , support of social facilities in the area of tor , trader , end user depending on the task set the plant presence . I n 2015 in spite of worsening and results achieved . T o a great extent , success of the financial situation , OJSC «BSW – manageful promotion of our goods to new outlets was fa ment company of «BMC» holding sponsored and vored by BSW image as an enterprise selling only administered charity to AUE «P aporotnoe », SE high quality goods . «National historical Museum of the Republic of Belarus», hockey club «Metallurg-Zhlobin» CC. In 2015 hopes for quick recovery of steelmaking avoidTotal amount of sponsor assistance and charity ing the phase of post-crisis stagnation did not come equaled to USD 0,77 mln . true. In general, according to the WSA assessment, the structure of the global steel consumption in 2015 D istribution of funds allocated by the plant for looked as follows: developed countries – 25,8%, this purpose is given in the table below . Category 2014 2015 Sponsorship, total ($ thou.), including: 1 644 772,2 Financial aid to the development of physical culture and sports in the RB, total: Aid to the association «Hockey federation of RB» 97,8 Aid to the «Hockey Club CJSC» «Metallurg-Zhlobin 719,8 Organizations of Zhlobin and Zhlobin districts, including: current and capital repair of housing facilities in Zhlobin 881 capital repair with modernization of the cinema house «Rodina» 323 AUE «Paporotnoe» 342,6 31,5 Educational and cultural establishments, including: SE «National historical museum of the Republic of Belarus» 20,9  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 45 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity  BSW employees personally participate in charity actions. During the years of realization of this direction, an effective mechanism of operative assistance to people has been developed. In 2015 plant’s workers actively participated in the following charity actions: «All children are ours», «Do good», «We to children», etc. Results of personal participation of the employees in charity activity are given in the table below. Amount collected, Name of the action USD 2014 2015 Belarusian peace fund 126 Belarusian Red Cross Society 722 158 Repulican action «We remember! We honor!» 1 575 OBOOBNUS «Ozarichi» 189 «We to children» (children’s district hospital, design and construction of children’s hospice in Borovlyany, employee’s assistance to medical treatment of children, assistance to the secondary school in Paporotnoe, SEE Zhlobin 939,2 85 social pedagogical orphan asylum)) «Do good» (dedicated to disabled people day) 1042 1053 «All children are ours» (collection of money for purchasing of school accessories together with the regional centre of social service) 1348,4 672 «Kind Hearts (collection of money for employees of the enterprise and their families who are in a difficult situation) 12 395,5 8 164 «Offer hands to help» (collection of money for strange physical entities who are in a difficult situation) 1518,4 140 Total 20443,3 12 162 Realization of the scheduled activities had a favorable impact on the plant cooperation with the main groups of stakeholders: authorities, civil society, ecology community employees. It helped to strengthen BSW reputation as a socially responsible enterprise and achieve the highest social and economic efficiency from the money spent on charity and sponsorship purposes. Short-term targets of the plant In 2016 aggravation of the financial situation at the plant takes place as well as reduction of production facility load in January-April. Taking this into account, forecast for 2016 industrial product output will amount to Br18,6 trillion (denomination excluded), which corresponds to 109,6% as compared to 2015 in actual prices and 95,2% based on a set of representative goods (FRS). The following values are forecast for other key indicators of the social-economic development: – power saving minus 5,4% product export USD 754,0 mln product export to production output ratio, min. 85,6% stock to average monthly output ratio 19,3% 46 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Having shot a film about the plant’s operation «Holding as an orchestra», Byelorussian Steel Works replenished its award collection with two Nikas for the best video product in steelmaking «Metal Vision’2015» in the nominations «Best cameraman work» and «Best dubbing» at the 21st International industrial exhibition «Metal-Expo 2015». Awards and achievements newly organized in 2006 and a laureate of the International quality tournament of Central and East During recent years BSW has been participating in Europe and in 2008 the winner of this tournament. the business marathon «Ascension towards European Excellence» arranged by the European FounThe third stage of the marathon «Recognized for dation for Quality Management (EFQM). excellence EFQM». In 2009 BSW participated in the tournament for the European quality award (EQA) The first stage of the marathon – «Recognized established by European Foundation for Quality for excellence in the country». The plant is the Management (EFQM) and recognized as most known winner of the national contest for the award of international quality awards at present. Based on a the Government of the Republic of Belarus for complex assessment of the enterprise in 2009 it was achievements in the area of quality in 2001, 2004, awarded the level of «Recognized for Excellence 5 2007 and 2015 and the Award of the Ministry of star. In 2013 BSW confirmed this high level. Industry of the Republic of Belarus in the area of quality in 2001, 2004, 2007, and 2011. BSW is the winner of the contest «Best goods of the Republic of Belarus on the market of the RusThe second stage of the marathon – «Recognized sian Federation» in the nomination «Products of for excellence in Europe». In 2007 the plant became production-technical application» in 2001, 2003the winner of the contest for the CIS award (in 2015; 2011 the plant confirmed this status) for achievements in the area of product and service quality the winner of the contest «Best goods of the Re SOCIAL REPORT 2015 47 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity  public of Belarus» in the nomination «Products of In June 2012, within the framework of the Internaproduction-technical application« in 2002-2015: tional conference «Development of accreditation in the system of technical regulation» the central plant the winner of the contest «Best construction prodlaboratory was awarded a prize for «High level of uct of the year» in 2010–2015. competence». Representatives of the plant became winners of the In June 2014, the central plant laboratory of BSW tournament «Best quality manager» in 2007, 2008, became the winner of the tournament «Compeand 2009. tence-2013» in the nomination «Best laboratory pracIn 2008 and 2015 General Directors of the plant tice in the area of testing of products for engineering were ranked «Quality leader -2008» and «Quality and transport vehicles». leader -2015» and awarded similar badges. In June 2015, the department of the chief metrologi-The plant is a laureate of the international award cal engineer of BSW won the tournament «Compe«Commonwealth Star» in the nomination «Best CIS tence – 2014» in the nomination «Area of calibration company». (2006). of measuring devices». In the tournament «Brand of the year – 2009» the In 2015 BSW became the winner of the tournament plant was announced the winner in the following nomi«Power efficiency leader – 2015», «Oxygen technations: nology of steel making in EAF» was presented in the nomination «Efficient technologies and processes». • «Socially responsible brand» in the category «Best employer» and «Active social position» (2 gold medIn 2014 the plant won the national tournament for the als); industry award of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus in the area of science and technique • «Professional nomination, goods and services В2В» in the nomination «Progressive production processes in the category «Brand-export» (a gold medal. and resource-saving technologies». Based on the results of the professional tournament Apart from that, based on the official statistic data «Brand of the year -2010» a Diploma of Honor in the of the results of 2014, the plant was awarded the category «Active social position» and a gold medal title of «Industry leader-2015» in the state rating of «Brand of the year 2010» are handed over. enterprises of the Republic of Belarus. According to BSW became the winner of the tournament «Best exthe rating results, the enterprise took the third place porter-2007» in the nomination «Engineering, steelin the TOP -10 (gold) among enterprises of the Repubmaking, and metal processing» and «Best exportlic of Belarus in the area of «Steel pipe production» er-2010, 2011, 2014, and 2015» in the nomination and the third place in the TOP -100 (gold) in the area «Steelmaking». of «Wood sawing and dressing, wood preservation». The plant is the winner of the fifth republican tourSuccess of Byelorussian Steel Works in promotion of nament «TECHNOSPHERE-2009» among 30 leading its products was highly appreciated in Poland during enterprises of different ministries and boards of the XIX economic forum »Neighborliness2015». BSW Republic of Belarus (2010). In the nomination «Best General Director A.N. Savianok was awarded for a trade mark» the plant took the first place. long-term work on the Polish market, his contribution in development of international trade relations, for For excellent professional organization or product strength and tenacity in achievement of the goals by and services promotion at the International IndusBelarusian-Polish Chamber of Commerce. trial exhibition Metal-Expo’2013 BSW was awarded a diploma and a cup in the nomination «For the best All these facts prove that BSW maintains its high exposition». reputation and continues to keep pace with the time. 48 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS A record number of young employees were hired by the enterprise: 338 people. They will build the plant’s future based on their advanced knowledge and traditions laid down by the veterans. SOCIAL REPORT 2015 49 Environmental activity E nvironmental policy E fficiency of the ecological management system adopted by OJSC «BSW – management company T he plant realizes that its production activi of «BMC» holding is ensured with the assistance ties are associated with certain environmental and under guidance of the top management . O ffi hazards and takes its best efforts to mitigate cial managerial views on ecological and environ negative influences on vital activity of citizens . mental issues are presented in the enterprise ’ s B esides , carrying out its activity , and using C orporate P olicy and other regulatory docu wastes from industrial sources ( scrap from pro mentation of the corporate management system ducers , scrap in the form of waste equipment ), OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» BSW intends to increase the share of products holding takes certain steps to reduce environ complying with the quality management system mental impacts and mitigate global climate change standards , provide its production with ecological risks . T hese steps are a part of strategy intend quality and safety data and appropriate marking . ed to provide for a sustainable dynamics of the plant ’ s development . T he enterprise is engaged in K ey principles and approaches a large scale equipment and process moderniza tion , paying particular attention to the enhanced L ong term strategic objectives determined by the ecological requirements , which enables the plant plant for ecological and environmental activities to reduce pollutant air emissions and waste quan include : tities generated . B yelorussian S teel W orks is a state owned enterprise , which relies on one of • minimizing the plant ’ s impact on the region ’ s vi the priority state policy strands in its activities tal activities ; – that of ecological safety . I mplementation of the state policy is ensured by an efficient E nvi • minimizing the plant ’ s impact on flora and fauna ; ronmental M anagement S ystem ( the EMS). EMS is a part of the unified enterprise management • efficient use of natural resources ; system , which is responsible for working out a systematic approach to environmental protection • efficient use of energy resources ; within entire production activities of the plant and is integrated into quality management , labour • air basin protection ; safety and social responsibility processes . T he EMS is a tool , enabling the enterprise to ensure • water basin protection ; regular monitoring and minimize ecological im pacts associated with production activities in the • industrial waste utilization ; region of its location . • training ; W ithin the frames of the current E nvironmental M anagement S ystem , the enterprise identified a • improvement of the personnel’s ecological culnumber of ecological factors of environmental ture and development of ecological consciousness; influence and evaluated them by their signifi cance . To minimize environmental impacts con • development and implementation of re nected with the production activities of OJSC source saving , low waste and environmentally «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding , safe technologies ; the enterprise annually introduces new environ mental protection measures aimed at reducing de • monitoring of emissions , hazardous wastes and velopment pressures on the environment . qualification testing of work places ; 50 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS • compliance with ecological standards and re company of «BMC» holding as an ecologically quirements in design and production , construc responsible enterprise and improve interaction tion , reconstruction , and process facilities ex with the stakeholders on issues of ensuring com pansion ; pliance with ecological norms and requirements • incident alertness . E xcept the currently effective approved medi um term ecological programmes , BSW provides In its ecological activities , the plant relies on for annual development and approval by respec the following : tive supervision authorities of ecological con trol programmes and environmental protection compliance with the legislation and statutory plans , which , among other things , envisage regu norms of the R epublic of B elarus ; lar ecological monitoring and control activities in accordance with the I nstruction on E nviron – engagement of all business process segments mental C ontrol of P roduction , rational use of and participants ; natural resources . – EMS upgrading ; U se of natural resources and environmental pro tection at the enterprise are managed by admin – minimizing impacts in connection with expanding istrative control actions and economic methods . production activities ; I mplementation of ecological strategy – complete and reliable disclosures of the plant ’ s performance information ; M inimizing the plant ’ s impact on the region ’ s vital activities – responsibility enhancement ; C arrying out its production activities , OJSC – providing for optimal expenditure / performance «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding ratios ; accounts for its environmental impact and strives for minimization of its consequences as stipulated – maintaining a reasonable balance between the by international legal provisions on ecology and plant ’ s interests and those of the community . the environmental legislation of the R epublic of B elarus . F or the purposes of minimizing its impact T he EMS system adopted by the enterprise was on the region ’ s population , the plant was located certified for compliance with the requirements in the south eastern part of the city with due of ISО 14001:2004, STB ISO 14001-2005 stan account for wind rose diagram . T he established dards . T he requirements of ISО 14001:2004 sanitary zone has the radius of 1000 m and its cover such activities as design and production area together with the adjacent industrial site of rolled sections and structural shapes , wire makes up 674.1 ha . A t that , 55% of the area be rod , seamless pipes , steel cord , wire and steel tween the enterprise ’ s territorial borders and fiber . T he requirements of STB ISO 14001-2005 those of the sanitary zone are taken up by cul cover production of concast billet , section and tivated coniferous and hardwood forests and shaped materials , wire rod , seamless pipes , steel scrub vegetation . T he nearest settlement ( the cord , steel wire and fiber . T his is the evidence of village of S olonoye ) is 1.075 km away from the the systematic approach implemented to reduce enterprise ’ s territorial borders . R esidential ecological risk probability , minimize ecological buildings and districts of the town of Z hlobin payments , represent OJSC «BSW – management are 3 – 3,5 kilometers away . I ndustrial site is  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 51 Environmental activity  located on plain surface lands , neutral in terms tions along the railroad bed and motor roads . of smoke contents and spread of smoke jets to wards residential areas . E very year , the plant W oodlands belong to the subzone of conifer li carries out certain actions to ensure air and wa chen low bush forests . On the forest covered ter basin protection and reduction of land buried territory located to the north east of the plant , industrial wastes . such tree breeds as a S cotch pine (P inus sylves tris ), a common birch (B etula verrucosa ) grow . M inimizing the plant ’ s impact on flora T he S cotch pines (P inus sylvestris ) and the black and fauna alders (A lnus glutinosa ) grow in the north west area and the S cotch pines (P inus sylvestris ) – in I n the structure of the lignose of the lands of the the south west .); forest resources of the region conifers occupy around 70%, softwood – 27%, hardwood – 3%. – S egetal vegetation is developed on the agricul D ominating position belongs to the plantations tural lands , sowed hayfields to the south east of natural origin – 56,3 %. M ain forest forming and to the east of the plant , in S olonoe area , breed in the region is a pine tree (68,5% for and to the south west of the plant between the est covered lands ). A s for the age structure , woodland and the D obysna river . medium aged timber stand prevail (49,2%). Y oung growth makes up 34,4%. – R esidential vegetation is developed in human settlements , and in the areas with the apartment R esources of grassland plantations are rather blocks and utility constructions ; big . T he region belongs to P olesko -B erezinsky region rich of meadows , and a part of which is – M eadow vegetation of the terraces above the represented by a low wavy plain formed by a sys flood plain ; tem of flat terraces located above the flood plain of the B erezina river and the D nieper river . – R uderal vegetation near the area of ash and C enosis is formed by sharp sedge which is often slag storage , concrete scrap storage , open pit , combined with manna grass (9,8%), more seldom and other affected habitats formed in the result with mire blobs (4,8 %). S ometimes it forms clear of the human activity . It is necessary to point tangle of a monodominant type . out sagebrush (A rtemisiavulgaris ), white clover (T rifoliumrepens ), and couch grass (E lytrigiare M ire vegetation can be met in low parts of the pens ) among the ruderal types . relief , on the lands with a constant excessive humidification . M iscellaneous herbs mainly of the F auna mesohydrophytic row ( types : C alliergongigan teum , D repanocladusintermedius , D repanocla D escription of the fauna of the territory con dusvernicosus , D repanocladusaduncus , A ulacom cerned is given based on literary data . niumpalustre ) predominate in the grass stand . A ccording to the literary data insects are repre T he following types of vegetation dominate in the sented by a typical faunistic composition . radius of approximately 2 km from the plant ’ s site A mphibia on the territory under study are met – S ilva of the territory concerned : lignose everywhere in plentiful and are represented by of both natural and cultural origin including three types : a brown frog (R anatemporaria ), a forests of the lands belonging to the state green toad (B ufoviridis ) and a common toad (B u forest resources , protection wood planta fobufo ). 52 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS S and lizards (L acertaagilis ) predominate among gration is less pronounced ; birds do not form the reptiles . large clusters . S pecies composition of the theriofauna is repre V ariety of mammals on this territory is not large sented by a four toed hedgehog a (E rinaceuscon and is not characterized by habitation of rear and color ), a pigmy shrew (S orexminutus ), common protected species . A brown hare (L epuseuropae shrew (S orexaraneus ), a root vole (M icrotu us ), a common fox (V ulpesvulpes ), and a wild hog soeconomus ), a common vole (M icrotusarvalis ), (S usscrofa ) are met here . and a campagnol (A podemusagrarius ). S pecial protected natural territories (SPNT) of A vifauna of the surroundings of the territory Z hlobin district are represented by a hydrologi under study is characterized by a small variety cal and landscape preserves of local significance of species diversity . M ain biotypes used by birds (T able 4), and by natural monuments of local and are open agricultural lands . B ackground types republican significance . on agricultural lands are : a field lark (A lau da arvensis ), a whinchat (S axicola rubetra ), a T here are no special protected natural territo whitethroat (S ylvia communis ), a yellowhammer ries within the sanitary zone of the plant . T he ex (E mberiza citrinella ). O n swampy territories one isting ones are located approximately at the dis can run across a common heron (A rdea cinerea ). tance of 12 km and more from the OJSC «BSW D uring spring migration few migrating types of – management company of «BMC» holding » site birds cross the territory in transit . A utumn mi ( see the figure ). Natural areas of preferential protection in Zhlobin district  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 53 Environmental activity  Distance Total area, Organization carrying Name from BSW, location operative administration km 2635 ha: Zhlobin and Rechitsa DisLandscape reserve of republican 2060 – Zhlobin district trict Executive Committees 32 significance «Smychok» 575Rechitsa district within their authority 17560 ha: Zhlobin and Svetlogorsk Landscape reserve of republican 7793 Zhlobin district District Executive Commit20 significance «Vydritsa» 9767Svetlogorsk district tees within their authority 55 ha, northern part of Radusha, Hydrological reserve of local Krasnoberezhsky Zhlobin district and borders with 22 significance «Dubovka» agricultural enterprise Volshedubsky canal 33 ha, located in the north-east part of Luvirnyansky forestry Hydrological reserve of local Zhlobin forestry enterprise along significance MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 12 the motor road Gomel-Zhlobin, 0,5 «Aleksandrovsky Mokh» kilometers from Aleksandrovka settlement 31 ha, north-west part of Hydrological reserve of local Kosakovsky agricultural Kosakovsky agricultural 17 significance «Mokh» cooperative cooperative 100 ha, north-west part of Hydrological reserve of local Dvorishchanskoe forestry of the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 29 significance «Roveki» MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 223 ha, consists of two sectors and located in the north-west part Hydrological reserve of local MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» of priberezinskoe forestry of the 22 significance «Kanavnoye» and DUE «Yaznach» MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» and AEB «Vperyod» 97 ha, southern part os Streshin Hydrological reserve of local forestry of the MFE «Zhlobin MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 34 significance «Orli» Forestry» 54 ha, north-west part of Hydrological reserve of local Dvorishchanskoye forestry of the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 35 significance «Rugorova Polyana» MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» Reserves in Zhlobin district 54 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The plant’s premises proper are a sort of a green ment progress was regularly park. At present, the area free from buildings is almost completely green. For the most part, green spaces within the industrial site are represented by reported newspaper in the regional mass media. corporate «Metallurg» and 77 Means used conifers and hardwood trees. Besides, the plant’s for territory premises include some flower beds. Total green space To encourage and expand improvement in 2015 area within the industrial site amounts to 53,07 ha. land improvement and amenity planting activities, to moti($ thou.) Within the framework of the program aimed at presvate the plant’s employees, ervation of natural resources of the country and both morally and materially, to implement the Land upgrading the territory of the plant’s activity for Improvement Program, to involve the personnel in 2015 specialists of the plant grew and planted a activities connected with aesthetic improvement of lot of plants and fulfilled a large-scale amount of the plant’s appearance and that of the pre-school works to improve land: establishments run by the plant, the enterprise arranged a land improvement competition among the Total amount spent for upgrading the territory in plant’s shops with bi-annually cast-ups. The com2015 is over USD 77 thousand. Program fulfillpetition involves more than 75% of the employees. Item Work description Unit Quantity Seeding, growing of seedlings, compiling of flower compositions and flower planting to improve the territory: 1 annual pc. 38 980 biennial and perennial pc. 11 272 bulbous, rhizomatous and tuberous pc. 1 345 Growing of planting stock at nursery gardens for improvement of the plant territory: 2 trees pc. bushes pc. 90 Tree seedlings planted out on the plant’s territory and at the headquarters: 3 conifer seedlings pc. 30 hardwood seedlings pc. 60 Repair of lawns on the plant’s territory with all types of auxiliary work: 4 current ha 130,98 overhaul ha – Land improvement (scope of work) for 2015  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 55 Environmental activity  Efficient use of natural resources Production of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is a complete metallurgic cycle with annual outputs amounting to over 2,5 million tons of molten steel. Major raw materials used for steel production in 2012-2015 were as follows: Quantity Material Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Metal charge t 3 067 136 2 542 902 2 856 367 2 855 885,6 Ferroalloys t 40 269 35 822 41534,9 40 933,4 Electrodes t 5 647 4 741 4 698 4 784,2 Slag-forming, deoxidizing and purifying t 171 372 146 733 163 284 145 113,8 mixtures Carbonizers т 35 778 33 986 50 252 44 828,4 Heat insulating materials т 1 902 1 611 812 675 Refractory materials т 30 949 25 592 27 245 27 615,2 BSW used raw materials which were obtained from recycled or reclaimed wastes. Share of recycled materials in the total amount of raw materials in 2012-2015 was as follows: Quantity Material Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ferrous scrap, scale % 96,9 96,4 95,5 95,5 Refractory scrap % 14,2 17,1 3,6 13,3 Electrodes % 0 0,5 0,7 0,9 Lime stone and lime wastes % 0,6 0,4 3 2,3 Efficient use – motivation of the personnel; of energy resources – precise determination of key roles of the staff in OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» the management system; holding adopts managerial and investment decisions – distribution of responsibility and authority starton the basis of multi-variant scenarios of developing with the top level; ment taking into consideration environmental priorities providing for power saving, efficient use of – maintaining of a corresponding level and compenatural and power resources. tence of the staff; In accordance with the section of the corporate – provision of the staff awareness of the benefits management system «Power consumption control including financial ones, which one can get if he/she system» (PCCS), developed in conformity with the improves effectiveness of power consumption; requirements of the national STB ISO 50001 standard, the base for the development of the system – effective information exchange; approach to energy saving is arranged on a clear – maximum complete inventory of factors influencdocumenting and control of interrelated processes ing power consumption; significantly influencing the effectiveness of power consumption, in particular: – determination of areas of priority signif 56 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS icant for power consumption management ; fillment. This – planning of activity aimed at improvement of power consumption efficiency. form of control allows the plant to 629 867 Total power resource saving control powin 2015 (GJ) In accordance with the national strategy of en er intensity ergy saving and energy security , the plant devel effectively and carry out system specification of oped an E nergy S aving A ction P lan , setting en technical actions. Actually, an innovative intellecergy policy priorities and approaches . T he P lan tual system is created. It uses ACS of PP, SAP comprises : R/3 and the plant’s computer network. A number of measures were taken to transform information – actions providing for a comprehensive energy savtechnologies from a tool to an actual scientific and ing system; technical resource to decrease expenses and as a arrangements for employees’ training, retraining result to collect extra gains. In 2015 the plant and advanced training on issues of energy saving managed to preserve positive dynamics of reducing and efficient use of resources; of FER specific consumption by the main power-consuming productions. – upgrading the system of equipment and production processes evaluation and analysis; Total amount of power resources saved in 2015 was 629 866,6 GJ (617 580,1 GJ – in 2014). implementing energy-saving procedures; To increase involvement of the staff in the process– introduction of modern advanced technologies; es of power and resource saving, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding developed efficient use of the existing power facilities; and uses the following: – introduction of new scientific achievements to Regulations «About staff competition for the provide for efficient energy use. best ideas aimed at increase of power effectiveness of the production»; Traditional energy-saving measures include: Regulations «About competition for the best – initiatives related with introduction of power-savstructural division of the plant from the viewpoint ing products and methods, use of renewable power of power saving»; sources, decrease of requirements in the result of the initiatives fulfilled; Regulations «About Awarding of the employees for power saving»; – saving of power due to conservation and increase of consumption effectiveness; active on-line «Power saving proposals» window in the Info-BMZ information system». – use of thermal secondary power resources; 17 projects were implemented in 2015. The follow– initiatives aimed at decrease of indirect use, saving projects can be attributed to the most importing, etc. ant ones: commissioning of 6,7 MW electrogenerating equipment; Due to the introduction of an automatic system of technical recording (ASTR), real-time monitoring 1. Introduction of compensating reactive power of fuel and power resources (FPR) is carried out under the project «Complex reconstruction of with daily summing-up and corrective actions ful«Stal» substation;  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 57 Environmental activity  2. Optimization of electrotechnological modes of sion sources steel melting in EAF-3 to minimize power losses; 3. Introduction of RFC in the fine drawing area; with contributions largest are equipped with 12 Decrease of contaminants gas treatment emissions 4. Increase of the load level of the production plants , with their in the air as compared equipment of rolling mills 150, 320, and 850. total number to 2014, % Use of secondary thermal power resources in 2015 amounting to 118 units . made up 17,4% in the balance of boiler-furnace fuel. Vehicles owned by the enterprise include 226 Saving of FPR not only reduces financial load of units using various types of fuel out of which 179 vehicles run on diesel fuel , 47 – on gasoline. the enterprise, but decreases negative impact of the enterprise’s activity on the natural environment. Railroad transport includes 7 locomotives run ning on diesel fuel . Quantity Source Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Railroad transportation is only within the enterNatural gas s.c.t. 161 060 160 901 168 354 184 057 prise ’ s premises ; automotive vehicles are used for Direct use of power from the primary sources transportation within the borders of the enter in 2012-2015 prise ’ s sanitary zone . Quantity Source Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Analyzing indicators of pollutant emissions in the MWt*h 2 000 442 1 736 633 1 855 714 1 845 857 air , it is necessary to point out that gross emis Electric power sions decreased by 12% (886,148 t ) in 2015 as GJ 7 201 591,2 6 251 879 6 680 570 6 645 085 compared to 2014. T he decrease is conditioned by Thermal installation of bag filters made of sparkle proof Gcal 244 555 240 507 242 888 243 738 energy Intermediate energy quantities obtained and consumed cloth at gas purifying units of the electric arc from non-renewable power sources in 2012-2015 furnaces ( main sources of emissions ) providing sta ble and steady operation of environment friendly Power Quantity Unit equipment . resource 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electric MWt*h 107 361 156 493 130 530 167 194 Steel melting process in electric arc furnaces power GJ 386 501,1 563 374,8 469 911 601 898 was intensified , an advanced oxygen technolo gy with the use of wall mounted M odule system Natural thou. m3 1 833,7 5 720 4 392,3 945,1 multi nozzle device was introduced . C onsidering gas GJ 61 247 192 735,4 147 669,1 27 968,6 growing production output , intensification and ca Energy saved due to measures on consumption rates pacity growth of the production equipment , we de reduction and efficiency improvement taken in 2012-2015 Nitrogen dioxide Nitrogen oxide Sulfur dioxide 14 11% A ir basin protection Solids 1% 5% remaining 9% 1% Sources of major negative environmental im pacts at OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding are air emissions of pol lutants . T he enterprise operates 595 sources with permitted gross emissions of 9 692,967 Percentage of pollutants carbon monoxide tpy . T o minimize negative impacts , major emis in gross emissions in 2015 70 73% 58 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Specific pollutant generation rates, Actual emissions, [t/year] Substance [kg/t of melted steel] 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Carbon monoxide 5875,384 5049,332 5525,328 4641,069 2,14 2,2 2,17 1,8 Nitrogen dioxide, nitrogen oxide 1025,993 814,929 900,818 940,072 0,37 0,37 0,35 0,39 Sulfur dioxide 444,721 384,11 389,279 338,044 0,16 0,16 0,15 0,13 Solids 730,485 619,042 655,899 598,007 0,26 0,26 0,26 0,23 Total pollutants 8094,502 6966,462 7526,979 6640,831 2,95 3,0 2,95 2,6 The proportion of pollutants in the gross output for the years 2012-2015 Substance Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Carbon monoxide т 769,829 594,797 569,166 587,52 Nitrogen dioxide т 184,968 142,262 140,954 102,65 Sulfur dioxide т 101,868 78,255 78,242 91,07 Hydrocarbons т 303,344 233,621 229,133 231,81 Soot т 76,121 58,468 58,512 49,07 Benz(a)pyrene т 0,0016 0,001262 0,001250 0,001048 Total т 1436,132 1107,404 1076,009 1062,12105 Air emissions of pollutants from mobile sources in 2012-2015 fined maximum and gross air emission of pollutants The ozone depleting substances at the enterprise more exactly . are handled as established in the license for the activities associated with the use of natural re Transport vehicles run on AI 92, AI 95, liquefied sources and environmental impacts , and , precisely , gas and diesel fuel with 0,005 per cent sulfur in the part where rules for handling of ozone de content . pleting substances are set out . Emissions of pollutants from mobile sources re T he R epubl ic of B elarus , being a part icipat duced by 1,3 %, which is explained by increase of ing part y under t he U ni t ed N at io ns F ram e freight traffic within the plant ’ s industrial area . wo rk C o nvent io n o n C lim ate C hang e and t he K yo to P ro to co l , pro vides fo r fulfi llm en t o f B eing a major greenhouse gases emitter , B yelo it s o bl ig at io ns st ipul at ed by t he abo ve int er russian S teel W orks is constantly monitoring natio nal ag reem ent s . A ct io ns im plemen t ed by their air emission rates . I n pursuance of the M on t he B yelo russian S t eel W o rks to int ro duce treal P rotocol on S ubstances that D eplete the energ y saving t echno lo g ies and m at erials O zone L ayer , the plant continues its work aimed and to enhance efficiency o f t he pro duct io n at stepwise decrease of the use of substanc pro cesses result in reduced air emi ssio ns o f es listed in A nnex C of the P rotocol by 2020. g reenho use g ases . OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding provides for compliance with the state D ecrease of harmful emissions into the air is en requirements on reduction of consumption rates sured by implementation of investment projects of ozone depleting substances (ODS). ODS directed towards modernization and technical re quantities used within the enterprise are con vamping , introduction of highly effective state of stantly decreased . the art equipment and methods .  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 59 Environmental activity Dynamics of air pollutant emissions  * Specific emission, kg/t of steel. Residuals in the beginning Amount of residues as of end Purchased, kg The amount used, kg of the year, kg of the year, kg ODS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 R-22 68,3 27,2 176,8 149,6 108,8 163,2 0 0 149,9 13,6 27,2 68 27,2 176,8 149,6 81,6 R-12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 R-114В2 74,1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 74,1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Data on ODS handling activities in 2012-2015 60 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Year Description of ODS reduction methods Description of ODS reduction methods Reduction of ODS in the operating equipment Ozone-safe cold carriers are used instead of R22 in equipment with the filling due to usage of ozone-safe coolants, R12 -4,5 capacity of 232 kg, kg, R22-82 kg Instead of R12 – filling capacity 55 kg 2011 Reduction of ODS in the operating equipment R124 residues as on 01.01.12 equal to due to usage of ozone-safe coolants, R12 -4,5 0,0 kg (included in the composition of multi-component cold carrier R401A), kg, R22-82 kg R124 stock reduced by 18,7 kg Decrease of ODS consumption due to transfer Ozone-safe cold carriers are used instead of R22 in equipment with the filling 2012 of refrigeration equipment to ozone-safe cold capacity of 231,6 kg, carriers Instead of R12 – filling capacity of 6 kg Decrease of environmental impact. Refusal to use ODS (R 22) by 123 ITE Blue-R-95 regeneration and filling station Purchasing of ITE coolants regeneration and purchased filling station 2013 Transfer of refrigeration equipment working on R 22, filling capacity 123 kg, to ozone-safe Transfer of refrigeration equipment working on R 22, total capacity: 129,5 kg coolants Decrease of environmental impact. Exclusion usage of ozone-depleting R 22 by 116 kg, R 12 by 4,5 kg, R 401 А by 6 kg. Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 22 with the filling capacity of 116 kg to ozonesafe coolants Transfer to ozone-sage coolants for cooling equipment used to work on R 22 with 2014 the filling capacity of 317,8kg, to R 12 with the filling capacity 4,8kg, to R 401 А Transfer cooling equipment operating on R with the filling capacity of 12,4 kg. 12 with the filling capacity of 4,5 kg, to ozonesafe coolants Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 401 А with the filling capacity of 6 kg to ozone-safe coolants Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 22 with the filling capacity of 120 kg to ozonesafe coolants FULFILLED Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 12 2015 with the filling capacity of 4,7 kg to ozone-safe transfer of the cooling equipment operating on R 22 with the filling capacity of coolants 191 kg, on R 12 with the filling capacity of 4,75 kg, on R 401 A with the filling capacity of 24 kg to ozone-safe coolants. Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 401 А with the filling capacity of 12,4 kg to ozone-safe coolants Data on introduction of measures aimed at reduction of ODS use in 2011-2015  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 61 Environmental activity  OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» to compensate the holding follows the existing law and norms of the international environmental law including international agreements and contracts ratified by the irrevocable es in the equipment cooling loss systems . 99 Consumption of circuRepublic of Belarus and carries out continuous For household and lating water at BSW, % monitoring of the environmental condition in the drinking needs wa territory of its production activity the main aim of ter from artesian wells is used . which is protection of the health of the people living in this area and the Company employees. To reduce consumption of water drawn off from the Dnieper, the enterprise uses rainwater collectWater basin protection ed and treated at special areas. Acting in the area of environment, the plant proResults of the measures taken to reduce vides for efficient use of energy and water for its water resource consumption in 2015: own needs and does its best to decrease their consumption. • decrease of rainwater use as compared to 2014 was 428,8 thou. m3 (result of decrease of the amount of rainfall and, consequently, collection, treatment, and use of waste water in the production); • growth of industrial water consumption as compared to the level of 2014equaled to 800 thou. m3 (it is explained by decrease of rainwater use and the necessity to replenish irrevocable losses as well as commissioning of new systems of recycling water supply and their single filling; Plant water consumption system • increase of drinking water consumption as comWater diversion flow for production needs is carpared to the level of 2014 made up 8,7 thou. m3 ried out from the Dnieper river which is one of the (related to the necessity to provide the staff of main rivers in the Republic of Belarus. Its head-tobuilding organizations realizing reconstruction mouth length is 1182 kilometers. Annual flow of projects and new erections on BSW territory with the Dnieper equals to 1 261 440 000 m3. Annual drinking water); water diversion of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding amounts to 0,12% of the • increase of circulating water systems use by 18%. river flow. Process effluents generated by the plant are disThe plant introduced a circulating water system charged into the treatment facilities located at the to supply key users – production equipment . W a plant’s treatment divisions and returned into the ter from surface sources ( the D nieper ) is used production for further recycling. Description 2012 2013 2014 2015 Process water, [thou. m3/year] 1 564,210 1230,4 776,0 1576 Drinking water consumption, [thou. m3/year] 732,724 648,2 637,3 646 Circulating water, [thou. m /year] 3 297 215,651 277 043,3 319 832,9 377 375 Rainwater use, [thou. m /year] 3 1 046 1259,7 1588,8 1 160 62 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The plant ’ s utility fluids are drained off into were within the established limit concentrations . the treatment facilities maintained by the town of Z hlobin. P ollutant contents ( hard metals , oil There are no water objects significantly affected products , salt content ) in the discharged fluids by the production activities of the plant .  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 63 Environmental activity  Сброс загрязняющих веществinto в водные Contaminants discharge water объекты, т/год objects, t/y 35000 29430 30000 25000 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Северсталь 2014 U tilization of industrial wastes Y8 W aste mineral oils unsuitable for preliminary designated use ; C urrent technologies of metal production are inevitably associated with generation of various Y9 W aste oil ( water ) and hydrocarbon ( water ) wastes which belong to different hazard classes . based mixtures emulsions ; T his is a major aspect contributing to environ mental pollution . T he plant provides for strict Y16 W astes associated with the production , re compliance with all requirements associated with covery and application of photo chemicals and wastes utilization and disposal and seeks to limit consumables used for film development ; pollutant discharges , ensure re use of natural resources and wastes reclamation . D epending Y17 W astes generated from metal and plastic on the hazard class of wastes and their physi surface machining ; cal properties , the enterprise defined stringent requirements at each of the industrial wastes Y31 L ead and lead compounds ; utilization stages ( generation , collection , trans portation , storage , handling and neutralization ), Y34 A cid solutions and solid acids . minimizing possible environmental impacts . T he listed wastes are utilized by the plant as D uring 2015 there were registered no spillages stipulated by the environmental legislation of of chemicals , oils and fuels which could have an the R epublic of B elarus . T here was no export or adverse effect on the environment and present a import with these groups of wastes . potential hazard to the soil , water , air , biodiver sity and human health . W ithin the framework of its production ac tivities , OJSC «BSW – management company Production activities of OJSC «BSW – management of «BMC» holding offers and implements ini company of «BMC» holding are associated with tiatives intended for mitigation of its environ generation of the following wastes, corresponding mental impacts and damage effects . A lso , as the to wastes groups as set out in Basel Convention: major raw material used for the plant ’ s produc tion is metal scrap , the enterprise is capable to Y1 M edical wastes resulting from patients ’ care dispose of its production after it is no longer provided by hospitals , health centers and clinics ; in active use . 64 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Year Sold, t Used, t Buried, t Stored, t 2014 3 036 806,334* 62 590,114 19 022,935 78 617,375 2015 611 158,784 101 407,51 5 949 16 168,8 -2 425 647,55 +38 817,396 -13 073,935 -62448,575 * considering alienation to the processing enterprise of the total amount of electric melting slag previously accumulated at BSW. Размещение Production производства отходовwaste на специализированных allocation объктах, t тыс. т. at special facilities, thou. 1000 884 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 186,5 200 107,3 97,6 100 22,1 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Severstal 2014 Северсталь 2014 * waste rock excluded Удельное размещение Specific отходов allocation производства of production wastes at special facilities объектах, на специализированных кг/т стали kg/t of steel 90 78,3 80 67,1 70 60 46,8 50 38,3 40 30 20 8,9 10 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Severstal 2014 Северсталь 2014 * specific allocation (waste rock excluded), kg/t of steel  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 65 Environmental activity  Training requirements in the area of environment, the plant ensures access to the existing reference legal To provide for an enhanced efficiency of its eco system «ConsultantPlus Belarus Network» and logical activities the enterprise arranges training information search systems «Stroidukument» and courses on issues of environmental protection «Standard» for each employee. at all administrative levels . Employees’ vocation al training is continuous and is effectively inte For general data on the training activities see the grated into the daily labour activities throughout «Social responsibility» section. their career . I t is aimed at gradual broadening and enhancing of professional knowledge and compe Improvement of ecological culture tence in environmental and industrial sanitation of the personnel issues . To ensure efficient environmental manage ment in connection with the production activities , BSW uses its employees’ knowledge and experience the plant identified , documented and familiarized in ecological safety and healthcare issues to proits employees with their duties , responsibilities vide for security and welfare of people living in the and powers . vicinity of the plant and in the whole region. The Company employees arrange lectures for youth and Training, retraining and advanced training activities training activities on ecological requirements and arranged for managers, technicians and operationaspects for subcontracted personnel, carrying out al personnel on issues of ecological safety and works on the enterprise’s premises. environmental protection are as established in the annual vocational training plans and programs. To improve the communication system , expand opportunities of interaction among interested For guaranteed observation of legal and other parties , ensure employees ’ individual development and exchange of experience , OJSC «BSW – man agement company of «BMC» holding annually holds international scientific and technical con ference «M etal ». B esides participants from CIS countries , the «E nergy and ecology » section comprises specialists of the C ompany . D uring the conference , its participants present their re ports on topics of current interest and exchange their experience with regard to implementation of strategic objectives and introduction of recent developments in the steadily expanding produc tion areas and in the field of corporate social responsibility . Information about ecological activities of the enterprise and those concerned with improvement of the environmental management system is regularly published in the corporate and regional mass media and the republican «Casting and Metallurgy» and «Steel» trade journals To evaluate environmental impacts, the enterprise holds public hearings, inviting representatives of 66 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS supervision authorities, general public and the legislation of the Replant’s employees to participate in them. The plant takes part in environmental actions and public of B elarus , plant ’ s ecological stan dards and other regula the 24 Financial resources directhas initiated such actions itself several times. tions and was intended ed towards environment for enhancement of vio To provide for a systemic approach to improvement lators ’ responsibility and protection ($ mln) of employees’ ecological culture the plant worked encouragement of the out and implemented: plant ’ s employees , engineers and technicians to provide for compliance with the above documents . – Provisions on tear tags and prevention of violations with regard to environmental protection Development and implementation and occupational sanitary, which are introduced to of resource-saving, low-waste enhance preventive work on precautionary, recomand environmentally-safe technologies mendatory and control functions for the purposes of environmental protection. Activities to prevent The plant takes actual steps to provide for en environmental law infringements are carried out vironmental protection and implement environmen with the use of notice tear tags; tally safe technologies as well . To mitigate environmental impacts , OJSC «BSW – management – P rovisions on encouraging environmental ac company of «BMC» holding annually introduces tivities . T his regulatory document was intro new environmental actions . U nder the ecological duced to motivate the plant ’ s employees to abide program for 2015 the plant provided for the fol by the environmental requirements set out in the lowing : Total, Br mln (at own costs) Current environmental expenses 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 год Total 111 995,5 196 458,6 224 910,1 294 069,7 384 701,1 including: protection and efficient use of water resources total 37 770,4 76 051,1 100 583,7 133 432,1 177 936,3 including payments to other organizations for acceptance and 11 029,4 27 536,2 34 080,4 43 475,0 70 440,8 waste water cleaning air basin protection, ozone layer and climate preservation 57 965,0 94 172,8 93 302,6 119 710,1 161 367,1 protection of the environment from pollution with industrial 14 905,4 24 557,8 29 072,3 38 296,0 42 863,9 wastes total including payments to other organizations for collection (stock3 868,4 5 336,0 6 519,1 11 365,0 21 502,1 ing), acceptance, storage, burial, and neutralization of wastes protection and efficient use of land – total — — — — — Including recultivation of land — — — — — for ecological rate setting, 376,3 136,9 243,2 234,5 589,4 expertise and passport issue for ecological certification 13,0 78,0 — — 45,5 for ecological audit 9,5 17,0 94,1 59,6 -— for ecological insurance — — — — — for local monitoring 955,9 1 445,0 1 614,2 2 337,4 1 898,9 others — — — — — Current expenses  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 67 Environmental activity  Total, Br mln Indicator description 2014 2015 Amount of discount set for the organization for ecological payments subject to decrease 11 154,8 12 089,4 of environment pollution due to environment protection measures undertaken Amounts paid to compensate damage caused by violation of the environment law 50,8 47,5 (penalties, claims, damage, etc.) Current expenses 2012 2013 2014 2015 Aspect Description payment, payment, payment, payment, Br million Br million Br million Br million Drinking and service water consumption 482,449 520,981 509,8 759,9 Sewage discharges 0 7,585 10,3 0 Air emissions from stationary and mobile 5 693,198 2 467,494 0 0 sources Waste disposal 19 173,718 10 235,84 7 369,3 2855,5 Waste storage 2 667,638 1 633,497 2 301,8 618,2 Exemption from taxes to the amount of money 0 0 11 154,8 12089,4 used for environment protection Ecological payments in 2012-2015. – installation of an automatic control system of air other melting processes of the unitary enterprise emissions of pollutants from lime kiln No.3 of the «BSW-Ecoservice». scrap yard; Expenses for environment protection and building of a 24000 m³ pond to collect, clean, and monitoring. Ecological payments use of the surface waste water for production purAnnually, the plant assigns considerable funds to poses; environment protection activities. Money is invested modernization of recycling water circuits of EMS in repair, reconstruction, and modernization of en-1 and SRS; vironmental equipment. building of sites for temporary storage of proIn its activities, OJSC «BSW – management comduction wastes similar to life activity wastes; pany of «BMC» holding places special emphasis on the interaction with the stakeholders – both with provision of gas purifying units for newly commissupervising authorities and communities, consumers, sioned emission sources of SWS-2; suppliers, and contractors. Information exchange is according to the diagram included in the section introduction of technology for use of concrete «Management, responsibilities and interaction with structure breakage and dust, ashes, pick-ups of the stakeholders». 68 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Medium-term targets of the Company Major actions aimed at mitigation of the negative environmental impacts include: I n addition to production facilities expansion , the plant also plans to modernize its equipment to – installation of an automatic system of control improve environment safety and mitigate nega of harmful emission in the air from IPU 1,2 of the tive environmental impacts . I nvestment projects scrap yard; to be implemented by OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding include not only new – complex reconstruction of dust and gas collectproduction facilities but also introduction of the ing unit of electric-arc furnace No. 3 and installaworld ’ s best practices in the field of environ tion of a hood to reduce unorganized emissions in ment safety . the air through aeration lanterns; Within the framework of the investment program, – construction of a dust and gas collecting unit at the plant also identified a number of actions aimed lime kiln No. 3 in the scrap yard; at improvement of ecological situation and mitigation of negative environmental impacts associated –construction of treatment facilities for saline with BSW production activities. waste water processing. On September 3, BSW announced the winners of the traditional youth award. It was for the first time when employees of the enterprises established by the Company were celebrated together with 30 best young employees of Byelorussian Steel Works. The format of the event was changed in the Year of Youth: new nominations reflecting the multi-side life of the plant’s young employees were presented: «To steel summits», «Breakthrough of the Year», «True Talent», «Energy of Victory», and «Progressive Idea». SOCIAL REPORT 2015 69 Social activity As far as the social sphere is concerned , the ensuring the optimum ratio of the social activity strategic target of OJSC «BSW – management expenses and the labour results achieved; company of «BMC» holding in the social area of its activity is the improvement of the corporate maintaining reasonable balance of the plant’s insocial responsibility system with the follow terests and those of the community and the employing basic principles : observing social equality ees. and responsibility , nondiscrimination , ensuring safe working conditions , maintaining employees ’ Preservation of life, health and human rights is health , creating positive social psychological considered by the Company of a higher priority than economic results of productive activity. climate in the working team alongside with keep ing reasonable balance of the plant ’ s economic Employees’ loyalty and satisfaction is a crucial interests and social interests of the civil society factor that influences the business stability. The including that of the employees of B yelorussian personnel relations priorities are improvement of S teel W orks . employees’ social well-being, building up clear communication channels, improvement of the degree of BSW considers social responsibility to be an intepersonnel awareness and the most important thing gral part of the business conduct strategy and its – creation of a strong corporate culture. corporate ethics based on the principles of decency and justice, honesty in dealing with all partners and It is essential for the plant’s employees to feel competitors. themselves members of one family, realize their be2009 longing to one of the largest enterprises of the In its social activity republic. Since 2009 elements of a single integratOJSC «BSW – maned corporate culture have been introduced at the Introduction of the unified agement company of plant. Two of them are the Corporate Policy and integrated corporate «BMC» holding is Code of Ethics Their major values respect and guided by the legislaculture at BSW collaboration, efficiency and results, leadership tion of the Republic and dynamic development, initiative and responsibilof Belarus, parameters of stability and production ity – are formulated on the basis of the stakeholddevelopment, economic expediency as well as its ers’, primarily employees’, opinions. responsibility to the owner, investors, employees and business partners, local communities and other Labor relations and adequate labor stakeholders. Personnel management policy Carrying out its social activity the plant adheres to the following approaches: Adhering to the principles laid in the foundation of the UN Global Compact, OJSC «BSW – man– conformity with the legislation and legal norms agement company of «BMC» holding considers its of the Republic of Belarus; employees to be of the prime value and builds up the relationships with them on the basis of social involvement of all the units and business processpartnership, solidarity in purpose and respect for es participants; the mutual interests. disclosure of full and precise information regardLong-term strategic targets of the Company coring the results of the social activity; porate policy for personnel management stipulate the following: – enhancing responsibility related to the assumed obligations and their fulfillment; – formation of a labor relations regulation system 70 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS and development of social partnership based on the person feels own contribution into the common balance of interests of the plant and its employees; target achievement . – improvement of employees motivation systems, Working with a numerous number of employees in ensuring the competitive level of the employees’ ever-changing production conditions, development compensation package connected with the labor efof a competent and efficient personnel management ficiency increase, collective and individual results system is very important. of working activity; The implemented Personnel Management Policy of – personnel development (selection, recruitment, the Company based on the principle of partnership evaluation, training, promotion) to supply the Comrelations of an individual and the organization aimed pany subdivisions with the employees having the reat forming integrated corporate surroundings, quired professional and qualification characterispreserving work places, sustaining decent salary tics; level, optimum redistribution of labor recourses contributes to enhancement of the investment at– improvement of the labor safety level, improvetractiveness and dynamic development of the enterment of social and living conditions on the proprise. The plant’s employees are the main element duction site and offering supplementary health of success in reaching our goals, that’s why we put improvement opportunities for the employees and particular emphasis on solving staff issues. their family members; High efficiency of the «Personnel Management» – development of corporate culture, ensuring of process is confirmed by the results of recertifisocial stability and favorable moral and psychologcation and supervisory audits of quality manageical climate in the working teams; ment system conformance to the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, STB ISO 9001-2009, ISO/TS – development of corporate social programs. 16949:2009, API Q1, conducted at BSW in 2015 by representatives of national and international cerKey principles and approaches tification organizations (Gosstandart of the RB, Policy of OJSC «BSW – management company TÜV Türingen (Germany), CARES (Great Britain), of «BMC» holding in the personnel management TÜV International (Czech Republic), API (American sphere is formed and realized on the system basis Petroleum Institute). according to the labor legislation of the Republic of Belarus. Alongside with development and continuous im provement , the plant links its success to the well consolidated and active team of profession als . O ne of the main targets of OJSC «BSW – man agement company of «BMC» holding is creation of a « prime choice company» based on honesty, dedication , creative approach , optimism and self im provement of each employee . B uilding up of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding management system presupposes involvement of the staff into decision making process , business processes optimization , improvement of production and social activity of the company . Hence, each SOCIAL REPORT 2015 71 Social activity  Personnel Profile Prevalence of male emOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is the largest employer in its productive ployees is due to hard and very often dangerous labour conditions in 39 Average age activity region and is aware of its economic and the metallurgical indusof the employees social obligation to the society influencing it by try. creating high level of social security and favor able working conditions for its employees , realiza The image of a strong and continuously working ention of efficient social and ecological programs , terprise makes OJSC «BSW – management company projects and activities in the area of personnel of «BMC» holding attractive for potential workmanagement . 95% of the workers and 99,5% of ers and solves the issue of the prospective human managers working at OJSC «BSW – management resource provision company of «BMC» holding are from local pop ulation In 2015 the plant selected candidates and recruited 1191 people from the residents of the region taking The segment of the works employees in the region into consideration the level of their competence so economically active popuas to satisfy its need in personnel. 30 Portion of the plant’s lation makes about 30 %. Portion of the top managThe enterprise puts great emphasis on recruitment ers out of the local popuand adaptation of young specialists. Taking account employees in the economilation including members of 2015 the board of directors and cally active population of the region of the plant’s lead specialists equals to 100 per cent. 11 944 operation (%) OJSC «BSW – manage 2014 ment company of «BMC» holding is responsible in its approach to solving employment issues , 11 747 collaborates with state institutions , employee unions and other organizations in the sphere of regulating labor and related relations . C ontrib uting to disclosure of professional and person 2013 11 896 al capabilities of its employees , the enterprise creates conditions for their professional and career progress . Total amount of the personnel as of 31.12.2015 2012 12 447 equals to 11944 people and it grew by 197 people as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. Gender composition of the workers hasn’t con2011 12 376 siderably changed as compared to 2014. As of 31.12.2015 BSW employed: 72,4 % men; 2010 12 463 27,6 % women. 72 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Growth of the number of employees in 2015 was due to staffing of section rolling shop No. 2, recruiting of new specialists and according to the vacancies stated by structural subdivisions. Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dev. Total number of people 12 463 12 373 12 447 11896 11747 11 944 +197 1159 1190 1 216 1 226 1 214 1 184 Managers, pers. -30 (9,3%) (9,6%) (9,8%) (10,3%) (10,3%) (9,9%) 1793 1790 1 871 1 883 1 593 1 585 Specialists, pers. -4 (14,4%) (14,5%) (15,0%) (15,4%) (13,6%) (13,3%) 167 158 40 Office workers, pers. 159 (1,3%) 164 (1,4%) 35 (0,3%) -5 (1,3%) (1,3%) (0,3%) 9 344 9 235 9 201 8 673 8 900 9 140 Workers, pers. +236 (75,0%) (74,6%) (73,9%) (72,9%) (75,8%) (76,5%) OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding has a well-balanced age composition of the employees. The main contingent is composed of workers aged 38,5 to 42,0 years, having the required knowledge and professional skills. Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Average age of the employees, years 39,7 39,9 40,0 40,4 39,6 39,3 Manpower turnover in 2015 equaled to 3,41%. Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Manpower turnover, % 2,4 2,7 2,59 4,78 4,8 3,41 More than half of the plant’s employees have higher and specialized secondary education. In the reporting year, the number of employees with a higher education grew by 167 people as compared to 2014. There is a tendency towards decrease of the share of the employees with secondary education Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dev. Total number pers. 12 463 12 376 12 447 11 896 11747 11 944 +197 % 25,1 25,5 27,0 28,5 29,9 30,1 Higher education pers. 3 132 3 150 3 360 3392 3508 3 597 +167 Secondary technical % 26,0 26,3 26,0 25,5 24,9 25,1 education pers. 3 243 3 255 3 239 3036 2924 2 994 +15 Specialized % 17,6 17,5 17,5 18,5 19,3 secondary education pers. 2 174 2 179 2085 2169 2 306 +140 % 48,9 30,6 29,5 28,5 26,8 25,5 Secondary education pers. 6 088 3 797 3 669 3383 3143 3 047 -125 Candidates of science pers. 8 9 8 8 7 7 Postgraduates pers. 6 7 5 11 4 3 18 16 16 Undergraduates pers. (inc. 8 (incl.4 (incl. 3 19 35 39 studying) studying) studying  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 73 Social activity  Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of young specialists 111 113 166 143 251 338 of the production output growth rate, the plant bility of the human rights and takes all required placed 338 young specialists in job in 2015. measures to assure and protect them . G uided by the approaches of the UN G lobal C ompact in the 338 A record O rganization of a methodical work with young specialists is one of the priority direc human rights sphere , OJSC «BSW – manage ment company of «BMC» holding seeks to pre vent possible conflicts of interests of the em tions of the enterprise per ployees , managers and the C ompany . P rinciples number of young sonnel policy . A vailability of of non admission of conflicts of interests and specialists hired constantly developing poten their settlement are given in the plant ’ s C ode of to BSW in 2015 tial of the personnel repre E thics . P reventing conflicts of interests , the sented by young specialists is C ompany seeks improvement of the efficiency of the most important condition of the management its activity , creation of the atmosphere of trust succession , enhancement of management efficien and openness in the relationships with the per cy , ensuring stable social economic development sons concerned , enhancing business image and of the plant . O ne of the most significant events reputation of the enterprise . T he working tools within the S ystem of work with young specialists for preventing possible conflicts are : a direct is a scientific and technical conference annually telephone line with the plant ’ s top management held in J uly. and representatives of the state authorities , The personnel policy of OJSC «BSW – manage «S ignal » hotline and others , the work of which is performed on a confidential basis . I n order to ment company of «BMC» holding is aimed at dis ensure the feedback , the enterprise appointed covering the individual potential of each employee responsible persons who review the employees ’ and its development in coordination with the stra appeals concerning various issues including the tegic goals . T he existing evaluation system allows safety and labour protection issues , environment the plant to determine compliance of each employ and professional ethics . T ransparency and open ee with the position occupied and create conditions for carrying out employment duties more success ness of BSW becomes one of the leading manage ment principles which allows the plant to create fully and efficiently . The founding principles in confidential relations with all stakeholders in the area of the personnel efficiency management are objectivity and openness . cluding the C ompany employees . Within the framework of the personnel motivation In order to improve the base required for the program the sociological service of the plant car personnel evaluation , local regulations have been ried out a study of the social and psychological developed and are operating ; they regulate the climate among the employees which was participat procedure of assessment and certification of the ed by more than 10% of the staff (1426 people). Company management and specialists . The assess Complex index of satisfaction in 2015 remained at ment procedure is based on the constructive dia the level of 2014 and equaled to 0,72. T his fact is logue between a worker and a manager . an evidence of a positive and steady social psycho I n 2015, 445 managers and specialists of the plant logical climate in the team of employees. The staff is satisfied with the work and the plant in general . were assessed in terms of fulfillment of the goals set . To support the high level of the employees’ satis faction a corresponding P rogram of measure has I n its practical activity BSW recognizes inviola been worked out. 74 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The employees ’ rights holding is against all forms of discrimination and builds up its activity on the basis of generally ac OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» knowledged principles and norms of the interna holding admits inviolability of the human rights in tional law , standards and conventions of the I n its practical work and takes all measure possible ternational Labour Organization, and the law of to ensure and protect them . the R epublic of B elarus . I n 2015 no discrimination Being a socially responsible enterprise Byeloruswas registered at the enterprise neither by gender sian S teel W orks considers interests and rights and nationality , not by religious beliefs and politi of its employees based on the principles of social cal views ; there were no cases of forces or child partnership . These principles are specified in the labour either . most important document of social partnership re BSW having dangerous productions in its struc flecting interests of all employees of the Compature bears responsibility for production facilities ny – the Collective Agreement. I n M arch 2015 a safety as regards the employees and the communi trade union conference of the employees of the ty . The plant establishes healthy and safe labour enterprise was held which summarized the results conditions by replacement of outdated equipment of 2014 Collective Agreement fulfillment and and technologies and is guided by the labour pro adopted a C ollective A greement for 2015-2018. tection law , international standards in the area of Aims of the Collective Agreement are as follows: production safety and prevention of occupational – development of contractual relations between diseases , as well as internal normative documents . the enterprise and its employees being parties of I ssues of employees ’ health and safety are given social partnership ; consideration in the collective agreement . – coordination of interests of the enterprise and The plant acknowledges that its production activi its employees in developing general principles of ty is related to a negative impact onto the environ regulation of social labour relations ; ment and takes all possible measures to minimize this influence on the vital activity of the popula – provision of the personnel with work places and tion . work remuneration in compliance with the labour contracts signed, social and economic rights estabOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» lished by the existing law of the Republic of Belarus; holding guarantees the right of trade unions to carry out their activity freely , without any limita – observance of labour and production discipline , tions , within the framework specified by the law . labour protection , industrial safety and produc The right of the employees and the trade union tion sanitation requirements ; to participate in contractual regulation of labour relations is realized in the procedures of prepara – enhancement of social legal protection of the tion and signing of collective agreements , in the employees of the Company; employees ’ right to participate in establishment – stabilization of the social economic situation in and improvement of labour conditions and produc the teams and subdivisions of the enterprise . tion environment . Being guided by the principles of the UN G lobL egal regulation of labour relations at OJSC al C ompact , B yelorussian S teel W orks considers «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding human rights protection and ensuring to be a pri is fulfilled in accordance with the C ode of L abour ority relative to economic performance and guar of the R epublic of B elarus and the collective antee their fulfillment . agreement of the enterprise : OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» – labour agreements are signed and employments  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 75 Social activity  contracts are concluded considering substantiation plant and the region in general. OJSC «BSW – manof production, organizational, and economic reasons; agement company of «BMC» holding intends to continue fulfillment of the requirements of the law and – notification of an employee about work conditions international principles in the area of social responchange is fulfilled an least one month prior to consibility in future. tract signature; Professional and career development – notification of an employee about expiration of the contract, about the intention to extend the contract Realization of the personnel policy based on the prinfor a new period or terminate it takes place at list one ciples of equality, justice and award depending on month prior. personal skills and irrespective of origin, age, gender, race, nationality and religion of an employee is Byelorussian Steel Works strives for prevention of performed in conformity with the requirements of the labour disputes and conflicts, and if they occur, parexisting legislation of the Republic of Belarus, univerticipates in open discussions with employees admitting sally acknowledged norms and principles of the intermutual responsibility of the parties of social partnational law including the UN Global Compact and the nership. To ensure equal rights of the employees of Convention of the International Labor Organization. the Company and observance of the law Republic of Belarus, a committee is established to resolve labour OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holddisputes which unites equal number of representatives ing ensures equal possibilities for all employees to of the plant’s administration and labour collectives. realize their potential in the process of their working The aim of the committee is a qualified examination activity, fair and unbiased assessment of the work reof individual disputes between individual employees sults, selection of the personnel during recruitment and the administration as regards labour relations. and career promotion according to the professional The committee performed its functions continuously skills and knowledge. during the year acting as an arbitrator. During 2015, 23 applications of the employees of the Company were The Company scale allows the employees to realize their professional ambitions, gain new experience and examined. Based on the results of the examination, 3 enhance their qualification degree. Realizing the apapplications were satisfied, an agreement was reached proaches in social sphere, the Company places special upon another 5 applications, and 11 applications were emphasis on the internal human recourses potential declined due to groundless requirements, 4 applicaduring selection and appointment of managers and spetions were withdrawn from the committee because the cialists administration had resolved the matter before. In order to observe and ensure human rights, ByeloIn order to implement the long-term strategy of the enterprise’s development, OJSC «BSW – managerussian Steel Works pays great attention to improvement company of «BMC» holding formed a multi-level ment of the level of information awareness and legal personnel reserve of the management. The reserve competence of all employees within the framework of is meant for meeting the requirement of the Compathe existing system of continuous training and profesny in management employees having a range of basic sional development of the employees. Over 90% of administrative competence. In order to develop the the employees trained in 2015 studied basic foundation competence required for a manager and create a real of the law in the area of economic, environmental, and perspective for professional and career promotion responsibility isuues. of the workers, staged training of human resources Accurate and strict observance of the human rights was organized according to the existing System. The and freedoms is the basis of the up-to-date socially training programs stipulate education of the reserve responsible business directed not only towards gainfrom the level of a foreman to the top-manager level ing profit, but towards sustainable development of the considering the specific character of the work ful76 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS filled («Young Manager School» and «Management sions held by the sociological service of the works, School»). The programs and trainings for developing the respondents gave an average estimate regarding corporate and manager competence were aimed at the the promotion and career opportunities (the satisfacpersonnel reserve as a priority category of human retion index made up 0,69 against 0,75 in 2014). sources. Specialists of the leading educational establishments of the Republic of Belarus are engaged in Training and education the training process under bilateral contracts signed. OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdFor the accounting period over 70% of management ing sees its personnel as its major asset and takes corappointments from among the employees included into responding measures regarding its retaining and develthe works Personnel Register and certified after opment creating conditions for professional growth passing such training took place. In 2015 selection of and education. Byelorussian Steel Works gives all employees for participation in the project «A strateits employees the right for professional education gic reserve of young employees» was completed. Its at different stages of labor activity orientating at main aim is to establish a manager reserve of young long-term relations with the personnel and considers employees prepared for managerial work in present education to be an investment into the human capital conditions and ensuring improvement of effectiveness assets. of the plant management on this basis. In the present conditions of a severe competition OJSC Fulfilling the personnel potential development pro«BSW – management company of «BMC» holding aims grams and enhancing the efficiency of the structural at searching for current sales markets, technologies subdivisions activity, OJSC «BSW – management comof the future, cost-saving reserves and other optimipany of «BMC» holding annually organizes rotation zation possibilities of specialists. The staff rotation is used as a method of decreasing labor monotony and routine, and enrichPersonnel quality became a determining factor of the ment of the work activity content due to a greater works competitive ability. Ensuring personnel quality variety of functions and as one of the labor motivation is one of the priority targets of the corporate Social factors. Besides, the rotation contributes to acquirResponsibility Policy. It is impossible without the deing a more diverse practical experience required for veloped internal training system. Guided by the labor being promoted to one or another management posiand education legislation, the professional education tion. system is controlled by the corporate Training Center. In 2015 temporary appointments took place in order to increase specialists’ qualification, determine their By carrying out an efficient operation of the continupotential abilities for putting into the personnel reous professional education system, the Training Censerve as well as for the purpose of promoting careers ter solves the following objectives in the personnel of the young workers having higher education: management system: During the annual integrated study of the social-psyproviding the subdivisions of the plant with profeschological climate in the teams of structural subdivisional staff of the required qualification level; Factor 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of the rotation program participants 56 103 152 84 63 59 PROMOTION TO A SPECIALIST POSITION appointment to a manager position 20 29 71 23 36 12 qualification improvement 2 11 15 13 3 5 qualification improvement 34 63 66 48 24 42  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 77 Social activity  providing the personnel support of innovative proof the Training Center based on the technologies and cesses; equipment implemented at the enterprise facilitates learning the material. In the education process both – retaining and development of the professional potraditional forms and modern education technologies tential and staff competitive ability; are applied. – providing the subdivisions with a management staff The main form of the education process organization is reserve having a developed corporate and management dual that means a well-balanced combination of acquircompetence; ing theoretical knowledge and practical skills. – organizing training of the specialists, management A particular attention is paid to the modular education staff and their reserve; technology that lays stress both on acquiring particular knowledge and developing the personnel’s ability – creating the system of tutorship and sharing of for self-education and self-improvement. knowledge; – improvement of the forms and methods of training, Education and development of the personnel is carintroduction of advanced educational methods (develried-out in conformity with the current and perspecopment of the remote electronic system of module tive demands of the Company. training «LearnBMZ» with the subsequent allocation on the internal plant’s site); A differential approach to the education programs formation is applied depending on a worker’s qualifi– formation of a personnel reserve of the required cation level. Programs of continuous professional qualification with regard to nonprofessional occupatraining stipulate studying the issues of special techtions from among the residents of the region of the nologies, civil, political, economic, social and cultural plants’ activity; human rights, requirements of environment protection systems, quality management, labor and industrial organization of experience and knowledge exchange safety, energy saving issues. in the course of rendering of educational services to organizations and enterprises of our republic, neighContinuous education is ensured by rational combinabouring and far foreign countries. tion of professional education in educational establishments, systematic self-education as well as studyIn order to solve the above tasks the Training Center ing in the Training Center and at work places. is equipped with the newest training aids. Everything is arranged in such a way that trainings are maximally 5856 employees (49% of the total number of the efficient. Availability of the training aids and multimestaff) took varied types of education and acquired new dia applications developed by the teachers and masters knowledge in 2015. Item Annual plan, Actual numFulfillment Description No. people ber, people % 1 Improvement of qualification of leading employees and specialists 502 505 100,6 Improvement of qualification of leading employees and specialists 2 474 478 100,8 servicing facilities controlled by Gospromnadzor. 3 Training of leading employees and specialists and their reserve 281 282 100,4 4 Training of workers 3456 4591 132,8 Total of the plant 4713 5856 124,2 78 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Byelorussian Steel Works is always ready for the sions to check conformity to dialog with the stakeholders regarding issues of improvement of professionalism, scholarship and employees’ competence development. Number of STP 840 KSM – 6.2. 2013 «Human Resources». 5856 Number hours dedicated to employees professional training Workers training at the enterprise of employees having in 2015 equaled to 482210 academic hours or 41,7 different types hours per one employee. Main aims of continuous proof training in 2015 fessional training of workers Количест во академических часов Number of academic приходящие hours о на одног per one employee работ ника (office workers) are: Provision of structural subdivisions with professionals of the required level, preservation and 50 development of professional potential and competi40 40,9 41,7 30 tiveness of the staff; 20 exclusion of the risk factor of the untrained em10 ployees, formation of the employee reserve of the 0 2014 2015 required qualification. 783 employees had to improve their qualification in 2015; Main tasks of continuous professional training of actual number of employees who improved their qualifiworkers (office workers) are: achievement of the cation equaled to 793 people which made up 100,6%. aims of continuous professional training of workers (office workers). Сравнит ельная диаг рамма Comparative diagram of qualification improvement by LE&S повышения квалификации РРиС Continuous professional training of workers (office workers) includes the following types: profes1200 1000 sional training, retraining, advanced training, educational courses. 1063 800 600 793 400 Results of professional training 200 of the plant’s workers in 2015 0 2014 2015 Сравнит ельная диаг рамма подг от овки Comparative рабочихdiagram of the plant´s по предприят ию employees training In order to improve 793 Number of employees procedures ployees of training any new or changed emin 5000 4000 3000 3810 4591 oper2000 who improved production 1000 qualification in 2015 ation influencing 0 product quality at 2014 2015 the Training Centre and directly at work places as well as for and informing about the consequences Determination of professional correspondence of non-conforming product quality for customer, (theoretical knowledge, professional skills, and motivation of the employees for achievement of the competence) for the workers who reached the target performance and fulfillment of the plant’s highest grades or due to some reason had not imstandard STP 840 –KSM 6.2. «Human Resources, proved their qualification during 4 years of prac16 external and internal audits were held at the tical work, the Company organized and carried out Training Centre together with structural subdivicertification of the professional level (grade).  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 79 Social activity  Thus, 1363 employees were certified in 2015 to technological university «MIS i S (SRTU «MISconfirm their professional level . i S») M oscow , A cademy of post graduate educa tion , M oscow chemical institute named after D.I. W ork time losses due to repairs , product size M endeleev , C entre of innovation management of change , equipment failures , product quality B elarusian S tate U niversity , «R epublican H igher worsening lead to growth of production costs , S chool I nstitution ». decrease of labour productivity . T he T raining C entre works out training programs together So as to provide pipe production with highly qual with division heads to eliminate and prevent the ified personnel , affiliated departments «M etal above . Forming » and «M etallurgy and foundry engineering » of G omel S tate T echnical U niversity named OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» after P.O. S ukloi work at the plant. I n 2012 the holding actively develops its international coop C ompany started to implement a new , three stage eration in the area of its personnel training and project aimed at organization of getting the sec improvement of their qualification . I n relation ond stage of higher education in mathematics tak with a large investment program of the enter ing into consideration the specific character of prise , it continues training of employees able to the pipe production at B yelorussian S teel W orks maintain modern equipment of the global level . I n with attraction of the scientific potential of GTU order to help its employees acquire progressive named after P.O. S ukhoi and MIS i S. experience , the enterprise arranged training and probation in training centres and enterprises in A longside with solving the issues of personnel E ngland , I taly , G ermany , C hina , and other coun qualification improvement , the collaboration tries . with higher educational establishments is aimed at reaching long term strategic objectives of I n 2015 OJSC «BSW – management company of the works . T his cooperation is beneficial both «BMC» holding arranged international coop for educational establishments and OJSC «BSW eration in experience and knowledge exchange – management company of «BMC» holding . T he in the area of steelmaking processes with spe plant offers students the opportunity to under cialists of core enterprises and companies of take manufacturing practice at the enterprise . neighbouring and far foreign countries : D anieli I n the reporting year 752 students underwent (I taly ), representative office of S iemens in the practical training at BSW. D uring the manu R epublic of B elarus , and BSW trade firm in facturing practice the students are guided by M oscow (R ussia ). experienced workers and specialists . D etailed acquaintance with the production takes place I n the area of professional training OJSC «BSW at the working place . A student can feel being – management company of «BMC» holding forms a member of the working team , try his skills up long term relations with a number of leading and adopt the mentors ’ experience , thus OJSC educational establishments having recommended «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding themselves in rendering of educational services : openly demonstrates its potential employees the I nstitute of qualification upgrading and retrain possibility of acquiring an interesting work and ing according to new directions of development personal realization . of technology and economics of B elarusian N a tional T echnical U niversity «, «S tate institute Practical training was organized in the following of qualification upgrading and retraining of specialties : machines and metal forming technol managers and industrial specialists «I ndustry ogy ; machines and casting technology ; steelmak S taff », federal educational establishment of ing and material processing ; electric metallurgy higher professional training «N ational research of ferrous and non ferrous metals ; engineering 80 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS technology ; hydraulic and pneumatic systems of Formation of the reputa mobile and production machines ; packing produc tion ; technical operation of power equipment of organizations ; industrial electronics ; industri tion of the most appealing employer is an essential condition for involvement 872 Financing al heat and power engineering ; electric power of creative , active and of Zhlobin Metallurgical supply ; economy and management of enterprises ; technically competent management ; marketing ; informational systems and personnel in the plant College activity technologies ; logistics , etc . operation . By rendering in 2015 ($ thou.) assistance to the young Сравнит ельная диаг рамма по прохождению Comparative diagram er generation in receiving modern education and практ иии ст удентofамиpractical ВУЗов,training of students of higher institutions, colleges, and SSEE колледжей,ССУЗов strengthening the material and technical foun dation of the region educational establishments 1000 Byelorussian Steel Works creates own promising 800 888 personnel reserve . F or these purposes the cor 600 752 responding means were directed to pre school ed 400 ucational institutions , schools , creativity centers 200 for the kids . 0 Special 2014 2015 emphasis is placed on the work regarding pupils and students vocational guidance that is S olving medium term strategic goals in the carried out on a regular basis with direct partic sphere of training of highly professional per ipation of OJSC «BSW – management company of sonnel is connected with the S tate E duca «BMC» holding specialists. Within this course a tional E stablishment «Z hlobin M etallurgical range of the following programs is implemented : C ollege », which conducts its activity at the expense of OJSC «BSW – management company – pupils participation in «O pen D ay » feast at basic of «BMC» holding investments . F or organizing educational establishments ; the college activity in 2015 the C ompany spent – excursions to the plant’ s museum ; USD872 thousand of its profit . T he college conducts training of technologists for basic – organization of youth competitions , cultural production subdivisions from among the best events engaging students of schools and special representatives of the region young generation , ized educational establishments . who passed competitive selection according to the educational programs coordinated with the OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» works . holding ensures the right of the employees to ed ucation and deems intellectual potential and pro At all times corporate social development and fessionalism of its employees to be an essential social investments remain sources of enhanc factor required for its own development . ing the works competitive abilities . P ossessing modern educational base and highly qualified A ccording to the results of an integrated study specialists , OJSC «BSW – management compa of the social and psychological climate in the ny of «BMC» holding makes its contribution subdivisions , satisfaction with the perspective of in the development of community helping with qualification enhancement , professional and ed training of qualified workers for the industri ucational level obtained was highly assessed and al enterprises of the town , the region , and the made up 0,71 ( satisfaction index in 2014 was at the country . level of 0,78).  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 81 Social activity  M otivation system Salary account M aterial stimulation ing is made ac cording to the legislation exist 532 Average annual salary The main objective of one of the strategic lines of the Company policy is constant increase of ing in the Repubat the enterprise productivity and quality of the personnel labor , lic of Belarus. in 2015 ($) efficient application of the existing norms and The enterprise realizes the following principle : the accrued sal wage systems aimed at manufacturing high quality ary of a worker , who fully completed the labor competitive products based on the rational use of hours and working norms , cannot be lower than each worker ’ s labor potential and enhancing per the established amount of the minimal salary in the sonnel welfare gains . Republic of Belarus that made up Br2180 thou O ne of the most precise indicators of the plant ’ s sand (USD119,3 in D ecember 2015. social policy effectiveness is the salary level . The tariff part of the salary is determined based Salary is the major source of income of the workon the monthly tariff rates established by the uni ers and the main factor for ensuring a certain fied workers wage tariff system of the Republic standard of well being . A ll payments and benefits of B elarus and the collective agreement in con granted to the plant ’ s employees are distributed formity with job evaluation in the organization ac to those working full time and part time in propor cording to the categories as follows : tion to the hours worked . – as far as workers are concerned, it is deterI n order to achieve unity of interests of all cat mined by multiplying the first tariff rate by the egories of workers in insuring high final results tariff multiplier of the corresponding tariff rate of the Company production and commercial operaestablished for a worker in compliance with the tions in general based on accounting and encour general provisions of the Uniform Wage-Rates agement of labor contribution of every division and S kills H andbook based on the tariff qualifying and a single worker , the enterprise developed the characteristics of the workers professions ; bonus scheme for labor stimulation . – as far as clerks are concerned , it is calculated In the existing economic situation it is most timely by multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff to observe the lowest limit of labor payment for multiplier of the corresponding tariff rate of the weakly protected groups of employees . unified wage tariff system established for a work er with reference to its position ; Average annual salary at the enterprise made up Br8441.1 thousand (USD532,1) in 2015. A verage – as far as men and women are concerned, accordsalary of workers and office employees made up ing to the work done or position held in conformi Br6718.7 thousand (USD 423,5) in the Republic ty with the unified wage tariff system and collecof B elarus in 2015, which is 1,27 lower than at tive agreement . OJSC BSW. Average salary of the enterprise clerks is 13,8% OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» higher than workers’ salary. Average salary of holding improves the normative base in the area the management is 42,9 % higher than workers ’ of labor relationship and informs every single em salary . T his correlation is explained by the com ployee of the labour remuneration conditions . A c plexity of the performed obligations stipulated by cording to the principles of the UN G lobal C om the job descriptions as well as the organization pact the enterprise realizes the principle of equal ( separate structural subdivisions ) activity effi award for equally valuable labor . ciency , quality of the performed works ( services ), 82 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS efficiency of the set targets and objectives ful A mother bringing up children under eighteen is fillment . given one extra day off a month at her request ; this day is not paid for . R elation between payments to the top management and C ompany’s effectiveness Average salary of men at the enterprise is 44.5 per cent higher than that of women . T he differ Stimulating payments to the top management ence between the average salary of women and the are effected depending on the efficiency of the average salary of men is explained by the increased Company performance and fulfillment of the so payment for the heavy service work, works with cial economic development indicators . S timulat harmful and dangerous labor conditions , where ing payments to the top management are effected women ’ labor is prohibited . depending on the efficiency of the C ompany per formance and fulfillment of the social economic P lanning of labor remuneration expenses is based development indicators set forth by the M inistry on the salary level reached and the output per of I ndustry of the R epublic of B elarus . one employee . A longside with the labor productiv ity growth , the average salary increase is planned Women have the same salaries and tariff rates as accordingly. men , if they occupy equal positions ( have similar professions ). I t is necessary to point out that with the la bor productivity growth rate of an employee of Women are given and guaranteed the same rights the main production in USD in 2015 equaled to as men and have additional benefits and guarantees 108%, salary growth rate in USD equaled to aimed at their health and maternity protection . 66,6%. Thus it is prohibited to use women’ labor in: So the top management of the enterprise attempts to restrain drop of the welfare of its employees . – heavy operations and operations with harmful and ( or ) hazardous labor conditions ; It is important that in these challenging times the enterprise worked for decreasing the labor co jobs related with lifting and manual handling of efficient of the manufactured products . I n 2015 weights ; implementation of this approach lead to the de some professions and positions (steelmaker, steelcrease of the labor coefficient of the operations maker’s assistant, farrier, battery assembler, etc.). fulfilled in basic and auxiliary shops by 69,2 thou. n/h. T he economic efficiency made up over B r280 Pregnant women are given easier jobs excluding million . the impact of harmful and (or) hazardous labor factors but their salary remains equal to the av As far as the salary level is concerned, the plant takes a decent place among the gross output mak erage amount of their previous salary . ing enterprises of the M inistry of I ndustry of the A mother (farther) of three or more children aged Republic of Belarus, which is shown in the below under 16 ( or having a disabled child aged under diagram . 18) are given one extra day-off in a week at her/ his request which is paid for in the amount of the All technical economic development programs of the enterprise are worked out for one year average daily payment . and are reported to the personnel . The results A mother bringing up two or more children under of their implementation are summarized monthly sixteen is given an additional day off a month at during a year and are reported to the employees her request ; this day is paid for in the amount of during forums , meetings and by the plant ’ s news one basic payment . paper «M etallurg».  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 83 Social activity  Средняя заработная плата на ОАО БМЗ управляю щая Average salary of the employees компания холдинга of OJSC в сравненииSteel БМК «Byelorussian Works — Management со средней Company of «Byelorussian заработной Metallurgical Республики платой работников Company» Holding as compared Беларусь в to the average salary in the Republic of Belarus дол. США 900,0 777,9 799,4 800,0 770,5 700,0 579,4 596,3 600,0 532,1 500,0 448,7 423,5 БМЗ BSW 400,0 РБ RB 300,0 200,0 100,0 0,0 2012г 2013г 2014г 2015г Средняя заработная плата на ОАО БМЗ мужчин и Average salary of men женщин and women of OJSC «BSW» 1000,0 911,0 900,0 855,1 861,0 819,9 800,0 700,0 598,3 596,0 574,1 556,7 600,0 мужч men 500,0 женщ ины women 400,0 300,0 200,0 100,0 0,0 2012г 2013г 2014г 2015г 84 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Динамика производитель ности труда персонала ОАО БМЗ Dynamics of employees' управляю labour development щая компания холдинга of OJSCза БМК «BSW — management 2012-2015гг. в Company of «BMC» holding in 2012-2015 дол США. 200000 173838 180000 160000 138073 140230 140000 120000 97480 100000 80000 60000 40000 20000 0 2012г 2013г 2014г 2015г * Note: Calculation if fulfilled in the national currency *) in USD  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 85 Social activity  Non-financial incentives purpose of moral stimulation , strengthening glo rious labor traditions , increasing the role and A significant element of the enterprise corporate strengthening of a Man of Labor, the plant con culture is the system of non-financial incentives of ducts festive events dedicated to initiation into the employees which comprises social-psychologiyoung metallurgist , celebration in honor of work cal, staff and professional aspects. dynasties , entering the names of best employees in Byelorussian Steel Works pays special attention the Company Book of Fame or placing their photos to stimulation and personnel interest in saving of in the Hall of Fame, honoring the winners of the material and energy resources, growth of producproductive competitions at the annual L abor F es tion efficiency, enhancement of responsibility for tival «P rofessional O lympus ». A ll categories of the quality of products manufactured, improvethe plant ’ s employees who attained better results ment of the production effectiveness as well as in their production activity , actively participate in development of creative activity with the help of the enterprise social life , gained authority and production competitions organized at the plant. 30 are respected by their working team members , are types of the production competitions and contests granted the honor to have their pictures posted are held in individual and collective forms («Best in in the H all of F ame of OJSC «BSW – management profession», «Best shop», «Best Canteen», «Best company of «BMC» holding . A ll structural sub in profession among private unitary enterprises», divisions of the works have «A lleys of G lory », «Professional Olympus», «Best innovator of the «F oremost W orkers» stands with the pictures of year», «Best young specialist», contest of plant the best workers . teams and structural subdivisions of the works in conformity with the system «BE AWARE OF A HU384 employees of our enterprise were awarded MAN!», etc.) Letters of Commendation and thanked officially by OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» O ne of the main constituents of the corporate holding in 2015. Services of the plant’s employees culture and efficient way of enhancing the work were also appreciated at the district, regional, and ers motivation is corporate awarding . F or the national level. 86 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS It grew into a tradition to congratulate the employclimate in the working ees with anniversaries, birth of a child, wedding, and to organize parties dedicated to recruitment for the armed forces or retirement. team, organization professional celebrations, sport and cultural of 384 Number of employees awardevents for the employed Letters of Commendation S ince 2008 the plant organizes celebration in ees, their family members and official appreciation honor of labor dynasties of OJSC «BSW – man and the population of the agement company of «BMC» holding . A ssignment region (see section «Soof BSW in 2015 of an honorable title of »A L abor D ynasty of cial package of benefits OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» and guarantees for the staff»). The approaches in holding » is based on the principles of succes planning of the corporate events are determined sion , continuity of generations from older to based on the analysis of the results of annual inteyounger one , and continuity of labor activity ( at grated study of social-psychological climate of the least three generations of the relatives of the working teams of the Company. first degree kinship should work at the plant at the same time ). Short-term targets in the area of social responsibility In 2010 a new tradition was born at BSW: presentation of a corporate calendar takes place at the Achievement of the following level of the main tarPalace of Culture of Metallurgists in the form of get values related with the Company social-economa brilliant and colorful celebration. Pages of the ic development is scheduled for 2016: plant’s calendar for 2013 contain the best pictures drawn by the future metallurgists chosen accord– training of the executive employees and specialing to the results of the regional contest and phoists, pers. — 1346 tos of the women working at the plant. – workers professional training, pers. — 3525 The possibility of professional education and increasing the workers qualification is of a partic– general satisfaction of the personnel, % min — ular importance for motivation of the staff. Pro72 fessional training organized and carried out at the – personnel turnover, %, max —4,5. enterprise by the Training Center ensures execution of the three motivating functions: Labor protection and ensuring of industrial safety – production-economic (Company competitive ability growth, enhancement of the quality of duty perforOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» mance and manufactured products); holding sees a human life as its supreme value . T he plant does not accept any compromises be – administrative (providing with qualified personnel, tween the health of its employees , safety and its formation, reproduction, adaptation and personprofit making . L abor safety and health are the nel development); key priorities of the corporate labor protection social-cultural (personality socialization, promanagement system . R ealizing its mission , the vision of occupation, social confidence, offering C ompany ensures the employees ’ labor protec equal opportunities for professional and career tion , takes measures for reduction of accidents development). risks and occupational diseases , strives for cre ation and sustaining of such labor conditions Byelorussian Steel Works puts particular emphathat are not dangerous to employees ’ health and sis on sustaining favorable social-psychological human dignity .  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 87 Social activity  Using dangerous industrial facilities in the producI n 2015 representatives of the state educational tion process, the enterprise management bears reestablishment »T he R epublican I nstitute of H igher sponsibility for conservation of the employees’ life S chool » – a certification body fulfilled a super and health. The existing labor protection and indusvision audit of the system of environment and in trial safety management system is built according dustrial safety management to evaluate its compli to the requirements of Belarusian legislation and ance with the requirements of the state standard considering international practices. STB 18001-2009 «Systems of labour protection control . R equirements ». N o non conformities Labor protection service of the plant bases its acwere detected based on the results of the audit. tivity on the priorities of the international norms. O ne aspect was suggested for improvement . A n Labor protection management of the enterprise is other audit was carried out to check compliance based on the key international standard of labor with the requirements of the international stan safety OHSAS 18001 «Occupational health safedard OHSAS 18001. N o non conformities were ty assurance systems» and national standard STB detected . 18001 «Labor protection management systems. Requirements.» A fter the standards were implemented at the en terprise , we accept contemporary , universally As before, key strategic aims of OJSC ‘BSW-manacknowledged international safety technologies . agement company of «BMC» holding in the area of T his allows OJSC «BSW – management company labor protection are: of «BMC» holding to speak the same language with its international partners and organize co – continuous improvement of efficiency of labor operation more effectively . A t present , in many protection in accordance with the requirements of cases for signing collective contracts the en OHSAS 18001:2007 and STB 18001-2009; terprise needs to confirm the availability of the – constant control of risks related to production certified labor protection management system . I t processes, implementation of preventive and coris evident considering western partners ’ mental rective actions directed towards prevention of ity . A vailability of the certificate acknowledging occurrence of occupational diseases and injuries in the conformity with the international standards production; characterizes the enterprise as a reliable part ner , increases its prestige , and the products – labor protection and industrial safety activity in competitive ability . conformity with the requirements of international standards, the existing law, and other requirements Implementation of this system allowed our plant to: relating to dangers in the area of occupational health and labor safety; – decrease the costs due to a more efficient use of labor recourses; diminish the expenses related with – prevention of equipment failures, incidents, emertraumatism and morbidity; gency, prevention of injuries and worsening of the employees’ health during production activity; – improve legal safety, guarantees of correspondence to the changing legislative labor safety re– provision of all processes with competent, highquirements; ly-qualified personnel. – minimize the risk of judicial punishment; Every year certification bodies carry out external audits to check correspondence of the enterprise – respect the interests of the parties – the employsystem of labor protection and industrial safety to er and working team in the process of the enterthe requirements of the standards. prise productive activity; 88 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – improve the enterprise image on product and laments into labor protecbor markets as well as in the eyes of government authorities as a socially responsible organization; tion. During considerable means were invested into recent years the labor 1,4 Investments in provision – aim the management team at detecting and decreasprotection measures that of safe and healthy labour ing the basic risk types related with the negative allowed decrease of the conditions in 2015 impact of the production activity and the released traumatism level from 11 products on the health of its employees, population in 2006 to 8 in 2015. and consumers; The enterprise does not only increase production – simplify the system approach to problem-solving, capacity and industrial product output from year achieve greater responsibility, more distinct reto year, but carries our continuous and purposeful sponsibility distribution; activity to create and improve safe working conditions. – increase labor productivity due to improvement of conditions and reduction of unproductive time and Improvement of labor conditions labor waste. A large amount of work to remove outdated equipOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» ment from production and installation of advanced holding continuously improves the system of labor equipment meeting the requirements of labor safety protection and industrial safety management and is carried out within the Program of technical readjusts it in accordance with the requirements of vamping. international standards . T his allows considerable reduction of the production costs due to lower These measures helped us to improve labor condiing the specialists incapacitation related with ac tions of the employees to a considerable extent and cidents , occupational illnesses , emergencies and decrease impact of dangerous and hazardous profires . duction factors. In 2015 investments of OJSC «VSW – management Every year the plant works out a plan of measures providing for labor safety and labour conditions company of «BMC» holding into the labor protecimprovement. In 2015, the plant implemented 27 tion made up Br23 billion. measures of the plan. Due to the measures taken, The occupational traumatism level depends on sevworking conditions of 390 (596 in 2014) employees eral factors; one of them is the volume of investwere improved. Item Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 No. 1 Number of recorded accidents 7 6 7 8 Number of the injured including: 7 6 7 8 mortal 1 0 0 0 2 severe 3 2 2 1 group 0 0 0 0 3 Frequency coefficient, Fc 0,69 0,44 0,64 0,71 4 Gravity coefficient, Gc 34,5 35,8 57 43,6 5 Wasted days of working ability 276 179 399 349 Production traumatism indicators  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 89 Social activity  Investmentsвinto Инвестиции labourтруда охрану в бел.руб protection, BR 27 456 663 123 23 267 066 339 21 295 658 145 19 133 368 913 9 521 124 243 4 707 377 613 5 346 813 752 2 842 798 800 3 994 223 116 1 903 478 640 1 232 425 150 1 039 789 200 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Анализ произв одств Occupational енного трав traumatism матизма analysis 14 13 13 12 12 11 10 10 9 8 8 8 8 7 7 7 6 6 4 2 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 90 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The enterprise ed to check its conformity with the national legis 27 Number of implemented strives for lation and received the consent of the Department c o n t i n u o u s for S upervision of S afe O peration in I ndustrial i m p r o v e m e n t and A tomic P ower E ngineering of the M inistry of measures directed towards of its perfor E mergency S ituations of the R epublic of B elarus mance in the for the right to train employees required by the ensuring labour safety area of labour Company and other organizations . and improvement of labour safety due to protection conditions. improvement of Social control for observance of human safety of the rights in the area of labor protection production processes , motivation of the personnel and interest of the staff in observance of labor All stakeholders including the employees are actively involved in the process of managing the safety requirements . labor protection and industrial safety system . O bligations of the employer in providing for safe OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» and healthy labor conditions are stipulated in the holding created a system of the two stage public section «L abor P rotection» of the Collective control . Agreement of the plant. In accordance with the provisions of the C ollective A greement the em At the first stage daily control of observation of the legislation of the R epublic of B elarus in the ployees are timely provided with free certified sphere of labor protection , ensuring the employ working clothes and shoes , personal protective ees right to safe labor and health maintenance is and hygienic equipment , undergo a periodical med fulfilled by the public service of health and safety ical inspection . S ome categories of workers are executives . The service of public executives conprovided with milk . sisting of 476 persons includes reputable employTraining and competence evaluation ees selected by the working team members by open voting . An integral part of the labor protection and in dustrial safety system of the enterprise is teach The executives ’ activities and their authorities reing of safe operation of hazardous production fa garding the control of compliance with the labor cilities , occupational sanitation and labor hygiene . protection legislation are regulated by Decree An employee ’ s labor safety greatly depends on N o .179 of the M inistry of L abor and S ocial S ecu the thoroughness of his / her professional train rity of the R epublic of B elarus «A bout the pro ing . Sustaining the high standard of knowledge is cedure of public control of the compliance with insured by conducting an obligatory labor safety the labor protection legislation carried out by instruction , periodical knowledge check and per the persons authorized to control an organization sonnel certification regarding safe operation . employees ’ labor protection » dd . 28.11.2008 and the A rticles of A ssociation of the B elarusian F edDynamic development of labor protection law , in eration of Trade U nions. The executives proceed troduction of new technologies and techniques , to individual work after taking a special training use of advanced materials in production stipulated course at the private unitary enterprise «Educathe necessity to improve training and qualification tional -M ethodic Center of Gomel Regional Trade of employees in labor protection . Unions». I n order to fulfill the educational training of the At the second stage the control of compliance personnel that services and operates high risk fa with the legislation and checking operating safety cilities , the corporate T raining C enter was audit organization in conformity with local regulations  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 91 Social activity  is carried out by 30 public commissions including ic development ( in the sphere of labor protection representatives of the structural subdivisions and industrial safety ) is scheduled 2016: management . T heir activity is specified by the Decree of P residium of the B elarusian Trade Unions – – prevent the occupational traumatism growth Federal Council No . 59 dd. 24.04.2003. as compared to the level of 2015; During 2015, 50 166 inspections were carried out – provide for additional safety of labor for workto check observance of the labour protection law , ers of the shops , pers . – 261; in the result , 56 121 non conformities were de – improve production environment of workers of tected , and 3 737 recommendations were issued , the shops , pers .– 79; 772 requests related to labour protection. – improve sanitation and household conditions for 50 166Number of inspections For stimulation and improvement of per sonal responsibility the employees , pers . – 16; – improve drinking condition of workers of the of the employees shops , pers . – 65. in structural divisions of BSW for observation of regarding fulfillment of labour safe labor rules H ealth protection legislation and labour and norms , a cor protection law. responding local The Company medical prophylactic assistance rennormative legal act dered to the employees is organized in accordance stipulates material incentives of employees who with the state program of ambulatory assistance have no violations of the requirements of labor to the population and fulfills the tasks related and fire safety , and industrial sanitary . I n 2015 with health protection , medical and sanitary sup the amount of such payments equaled to Br172 port of the production process , disease preven million . Besides, L abor Safety column functions tion and follow up care , and ensures cooperation in the plant ’ s information reference system I nfo Bof the plant ’ s divisions in solving issues of labor MZ ( internal site). It includes and updates nationsafety and protection of the employees ’ health . al and local acts related to labor protection and industrial safety , the following journals : L abor Formation of the strategy and tactics in the area protection , I ndustrial S afety and S ocial P rotec of health protection is stated in the comprehensive tion , R escue S ervice , C ivil P rotection , etc . program «HEALTH-2015» which coordinates the interaction of the administration , medical staff , F ollowing the principles of social responsibility industrial safety board, members of the community in addition to obligatory insurance , the employer and consumer facilities , trade union in the area of signed an agreement with P romtransinvest L td . disease and traumatism prevention and promotion «A bout obligatory insurance of civil responsibil of a healthy lifestyle. ity of the employer for its employees ’ health and life injury ». A ccording to the agreement , beside T he major items of the works social policy and insurance cases anticipated by obligatory insur the «HEALTH -2015» are : enhancement of the ance every employee of the C ompany was addi preventive medical aid level ; orientation of the tionally insured from non production accidents medical aid system at increasing the ambulatory occurring within one hour during the way to and segment efficiency ; compliance of the on site work from work . places with the technological and sanitary hygien ic norms ; improvement of ecological events and Achievement of the following level of the basic environmental protection norms; development target values regarding the works social econom of the plant personnel ’ s strong orientation at 92 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS healthy lifestyle and creation of conditions for improvement of the life quality . The Company develops and improves its own medi 222 029 number of visits to the plant’s medical cal facilities aimed at bringing medical assistance department in 2015 close the employees and rendering medical assis tance to the citizens of the town and inhabitants duction activity . I n 2015 this form of medical of the region . care was used by more than 68 people , thus giv ing the possibility to maintain the level of labor OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» productivity and save resources of the social holding spent USD875 thousand for medical cen security fund . T reatment and physiotherapeutic ter financing in 2015. procedures are rendered close to the produc T he clinic of OJSC «BSW – management company tion on the basis of rehabilitation centres lo of «BMC» holding includes : 9 first aid stations , cated in the production shops . a polyclinic for 250 visits per shift ( total area M edical department personnel consists of 136 excluding corridors , auxiliary and other rooms ) people including : 35 doctors , 82 – medical per equals to 2386,1 sq . m ). I t comprises : therapy , de sonnel with secondary specialized education and partment for daily stay for 20 beds , physiother 19 paramedical specialists. apeutics department ( including exercise therapy room , mechanotherapy , inhalatorium , therapeutic 74,28 % of doctors have the first and the second massage room , and lazar therapy ), clinicodiag qualification categories . 64,63 % of the paramedi nostic laboratory ( with clinical and biochemical cal personnel are attested for categories . departments to fulfill clinical and biochemical investigations ), Xray diagnostics room , WS di The clinic has 7 shop therapeutic stations serving agnostics , centralized sterilization dpt ., func approximately 2017 people each . tional diagnostics room ( electrocardiography , spirography , H olter monitoring , SMAD C ardian 222 029 people visited the clinic in 2015, which is MD to monitor the level of arterial blood pres 6256 people more than in 2014. 77,63 % of the sure , investigation of cerebral haemodinamics ), total number of visits were related to diseases . A medical certificate registration room , room for positive thing in seasonal disease prevention is the preliminary examination , special doctors ’ rooms : possibility for employees to have a voluntary anti neurologist , traumatologist , ophthalmologist , flu vaccination free of charge . otolaryngology , urologist , dermatologist . Continuous attention is paid to disease prevenM edical department is the basis of medical tion, their timely detection and medical treatment. service of the enterprise . M odern medical P eriodic medical examinations remain the basic equipment and high professionalism of medical mechanism of the employees ’ health control . E x workers allow investigation with laboratory , aminations give a possibility immediately to detect functional , and instrumental diagnostics . D oc presence of harmful and dangerous production tors of narrow specialties render a wide range factors and take measures for their elimination of medical services . thus allowing prevention of professional disease development and helping to prevent production T he clinic is equipped with state of the art traumatism . Workers who are influenced by dan equipment and its material – technical base is gerous and harmful factors at their work places continuously improved . M edical service can be are additionally thoroughly examined including in rendered with temporary interruption of pro strumental laboratory studies and consultations  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 93 Social activity  given by narrow specialists considering industry proved at OJSC «BSW – management company of peculiarities and profession of a worker . Within «BMC» holding as well as quality of their life. the framework of this project more than 13023 D iseases with temporary disability made up 720,48 employees including 3725 women were thorough days per 100 employees in 2015, which is 143,45 ly examined in 2015. A single professional disease days less than in 2014.D ecrease of diseases in ab was detected . D ue to dispensary group change solute days was decreased by 16,3%. 400 people were recommended a more adequate employment . I n 2015 the plant continued a prophylactic medical examination of all employees . T he group of em So as to make treatment of patients at the medi ployees regularly followed-up increased by 1246 cal department simpler , provide operation of the people as compared to 2014. medical rooms and services in the automatic mode , an electronic ambulatory chart of a patient was OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» formed . holding takes part in implementation of the na tional program of demographic safety aimed at im Due to countrywide distribution of chronic disprovement of the condition of pregnant women and eases , demand for more effective and convenient those who gave birth to children , preparation for methods of treatment grows . T his problem can be childbirth and upbringing . solved only subject to the principal emphasis being placed on prevention of diseases and populariza Specialists of the medical centre directly partic tion of healthy lifestyle . ipate in a purposeful sanitary educational work related to prevention of tuberculosis and AIDS. M edical services are demanded by the citizens of our region . I n 2015 proceeds from medical ser Since 2010 Belarusian R ed C ross S ociety (BRCS) vices made up USD39,660. started to implement an innovative project «P re vention of HIV in the area of labour » under the Effectiveness of medical and health motto «W e are for health @ work ». promotion programs A im of this project is to improve measures of T he means invested in the C ompany employees ’ prevention of HIVinfection in the area of la health , medical service quality enhancement bour and improve efficiency of their implemen and implementation of modern treatment meth tation , solving of the employees ’ problems re ods together with successful realization of the lated to preservation of reproducing health , employees ’ health promotion program in sanato arrangement of events at the enterprise aimed riums and vacation houses allows us to sustain at diseases prevention , formation of a responsi the positive dynamics of lowering the employees ’ ble behavior and adequate attitude to the people disease . having HIV. I n the result of prevention and early detection of The program «Health @ work » helps the employ diseases , indicators of the employees ’ health im ees to understand seriousness of the problems Description Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 cases 12 345 12 210 12 448 10 813 8463 8960 Temporary disability (diseases and injuries) days 125 649 124 721 133 866 122 403 101 495 90 717 94 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS related to HIVinfection and protect their health of interviews with the specialists of the medical in due time . center and the recipients of the services . The management of the medical center takes their recom A policy aimed at prevention of distribution of mendations into account . HIV-infection was adopted and approved by the general director of the enterprise . Every year Rating of the medical center work in 2015 grew we develop an annual plan for HIV-infection preand is at the high level of 0,70 (in 2014 the satisventive measures . A separate plan for HIV/AIDS faction index was 0,62). prevention is developed at the plant hostel for single employees . Social package of benefits and guarantees of the employees During 2015 Byelorussian Steel Works arranged Supporting social development of the employees a number of events under the program «H ealth and local community, Byelorussian Steel Works @ work» including information and consultative follows the principles of a responsible business meetings with the C ompany personnel , placing of practice formulated in the UN Global Compact and information and educational materials dedicated to other international acts. the problem of HIVinfection dissemination and pre ventive measures on specialized stands located at OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» hostels , the sport facility , the P alace of C ulture , holding realizes that in present day business constructural divisions and medical center , national ditions sustainability of an enterprise is determined information and education action «Y our topic !» not only by the economic efficiency factors, but by attracting young employees as consultants vol parameters of effectiveness of the corporate sounteers dedicated to the worldwide day of AIDS cial policy as well. prevention ( interactive sites to attract attention of the C ompany employees were arranged in the Long-term business stability depends on the soadministrative building of the pipe mill and SWScial-economic stability of the region of the enter1), informing of the plant’ s employees with the prise’ operation. Corporate social responsibility help of mass media . policy in respect of own employees and local communities is a strategic direction of the enterprise’ When hiring new employees, they are informed activity. Employees are the main resource of the about the «H ealth @ work » program . S pecialists Company for obtaining competitive benefits. of the pant medical department participate in the The plant invests considerable resources in forwork of the district interagency committee for mation of an interested, responsible personnel, imprevention of HIV/AIDS and venereal diseases. provement of labour conditions, provision of social protection to the employees. Within the framework of implementation of the regional action timed to the W orldwide day of The social policy of the enterprise promotes mainAIDS prevention a representative of B yelorussian tenance of competitive benefits of the Company, Steel W orks participated in the seminar – workforms a highly-qualified team of employees able to shop «O rganization of information educational work efficiently in the conditions of a tough comwork dedicated to HIV.AIDS prevention at enter petition. prises , organizations , and institutions of Z hlobin district » on the basis of Z hlobin district organiza In 2015 OJSC «BSW – management company of tion of B elarusian R ed C ross . «BMC» holding fulfilled social programs based on the Collective Agreement in accordance with the For monitoring of the quality of medical -prevenbudget for the social area at the expense of own tive aid and target programs we use the practice assets of the plant and Social Insurance Founda SOCIAL REPORT 2015 95 Social activity  tion of the Republic OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» 3,2 of Belarus. In 2015 holding makes considerable investments into edu OJSC «BSW – mancation and personnel qualification enhancement , The amount of financagement company of labor conditions improvement , ensuring employ ing of social programs «BMC» holding conees social security . I t participates in solving so tinued to fulfill its cially significant issues in the region consider in 2015 ($ mln) obligations of all soing this activity to be a constituent part of its cial programs in spite of a complicated economic sitbusiness and social investments into the inherent uation in the country in 2015, their financing made element of corporate responsibility . I n order up USD3,2 million. to stimulate labor productivity improvement and personnel management cost optimization , in addi Priority directions of OJSC «BSW – management tion to salary , B yelorussian S teel W orks uses company of «BMC» holding social policy are: a social package that made up over USD807 per – creation of favorable conditions for the workers employee in 2015. and their families for solving all the welfare issues: The Company social sphere expenditures at the extreatment and medical service, saving of reproducpense of profit equaled to USD 3,2 million includtive health, health improvement and vacations, proing: motion of healthy lifestyle standards, improvement of living conditions and cultural service; – medical servic — USD0,9 mln – rendering of social and voluntary support for – metallurgical college — USD 0,9 mln; pensioners, the disabled, children, the Company employees having large families; – hostels — USD 0,3 mln; – offering of a sponsorship and beneficent aid for – Palace of Culture of Metallurgists — USD 0,1 sport organizations and organizations representing mln; other spheres of social life; – others (museum, canteens) — USD 1,0 mln. offering of a wide scope of quality services for the inhabitants of the town and surrounding area by Byelorussian Steel Works implements its social the social services. policy in the following priority directions: 96 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – labor safety; and spent $ 405 711 out of – rest and health promotion of the employees and their family members; the plant’s profit. Information about availabili406 Assets spent of health ty of vouchers in the area of – physical culture and sport development; social insurance is regularly promotion and summer rest of the employees’ – cultural life of the works employees; brought to the attention of chairmen of the trade union children ($ thou.) – solving of the living conditions issues of the emcommittees of the shops, is ployees; allocated on information stands and issued in the newspaper «Metallurg». – support of large families; Physical culture and sport development – social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids and other categories of lower-income citizens; Physical culture and sport is a constituent part of a healthy lifestyle, hence forming the demand in – child care. regular sport activities with workers is a priority Health promotion and rest time direction of the social policy of OJSC «BSW – of the employees and their families management company of «BMC» holding. This type of activity is specified by the corresponding proviOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» sions and clauses of the Collective Agreement with holding strives for improvement of the conditions direct participation of and financial support by the for health promotion and rest of its employees as trade union committee of OJSC «BSW – managewell as all stakeholders in the town of Zhlobin and ment company of «BMC» holding. region. At present the works offers high-quality services that can satisfy any client. «Dneprovskiye At present, the plant offers its sport and recreZori» recreation center is located on a picturesque ation center for the employees and the town residents to go in for sports and conduct outdoor acbank of the Dnieper river, in a pine forest and is tivities. Realization of the Company social mandate meant for organizing sport and cultural events. In 2015, 1670 people had rest there (1424 people in regarding the development of the mass physical culture and sport and following healthy lifestyle 2014). are assigned to this facility having three gyms: for Every year Company employees and members of their exercising, playing games and tennis. families spend holidays in sanatoriums and vacation houses of the Republic of Belarus. Financing of During school vocations a traditional New Y ear children ’ s tournament in mini football was held in health promotion programs and sanatorium-resort the center . S port contest «T he F atherland D e therapy is fulfilled on the principles of a joint parfender » was also held in 6 kinds of sport among ticipation at the expense of the works budget, state youth teams of the enterprises of the holding social insurance and employees’ means. and the plant ’ s structural divisions , as well as Health promotion of the employees and their famXXVI International light -athletics race dedicated ily members is fulfilled out of profit and social to the D ay of M etallurgists participated by 200 insurance assets. In 2015, 144 vouchers were resportsmen including athletes from R ussia and the ceived from the social insurance assets. 196 people U kraine . had rest at health resorts and sanatoriums of the The C ompany employees support the honor of the Trade Union Federation at 25% discount. enterprise at the competitions of various levels ; For health promotion and summer rest of the emsome of them are acting participants of the na ployees’ children the plant bought 1177 vouchers tional teams of the Republic of Belarus. Plant ’ s  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 97 Social activity  basketball team is a member of the non profession aqua-park, sport facilities of the republic: Silichi, al basketball league of the Republic of Belarus, Logoisk, and others. plant ’ s volleyball players make the basis of the team playing in the 1 st league of the Republic of Engaging the Company employees into sport activities contributes to both their health-improvement Belarus. and forming specific corporate spirit of the enterPriority work directions of the sport and recreprise that helps to solve the most challenging proation center are: duction problems. – organization of sport and health promotion as The trade union committee of the enterprise plays well as mass sport work at OJSC «BSW – managea significant role in realization of the policy of a ment company of «BMC» holding; healthy lifestyle at Byelorussian Steel Works. $56 100 were spent for organization of sport activity – strengthening the Company employees’ health, enfrom the trade union budget. Season tickets for hancing their working efficiency, stress resistance, hockey matches and swimming pool membership cards healthy lifestyle promotion; were bought by the trade union committee. – satisfaction of the Company employees’ needs for Investing in sport infrastructure, the plant supsystematic sport and physical culture activities, the ports the development of the sport of high achieveemployees’ health promotion, formation of physicalments, sport popularization in particular among ly developed and healthy citizens; young people. Investing in sport infrastructure – engaging children and teenagers in regular sport the plant supports the development of the sport of activities. high achievements, sport popularization in particular among young people. 2593 Number of participants Main form of involving employees in sport activities Cultural life of the plant employees is annual all-the-yearAn important part of the social policy of OJSC round sport contest. In of the all-year-round «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is 2015 the Company arsport contest ranged 24 events particicreation of conditions for promotion and spreading in 2015 pated by 2593 employees. of modern culture of effective corporate social practice and development of the creative potential Plant’s teams participated in the following sport of the employees. During 21 years a key role in orevents: ganization of cultural life of the employees and the region has been played by the Palace of Culture of district sport contest among enterprises of the Metallurgists. It is true to consider the Palace of town of Zhlobin (1st place); Culture of Metallurgists to be the center of mass, cultural and educational work directed towards light-athletics relay race dedicated to the Victosatisfaction of spiritual and cultural needs of all ry Day (1st place); categories of citizens running festival Minsk Polo marathon (30 employees). Various cultural events of educational, aesthetic, entertaining character for different audiences and In order to organize the workers’ leisure time and age groups take place at the Palace of Culture. promote healthy lifestyle among employees and A list of events is varied: different parties, discotheir family members the Company implemented a theques, performances and shows, concerts dediprogram of collective visits to the town sport and cated to holidays and jubilees, contests, amateur recreation center, Ice Palace, swimming pool and arts festivals, etc. 98 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS October 21-22 the work of Nataliya Khodosovskaya, lead production engineer of the RS lab and Olesya Rozhkova, CPL lead engineer, «Development of the defect classifier of seamless pipes produced at OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding was marked in the nomination «Best scientific-production work of a young scientist or an engineer» at the 23rd International STC «Foundry and metallurgy 2015. Belarus», and its authors became laureates of the award of the Association of founders and metallurgists of the Republic of Belarus.  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 99 Social activity  The Palace of Culture does not only cheer people lectives «A radiant sun – a present to my mum » was but develops talents, gives people the possibility organized on M arch 8 dedicated to the W omen ’ s to be occupied with their favorite hobby, make the D ay and the house was full . T he 1 st of J une is the leisure time of steel makers and the inhabitants of D ay of C hildren ’ s D efense . D ance show «C hance » the town spiritually rich and interesting. About 400 took part in the meeting requiem held at the war people are members of hobby groups and creative memorial in the settlement of K rasyi B ereg in mem teams, 300 of them are children. ory of children – war victims . I n A pril -M ay 2015, results of the educational year were determined : 16 creative teams and amateur associations work at collectives of the P alace of C ulture brought the Palace of Culture: 8 for grown-ups and 8 for their concerts to the attention of the spectators children which unite 670 people (568 of them are as a kind of a report on the work done . O ver 250 children). 6 collectives were given the honorable children took part in these concerts . D uring voca title of «People’s» and «Classic’: in 2015 Dance tions entertaining dance programs were arranged Show «Chance» was given the title of a classic for schoolchildren «T hat ’ s great !», «N ame days », group. Star history», performance »All boys are fools All events held at the Palace of Culture are interor one day…». During the year, different stage related and directed towards realization of certain adaptations were arranged for preschool chil programs of an enlightening, aesthetic, entertaindren and primary school pupils : «T eremok », «D ay ment character for various audience and age catof M agic », M agic F lower M istery » ( total 33 per egories. formances ). O n the D ay of K nowledge first year pupils and primary school pupils were shown a 4730 282 events were held in the performance «Unusual Lessons» by the Palace of Palace of Culture in 2015 Culture . engaging 4730 people: Number among them 2400 children 2015 was announced a Year of Youth in the counof participants and 307 plant’s employees. try and the Palace of Culture started its work of cultural mass events under the slogan «Initiative, Creativity, Search». During 2015 a number of To enhance engagement of young people with culcultural mass events were organized dedicated to tural activity, contest programs were organized: different holidays including professional ones. «Big Love in Our Town» dedicated to the Day of PCM collectives took part in regional and district Lovers and show «Miss Zhlobin». In June, the Palarrangements and concert programs dedicated to ace of Culture arranged a concert of the youth the Day of the Fatherland Defenders, Women’s dance collective «Maxima» from Minsk. An enterDay, 70th anniversary of the Great Victory, Indetainment program was organized for participants pendence Day, and Mother’s Day. of the tourist gathering of the companies-members A great emphasis of its activity is placed by the of BMC holding held in the recreation centre Palace of Culture on work with children which «Dneprovskiye Zori» (the settlement of Shikhov) is evidenced by various concert programs , perfor in August. XIII regional integration art festival mances , contests participated by a large number of disabled children and young people «Do Good» of children . XVII festival «C hristmas M usic S tair took place at the Palace of Culture in November. case » was traditionally held with a big success . It was dedicated to the Year of Youth. A new show O ver 170 children participated in it. Entertaining project «Become a star» gathered talented young dance programs for children , concerts with par boys and girls under the roof of the Palace of Culticipation of members of children ’ s groups of the ture. About 40 people participated in the selection Palace of Culture are always in demand with the round. 29 of them performed on the stage of the citizens . T raditionally a concert of children ’ s col Palace of Culture on December 5, 2015. 100 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Participation in contest and festivals helps to imities and heat points resulting prove the level of professional skills of the creative collectives of the Palace of Culture. in reduction of municipal payments. 344 Means directed In April 2015 classic variety dance group «FeiThe housing department conerverk» took part in the festival of children’s art siders employees applications towards maintenance (the city of Minsk). People’s quire «Krynitsa» parrelated to living issues. The of living-municipal area ticipated in the national festival Pevcheskoye Pole» housing committee carried out ($ thou.) in the town of Myadel in July 2015 and was awarded 11 inspections of living condithe II degree diploma. The creative team of the Paltions of the employees. ace of Culture is in a continuous search for new For maintenance of living-municipal facilities $343 forms of organization of cultural leisure time of 532 were spent in 2015. the citizens, looks for solutions directed towards fulfillment of the tasks set for paid services renSupport of large families dered to the community. Implementation of the purposeful social support of Work of the team of the Palace of Culture comemployees of OJSC «BSW-management company of pletely justifies its high mission. Being the centre «BMC» holding is carried out by way of a flexible of cultural life of the plant, town and region, the system or benefits and compensations. Based on the Palace of Culture is an important constituent part principles of the state policy declaring that children of the corporate strategy of OJSC «BSW – manhave the right to a special care and assistance, and a agement company of «BMC» holding. family should be provided with the required protection and encouragement as the main social unit and Solving of employees’ housing problems natural environment for growth and wellbeing of An important part of the social policy of OJSC all its members, OJSC «BSW – management company «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is of «BMC» holding arranges events to support comengaging and promoting young highly-professional plete and incomplete families and those having four production staff. Provision with housing is one of and more children under 18 so as to continue the the key factors of the working team stability and development of the maternity and childhood support. social attractiveness of the enterprise. The aim of the activities is to increase the status of families and improve their life quality. According to As of 31.12.2015, the list of employees in need the provision regarding health-improvement and sanaof improvement of their living conditions con torium-resort therapy at OJSC «BSW – management tained 723 people (31.12.2014 661 people ), 229 company of «BMC» holding, the families are provided families are waiting for a room in a family hostel privileged and partially paid vouchers to sanatoriums (31.12.2014 164 families). During 2015, 130 em and vacation houses. One of the events for the workployees were registered as needed accommodation ers’ families social support are annual payments for and 227 are waiting for a place in a hostel . 68 purchasing school uniforms and monthly provision of people were taken off the book due to the receipt a paid day-off for the mothers who have more than of a flat and 162 due to the receipt of a place in three children. a hostel . Social support of unemployed pensioners, The plant’s balance includes 6 family hostels with invalids and other categories of people 661 families (or 2034 people dwelling in them) and not sufficiently provided for one hostel for single people with 321 dwellers. Living conditions of the hostels are considerably Business initiatives have great impact on the proimproved because of capital repairs held in accorcesses of social development in the country and dance with the schedules and modernization of utiltheir results change the public ideas of the living  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 101 Social activity  Description 2014 2015 172 women 138 women Material assistance Payments for birth of a child (lump sum allowance) USD243,4 thou. 206 200 000 allowances 3 307 804 200 514 453 women Payment for nursing a child under 3 women USD1,08 mln 13 975 949 530 Payments for purchasing school uniform USD19,2 thou. 277 020 000 Providing one day-off USD16,5 thou. 277 848 000 vouchers The means for children’s health improvement USD565,7 thou. 6 461 789 070 73 children Payments for the families raising the disabled children 98 children Material assistance under 18 USD79,5 thou. 18 250 000 allowances 986 461 090 Arrangements for the workers’ families support quality norms. A pensioner, who receives a corpoThe financial aid rate pension in addition to the state one, is better protected when he/she gets old. Work ans, invalids and other categories of the needy is with veteris provided in connection with retirement. In 2015 436 Amount of supplements carried out at OJSC «BSW – management company the amount of this paid by BSW of «BMC» holding based on «recipient-oriented» aid was USD 32 to non-working pensionsocial support both in the form of financial pay864. ers in 2015 ($ thou.) ments and using a wide range of social facilities: the clinic, the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists, Those pensioners who do not work get material assistance on holisport and recreation center. days, jubilees, because of hard economic condition, There are more than five forms and directions of for medical treatment and purchasing of expensive rendering social support which were used by over medicine; other social payments are effected. 1500 people. A material aid is rendered to those employees who A n important line in the social support policy is have disabled children. In 2015 this aid amounted to a monthly material aid for unemployed pension USD 1150. ers . S ince 01.11.2012 changes and amendments were introduced in the C ollective A greement an A special place in the social program is occupied ticipating growth of additional payments to some by provision of the unemployed pensioners with categories of former employees . At present the treatment in the plant’s clinic, sport and recreation amount of the monthly pension supplements varies center services, the services rendered by the Paldepending on the record of service and awards . ace of Culture at a reduced charge. Every year the I n 2015 these supplements made up USD435,7 veterans are subscribed to the plant’s newspaper thousand . «Metallurg» free of charge. 102 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Social partnership The trade union organization In order to improve moral and physiological climate OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» of the work team, solving the issues regarding the holding establishes a mutually beneficial rela collaboration coordination of the management and tionship and develops a collective agreement with organizations representing the interests of various the trade union organization based on the norms categories of the employees, the works implemented and principles of the T ariff Agreement concluded «Be Aware of a Human!» system since April 2005. between B elarusian P rofessional Union of I ndustrial W orkers , B elarusian P rofessional U nion of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» M etalworkers, the M inistry of Industry of the holding creates the social partnership system that R epublic of B elarus , R epublican A ssociation of is a foundation for mutually beneficial cooperation I ndustrial E nterprises . T he A greement sets the in collaboration with the trade union organization principles of regulating trade and social economic and other social organizations. relationships as well as guarantees and privileges for the employees , mutual responsibilities and li Sustaining a close relationship with the manageabilities of the parties . The aim of the A greement ment, the Public Organizations Council conducts is joining together the efforts of the parties for its activity at the enterprise. It acts in the interests attaining social economic stability and competitive of the employees forming an active public position ability of the industry organizations , increas of each work team member. ing the employees ’ living standard , observance The Council includes the representatives of: of their legal rights and interests and creating a system of the employees ’ comprehensive social – trade union organization; protection . primary organization of «Belarusian Republican The plant recognizes that the objective of the Youth Union» public association; trade union is not limited to protecting the employees’ rights and influencing labor relationships. It – Veteran’s Union; is also a certain indicator of the public mood. The – primary public organization «Belarusian Women’ trade union expresses the working teams’ reaction Union»; to the social and economic policy implemented by the enterprise and contributes to its timely adjustment. – international soldiers’ organization; The dialogue of the management and representaYoung Specialists’ Union; tives of the working teams is especially important to be established in the situation when the works, as – Foremen Union; a part of the world financial and economic system, experiences difficult times and seeks for the opporPhysical Culture Team’s Union. tunities to enhance their efficiency In order to ensure the efficient realization of In their practical activity the parties are guided by the employees ’ rights and establish confiden the principles of social partnership, such as legal tial relations with all stakeholders , the P ublic equality of the parties, compliance with the legisO rganizations C ouncil keeps an active collabo lation norms, considering real opportunities for ration with the representatives of the regional performance of the assumed obligations, obligatory social service centre ; region and district law fulfillment of the arrangements and responsibility enforcement agencies ; central regional ; hospital for the obligations assumed. and clinic of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding ; legal services of the C ompa The trade union organization of OJSC «BSW – manny and the region . agement company of «BMC» holding unites 11 562  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 103 Social activity  people that is 96,8% • New Year’s presents for children and employees 97 Trade union memberof the total number of the employees. In order to observe the — Br2059,9 mln • cultural events — Br3451,7 mln ship of the plant’s rights and legal inter• port events — Br 890,4 mln employees (%) ests of the workers the employees repre• presents for the employees’ jubilees — Br243,2 sent the Company in the regional association and mln in the Republican Trade Union Committee being • presents for the retiring employees — Br337,6 members of the Regional Trade Union Association mln Council, members of the Belarusian Trade Union Federation Council. • supporting of veterans — Br292,6 mln Based on the results of the contest of Belarusian • material support — Br2128,7 mln. trade union of industrial employees, primary trade union organization of OJSC «BSW-management A continuously operating body of social partnercompany of «BMC» holding confirmed the title of ship is the Collective Agreement Commission that the best in 2015 (similar to 2014). controls fulfillment of the obligations assumed. It consists of representatives of the management and The social partnership document which allows the Trade Union Committee. The constant dialogue strengthening of social legal security of the en results in reaching the agreement regarding salary terprise employees is the Collective Agreement . issues, optimization of the management structure, The Agreement regulates social benefits and ensuring healthy and safe labor conditions, implelump sum benefit payments , additional payments menting privileges for the employees that have a and financial awards , the size of which directly determined social targeting. Mainly all sections of depends on the results of production financial the Collective Agreement were fulfilled in 2015. activity of the entire enterprise work team . T his document establishes supplementary , as compared Charity and sponsorship is one of the activities of to the active legislation , provisions regarding the works. Being an active member of the charitable labor conditions and payment , social and residen campaign «Trade unions – to children» in 2015 it tial provision of the workers , compensations and granted Br87,7 million to: other privileges . T he C ollective A greement stip – Zhlobin department of education, sport, and ulates various forms of financial payments , bo tourism; nuses , awards following the results of the work during the year , for the service record , sums of – Zhlobin Regional Social Service Centre; the bonuses for a high qualification , professional skill and others , sets guarantees and privileges – Zhlobin primary organization of Belarusian association of assistance to disabled children and young for the families with children . B esides , no person people; is left alone in a challenging life situation ; this aid is also stipulated by the main document of the –Belarusian association of weak-sighted people; employees ’ team . – establishment «Olympic Reserve Center of the In order to comply with the Collective Agreement, town of Zhlobin»; in 2015 the Trade Union Committee financed the following: – other organizations. • allowances to parents for the birth of a child — One of the priority directions of the Trade Union Br314,0 mln activity is creating conditions for full-fledged 104 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS physical and moral development of the employees younger generation, for sustaining and improvement and younger generation. The Trade Union Comof relationships between the family, school and lomittee of OJSC «BSW – management company of cal community, strengthening the family, protection «BMC» holding is the founder of the Olympic reof maternity and childhood under the auspices of serve sport school for children and young people the Trade Union Committee a commission for family (ORSSCYP) and the children's club «Fakel» atand school assistance has been working since 2005. tended by over 514 children. The children are professionally trained by 11 coaches. Under the auspices of the trade union committee of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdPupils of the sport school for children and young ing the trade union library operates containing 36189 people became winners and awardees of championbooks (36498 books in 2014). The library is a unique ships and competitions of the Republic of Belarus. one because the plant’s employees, their children, and This year 3 pupils became candidates to masters of citizens of Zhlobin can always find the required litsports of the Republic of Belarus; 1 pupil became erature, or their request for a certain book can be a master of sports of the international level, 10 accepted, and they may get a professional advice. children fulfilled the norms of the 1st grade; 6 puBr185,9 million from the trade union budget were pils of the sport school joined the Olympic reserve spent for purchasing new literature and for subschool, the top link of sport training. scription of over 2000 veterans to periodicals. The trade union committee spent Br150 million for The library numbers over 3258 regular readers. financing of ORSSCYP in 2015. During the previous year the number of visits to the library equaled to 35367 (35131 in 2014), and In compliance with the program of working with 106161 books were given out (105876 in 2014). Regional working youth tourist gathering «Unity-2015» held in Rechitsa district on August 21-23 was a success for BSW team. It occupied honorable second place yielding only to the hosts of the competition.  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 105 Social activity  So as to increase the role of books and reading – carry out educational, informational, cultural, in a modern society , bring up the younger gener and sport activity at the enterprise according to ation in love for an artistic word , attract atten the procedure established by the law of the Repubtion to libraries activity , promote belles lettres lic of Belarus. At present, Belays Rus has many literature and replenishment of the book stock useful and good deeds to its credit: charity and during 2015 the library prepared and carried social acts aimed at support of young specialists, out 40 thematic information educational events : veterans and disabled people; it popularizes healthy H ealth G one with S moke , T elephone E tiquette way of living, and cultivates patriotism. and the I nternet E tiquette , game programs O ne of the directions of the organization activity «C ome on B oys », W inter C rossword , literature is care and assistance rendered to poor families , games and quizzes : «W hat is more expensive than children , and old people . O n the initiative of its gold », «O bedient children are not allowed to members and in cooperation with the trade union read », «E verything in the world is interesting », and other public organizations of the plant a num »I live in this town and I know the town »; excur ber of actions and arrangements were carried out sions for preschool and primary school pupils to in addition to the national ones . Thus, on Septem the library , arrangement of thematic bookshelves ber 1, E velina V oronina went to school for the and exhibitions . first time in her life with a bag presented to her Trade union role and influence in the Company is by the Chairman of the plant’ s primary Belaya Rus big. This is evidenced by a positive assessment of organization A.A. Malobitsky. T he bag for the its activity in 2015 made by the plant’s employees child from a large family was bought with the mon during a comprehensive study of the social and psyey collected by the plant ’ s employees . P lant ’ s em chological climate in the subdivision teams. Index of ployees got congratulations on their birthdays , at satisfaction with the work of the trade union orgaevery control post they were supplied with cheer , nization in 2015 was 0,66 (0,67 in 2014). kind wishes and small presents . O n O ctober 15 the primary B elaya R us organization of the plant Primary organization carried out an action «I’ m proud of my plant !» and of ROO «Belaya Rus» handed over calendars with BSW picture and B e In order to interest plant’s employees in active parlaya Rus logo . ticipation in the life of the country, engage them At present, Belaya Rus is a really constructive in solving of actual challenges of development of public force: it gains authority due to big and small Belarus and society on the basis of free consolidadeeds useful for and required by the community tion, a primary organization of Belaya Rus associathat strengthen its image. tion was established at the enterprise in 2009. Today the organization numbers 272 BSW employees. Primary organization of BRYU Last year its number grew by 96 members: young Realization of the state youth policy by the works specialists joined the organization. is built on the principle of mutual cooperation with In order to fulfill aims and goals of this public orthe primary organization of «Belarusian Republiganization, members of the plant’s primary organizacan Youth Union» Young Specialists’ Union, Trade tion apply the following methods: Union Committee and other public organizations acting at OJSC «BSW – management company of – cooperate with state organs, community, and oth«BMC» holding. The Company corporate program er employees’ associations in all directions of their «Youth» is carried out by conducting an open conactivity; structive dialogue with the stakeholders and con– participate in preparation and conducting of electinuous improvement of the methods of informing, tions; feedback and cooperation. 106 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS In conformity with the state strategy in youth Having the priority right regarding the realization policy the program implemented at OJSC «BSW of the «Youth» program, the works primary orga– management company of «BMC» holding sets the nization of Belarusian Republican Youth Union prepriorities and cooperation directions for the par pares photo-reports, posters, information materities concerned with regard to creating favorable als reflecting the issues of realization of the state conditions for the development and realization of youth policy. the youth ’ s potential in various spheres of the ac tivity via : At has present the organization 1538 members or 47,9 % 1538 Number of members of – information support of the state in youth pol of the youth aged under 31 icy ; working at the plant. the primary organization of BRYU – civil formation, spiritual and ecological education The most significant activiof the youth; ties conducted by the youth organization of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in – support of research and technology creativity; 2015 were charitable campaigns for collecting of – youth cooperation and creative potential develvoluntary contributions for: opment; – the action «Do good» dedicated to the International day of Disabled People; – healthy lifestyle and tourism development; – improvement of the youth social security protec– «All children are ours» for disabled children and to support families with a low income with particition. pation of the Regional center of social service of Traditional meetings of young specialists to exthe population. change work experience with the youth and representatives of: The following actions became traditional: «Let’s prepare a school bag for a first former» – state authorities; aimed at preparation of children from poor families – regional, town veterans’ unions of Gomel region; for the school year beginning; – young employees of the enterprises included in – «BSW Youth – to Veterans». Veterans and par«Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding; ticipants of the Great Patriotic War received congratulations and presents, they were assisted in – primary organizations of Belarusian Republican improving of living conditions; Youth Union, establishments, organizations and enterprises of the region of activity of Byelorussian – «We – to children» – aid to Zhlobin district cenSteel Works; ter of corrective and developing teaching and rehabilitation in purchasing of stationary; – youth of the industrial enterprises of the Republic of Belarus and CIS countries as part of scien– «Assistance to our neighbors» assistance to tific and technical conferences. migrants from Donbass region of the Ukraine. – Informing and engaging of young employees of the Effectiveness of the organization activity is eviplant in realization of the state youth policy of the denced by its achievements and awards won in 2015: Republic of Belarus is carried out using all avail2nd and 3rd place in the Republican contest of able means of mass media: corporate, republican, innovative projects of 2015; regional newspapers and other sources of information. – victory in the nomination «Best scientific and pro SOCIAL REPORT 2015 107 Social activity  duction work of a young scientist or engineer at events, such as works-wide Olympics in various kind the 23rd International STC «Casting and metallurof sport; amateur talent groups competition «Song gy 2015. Belarus»; and Work Go Side by Side»; campaigns for providing material support to lower-income families, hand2nd place in the regional tourist rally of young icapped children, visiting evening parties, concerts, employees «Unity-2015»; hockey matches of the favorite team in the Ice Pal– 2nd place in the 3rd division of the non-profesace. sional basketball league; Women’s Union plant’s KVN team «Vse v Stali» won the 1st place I n 2004 on the basis of a free union the works in the final of the prime league of KVN season 2015; women established a primary organization «B e 1st place in the selective casting of the Comedy larusian Women’ s Union» public association. The club in Minsk. organization unites 1417 people or 37% of the women working at the enterprise . T he organization Veterans’ Union is headed by a presidium consisting of 17 women – The organization unites 2400 ex-employees and employees of different structural divisions. The present-time pensioners, who made their contribuassociation acts considering their will and inter tion into establishment and development of the Beests , cooperates with other public organizations larusian steel industry. standing on the platform of democratic reforms in the R epublic and contributing to strengthening The entire organization activity was directed tosocial justice and protection of the population, wards enhancing the status of the elderly, social defending women ’ s interests and rights , increas recognition of their destinies and life experience, ing a woman ’ s role in social , economic , public and participation in social life, overcoming their isolacultural life . tion, changing the idea of ageing, understanding the story of their life owing to the dialogue of The Union priority activities are: generations. The Veterans’ Union cooperates with • Woman and production», the youth organizations of the plant during various events: admission to membership in BRYU, initiation • «Woman and family», into metallurgist, giving-out diplomas and premiums to the best young specialists participating in scien• «Healthy lifestyle», tific and technical conferences. • «Organizational and informational work». It has become a tradition to render material sup The organization has a significant work experience port to veterans , visit them at home , conduct and varies out many good and useful activities. They gala nights of honoring the heroes of anniver are: proposals to the Collective Agreement, solvsary , organization of exhibitions of gardening ing problems together with the town authorities, season gifts «G olden S unflower » and work of meetings with interesting people. the amateur clubs : «N eedlewoman », «M usic S a loon », «C hess and D raughts », «V eteran C hoir », Members of the Women’s Union participate in inspect«S port C lub ». T he trade union committee as ing the production culture and labor conditions; signed USD 18445 from its fund to the V eterans activities for maternity and childhood protection, union for different arrangements and USD13000 children health improvement and strengthening of to subscribe veterans to the plant ’ s newspaper the family, take part in charity campaigns. «M etallurg ». The Women’ Union closely cooperates with the The organization members don’t stand aside of mass Regional Social Service Centre . Women of the 108 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS works receive qualified legal and psychological activity the Women’ U nion applies modern techassistance ; there are a trust telephone line and a nologies . Regular sociological studies on diverse Young Family Club; teacher editions, booklets and subjects are held. The site of the W omen’ Union brochures regarding the issues of child upbring was created in the work wise computer network ing and women ’ s issues are developed and given out «I nfo -BMZ». to the plant ’ s women . I n collaboration with the Union of soldiers-internationalists Center campaigns «Do Good», «T hey should not cry » and «A S chool B ag » – to collect clothes 89 soldiers-internationalists work in structural and school accessories for children from low in divisions of OJSC «BSW – management company come families . T he W omen ’ U nion tells the stories of «BMC» holding. Issues of their labor, welfare, about the women with active life stand , who un health improvement are reviewed at Union meetings sparingly devote a lot of time to social life , on involving the participation of the management and the pages of newspaper «M etallurgist » and TV Trade Union Committee representatives. The union channel «N uance ». T he U nion continuously en works in close collaboration with international courages the works women ’ s initiative in the social youth organizations giving assistance in patriotic life sphere , make regular proposals regarding the education of the growing generation. issues of health , labor security and conditions , The works soldiers-internationalists annually take promoting health of women and their children , active participation in: production and welfare culture ; takes care of the family strengthening , protection of maternity – regional festival of Afghan Songs and events and childhood , low income families or families with dedicated to the Day of Memory of Soldiers-Intermany children , raising handicapped children . I n its nationalists; The plant KVN team won the 1st place in the final of the KVN prime-league (Minsk) of 2015. Merry and ready-witted steelmakers winning the victory in the prime-league got an invitation to the XXVII International festival of KVN teams in Sochi (11-25.01.2016).  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 109 Social activity  – International festival of military songs in Kalinthe production, professional growth, research ingrad; and technology activity, labor-saving work. An important part of the work is enhancing business and – annual regional competition of Afghan songs creative activity of the youth, organizing scientific «Time chose us»; and technical conferences, young employees’ par– introduction of proper order in the burial places ticipation in such forums held at other enterprises, of soldiers-internationalists; exchange of experience. – render assistance to parents of soldiers-internaJ uly 8-9, an International scientific and technical tionalists. conference of young specialists «M etal -2015» was held . S tudents of SEE G omel E ngineering Tree years in succession on the initiative and with I nstitute of the MES of the RB, STU named afparticipation of the members of the organization ter P.O. S ukhoi , BSTU, B el GUT, BRU, young OJSC «BSW – management company of ‘BMC» employees of industrial enterprises of Belarus, holding issues a calendar dedicated to soldiers-inR ussia , and the U kraine gathered together : OJSC ternationalists. RHP, OJSC «U ralstal», OJSC «M agnitogorsk hardware – calibration plant «MMK-METIZ», Union of young specialists «MZ D neprostal », OJSC ‘B eltsvetmet», OJSC Over 300 young specialists work at Byelorussian «Novolipetsk M etallurgical P lant »,NovokramaSteel Works. The union considers all the issues torsk engineering plant, OJSC «Beloretsk metrelated with young employees: their adaptation at allurgical plant », OJSC «M ogilyov metallur May 22 – a completion of medical groups of civil defense units took place on the stadium of fire rescue service No.2 of Zhlobin district. BSW team won the 1st place in it. 110 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS gical plant », OJSC «Legmash plant», Dobrush ists-graduates of 2015, conferred the rank of a paper factory «G eroi Truda» – a branch of OJSC Iand II-class foreman (56 people have this tittle: «M anagement company of «B elarusian wallpaper» 26 and 30 people accordingly), summarized and disholding , OJSC «M insk bearing plant » as well as seminated the experience of the best foremen, nomrepresentatives of P oland – T echnological U ni inees and winners of the competition «Professional versity , department of production technology and Olympus». materials of the town of C henstokhov . T otal 152 people . 136 reports were made in its 12 structur Supporting the principles of social responsibility and developing charity initiatives of the plant, foreal groups . E mployees of OJDC BSWmanagement men took an active part in all charity campaigns held company of «BMC» holding took 11 first places , at the plant. 8 second places and 11 third places. An excursion to the settlement of K rasnyi B ereg was organized Union of physical training and sports within the framework of the conference to visit a memorial complex established at the place of chil The Union solves issues of planning, organization dren concentration camp . O ur guests also had an and conducting of sport work in the enterprise opportunity to get acquainted with the plant oper work team. The Union confirms the schedule of ation during their visit to the production and the conducting sport contests, tournaments, compeplant ’ s museum . A round work table was organized titions and sportive health-improvement programs; for the leaders of the delegations to discuss the considers the issues of their material and finantopic «A system of work with young employees at cial provision. The union organizes all-year-round the enterprise ». sport competition of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in 15 kinds of sport and One of the ways of realization of the long-term other sport events at the plant. In 2015 the Union strategy of the staff potential development is seorganized and held 60 sport events and health prolection and direction of young specialists to esmoting events. Number of their participants equaled tablishments to get post-graduate education so as to 5312 people. to train its own high-grade scientific staff able to successfully implement the promising program of Monitoring of public opinion about effectechnical revamping of the plant. tiveness of social programs Union of foremen P ositive assessment of BSW activity in the area of social responsibility is evidenced by the results The Union organizes its work in close contact with of 2015 complex investigation of the social psy the personnel services and solves urgent issues chological climate in the teams of structural of 617 foremen of the Company. The Union holds divisions . O ver 10% of the plant ’ s employees public discussions and develops recommendations taking part in the investigation expressed their regarding the enhancement of the foremen role; opinion about the quality and level of the plant ’ s participates in the activities for organizing procanteens , social provision and security , medical fessional, ideological and economic training of service at the enterprise , conditions for leisure , foremen; considers the issues of labor and moral sport exercises , and plant cultural events . S at education of the workers, strengthening labor and isfaction index equals to 0,720 against 0, 721 performance discipline, promoting the young workin 2014. D uring five years this indicator has re ers reserve. mained within a high range of satisfaction ; it al In 2015, implementing the program of the devellows us to speak about sustainability of the mor opment of human resources and training of the al psychological climate in the employee teams of manager reserve, the union of foremen participatOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» ed in arrangement of probation of young specialholding .  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 111 Social activity System study of the public opinion with the help ration and orientation held in 2015 equaled to 9: of social questionnaires is an important condition «Professional orientation of schoolchildren», «Diof the development of a constructive cooperation agnostics of social-psychological climate in labour of the administration and the employees of the encollectives of the enterprise», «Express inquiry of terprise as well as for maintenance of an effecthe employees regarding satisfaction with the protive feedback with the inhabitants of the region. In tective footwear condition», content survey «Ten2015 over 2,7 thousand of the employees and about dencies of Internet reporting of the key events in 600 people of Zhlobin district had an opportunity the life of Byelorussian Steel Works», «Questionto express their evaluation of the actual facts and ing of the intermediate team managers regarding processes. It allows us to take into account intercorruption», «Social-psychological climate in the ests of different categories of the employees in the team of EMS -2», «Analysis of the plant’s external development of measures aimed at improvement of factor influence on the community, plant’s image in satisfaction with work conditions and work in genthe region, «Electing activity of the employees on eral as well as to respond to occurring challenges the eve of presidential elections in the Republic of in due time. Belarus», «Young specialists: challenges of social Total number of social surveys of different duand professional formation». 112 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS According to the existing tradition, it is the sixth time when BSW issued its corporate calendars: one with children’s drawings, the other with photos of its women employees. This year the calendar project was entirely developed by employees: they made photos, worked as designers, stylists, and makeup artists. A special creative group consisting mainly of young people was organized for that. It carried out the main load of calendar production. December 5 – a grand project «Be a star!» took off at the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists which opened new names and talents. More than twenty young performers became its participants. Young BSW employees are among its finalists: Sergei Chernousov (EMS-2, Alina Voronina (MB), Tatiana Fursova (TCD). SOCIAL REPORT 2015 113 Responsibility for the goods produced Striving to be one of the best suppliers of steel system according to such recognized international to improve customer’s satisfaction, to ensure standards as ISO/TS 16949 and API Q1. production of quality foods, guarantee good service, reduce the risk of failures during Both producers and suppliers of raw and auxiliary operation, BSW continuously improves management materials belong to persons responsible for of production processes. defects ( hazard ) of the goods , that is why BSW helps its suppliers to develop . F or example , It uses various methods in search for new in 2011 BSW introduced changes in contract ideas : failure mode and effect analysis (FMEA), requirements to suppliers . O ne of the obligatory brain attack , 8D, 5 Whys , benchmarking , requirements in resolving quality issues is usage SWOT – analysis, etc. T he following is taken of 8D process. into consideration in risk assessment : product characteristics ( in particular , its content , packing , This process has acquired a reputation of one of the most efficient tools for resolving quality problems storage conditions , design of the goods , marking , of the supplier products in the world practice. and user ’ s manual . In some cases the requirements to the product Introduction of the problem solving process are stricter than those set in the technical developed on the basis of the 8D method (system exclusion of a problem) will allow suppliers to meet documentation of national and international associations of producers and standardization BSW requirements to management of corrective and preventive measures entirely. organizations. All these facts provide for responsibility for production of safe and quality General products meeting the requirements and expectations of customers. Products manufacturing and packaging are safe for human health and environment. To confirm high quality of its products BSW has certificates of conformity of its quality management T he plant ’ s D irector G eneral and its deputies External audits 114 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS ensure fulfillment of the following aspects , as furnaces with the capacity of 100 tons each. The regards product responsibility : steelmaking process is intensified by the application of gas and oxygen technologies. Deoxidization and – ensuring of security and health of customers alloying of steel is performed in a ladle. Finishing when in contact with the products; of steel chemical composition is performed in special ladle-furnaces and vacuum degassers. – relevant production marking; Steel is cast by three continuous casting machines; two of them being six-strand units producing billet – marketing communication with customers and cross-section 125х125 mm, and one – a four-strand suppliers; machine with 250х300, 300х400 mm. privacy of the customer’s employees’ life; T he high tech rolling production is represented – compliance with the established requirements. by a modernized small section rolling mill 320, wire rod mill 150, duo reverse rolling mill During production and sales, the plant’s management 850 with a set of equipment for production of implicitly follows principle 1 of the UN Global rolled sections , structural shapes , wire rod for Compact. In compliance with principle 8 of the UN various applications , and reinforcing steel . I n Global Compact the plant’s management undertakes mill 320 methods of production of reinforcing initiatives and holds activities aiming at reduction of steel against standards of G ermany , H olland , the production impact on the environment which is G reat B ritain , F inland , S weden , N orway , covered in the section «Environmental Protection». A ustria , P oland and R ussia has been mastered and certification of these types of products by The plant’s management’s standpoints as per liability the national authorities of these countries has aspects are outlined in: been carried out ; slitting process with dividing of a bar into several strands has been developed – Corporate Policy; mastered and this is a new and perspective documentation of the Corporate Management direction in the rolling technique . System listed in this section; On September 25, 2015 commissioning of a smallCode of Ethics. section mill for production of wire rod and rolled section with special processing (SRS-2) took Product life cycle place. Its construction started in 2012 after signing of a contract with Danieli (Italy) in October Structurally, OJSC «BSW – management compay 2011. The designed capacity of the new mill is 700 of «BMC» holding is composed of three basic thousand tons per year with the possibility to production lines (steelmaking, production of rolled increase the finished product output till 1 million material and steel cord and wire manufacturing), tpy. This project will allow the plant to balance infrastructure shops and subdivisions of the its production of steel with in-depth processing and enterprise’s activity management. The steelmaking increase the output of hardware products. production includes a scrap yard and two electric melt shops. Acceptance, storage, classification and June 2007 witnessed commissioning of a pipe mill. processing of scrap are performed in the scrap The key equipment of the pipe mill is a pipe assembly yard. The scrap yard is equipped with overhead including a rotary pierce, a 4-stand PQF® (Premium cranes and racks used for loading material into Quality Finishing) and a reducing-sizing mill. The charging baskets which are delivered to the melt mill operates with three types of billet external shops by scrap trucks. The steelmaking production diameter 140mm, 160mm, and 200mm. The key is represented by three powerful electric-arc equipment was supplied by SMS Meer (Germany).  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 115 Responsibility for the goods produced  The designed capacity of the pipe mill is up to 250 process is controlled with: laser wall thickness thousand tons per year depending on the product measuring unit «LASUS», two eddy-current range. The shop includes furnaces, rolling mills, surface defect detection devices, an ultrasonic billet and batch saws, the required finishing lines, unit for longitudinal defect detection on the pipe transportation systems operating within the shop, surface and body, hydraulic test of pipe tightness and auxiliary equipment. Since commissioning of the with the pressure of up to 600 bar. pipe mill production of more than 250 types of pipe products of various ranges has been mastered. Hardware production is composed of three steel wire shops, and a die and tare shop. BSW pipes are used in engineering, oil and gas industry, construction and municipal engineering. Steel cord production is a most complicated scienceintensive process which presupposes production of Pipe quality meets the requirements of Russian and brass-coated steel wire diameter 0.15 mm out of foreign standards: GOST, DIN, ASTM, API 5L, EN. cast billet size 250х300 mm, capable of sustaining Products meeting complex requirements of these high mechanical loads. The plant is the main supplier standards are supplied at the customer’s request. of such world-recognized tire manufactures as Pipe quality at different stages of the production Continental, Michelin, Goodyear, Bridgestone, etc. Scheme of the main production cycles 116 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS A nother important hardware product enjoying the Republic of Belarus, Russia, EC countries and keen demand is the wire for high pressure some other states do not allow to import products hoses ( hose wire ). W ith respect to automation which are not certified for the compliance with the and equipment level , wire production is one of requirements of their national standards. the highly developed in the world . T he plant ’ s specialists are successfully developing and Production certification in compliance with implementing new steel cord constructions taking the requirements of national and international standards was 52 into consideration global development tendencies and tire requirements of the automotive market . commenced at OJSC To satisfy requirements of the consuming «BSW – management companies , plant ’ s specialists developed a wide compay of «BMC» Conformity certificates for range of hose wire types not foreseen by the holding in 1991, and production of various types of project including high tensile and super high has been successfully VSW products in 2015 tensile wire . performed thereafter. Quality and security of Byelorussian Steel Works The range of wire production output is not limited products complying with the requirements of the by the above mentioned assortment. The plant national standards of its customers is certified by produces bead wire, welding copper-coated and conformity certificates issued in Russia, Belarus, non-copper-coated wire, die-rolled cold-deformed the USA, and most of EU countries. Following the reinforcing wire for concrete reinforcement, results of 2015 the enterprise holds 52 compliance spring, spoke, nail, general purpose wire and steel certificates for various types of products. fiber (anchor, wavy, micro-fiber). Quality and security of the Company products and their compliance with normative documents is The plant’s infrastructure is represented by systematically checked in the course of supervisory repair shops for power, electrical and mechanical audits with the frequency established by the equipment, production provision with fluids and certification rules of every certain country (1, 2, electric power, railway and automotive transport 3, 4 times a year). shops, and other auxiliary departments. Confidence in the stable quality of wire production Customers’ health and safety is ensured by the quality management system existing at the enterprise and certified for the compliance Main customers of OJSC «BSW – management with standard ISO/TS 16949:2009. compay of «BMC» holding are machine-building and motor-car construction enterprises, hardware, Quality management system in the hardware tire, pipe and reinforced concrete structure plants production is approved by the representatives of the neighboring and far-away countries and those of wire consuming companies: Michelin (France), of the RB. Continental (Germany), Bridgestone (Italy), Goodyear (Luxembourg), Eaton (the USA, Germany), Byelorussian Steel Works is aiming at production Manuli (Italy), Parker (Italy), Diesse Rubber (Italy), of quality goods and services, advantageous and Alfagomma (Italy), Knapheide (Germany) and others, safe for the consumers’ health. The best quality which perform the counterparty audits. assessment of the plant production is its high competitive ability and continuously increasing The Central Plant Laboratory is accredited for sales turnover. the compliance with ISO/MEK 17025 requirements since 2009 (by DAkkS, German certification body). In order to provide the inner market security, An accreditation certificate valid till 16.12.2019 safety of the citizens and environmental protection, was received in 2014.  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 117 Responsibility for the goods produced  In 2011 Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian compliance with the requirements of the enterprise’s Steel Works – management company of standard STP 840-KSM-7.5.5 «Production and «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding maintenance. Ensuring the production compliance. together with Belmet Handelgesellschaft m.b.h. Procedure of the finished product dispatching». (Linz, Austria), its representative in EC countries Materials ecologically sound and harmless and in accordance with REACH regulation No. for human health and environment are used for EC 1907 arranged registration of the chemicals packaging. (manganese, iron, copper and silicon) contained in concast billet and bloom as products which further In the reporting period we received several use is accompanied with the chemical composition remarks regarding tire cord package damage during change. transportation to customers by trucks. All other products of our enterprise belong Now we test protective frames for cardboard angles to goods which do not suffer their chemical to provide for goods safety during transportation composition change and do not emit substances in by trucks. the course of further standard use and are not subject to registration. Product marking with appropriate information All BSW products do not contain substances of increased hazard (SVHC). All products supplied to the customers are marked and accompanied by a quality certificate. The The main goal of the REACH system is to provide product marking is performed in compliance with the high level of human health and environment plant regulations on the marking requirements, and protection, including promotion of alternative includes information on the manufacturing country, methods of substance hazard assessment, and trade mark of the plant, supply contract number, free turnover of substances within the domestic consignment number, country of destination, weight market of the European Union, and enhancing and other quality information. Quality certificates the competitive ability of chemical industry of contain quality information of the product. the Member States and facilitating innovative technologies introduction. Packing and shipment are in accordance with the requirements of the existing process documentation In order to inform product consumers on safe with consideration of the requests and requirements application during further processing , safety of the customers stipulated in the contract. data sheets for serial production are executed in compliance with GOST 30333 and such other In August 2006 a permit to use the «CЄ» mark technical regulatory legal acts as established by on structural steel rolled section under the the organization ’ s standard STP 840-KSM-7.5.1.2 requirements of directive 89/106/СЕ was for the «M anagement facilities of production process . first time received from CARES. In 2015 the plant Special processes. Special characteristics of held the following certificates of conformity issued the production and special parameters of the to confirm the right to apply CE mark on: process ». In compliance with the customer requirements , the production inspection with – seamless pipes, row Н and М, and types L, L1 respect to radioactive safety is performed at the and L2 Ø 21,3-165,1 mm of non-alloy steel for plant with the subsequent delivery of the relevant welding and threading in accordance with DIN certificates to customers . EN 10255:2004+А1:2007(TÜV NORD Systems (Germany) Packing, storing, handling operations and delivery of products are performed by the personnel in production of steel microfiber for concrete 118 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Marking with CE sign reinforcement in accordance with DIN EN 14889Aim of BSW advertising campaign is to form its name 1:2006 and Directive 89/106/ЕС; and prestige to occupy and strengthen its market position; stimulate sales, improve effectiveness and production of steel wavy fiber for concrete volume of sales. reinforcement in accordance with DIN EN 148891:2006 and Directive 89/106/ЕС of EU Council Means of product promotion: (TÜV NORD Systems (Germany) 1. advertising in mass media (press, TV, radio, production of anchor fiber in accordance with Internet, press-conferences, public speeches). the requirements of DIN EN 14889-1:2006 and Directive 89/106/ EC of the EU Council (TÜV 2. E xhibitions, fairs (one of the key links in the NORD Systems (Germany)) system of advertising measures that serve a crossing point of a large number of sellers and production of rolled sections of structural steel customers at a certain place and at a certain with tensile strength S235 to S460 according to DIN time ). I n 2015 BSW participated in 3 international EN 10025-2:2005, Annexes A and B to DIN EN 10210exhibitions and fairs in B elarus and G ermany . BSW 1:2006 and Directive 89/106/ЕС and 93/68/ЕС of EU advertisements can be seen at STV – an advertising Council (TÜV NORD Systems (Germany) 2006); film «BSW is our business », outside advertisements on a continuous basis , advertisements on the town production of steel hot-rolled pipes of structural LED screen. BSW allocates advertisements and steel with tensile strength S235 to S460 according reference information in newspapers and journals to DIN EN 10025-2:2005, Annexes A and B to DIN of the RB and RF: «K rugozor S egodnya », «N ovy EN 10210-1:2006 and Directive 89/106/ЕС and Dzen», «M etallurg » , «Respublika», B elarusian 93/68/ЕС of EU Council (TÜV NORD Systems Economy», «Gomelskaya P ravda», «Stroitelnaya (Germany) 2006) G azea», «Architecture and Construction», Marketing communications «Stroika», «Z nak K achestva» «M etal I nform », «100 Best G oods of R ussia», «Inform O bzor», Marketing activity of BSW refers to the competence «Construction and Real Estate», catalogue of the marketing board. «M ade in Belarus», etc.  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 119 Responsibility for the goods produced  3. Product sales stimulation (special conditions sales. Based on the task set and the results achieved provided for patrons); they are identified as: a joint venture, a trade firm, a distributor, a trader, an end user. 4. Sales by catalogues; Work with customers is organized in compliance 5. Electronic trade; with the Code of Business Ethics of OJSC «BSW – management compay of «BMC» holding. 6. Direct mail; Operation of any company is significantly influenced 7. Direct sales (promotion of goods including by availability of competition. It makes the company their oral presentation to sale while speaking with determine actual needs of certain buyers and form potential buyers); a product range meeting their requirements most completely. 8. Annual reports of the Company; Relations with competitors are described in the 9. Advertising constructions in the national airport Code of Business Survey which is a part of the Code in Minsk; of Ethics of OJSC «BSW – management compay of 10. Shooting of films-presentations; «BMC» holding. 11. Allocation of an advertisement trailer on Competitive (business) survey is a very important function of up-to-date management and the key the LED screen of the Palace of Culture of condition of business dynamic development. The Metallurgists. aim of the competitive survey is to contraposition 12. BSW advertisement at International sport to strong sides of competitors and use their weak competitions in hockey, volleyball, heavy athletics, etc. sides, its task is to analyze the information acquired and on its basis create data useful for developing a 13. Every year BSW participates in the national management decision. tournament «Best exporter of the year». Results of 2015 – the winner’s cup in the nomination Organization of meetings, customer questionnaires, «Steelmaking». discussion of problems with partners allow the company to find effective ways of resolving current 14. Sponsorship and charity: BSW took part in such and future challenges, realize possible directions important events for Gomel region and the country of development and product improvement. in general as «Gomel economic forum – 2015» and «Friendship -2015» as the general partner. Customer questioning is one of such tasks. Questioning is carried out as regards the Mutually beneficial cooperation assessment indicators which are most important for with customers customers: conditions of product payment, product price, product supplies, production planning, Our customer base was formed on the basis of a and product quality. Subjects of the commodity long-term work of BSW and customers taking into distribution networks and BSW product end users account reliability of a company (checked by the on global outlets (Europe, America, Middle East, economic security board), its ability to pay, and Africa, SEA, CIS, and Belarus) are questioned. fulfill the obligations taken, possibility to work on the market in different conditions (both on the In 2015 BSW QMS was approved by representatives falling market and dynamically developing market). of steel cord and steel wire users: Michelin – 93%, A list of permanent customers was approved taking Continental – 95%, OJSC «Belshina»– 0,9 points into consideration the experience acquired in steel (out of 1,0 possible). 120 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 96 Удовлетворенность потребителей 94.7 Customers' satisfaction 94 91.6 92 90 88.2 88 87 86.4 86 83.6 84 82 80 78 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Customers’ satisfaction with products and professional, quality, and operative response is of steelmaking, rolling, pipe and provided for each inquiry. hardware productions During questioning customers specified the most Customers’ questionnaires analysis performed important projects where BSW products were proves their loyalty to BSW trade mark. Proposals used: motor highway S8 Walichnowy – Lubartów, expressed by our customers are examined by the Walichnowy Łódź, S17 Dąbrowica Lubartów, corresponding services of the plant and corrective reinforcement of the sea pier in Swinouście – actions are developed if required to prevent Szczecin; in administrative buildings: Business Park customer claims for the current period and improve A4, Katowice (stage 2), Impressio II Wrocław, customer satisfaction in future. The marketing Dębowe Tarasy, Katowice (stage 3); reconstruction board carries on feedback with customers. The and repairs, erection of bridges (via Dane river aim of customer questioning is to study market Klaipeda, to Kursk spit, etc.) in Baltic states requirements for new types of products. The and in Scandinavia, ELBE HARMONIA, building technical board analyzes the possibility of Stuttgart 21, in construction of Novovoronezh manufacture the products specified by customers. APS, objects of winter Olympic games in Sochi, in When questioning is completed, the customers are building of Moscow City and BelAES, Minsk metro. informed about the ability of BSW to produce the BSW products were supplied to oil companies new types of products. OJSC Lukoil, OJSC NK Tosneft, OJSC Tatneft, NFK «Salym Petroleum», RUE Belorusneft PA, To sell products to members of the commodity KazMunaiGas, etc. distribution network, we organize meetings with end users, participate in exhibitions, sign annual In August 2014 the first social responsibility audit contracts, and participate in bonus systems of large was held at OJS «BSW – management company of customers. We distribute commercial proposals and «BMC» holding. The audit for conformity to the take part in tenders. More flexible and attractive Code of Ethics of Pirelli Group supplier (Italy) was terms of payment for product are developed. Each performed by the second party – a representative of customer’s order if given an individual approach Bureau Veritas (the Ukraine) within the framework  SOCIAL REPORT 2015 121 Responsibility for the goods produced  of the requirements of the international standard quality of the acquired resources (services) of social responsibility SA 8000. with consideration of data on consumer’s quality management system functioning and its efficiency in During the audit, the current activity of the plant the form of: in the area of labour protection, environment, industrial safety, personnel management were – results of mass regular supplies without analyzed and production areas, household rooms, reclamations or claims; canteens, and aid posts were assessed, and employees were questioned. – compliance certificates for the management system and products of the supplier; At present global customers of OJSC «BSW – management compay of «BMC» holding more and more – supplier obligations to respect the rights and often raise the topic of observance of the 10 principles freedoms of the citizens in compliance with the of the UN Global Compact (liquidation of all forms of principles of the UN Global Compact; forced and obligatory labour, complete extermination – supplier consent to follow BSW supplier Quality of child labour, and liquidation of discrimination in the Manual. area of labour and employment, etc.). Mutually beneficial cooperation The activity of suppliers is assessed according to with suppliers the following criteria: Another equally important party concerned is our – observance of the volume and terms of product suppliers providing the plant with stock and raw delivery (logistics); materials for our production. – compliance of the delivered product with the BSW establishes honest and unbiased relations established requirements and calculation of the with suppliers based on reasonable pricing, delivered goods quality index (IQL) considering recognizing license and trade rights. Cooperation the existence of the suppler quality system, share with suppliers is organized in compliance with the of supplies with deviations in the total number of Code of Ethics and enterprise standard STP 840deliveries and consideration of deviation significance KSM-7.4 «Procurement. Procedure of cooperation coefficient (loyalty); with suppliers», and Supplier Manual. – degree of the consumer loyalty to the plant and Selection of suppliers is performed based on: corrective actions execution. – study of market and supplier questioning; Supplies quality assessment is reviewed at the plant rating on the commodity and services market; quality meetings. So as to develop partnership relations and improve quality of the delivered product by development of the management system with the acceptable suppliers according to the Bulletin of suppliers assessment for the previous period specialists of the Company perform supplier audits. Following the cooperation results and assessments, a «List of Approved Suppliers» is drawn up and agents performing deliveries are specified. The results of the supplier assessment are given in the table below. 122 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Actual data, % Delivery quality Logistics, Loyalty to the Supplier index, % % plant % 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Excellent IQL=95,1-100 100 100 37,20 32,05 55,22 52,43 60,23 86,3 Reliable IQL=75,1-95 100 100 50,24 57,84 36,05 38,53 28,63 22,35 Acceptable IQL=30,1-75,0 85-100 80-100 4,45 3,14 4,58 4,6 6,23 2,85 Unsatisfactory IQL ≤ 30* <85 <80 8,11* 6,97* 4,29* 4,43 4,9 3,5 * purchases from this supplier should be cancelled Criterion 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of certified suppliers 44,2 49,4 36,48 43,4 56,1 57,1 (TCD supplier assessment bulletin data), % July 19 – a star in the Orion constellation was given the name of Byelorussian Steel Works. This was an original present for BSW from its partner Baltic shipping (Klaipeda) in honor of achievements and successes of BSW team on the occasion of its professional holiday. SOCIAL REPORT 2015 123 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЯ / ANNEX Annex 1 Organization’s medium-term targets The following key targets of economic and social development of the organization are planned for 2016: 1. Production, finances, and economics: 1.1 Sales profitability in industry, min., % 1,0 1.2 Export of goods as compared to the level of 2015, min., % 90,0 1.3 Decrease of the level of expenses for product manufacturing, work, services (resource saving), min. by, % -1,1 1.4 Power saving indicator, % -5,4 1.5 Finished product stock norm, %, max. 30,0 2. Quality 2.1 Level of rejects due to production shops, max., % set in order No.2 2.2 Level of non-conforming products, max., % set in order No.2 2.3 Level of expenses due to defects per Br1000 of marketable products, max., % 4,64 2.4 Customer satisfaction assessment, min., % steelmaking 94,0 rolling 94,3 pipe production 93,5 steel cord and steel wire production 95,5 2.5 Level of claimed products total for the plant, max., ppm set in order No.2 3. Environment 3.1 Volume of production wastes allocation in the environment average to 2015, % to be reduced by 1,3% 3.2 Volume of water removal from surface sources as compared to the level of 2015, % to be reduced by 2,0% 4. Labour protection and industrial safety 4.1 Occupational injury not to exceed the level of 2015 4.2 Provision of additional safety for the employees of the shops, people 261 4.3 Improvement of labour environment for the employees of the shops, people 79 4.4 Improvement of sanitary-household conditions for the employees of the shops, people 16 4.5 Improvement of drinking water consumption for the employees of the shop, people 65 5. Social responsibility 5.1 Training of executives and specialists, people 1346 5.2 Professional training of workers, people 3525 5.3 General satisfaction of the personnel, min., % 72,0 5.4 Employee turnover, max., % 4,5 124 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 2 List of abbreviations used API American Petroleum Institute – a nongovernmental organization in the US performing investigations in the oil and gas sector. Global Reporting Initiative– an independent commercial organization which mission is development and worldwide distribution of unified principles of reporting in the area of sustainable development prima facie with the help of Sustainable GRI Development Reporting Guidelines. The organization was established in 1988; its headquarters location is Amsterdam; it is managed by international experts of different organizations worldwide. EFQM European Foundation of Quality Management ISO International Organization for Standardization OHSAS Occupational health and safety management system SA 8000 Social Responsibility 8000 international standard BSW Byelorussian Steel Works BNTU Belarusian National Technical University BRYU Belarusian Republican Youth Union GDP Gross domestic product GOST State industrial standard SEE State Educational Establishment PCM Palace of Culture of Metallurgists EAF Electric Arc Furnace CJSS Children-junior sport school ЕС European Community UWRB Unified wage rate book ZMF Zhlobin meat factory HB Housing board Info-BMZ Information-reference system of the plant kg kilogram CMS Corporate management system PC Purpose courses MAZ Minsk Automotive Plant MISIS Moscow Institute of Steel and Alloys CCM Billet continuous casting machine mln million bln billion mm millimeter HS Health service MTZ Minsk tractor plan IFRS International financial reporting system SOCIAL REPORT 2015 125 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЯ / ANNEX NAS National academy of science NP National parkк ОИИР Information & Ideological Work department UNO United Nations organization LPD Labour protection department ISD Industrial safety department ODS Ozone depleting substances QMD Quality management department GCP Dust and gas collecting plant MPC Maximum permissible concentration PA Production Association RB Republic of Belarus LE&S Leading employees and specialists RF Russian Federation CM Council of Ministers MM Mass media YSC Yung specialists council CIS Commonwealth of Independent States SRS Section rolling shop STP Plant standard STB Belarusian standard SWS Steel wire shop EMS Environment management system LPMS Labour protection management system USA United States of America TNLA Typical normative legal acts TU Technical standard e.f.t. Ton of equivalent fuel Thou. thousand FER Fuel and energy resources EP&ISB Environment protection and industrial sanitation board SHC Sports and health complex CEE Central and East Europe EMS Electric melt shop 126 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 General Standard Disclosures Indicator Description Chapter of the Report Comments Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement of the senior decisionmaker of the organization General Director’s statement Strategy and approach to sustainable G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities development management Organizational Profile G4-3 Organization’s name General G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services General G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters General G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries where the organization has significant General. General Director’s statement operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the Report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form General G4-8 Markets served by the organization General G4-9 The scale of the organization General G4-10 Total number of employees by the type of employment, Social activity. Personnel description employment contract, region and gender G4-11 Percentage of the total employees covered by collective Social activity. Social partnership. Trade union bargaining agreements organization Responsibility for the product manufactured. G4-12 Organization’s supply chain. Mutually advantageous cooperation with customers G4-13 All significant changes of the size, structure or ownership General. General Director’s statement of the organization during the reporting period G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Economic effectiveness. Risks of the addressed by the organization enterprise G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social Sustainable development management. charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization Participation in external initiatives. subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Membership of associations (such as industry associations) Participation in external initiatives and/or national and international organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated Preface to the Report financial statements or equivalent documents G4-18 The process of defining the Report content and the Aspect Preface to the Report Boundaries G4-19 List of all material Aspects identified in the process for Process of defining material aspects defining Report content G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization Process of defining material aspects G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization Process of defining material aspects G4-22 Effects of all restatements of information provided in Preface to the Report previous reports and the reasons for such restatements SOCIAL REPORT 2015 127 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЯ / ANNEX General Standard Disclosures G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Preface to the Report Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of the stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder engagement by the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Stakeholder engagement whom to engage G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Stakeholder engagement group and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the Report preparation process G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded to Stakeholder engagement those key topics and concerns including though its reporting. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. Preface to the Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Preface to the Report G4-30 Reporting cycle Preface to the Report G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Report or its Feedback questionnaire content G4-32 «In accordance» option chosen by the organization for the Preface to the Report Report preparation and GRI Content Index for the chosen option G4-33 Organization’s policy and practice regarding External No external assurance Assurance of sustainable development reporting Corporate Management G4-34 Organization’s corporate management structure including General. Organizational management structure key committees under the highest governance body Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Value, principles, standards and norms of behavior of the Business approach organization such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 128 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 4 Specific Standard Reporting Disclosures Disclosure Description Report Chapter Comments Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic effectiveness G4-EC2 Financial aspects and other risks and opportunities for Economic effectiveness. Enterprise’s risks organization’s activities due to climate change Social activity. Social support of pensioners, G4-EC3 Organization’s defined benefit plans obligations invalid people and other categories of indigent citizens Economic effectiveness. Financial support by G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government the government Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry wage level by gender compared Social activity. Financial incentives. to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local Social activity Personnel profile community at significant locations of operation Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Economic effectiveness. Indirect economic services supported impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent Economic effectiveness. Indirect economic of impacts impacts Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant Product responsibility. Mutually beneficial locations of operation cooperation with suppliers Materials Environmental activity. Natural resources G4-EN1 Materials used by weight and volume conservation G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Environmental activity. Natural resources materials conservation Energy Environmental activity. Energy resources G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization conservation Environmental activity. Energy resources G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization conservation Environmental activity. Energy resources G4-EN5 Energy intensity conservation Environmental activity. Energy resources G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption conservation G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and Environmental activity. Energy resources services conservation SOCIAL REPORT 2015 129 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЯ / ANNEX Specific Standard Reporting Disclosures Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental activity. Water basin protection G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Environmental activity. Water basin protection water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Environmental activity. Water basin protection reused Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, Environmental activity. Minimization of plant or adjacent to, protected areas and areas activity impact on flora and fauna of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Environmental activity. Minimization of plant and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high activity impact on flora and fauna biodiversity value outside protected areas Environmental activity. Minimization of plant G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored activity impact on flora and fauna G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national Environmental activity. Minimization of plant conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by activity impact on flora and fauna operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Environmental activity. Air basin protection G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental activity. Air basin protection (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental activity. Air basin protection (Scope 3) G4-EN18 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Environmental activity. Air basin protection G4-EN1 reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental activity. Air basin protection Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental activity. Water basin protection Environmental activity. Production waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method disposal Products and Services Environmental activity. Development and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of introduction of resource-saving, low-waste products and services and environment-friendly technologies Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Environmental activity. Expenses on non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws environment protection and monitoring. and regulations Environmental payments 130 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Overall Environmental activity. Expenditures on G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and environment protection and monitoring. investments by type Environmental payments Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Social activity. Personnel profile employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations Social activity. Employees’ rights of operation Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, Social activity. Employees’ rights including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Social activity. Labour protection and joint management – worker health and safety committees that help provision of industrial safety monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Social activity. Labour protection and lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related provision of industrial safety fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Social activity. Labour protection and related to their occupation provision of industrial safety G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Social activity. Public control of human rights with trade unions in the area of labour protection. Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by Social activity. Training and education gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist Social activity. Training and education them in managing career endings G4-LA11Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Social activity. Professional and career and career development reviews, by gender and by employee development category Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by employee category according to gender, age group, Social activity. Personnel profile minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Social activity. Financial incentives by employee category, by significant locations of operation SOCIAL REPORT 2015 131 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЯ / ANNEX Specific Standard Reporting Disclosures Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective Social activity. Employees’ rights actions taken Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Social activity. Employees’ rights to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures Social activity. Employees’ rights taken to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Stakeholders engagement. Community community engagement, impact assessments, and development engagement programs Anti-corruption Strategy and approach to sustainable G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and development control. Organizational procedures structure of sustainable development control Strategy and approach to sustainable G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken development control. Organizational structure of sustainable development control Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories Product responsibility. Customer health and for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety Product responsibility. Customer health and impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of safety outcomes Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information Product responsibility. Product marking with and labeling, and percentage of significant products and service appropriate information categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Product responsibility. Product marking with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service appropriate information information and labeling, by type of outcomes Product responsibility. Mutually advantageous G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction cooperation with customers 132 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Dear readers!  You have just got acquainted with the Social Report of Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works – management company of «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding in the area of sustainable development for 2015. Your opinion on this document will be highly appreciated and your comments and proposals will be taken into consideration in future reports as much as possible. Please, fill the form and fax it to: + 375-2334-5-54-26 or mail to: 37 Promyshlennaya str., 247210 Zhlobin, Gomel region with the mark «Social Report -2015». You may also e-mail the filled form to: (secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by) 1. To which group of stakeholders do you belong to? representative of authorities  representative of community  Investo  Partner  Customer  Employee  Another group of stakeholders _____________________________ 2. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of completeness of the information presented?  High  Average  Low  3. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of and credibility of the information presented? High  Average  Low  4. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of search of the information required? High  Average  Low  5. What is your appreciation of the design of the Social Report? High  Average  Low  6. Has the Social Report helped you to understand the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in the area of sustainable development? Yes, fully  Yes, partially  No, not quite  No, not understandable at all  7. Please, evaluate the following sections of the Social Report of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding from the point of view of interest, relevance and completeness of disclosure (from 1 (low) to 5 (very high) Steelmaking. Reaching a new level  Product responsibility  Participation of the republican scientific potential Plant Profile  in the development of the metallurgical complex  Economic activity  Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  Environment activity  Management, obligations, Social activity  stakeholders engagement  Interaction of parties  8. Has the Social Report influenced your attitude to the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding? Yes, my attitude improved  No  My attitude became worse  9. What information in the Social Report was the most interesting for you? ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ 10. What directions of the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in your opinion require improvement so as to raise social responsibility? ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ 11. What information would you like to see in future social reports of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding? ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you for cooperation! SOCIAL REPORT 2015 133 Notes 134 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2015
