ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Our continuing efforts to achieve a sustainable society Editorial Policies Table of Contents The purpose of publishing this report ROHM Group The ROHM Group actively strives towards achieving a sustainable society through innovations in product and Innovation Report 2016 management quality. Since 2012 we have published an Innovation Report to present our progress towards this Editorial Policies / Table of Contents・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 1 goal to our stakeholders and increase understanding and awareness of the ROHM Group. Company Mission and Policies ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 2 ROHM began publishing the Environmental Data Book in 2001, and from 2007 to 2011 published the report Message from the President・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 3 under the new title CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Report. This report represents a further development of these previous efforts. Product Quality Innovation Reporting organizations Product Quality Innovation・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 6 ROHM Co., Ltd. and all companies of the ROHM 3 ECOs sought by the ROHM Group Group (affiliated companies in Japan and abroad) ECO Earth ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 7 Reporting period ECO Energy ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 9 Fiscal year 2015 (April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) ECO Life ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 11 Reports on events and initiatives before and after this period are also discussed in section. Introduction to other products ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 13 Date published August 2016 (Next issue: August 2017; previous issue: August 2015) Management Quality Innovation Guidelines used for reference Management Quality Innovation・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 15 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (G4) Identifying of CSR Priority Issues for ISO26000 17 the ROHM Group Based on ISO 26000 ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 Version ISO26000 Core Subjects and Activities Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct Version 5.1 Organizational Governance ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 19 Human Rights and Labor Practices ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 21 Relationship with other reports The Environment ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 23 Information on CSR ROHM’s website includes information on CSR initiatives not Fair Operating Practices ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 25 included in this report (available in Japanese only). Details on environmental conservation activities are also provided in the Consumer Issues (Customer Support) ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 27 Environmental Data Book (PDF). The following diagram outlines the relationship between these Community Involvement and Development ・・・・・・・・・・・・ 29 media forms and the current report. ROHM Theatre Kyoto ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 33 High CSR Targets / Plans and Results and GRI-G4 Targets ・・・・・・・・ 35 Degree of importance This report Company Information ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 39 for stakeholders Website High Degree of importance for the ROHM Group Business results and financial information ROHM participates in the UN Global Compact In addition to legally required reports, ROHM What is the UN Global Compact (UNGC) publishes Annual Reports and other documents that are available on its website. The UNGC is an international initiative that enables businesses and other organizations to Corporate information exercise responsible and creative leadership in http://www.rohm.com/web/global/about-rohm order to achieve sustainable growth. CSR initiatives Companies supporting UNGC must maintain 10 http://www.rohm.com/web/global/csr1 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Investor relations environment and anti-corruption. http://www.rohm.com/web/global/investor-relations 1 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Company Mission and Policies The ROHM Group has communicated the Company Mission to its employees since its establishment in order to become a company that can be trusted and relied upon by society. [COMPANY Quality is our top priority at all times. MISSION] Our objective is to contribute to the advancement and progress of our culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high quality products in large volumes to the global market. Policies to achieve the Company Mission are laid out and serve as guidelines for all business activities. [BASIC Secure reasonable profits through a concerted company-wide effort to promote a comprehensive quality assurance program. MANAGEMENT Develop globally leading products by improving on technologies held by each department POLICY] for the continued advancement of the company. Maintain healthy and vigorous lifestyles and refine intellect and humanitarianism in order to make meaningful contributions to society. Search extensively for capable human resources and cultivate them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity. [BASIC QUALITY 1. Promote internal standardization for the entire company and establish structures for QC management based on data. ASSURANCE 2. Conduct comprehensive and continuous research for the development of POLICY] new technologies and products. 3. Proactively utilize methods of statistical control in all areas of company activities. 4. Establish quality assurance structures for all manufacturing processes. 5. Continuously strive to modernize manufacturing systems in an effort to reduce product costs. 6. Secure quality assurance of raw materials and components with our suppliers through contracts. [BASIC GOALS 1. Develop personnel at all levels that constantly work to obtain new knowledge and acquire empirical reasoning ability based on a broad perspective. FOR EDUCATION 2. Train staff to be dedicated leaders in their field by utilizing their knowledge and experience. AND TRAINING] 3. Develop personnel who can overcome any adversity and strive towards achieving targets. 4. Train staff to place the highest value on teamwork, combining the efforts of all individuals. [BASIC POLICY 1. All employees will use every opportunity to enhance self-development. 2. Those in leadership positions will exemplify model behavior at all times. FOR EDUCATION 3. The emphasis of education is on-the-job training led by the supervisors through AND TRAINING] daily operations. Supplementary training off the job is also provided. 4. The head of each management level will appraise staff fairly and conduct effective training programs periodically and consistently. 5. Appraisals for the head of each management level are based, as a general rule, on the success of staff education and training. Although the environment surrounding the company has changed with the emergence of an information-based society and increased diversification of values, these policies remain unchanged and serve as the driving force and foundation in all business activities. 2 Message from the President Achieving a sustainable society ROHM’s CSV passed down an in 1966 and one we have continued striving towards ever since. Although the size of our company and the business unbroken line since its founding environment have changed drastically during ROHM’s The concept of carrying out corporate activities and fifty-odd years amid continuing diversification, this mindset Creating Shared Value (CSV) while addressing various that forms our core persists unaltered and is passed down social issues has become commonplace as an approach unbroken as ROHM’s DNA. to creating corporate value. With a worldwide population We believe that having each and every employee implement estimated at around 8 billion people, we are faced with the concepts of the company mission and basic management not only food and water shortages, but other major policy to pursue innovative product development and problems as well, such as the depletion of electricity and high quality manufacturing leads to both increased other forms of energy. This is also the reason why people customer satisfaction (CS) and social contribution. This, are calling for recognition of the need for solutions that in turn, becomes a source of pride and confidence for take sustainability into account. ROHM employees, driving the creation of new challenges. CSV is hardly a new concept for ROHM. ‘Our objective is In the ROHM Group, this virtuous cycle is considered our CSV, to contribute to the advancement and progress of our and we aspire to meet our stakeholders’ expectations by culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, gathering diverse human resources from around the of high quality products in large volumes to the global world and pursing honest corporate activities while market.’ This was established as our corporate objective establishing an active working environment. 3 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Social contributions and the growth of the ROHM Group Mindful, capable employees Products that that contribute to society contribute to society through business activities ROHM Group Cyclical growth CSV Goals between the ROHM Group and society Improving customer Increasing employee satisfaction (CS) satisfaction (ES) Ensuring customer satisfaction by enabling employees to fully utilize their talents Fulfilling the Company Mission and Basic Management Policy 3 ECOs to accelerate CSV activities 3 ECOs sought by the ROHM Group ROHM contributes to society by supplying groundbreaking products based on the concepts of energy saving, safety, comfort, and compactness. And ROHM continues to ECO Earth Contributing to a global supply key devices for a wide range of fields, including environmentally conscious the automotive sector, where technological innovation is society progressing, the industrial equipment market, which is undergoing expansion due to the rapid emergence of IoT applications, and the area of IT devices represented by ECO Energy Contributing to an energy smartphones and tablets. conservation-oriented society The ROHM Group is also pursuing three ECOs -ECO ECO Life Earth, ECO Energy, and ECO Life -as keywords for further accelerating these CSV activities. Contributing to a safe, reliable, and comfortable society and enriching daily lives 4 Message from the President ECO Earth the automotive and industrial equipment markets by providing optimized power solutions that combine industry-leading Achieving waste-free manufacturing by pursuing quality first SiC power device technology with module technology and control ICs that maximize SiC performance. The ECO Earth initiative seeks to minimize the environmental load as much as possible by continuing to pursue a quality ECO Life first approach established since ROHM was founded and Achieving greater safety, carrying out efficient manufacturing that cuts down on all comfort, and compactness types of waste. Supporting these activities is a vertically integrated The ECO Life initiative helps to achieve a safer, more production system in which each step, from development reliable, comfortable, and smarter society. to production, is implemented within the Group. Pursuing In the field of IoT where significant expansion is expected, manufacturing that infuses high quality into all processes ROHM delivers modules and other devices to accelerate and cuts waste at each step leads to increased the adoption of IoT using sensing solutions that optimally production efficiency, reduced greenhouse gas emissions fuse proprietary sensor expertise with control and wireless from production processes, and resource conservation, communication technologies. leading to lower energy consumption. On the other hand, to support the continuing evolution of smartphones and other portable devices, which are becomECO Energy ing increasingly multifunctional, ROHM offers the thinnest, smallest products on the market. ROHM expanded its Achieving higher energy savings with high efficiency and low loss ultra-compact lineup, including the RASMID series of the world’s smallest components developed utilizing technoloThe ECO Energy initiative strives to provide products that gies cultivated in the semiconductor industry. These achieve greater energy conservation. products help accelerate miniaturization utilizing convenAt the core are analog solutions that fuse ROHM’s analog tional methods while contributing to further reductions in expertise with digital and software technologies to provide device size and weight as mobile solutions. high efficiency, high precision power supplies and motor drivers that are easier to use. ROHM also contributes to Implementing the company mission to dramatically increased miniaturization and energy savings in enhance product and management quality We believe it is imperative to improve not only product quality, but management quality as well that may signify the quality and class of a company. ROHM has streamlined the organization of the CSR committee across the entire ROHM Group while actively engaging in activities that comply with the EICC code of conduct for the electronics industry. The ROHM Group will continue to encourage each and every employee to practice the Company Mission and contribute to society by promoting innovative product development and high quality manufacturing, striving to be a company that meets stakeholder expectations. June 2016 Satoshi Sawamura, President 5 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Product Quality Innovation The ROHM Group has committed to developing innovative products that can contribute to solving social issues. 3 ECOs sought by ECO Earth ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.7～ the ROHM Group ECO Energy ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.9～ ECO Life ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.11～ Introduction to other products ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.13～ ROHM Group Products ■ ICs / LSIs ■ Power Devices ■ Opto Devices Memory SiC Power Devices LEDs Amplifiers / Linear LED Displays IGBTs Laser Diodes Clocks / Timers Intelligent Power Modules Optical Sensors Switches / Multiplexers / Logic Power Transistors IrDA Infrared Communication Modules Data Converters Power Diodes Remote Control Receiver Modules Interfaces High Power Resistors Power Management / Power Supply ICs ■ Modules Motor / Actuator Drivers ■ Small-Signal Devices Power Supply Modules LED Drivers Wireless Communication Modules Transistors Display Drivers Contact Image Sensor Heads Diodes Printheads Sensors / MEMS Communication LSIs (LAPIS) Audio / Video ■ Passive Devices Speech Synthesis LSIs (LAPIS) Resistors Microcontrollers (LAPIS) Tantalum Capacitors Analog Solutions Overcoming Power challenges Sensing Solutions through 4 Solutions solutions Mobile Solutions 6 3 ECOs sought by the ROHM Group ECO Earth Ensuring high quality and stable supply through a vertically integrated production system High To pursue quality first, we carry out activities to increase quality in all processes, from quality development and production to marketing and services, within the entire Group. High quality raw materials In-house photomask Wafer manufacturing from silicon ingot Integrated quality control, pulling from chip design layout to Raw silicon photomask production Wafer CAD Photo Mask Silicon Ingot Silicon Si Wafer Process Wafer Silicon Carbide SiC SiCrystal AG is a German SiC single-crystal wafer manufacturer that joined the ROHM Group in 2009. 7 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Minimizing the global environmental load through high quality, waste-free manufacturing Pick up 01 | Selected to the CDP Water Program A List Received an A rating for corporate water stewardship Clean water is essential for the a Business Continuity Management to water management. production of semiconductor wafers. (BCM) system that can respond to a And going forward, As a semiconductor manufacturer, variety of risks, including not only ROHM will continue to ROHM carries out water saving and water shortages, but also natural carry out manufacturing recycling activities to reduce not only disasters and infrastructure problems. that takes into account impact but improve water security for Considering this and other initiatives, the global environment the environment. in November 2015 ROHM was to sustainably manage At the same time, to fulfill its supply selected to the A List, by global water resources. commitments ROHM has established non-profit group CDP for its approach Vertically Integrated Production System ROHM pursues a company objective an example, the ROHM Production best production facilities in the world. of ‘Quality First’ through a vertically System (RPS) ensures unparalleled Activities of this type contribute to not integrated production system that quality by thoroughly removing all only high quality manufacturing and makes it possible to infuse quality into waste arising from unnecessary stable supply, but also to eco-friendly all processes, from ingot pulling to operations, transportation, and manufacturing that utilizes resources completion of finished products. As delays, allowing ROHM to achieve the without waste. In-house dies and lead frames To ensure quality manufacturing, all dies for lead frame punching and molding are created in-house Packaging Assembly Line Frame State-of-the-art packages The latest assembly technologies are utilized, including CSP, BGA and stacked packages. Stable Focusing on our integrated production system that is less susceptible to external factors Supply allows us to ensure worry-free use of our products by delivering long-term, stable supply 8 3 ECOs sought by the ROHM Group ECO Energy Analog Power ROHM believes that analog power is key to achieving ECO Energy. Committed to becoming the best in the world in analog power technologies, our highly experienced analog engineers combine their considerable technical expertise with the world’s most advanced proprietary process and circuit design technologies to develop products that achieve breakthroughs in power conversion efficiency. ROHM contributes to improved power savings through optimized solutions leveraging our diverse lineup that includes everything from discrete devices to ICs and modules. 9 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Contributing to greater worldwide energy conservation by increasing high efficiency and reducing loss in a variety of fields. Analog Solutions Power management ROHM continues to contribute to the evolution of battery drive time and device systems by efficiently supplying optimal power to MCUs and CPUs that act as PMICs (system power supplies) the brains of devices. Combining our products with the digital power supply technologies of ROHM Powervation, Ltd., which joined the ROHM group last year, 80V DC/DC allows us to provide higher precision, converters higher efficiency solutions. Motor drivers Approximately half of the world’s power is said to be consumed by motors, and power consumption can only be expected High voltage fan to grow as air conditioners, robots, and motor drivers other motor-driven devices increase in popularity. ROHM contributes to reduced worldwide power consumption by developing high accuracy motor drivers that provide efficient motor drive operation. Isolated gate drivers Power Solutions Power devices The use of electronics in high-power 1700V SiC MOSFETs applications such as automotive systems and industrial equipment continues to increase. ROHM contributes to greater power savings and miniaturization in social systems by offering innovative power devices centered on silicon carbide (SiC) that achieve dramatically lower loss. 1200V/300A full SiC power modules Pick up 02 | Developing drive ICs that maximize SiC device performance With its industry-leading SiC device developing driver ICs that maximize lineup ROHM is actively involved in device performance. AC/DC converter device evolution, including the In April 2016, ROHM began offering control ICs for SiC drive development and mass production 1700V SiC MOSFETs and control of the world’s first SiC MOSFET that ICs optimized for SiC drive. ROHM miniaturization in a variety of utilizes a double trench structure to also contributes to dramatically applications through proprietary achieve lower loss. ROHM is also increased power savings and state-of-the-art power solutions. 10 3 ECOs sought by the ROHM Group ECO Life Sensor Networks Sensor networks are considered essential for realizing ECO Life. In the IoT field, sensors that detect various physical quantities and networks used to share sensor information play essential roles. Combining the disparate technologies of ROHM Group companies LAPIS Semiconductor and Kionix allows ROHM to contribute to safer, more comfortable living by creating low power, high precision sensor networks. 11 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Enriching lives by providing greater safety, reliability, and comfort through smart sensor networks and small, lightweight devices. Sensor Solutions Sensing Devices ROHM combines a variety of sensor elements comprised of MEMS (Micro Electro Mechanical System) and photonics technologies with optimized ASICs (application specific integrated circuits) that utilize those elements to create a wide range of sensing devices. This allows ROHM to construct sensor environments that offers unprecedented levels of safety and comfort by sensing movement such as acceleration Pressure Sensors Sensor Medal and pressure as well as environmental information, including color and brightness, with a great deal of precision. Communications Devices In the IoT field where significant expansion is expected, there is a need to configure networks in different environments. In addition to Wi-Fi and Bluetooth® Smart, ROHM utilizes technologies such as Wi-SUN wireless for communicating over longer distances with low power consumption Wi-SUN and the battery-less wireless EnOcean Modules EnOcean Switch Modules protocol to meet the needs of a diverse market. Mobile Solutions Ultra-Compact Devices ROHM offers thin, ultra-compact components that support smartphones and RASMID Series other portable devices that are becoming (Chip resistors, diodes) increasingly multifunctional. This includes the RASMID series of the world’s smallest Ultra-Compact Low Profile Chip LEDs PICOLEDTM Series products, which contribute to greater miniaturization and functionality in high density applications. Pick up 03 | The world’s first certified 15-watt class wireless power supply design Wireless power supplies, which make charging stands in hotel and airport WPC Qi Medium Power Certified device connectors safer, more dust, lounges and vehicle center consoles. Evaluation Boards and waterproof, are expected to see In November 2015, ROHM’s reference increased use in smartphones, tablets, design for WPC’s latest Qi standard for kitchen devices, and other products. medium power wireless transmission began offering evaluation boards to They are also being adopted in a wider was the first in the world to receive promote wireless charging that can range of applications, including certification. And from April 2016 we provide greater safety and comfort. 12 The ROHM Group offers a range of products designed to not only meet customer needs, but contribute to resolving social challenges as well such as energy conservation and safety. ICs / LSIs General-Purpose ROHM’s IC lineup includes memory, operational amplifiers/comparators, ICs reset ICs, power supply ICs, data converters, and others with systemized characteristics and packages that contribute to improved performance. Broad package lineup supports a variety of applications Audio ICs ROHM is pushing the limits of sound quality by leveraging expertise gained from its in-house anechoic chamber and listening room with analog technology that cannot be reproduced in simulation. This supports use in applications requiring high sound quality and reliability, from portable audio sources to high-resolution audio sources and car audio systems. Sound Processor for High-Resolution Audio Sources Microcontrollers LAPIS Semiconductor’s low-power microcontrollers utilize original low power technology to achieve the lowest power consumption in their class. A lineup of ‘tough’ MCUs featuring improved resistance to noise and high temperatures has also been released, providing increased reliability and reduced power consumption in home appliances and industrial equipment. 16-bit Low Power ‘Tough’ MCUs Wireless LAPIS Semiconductor has developed short-range wireless Communication communication ICs compatible with international standards that have ICs been adopted in a range of applications, from consumer devices to industrial equipment and automotive systems. LAPIS Semiconductor is also building high reliability, low power networks by proposing optimized solutions based on development tools and vast experience. Bluetooth® Smart Communication ICs MEMS Sensors ROHM supplies MEMS sensors through ROHM Group company Kionix. Ultra-compact accelerometers are available that provide low power consumption and superior impact resistance in mobile devices and other portable applications. Kionix also offers 6-axis accel-mag and accel-gyro combo sensors that reduce size and Accelerometers power consumption even further. 13 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Discrete / Passive Devices Transistors / With a focus on SiC, ROHM is expanding and enhancing its lineup Diodes of pioneering power devices that support high power applications and pursuing technologies in the compact, low-power fields. This will make it possible to contribute to greater power savings and increased miniaturization in a variety of applications, from Small-Signal Transistors Power Diodes automotive to industrial devices and smartphones. LEDs / ROHM fuses proprietary device technology with precision Laser Diodes processing technology to achieve higher power in a smaller size, and recently began pursuing development into new fields and GeneralHigh-Intensity Purpose Type Tricolor Type applications, including motion sensing and position detection. Compact Chip LEDs Multi-Beam Lasers Resistors In the field of resistors, which were the company’s first products, ROHM continues to carry out industry-leading development, such as the world’s first square chip resistors (1976). And in addition to enhancing production its facilities, ROHM is also expanding its lineup of high PSR Series GMR Series Sulfuration Resistant reliability, high power products for the automotive and industrial markets. High Power Shunt Resistors Chip Resistors Tantalum ROHM’s tantalum capacitors are smaller and feature larger Ultra-Compact Conductive Polymer Capacitors capacitances and superior temperature and DC bias characteristics Tantalum Capacitors than conventional multilayer ceramic capacitors. To meet the (U Case) needs of continually evolving mobile device market, ROHM is strengthening its lineup of compact, large capacitance conductive polymer tantalum capacitors that offer low equivalent series resistance (ESR) and excellent flame retardant characteristics. Modules Optical Modules ROHM offers high-intensity, high-sensitivity, high-reliability optical sensors and compound modules developed through technological collaboration with internal divisions. In addition, higher reliability lines are being established in order to expand into the automotive and industrial equipment sectors. Integrated Ambient Light + Proximity Sensors Thermal Printheads In the field of thermal printheads, which are used in receipt and logistics barcode printers, for example, ROHM has taken top share in the industry by utilizing high reliability thick film printing and thin film deposition technologies along with high performance ICs developed completely in-house. High Speed High-Definition Thermal Printheads Contact Image For contact image sensor head applications such as document Sensor Heads scanners, ROHM is developing products that combine high-speed, high sensitivity sensors and original uniform distribution light sources. ROHM is also developing special light sources that utilize non-visible light as well as products for the security sector (i.e. for High-Speed Scanning Contact banknote discrimination). Image Sensor Heads 14 ROHM Group and ISO 26000 The ROHM Group verifies business activities from a CSR perspective and carries out initiatives on a global scale in accordance with ISO 26000 in response to challenges identified for each of the seven core subjects identified in 2011. 15 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Management Quality Innovation The ROHM Group regards corporate CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) as management quality, and has accordingly established the ROHM Group CSR Policy that contributes to sustainable growth of the entire group and the sound development of society. Identifying CSR Priority Issues for the ROHM Group Based on ISO 26000 ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.17～ ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Activities Organizational Governance ・・・・・・・・・P.19～ Human Rights and Labor Practices ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.21～ The Environment ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.23～ Fair Operating Practices ・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.25～ Consumer Issues (Customer Support) ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.27～ Community Involvement and Development ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P.29～ ROHM Theatre Kyoto ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.33～ ISO 26000 Core Subjects CSR Targets / Plans and Results and [What is ISO 26000?] An international standard related to social responsiGRI-G4 Targets ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.35～ bility for different types of organizations, developed in a multi-stakeholder process by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development 16 Identifying CSR Priority Issues for the ROHM Group Based on ISO 26000 The ROHM Group’s Approach to CSR Adhering to the Company Mission, Basic Management Policy, latest international norms, such as the UN Global Compact and other objectives and policies has allowed the ROHM Group (UNGC), ISO 26000, and the Electronic Industry Citizenship to contribute to the sustainable growth of the Group and the Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct. healthy development of society by building a relationship of mutual trust with stakeholders. Societal demands and Stakeholders international norms The ROHM Group CSR Policy was established in order to apply CSR concepts to conduct business conscientiously from a global perspective and contribute to the sustainable progress of society Business Shareholders UNGC Partners and Investors Customers Employees Local Communities based on these objectives and policies. Fundamental ethical rules ISO and Regions for consistently implementing these objectives and policies are 26000 EICC specified in the ROHM Group Business Conduct Guidelines. Although the objectives and policies including the Company Mission and Basic Management Policy remain unchanged, the ROHM Group’s CSR Policy and Business Conduct Guidelines ROHM Group CSR Policy http://www.rohm.com/web/global/csr1/csr-csr continue to evolve in line with changing societal demands and the Cycle for identifying CSR Priority Issues based on GRI-G4 The ROHM Group regularly creates opportunities for dialogue with perspective of stakeholders in a variety of positions, including stakeholders around the globe while pursuing business activities. external experts and specialists. We considered the opinions, requests, interests, and concerns To ensure objectivity regarding the progress of initiatives (Do) received through dialogue from all of our diverse stakeholders and aimed at achieving objectives and plans (Plan), ROHM receives have identified CSR Priority Issues in line with the ISO 26000 external audits from third party organizations (Check) and decides guidelines. (See page 18.) on the next objectives and plans (Act) while periodically carrying The validity of the CSR Priority Issues are evaluated from the out reviews based on PDCA. 1. Identify issues 2. Determine priority and based on the ISO narrow down issues from 26000 core subjects dialogue with stakeholders 3. Evaluate the Dialogue with stakeholders validity of P through the value chain issues with stakeholders A D C 5. Implement the PDCA cycle and carry out reviews, for example 96/4.YV\W 0UUV]H[PVU9LWVY[ Our continuing efforts to achieve a sustainable society 4. Publish the ROHM Group through external audits by thirdInnovation Report party organizations, as initiatives addressing these issues. 59C6994E 08.2016 ROHM © 7000・SG PMFKΗ]AMTCP,glbb1 /4-.6-.2//8.1 The value chain refers to activities that increase added value within the sequence of steps from procurement of raw materials to their use in products and services. 17 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ■ FY 2015 CSR Priority Issues and GRI-G4 Disclosures CSR Priority Relevant G4 Aspects Related Report and Indicators Reasons for Selection Pages In This Issues Indicators are in parenthesis Booklet There are societal demands for the resolution or P. 6-14 Emissions (G4-EN17) alleviation of environmental issues on a global scale, Product Quality Resolve social such as limited resources and climate change due Innovation issues through to CO2 emissions, as well as for increased energy P. 23-24 innovative products conservation. The ROHM Group is developing innovative The Environment Products and Services (G4-EN27) new products and technologies with the goal of P. 27-28 resolving a variety of social issues. Consumer Issues ROHM Group products are embedded and used in a variety of devices, including customers’ finished products, and as Indirect Economic Impacts(G4-EC8) P. 25-26 such any reduction in quality or delays in supply could have Ensure a stable Fair Operating significant adverse effects on customers and consumers. supply of high Practices quality products In response, ROHM is strengthening its organizational framework and carrying out business continuity planning P. 27-28 Compliance (G4-PR9) Consumer Issues (BCP) training in order to minimize risks and maintain a system that enables stable, speedy supply of high quality products. Employment (G4-LA3) As economies becomes increasingly global, the Develop a global ROHM Group is establishing production facilities and workforce that P. 21-22 sales and distribution sites around the world and can contribute to Human Rights and the international cultivating a diverse workforce that accepts different Labor Practices community backgrounds and values from each local region and Diversity and Equal Opportunity (G4-LA12) works together to create new value. Security Practices (G4-HR7) Supplier Assessment for Impacts on As the value chain grows, there will be a need to Society (G4-SO9, 10) consider human rights in developing countries, improve Make considerations working environments, and promote anti-corruption P. 21-22 Supplier Human Rights Assessment activities. The ROHM Group carries out business for labor practices (G4-HR10, 11) Human Rights and and thoroughly activities while taking these issues into account, Labor Practices respect human based on international norms such as the UN Global P. 25-26 Supplier Assessment for Labor rights in the Compact, ISO 26000, and the EICC Code of Conduct. Fair Operating Practices (G4-LA14, 15) value chain ROHM also strives to comply with the EICC Code of Practices Occupational Health and Safety Conduct not only at its own sites, but throughout the (G4-LA6, 7) entire value chain. Anti-corruption (G4-SO4) Energy and Emissions (G4-EN5, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21) Societal demands exist for the resolution or alleviation Effluents and Waste (G4-EN23) of environmental issues on a global scale, such as limited resources and climate change due to CO2 Carry out emissions, as well as for increased energy conservation. business activities P. 23-24 Water (G4-EN8) The ROHM Group strives to achieve a sustainable that protect the The Environment global environment society by not only developing innovative products that resolve environmental issues, but also by Energy (G4-EN3) reducing the environmental load from manufacturing at all production companies. Supplier Environmental Assessment (G4-EN32, 33) The development and revitalization of local regions through dialogue with Contribute to the community in the course of implementing business activities are P. 29-34 local communities Community Local Communities (G4-SO1) considered extremely important. In response, as an organization that through business Involvement and activities pursues global expansion, the ROHM Group regularly carries out Development initiatives to resolve social issues in areas where business is conducted. See pages 35-38 for more information. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a nonprofit (non-governmental) organization that formulates and publishes international guidelines for sustainability What is GRI-G4? reports. It issued the fourth edition of its guidelines in 2013 in which the previous “exhaustive disclosure of information” was revised to “disclosure of information that focuses on important issues.” 18 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Activities Organizational Governance The ROHM Group strives to improve corporate governance by carrying business activities rooted in fairness, soundness, and transparency. Basic Concept of ROHM bases its corporate governance established and announced ROHM’s on the premise of maximizing sustainable Corporate Governance Policy. Corporate Governance growth and mid-to long-term corporate ROHM’s Corporate Governance Policy value of the company from the http://www.rohm.com/web/global/ perspective of its stakeholders, and has investor-relations/corporate-governance Corporate Governance The business environment in the highly based on sufficient discussion. Two competitive semiconductor industry has outside directors (independent) are also System undergone dramatic changes. As such, appointed to strengthen the mutual ROHM’s directors are well-versed in the supervisory function of the directors. Group’s businesses and technologies and A Board of Corporate Auditors has been hold executive power as well as the established previously, whose five auditors authority to mutually supervise one supervise the managing activities of the another. We believe this flexible and highly directors as independent outside auditors. effective management and governance Moreover, an Audit Division was created system suits the company well. as an internal auditing department that In addition, a limit of 10 directors has been works with auditors and accounting set in our Articles of Incorporation, auditors to check compliance with internal allowing the Board of Directors to facilitate regulation and the soundness of assets. prompt and appropriate decision-making ■ Corporate Governance System Diagram ROHM GROUP General Shareholders Meeting Appointment/Dismissal Executive Functions Directors Auditing (Board of Directors) Functions Cooperation Auditors Representative Director Audit (Board of Auditors) CSR Committee Cooperation CSR Division (Office) Accounting Auditor R&D Division Production Division Sales Division Quality Promotion Committee Administrative Division Central Safety and Hygiene Committee Risk Management and BCM Committee Compliance Committee Information Disclosure Committee Environmental Conservation CSR Promotion Committee Working Group on Conflict Minerals Management Committee Audit Division (Internal Audit Division) Cooperation Group Affiliated Companies (Domestic and Overseas) As of March 31, 2016 Corporate Governance Report http://www.rohm.com/web/global/investor-relations/library/corporate-governance ■ ROHM was selected as one constituent in Timely and reliable IR activities ROHM actively communicates with the Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) shareholders and investors around the (communication with world, for example by disclosing business index for its CSR activities shareholders and investors) results and other corporate information promptly. In addition, ROHM has formulated a disclosure policy and strives to provide fair and accurate information in a timely manner. Shareholder Information Web Page http://www.rohm.com/web/global/investor-relations Disclosure Policy http://www.rohm.com/web/global/investor-relations/disclosure-policy 19 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development Management system based The ROHM Group has received certification security (see below chart), and implements for its management systems in a variety of the PDCA cycle of CSR management while on international and other areas including quality, the environment, carrying out internal audits and receiving standards occupational health and safety, and information external audits. ■ Management System Acquisition and Operating Status Theme Management System Verification and Customer Requests Acquisition Status ISO9001 All ROHM Group companies are ISO 9001 certified, while key Product Quality production bases have also obtained ISO/TS 16949 certification. ISO/TS16949 Each company in the ROHM Group has built a management The Environment ISO14001 system that is compliant with or based on ISO 14001.*3 ROHM obtained certification in 2013. Management Occupational Health and OHSAS18001 Major bases in Japan and four overseas production plants Quality Safety have obtained certification. (Quality of Business Activities) Information Security ISO/IEC27001 ROHM obtained certification in July 2013. Labor, Health and Safety, ROHM Group production companies receive audits The Environment, and EICC*1 VAP audit*2 Ethics Management System from a third-party organization every two years. *1 EICC: Short for Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition, an organization and its norms comprised primarily of electronic device related manufacturers and major suppliers. *2 VAP audit: VAP refers to “Validated Audit Process.” This is a third-party audit for compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct. *3 ROHM, domestic affiliates and ROHM Korea Corporation have received third-party certification as an integrated system. Overseas Group companies have created a self-reporting environment management system based on the ISO14001 standard. FY 2015 EICC audit results To increase our management quality, the completed the audits with a mean score of R OHM Group ha s be en v olun t a r il y 197.8 points, which is an extremely high at 6 overseas production receiving EICC audits, which are level considering the maximum possible bases considered the strictest type of CSR audit, score of 200 points. All bases that were since FY 2013. audited were issued certificates. In FY 2015, six major overseas production In FY 2016, we plan to receive EICC audits bases underwent EICC audits. They at our domestic bases. FY 2015 EICC audit mean audit score 197.8 points /200 total points EICC audit at an overseas production base Certificate issued upon completion of the EICC audit 20 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Activities Human Rights and Labor Practices The ROHM Group promotes the complete respect for human rights and consideration for labor practices throughout the entire value chain Supporting employee growth In FY 2012, ROHM launched a Global Upon returning to their home countries, Training Program that sends young t h e y a re e x p e c t e d t o d e v e l o p i n t o through personnel exchanges employees to overseas affiliates for a personnel who will support the future of worldwide short period of time. The primary local subsidiaries and play an active role objective is to have trainees acquire a in communicating with Japan. global perspective from early on that will be needed for conducting collaborative work with companies in other countries in the future by gaining practical experience working under the local manager. ROHM is also actively engaged in a system for hosting employees from overseas subsidiaries at its Head Office for practical training for a set period of time. In FY 2015 ROHM hosted R&D and sales staff from China, South Korea, and the Philippines. Young employees working together with local staff Voice Global Training Program Trainee and supervisor at the host base I applied for the Global Training Program I believe that this program is useful for and was transferred to the US development deepening mutual understanding and base as an engineer. I learned that active also effective for increasing skills and communication and autonomous action are knowledge. Communication between essential for building trust with members groups is becoming much smoother who have different approaches and customs than before as the number of trainees from my own. I want to continue striving increases, and I can truly sense how this to maintain a global perspective and be will create new value. able to work in a broad sphere that crosses borders. [Trainee] [Host Base] Module Technology Department, Sensor Development Senior Director, Systems & Applications, Division, Module Production Headquarters, ROHM Co., US Design Center, ROHM Semiconductor U.S.A., LLC Ltd. Satya Dixit Tsuyoshi Satomi 21 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development Respecting human rights and The ROHM Group respects the factors as nationality, age, or gender. For Fundamental Principles and Rights at example, ROHM has programs in place diversity of employees to Work declared by the International Labor for employees to continue working even increase corporate value Organization (ILO). As standards in its when experiencing life-changing events Labor Policy, the Group has specified such as marriage, pregnancy, childbirth, re s p e c t f o r h u m a n r i g h t s a n d t h e or child/elderly care. The retention rate* prohibition of discriminatory treatment, after childbirth and/or parental leave was freedom of choice in employment, 97% in FY 2015. prohibition of child labor, and freedom of *Retention rate: Total number of employees retained association, and has declared that it will 12 months after returning to work protect the humanity and individuality of following a period of parental leave by Total number of employees each employee while building a returning from parental leave in the prior reporting period(s)×100. comfortable work environment. As business expands globally, ROHM ROHM Group Labor Policy considers it essential to utilize diverse http://www.rohm.com/web/global/ human resources not limited by such csr1/csr-laborsystem Number of Employees in Japan Number of Countries with a and Overseas ROHM Group Base Overseas Japan 15,708(75%) 5,463 (26%) 21 ‘16/3 Total 21,171 countries Aiming to be a company ROHM carries out risk assessment and internal patrols through its Central Health where employees can work and Safety Committee, with the goal of safely zero work-related injuries. These efforts have resulted in zero accidents in the last 21 years that require time off from work as of FY 2015. Similar activities are being carried out throughout the rest of the Group. Internal Patrol Back after 20 years ROHM To d e e p e n i n t e r a c t i o n s b e t w e e n e m p l o y e e s , R O H M re i n s t a t e d t h e Festa Cosponsored summer festival which had been held by Employees’ Association annually until 20 years ago. Over 3,000 people attended ROHM Festa 2015, including past and present employees and their families, who enjoyed a quiz competition, food stalls, and more. ROHM Festa 2015 Quiz Competition 22 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Activities The Environment The ROHM Group carries out various activities to protect the global environment centered around its environmental policies Building a Group-coordinated The ROHM Group strives to reduce attended by environmental managers environmental load by expanding its from around the world who share the environmental management environmental management system latest environmental regulations and system based on the ISO 14001 environmental other trends along with progressive standard. initiatives within the Group. In overall internal environmental audits, ROHM auditors verify the efficacy of the environmental management systems and compliance with relevant laws and regulations by group companies, leading to continuous improvements to the system. In FY 2015 we raised the level even further by carrying out comprehensive inter nal environmental audit cross checks inside and outside Japan as mutual auditing by bases while holding Global Environment Liaison Meetings Overall internal environmental audit cross check Voice Supervisor for overseeing overall internal environmental audit cross-checks In November 2015, we performed overall management approach aimed at achieving internal environmental audit cross-checks environmental targets directly on-site. in China, between the production bases We will continue using this experience to in Dalian and Tianjin. raise the level of our knowledge and The cross-checks involve each base skills related to the environment and checking the other’s environmental further improve the Group’s environmental management system operation and management systems. workplace management conditions, and a re i n t e n d e d t o s h a re p ro g re s s i v e initiatives. This proved extremely useful Environment & Management Department, as we were able to check for safer ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. chemical storage methods and a Jiang Li Bin 23 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development Reducing CO2 and other COP21 was held in 2015. In response to the range of its estimates to cover Scopes measures required to combat global 1 and 2 as well as Scope 3, calculating greenhouse gas emissions warming and climate change on a global CO2 emissions for the entire value chain. throughout the value chain scale, the ROHM Group is increasing its transparency of equipment power usage *COP21: 21st Conference of Parties of United and office energy consumption to reduce Nations (UN) Conventions for the UN Framework Convention on Climate excess energy use while actively striving Change. At the conference held in Paris, France in November 2015, an international to cut down emissions of CO2 and of PFC framework for measures to combat global gases that have an even more severe warming from 2020 was adopted. greenhouse effect. To reduce the level of CO2 emissions from Detailed information about the environment all business activities, ROHM expanded http://www.rohm.com/web/global/environment Changes in CO2 Emissions by Energy Consumption Per Unit of Actual Production (Tons of CO2 / Million Yen) (Thousands of Tons of CO2) 1,000 1.0 900 868 310,000 ton Per unit of actual production reduction 800 0.8 700 648 587 573 600 0.69 555 558 0.6 0.60 500 0.54 0.51 0.51 400 0.4 300 200 0.2 100 0 0.0 BM 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） Benchmark (BM): 2005 (benchmark year of the 19th Conference of Parties of United Nations (UN) Conventions on the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change) Regarding external ROHM received third-party verification of its environmental impact data by Bureau evaluation Ve r i t a s J a p a n i n o rd e r t o p ro v i d e information disclosure to society in a more transparent and reliable manner. ROHM has also been participating in CDP Climate Change since FY 2012 and makes every effort for information disclosure, receiving top marks in FY 2015. ROHM began participating in CDP Water as well in FY 2015. (See page 8.) Verification Report Environmental training for The ROHM Group continues to manage environmentally hazardous substances to employees at overseas ensure the safe use of our products by sales bases customers. At sales bases that are our point of contact with overseas customers, we teach about the environmentally hazardous substance management system and the importance of connecting with business partners in an Training at a sales base in Thailand effort to increase employees’ knowledge about the environment. 24 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Activities Fair Operating Practices The ROHM Group oversees the entire value chain and strives to do fair business globally Promoting social The ROHM Group carries out all types of ROHM Group initiatives and future challenges, activities to assist customers in CSR and ROHM invited outside lecturers to share responsibility throughout CSR procurement, aiming to build a the latest CSR information with participants. the value chain robust value chain based on mutual trust and prosperity with the customer. ROHM carries out CSR procurement audits at business partners located both inside and outside Japan and checks the progress of CSR initiatives. We visited 15 companies in FY 2014, 28 in FY 2015, and are scheduled to visit 27 companies in FY 2016. In December 2015, ROHM held a CSR procurement briefing, inviting 102 companies. This was the second such meeting held since the CSR procurement promotion briefing in 2013. In addition to describing CSR procurement audit at a business partners Voice CSR procurement audit carried out at a business partner In 2015, we underwent a CSR procurement nurse. I believe that this has allowed us to audit from the ROHM Group. We cooperate provide valuable services to employees, with ROHM Group business activities in such as emergency medical care, monthly logistics, and through this audit were able checkups by a doctor, and free to gain a sense of the importance of CSR immunizations. from an employee’s perspective. For example, we recognized the need for an on-premises medical room that did not yet exist to care for the mental and physical health of employees. As a result IT Manager/ QMR, of internal discussions following the audit, HANKYU HANSHIN EXPRESS PHILIPPINES, INC. we installed a medical room with a full-time Olen Francia 25 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development Response to ensure A financial reform bill was enacted in the cross-organizational working group US in July 2010 and then adopted as a created under the CSR Committee. avoidance of using conflict regulation by the US Securities and minerals (conflict-free measures) Exchange Commission (SEC) in August Regions with conflict minerals 2012, making it mandatory for listed companies to conduct surveys and submit reports to the SEC on its use of conflict minerals (gold, tin, tantalum, and tungsten; known as 3TG), which are a major source of funds for armed insurgents and rebel forces in Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring areas. To ensure worry-free use of ROHM Democratic Republic products by customers, the ROHM of the Congo Group strives to achieve conflict-free measures at a product-by-product level and pursues due diligence with a Thorough compliance The ROHM Group seeks to ensure ROHM Group Business Conduct Guidelines http://www.rohm.com/web/global/ thorough compliance through education rohm-group-business-conduct-guidelines based on the Business Conduct ROHM Group Ethics Policy Guidelines and Ethics Policy. http://www.rohm.com/web/global/ Compliance hotlines have been csr1/csr-ethics established to act as whistle-blowing Compliance Hotline for Business Partners liaisons at each base. Compliance hotlines https://micro.rohm.com/ssl/en/contact/ compliance/input_s.php were also set up and are being used for business partners at major domestic production bases in Japan and abroad. In FY 2015, liaisons were installed at outside law offices for domestic group Business Conduct Guidelines companies to further increase stating basic ethical rules for transparency. business activities Risk and business continuity The Risk Management and BCM Committee, a subcommittee of the CSR management (BCM) for Committee, maps out the various risks the disaster preparedness Group may face and revises that map four times a year. Among those risks, one of extreme importance is the potential for adverse effects on customers and society as a whole from stopped or reduced production at production bases due to natural disasters, making it imperative to establish a BCM and response plans and carry out drills. Flood response drills at the production base in Thailand 26 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Activities Consumer Issues (Customer Support) The ROHM Group carries out business with a mission of meeting customer needs and contributing to the development of society by pursuing quality first and supplying products that help resolve social problems. Combining Group resources In July 2015, Powervation Ltd. (currently a greater number of products to the ROHM Powervation Ltd.) in Ireland power supply IC and other markets and to resolve problems for joined the ROHM Group. improve energy savings by increasing customers, consumers, and ROHM Powervation is a fabless power control efficiency, providing a semiconductor company that develops greater contribution to society. even society as a whole and sells digital power supply control ICs. The ROHM Group will continue to utilize Combining ROHM’s analog technologies group synergies to help resolve problems w i t h R O H M P o w e r v a t i o n ’s d i g i t a l for customers, consumers, and society technologies makes it possible to deliver as a whole. ROHM Powervation and ROHM employees Voice ROHM POWERVATION Ltd. President We are proud of our industry-leading major advantage of digital power supply technologies in the field of digital power control, making it possible to deliver supply control LSIs. Joining the ROHM solutions that help resolve issues in the Group has allowed us to further accelerate environment and society in which we live. product development and offer solutions that combine digital power supply control technologies. Increased power efficiency in data centers President, ROHM POWERVATION Ltd. and other markets is expected to be a Mike Smith 27 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development Prompt and appropriate The ROHM Group has established product and take corrective actions to prevent analysis centers called QA (Quality Assurance) recurrence. response through the Centers, which are equipped with a variety Also, for product development and design, QA / Design Centers of analysis equipment, in 10 locations Design Centers have been established as across the globe. These centers enable development bases around the world to ROHM to quickly respond to quality issues accurately determine customer needs and virtually anywhere in the world. quickly provide products that meet those Employees fully-versed in the latest technologies needs. In addition, ROHM is pursuing true provide community-oriented support and globalization by employing local developers conducts detailed analysis of past quality and designers to develop new products issues from every aspect in order to tailored to local needs. determine the root causes of the problems India Design Center At the India Design Center, we strive to not only offer timely support to local customers, but also to properly understand requests and give prompt, appropriate feedback to the development team at HQ. We are also establishing a local development framework to build an even better system. HeadIndia Design Center, ROHM Semiconductor India Pvt. Ltd. India Design Center Britto Edward Victor Pursuing quality first In the ROHM Group, all employees strive towards the Company Mission of quality first. In FY 2015 ROHM established a Quality Promotion Committee, which is a key member of the management layer. The committee works to achieve a better quality assurance system, such as by creating a system for carrying out reviews Educational poster depicting overseas employees for to improve quality through decision quality month in November making and steady improvements. Initiatives to protect ROHM has received ISO/IEC 27001 certification for information security management systems confidential information and has established a system to reduce business risks for all stakeholders. JQA-IM1197 ISO/IEC 27001 registration mark 28 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Activities Community Involvement and Development By globally pursuing social contribution activities centered on the three axes of Education, Culture & Exchange, and Environmental & Community Contribution, the ROHM Group contributes to the sustainable progress of society Culture & Environmental Education Exchange & Community Contributions Global support for future T h e R O H M G ro u p s u p p o r t s f u t u re Through this experience, we hope to engineers through various activities help develop as many engineers as engineers ROHM has participated in The Japan possible who can create value for society Super Science Fair (JSSF) since 2013. in the future. Hosted by Ritsumeikan Senior High School, approximately 200 science s t u d e n t s f ro m h i g h s c h o o l s i n 2 1 different countries come to Kyoto to interact and learn about science together. At the workshops given by ROHM employees over two days, students received an overview of how electronic circuits work, after which they made c i rc u i t s o f t h e i r o w n u s i n g a c t u a l electronic parts. They then considered and gave presentations on how those circuits could be used to benefit society. JSSF workshop held at ROHM Voice Canadian high school student participating in JSSF 2015 ROHM workshop at JSSF was a valuable only me but all of the participants were experience. able to design our own circuits with people The lectures were very stimulating and from ROHM. I was very impressed! taught me a lot about how to build actual electronic circuits and their applications in the real world. I had no prior experience with electronic circuits in the past, so I had difficulty at first because they did not Fort Richmond High School work as I expected, but by the end, not Colin Marsch 29 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development Promoting the development of next-generation Education human resources with rich humanity and intellect using ROHM Group technologies. Spreading the joy of In recent years, there have been fewer primary colors and the energy-saving opportunities for students to experience e ff e c t o f L E D s , t h e n h a v i n g t h e m manufacturing to manufacturing, and as a result they are combine a 3-color LED with a resistor more children becoming less interested. In response, (ROHM’s pioneering product). the ROHM Group holds manufacturing Similar activities are carried out at ROHM classes for students from elementary Group bases around the world. For school to university at the company. example, the production base in For the elementary school student Malaysia collaborates with local technical classes, ROHM collaborated with the schools to hold classes about soldering Kyoto City Board of Education to provide and other topics and share in the fun of the students with an opportunity to making things. experience the joys of manufacturing by teaching the students about light’s three Number of students who attended a manufacturing class held by ROHM in FY 2015 Over 1,900 Manufacturing class for elementary school students Sponsoring both NHK The ROHM Group sponsors various events to support young engineers. One Students and Asia-Pacific example is ABU Robocon 2015, held in Broadcasting Union (ABU) Yo g y a k a r t a , I n d o n e s i a , i n w h i c h representatives from 18 countries battled Robocons for points in games of badminton by robots they had built. Students competing in badminton with robots they created Manufacturing articles Device Plus is a technology information website for students and young posted on the technology engineers responsible for manufacturing information website in the future. On this site are reports about Robocon competitions, Device Plus instructions on how to create electronic circuits, and other useful information. In November 2015, the Japanese version of the website received over 100,000 Device Plus visitors in a single month. http://www.deviceplus.com/ 30 Revitalizing local communities and ROHM by Culture & actively implementing cultural exchanges within Exchange and outside the company. ROHM Music Foundation The ROHM Music Foundation was established 2015: approx. 872.84 million yen) in 1991 with the goal of promoting and In 2015, the Kyoto International Music developing music culture. In FY 2015 the Students Festival, which has been held foundation supported 40 scholarship students since 1993, received the Musical World and hosted a series of Scholarship Concerts Award at the Japan Mécénat Awards, and Friends Concerts featuring performances hosted by the Association for Corporate ROHM Music Friends: Musicians by students. Other activities include hosting Support of the Arts to recognize exceptional who support the ROHM Music the Kyoto International Music Students activities that contribute to society through Festival to promote international exchange the arts and culture. Foundation and nurture young musicians, holding music seminars to foster professional musicians, and sponsoring music-related ROHM Music Foundation website: 4,543 performances and research. (Costs for FY http://micro.rohm.com/en/rmf/index.html Total of musicians ROHM sponsored Kyoto International Music Students Festival ROHM Raku-Raku Since 2014, ROHM has collaborated employees and their families to with the Kyoto Symphony Orchestra and experience the wonder of classical Classic Series the Japan Philharmonic Orchestra to music. host a classical music seminar known as To date, more than 1,100 employees and the ROHM Raku-Raku Classic Series their families have attended the events. that provides an opportunity for Exchanges with T h e R O H M G ro u p f o s t e r s d e e p e r friendships with local residents, students, stakeholders through employees, and their families by hosting company tours regular tours of its facilities in Japan and overseas. B y p ro v i d i n g e a s y t o u n d e r s t a n d explanations of initiatives being undertaken at each facility, we hope to deepen understanding and strive for increased familiarity among stakeholders. Tour of an overseas manufacturing facility 31 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development Environmental As a corporate citizen, strive to protect the & Community environment and actively and autonomously Contributions carry out activities. ROHM products and initiatives For approximately one month in 2015, Kyoto, an event dedicated to highlighting from November to December, ROHM the need to protect cultural properties, that bring joy and festivity to decorated its headquarters with holiday ROHM collaborated to provide nighttime locals and visitors alike LED lights. illumination of Kamigamo and ROHM works together with the local Shimogamo Shrines from October to community to reduce greenhouse gases November 2015. by using green power generated using At the venues, where traditional Shinto n a t u r a l e n e r g y s o u rc e s t o e n s u re music and dance were performed, environmental friendliness and by taking ROHM EnOcean wireless switches, advantage of Kyo-Ver, Kyoto’s very own which require no batteries, wiring, or CO2 emissions trading program. maintenance were used to control the In addition, as part of the 51st special stage lighting. viewing of privately owned properties in Illuminated trees near ROHM’s Head Office Illumination of Kamigamo Shrine using ROHM products Workshops on disaster In the wake of the massive flooding that occurred in Thailand in 2011 comes an prevention and mitigation* increasing need for disaster prevention and for local residents mitigation knowledge. The need for disaster prevention and mitigation knowledge has been increasing in Thailand since the massive flooding there in 2011. In 2015, ROHM orchestrated a series of workshops to teach about 200 local elementary school students how to have fun making life jackets out of empty plastic bottles, whistles from straws, and emergency bags. *Disaster mitigation refers to initiatives designed to Disaster prevention and mitigation workshop anticipate and minimize damage from disasters. Environmental protection and ROHM undertakes a variety of activities at its manufacturing facilities in the health promotion activities Philippines to promote environmental in local communities protection and health in local communities. In FY 2015 ROHM hosted a poster contest to raise environmental awareness at a local elementary school and recognized the best creations. ROHM is also working to prevent the spread of diseases in the area such as dengue fever by visiting nearby elementary schools to teach students proper handwashing techniques and donating hand soap. Poster contest for elementary school students 32 ROHM Theatre Kyoto is located in Kyoto’s Okazaki district, an area rich in water and greenery ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Activities The grand opening of ROHM Theatre Kyoto, a cultural institution ROHM ROHM, an ardent contributor of the music arts for many years, supported the renovation of Kyoto Kaikan, a cultural institution Theatre treasured by citizens of Kyoto, in exchange for the naming rights for the next 50 years, and on January 10, 2016, celebrated its grand re-opening as ROHM Theatre Kyoto. Kyoto Located in the Okazaki district of Kyoto, one of the city’s most prominent cultural areas and home to numerous historic shrines and art museums, ROHM Theatre Kyoto is scheduled to host a variety of A sustainable venue that creates world-class concerts and musical performances. And going forward new possibilities while maintaining ROHM hopes that the theatre will become revered as one of Japan’s premier cultural halls. traditional culture ROHM Square, consisting of an outdoor event space and adjacent park ©Shigeo Ogawa The 716-seat South Hall, where the stage and seats are positioned closer together to create a single, The 2,005-seat Main Hall, designed to showcase world-class performances of theatrical arts integrated space ©Shigeo Ogawa such as opera and ballet ©Shigeo Ogawa 33 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Organizational Human Rights The Environment Fair Operating Consumer Issues Community Governance and Practices (Customer Support) Involvement Labor Practices and Development Communicating the wonders Opera for Children: A ROHM Classic Fledermaus, staged at ROHM Theatre Kyoto as part of ROHM’s “Opera for of music through ROHM Special that conveys the wonder of Children” program. Theatre Kyoto music to the next generation The production included commentary, a corner introducing the various musical ROHM and the ROHM Music Foundation instruments, and creative performances continue to support the Seiji Ozawa Music that had the children eagerly leaning out of Kyoto elementary school students Academy, a training project created by their seats to listen. invited to “Opera for Children” at world-renowned conductor Seiji Ozawa to ROHM hopes that activities such as this at ROHM Theatre Kyoto foster the development of young musicians. R O HM T h e a t r e K y o t o w ill p ro v i d e In February 2016, elementary school opportunities for children to experience the students from Kyoto were invited to enjoy a wonders of music while sparking their production of the second act of Die interest. Approx. 3,000 students “Opera for Children” ©Michiharu Okubo Bringing music to the local On April 23 and 24, 2016, the first ROHM Music Festival, which included community through the performances by ROHM Music Friends ROHM Music Festival and local students, was held in all three halls of ROHM Theatre Kyoto as well as ROHM and the ROHM Music Foundation an outdoor stage. The two-day event continue to launch initiatives that provide brought music to the entire community ideal learning environments for young and was enjoyed by a large number of musicians, such as through the ROHM attendees. Music Friends program, which now includes more than 4,543 participants, many of whom are currently active on the ROHM Theatre Kyoto microsite world stage as professional musicians. http://www.rohm.com/web/global/theatre ROHM Music Festival ©Tatsuo Sasaki 34 CSR Targets / Plans and Results and GRI-G4 Targets The ROHM Group pursues global CSR management based on ISO 26000 by identifying CSR Priority Issues and establishing initiative themes, targets, and plans in accordance with the standard. The ROHM Group also discloses indicators of performance based on the GRI-G4 categories. CSR ISO 26000 Priority Issues Core Subjects Initiative Themes FY 2015 Targets/Plans FY 2015 Results Evaluation • Compile a collection of CSV case studies • Identified 3 ECO areas as the CSR theme of 1. and apply them to Group companies Accurately assessing the ROHM Group and applied it horizontally Resolve social • Increase understanding of the importance customer needs and across the organization to all Japanese and issues through of CSV by clarifying the relationship ★★★ developing overseas bases via distributed videos innovative between social issues and employees’ own products industry-leading products In addition, offered education and level-based work responsibilities through level-based training to Japanese and overseas affiliates training and other initiatives • Strengthened the new product design review • Carry out continuous quality improvement system through thorough review activities by further improving the design Ensuring product quality • Built a system to visualize quality across the ★★★ quality of new products and conducting a Consumer Issues entire company and implement the PDCA (Customer Support) thorough analysis of quality issues cycle to improve quality 2. Ensure a stable supply of high quality products Maintaining and improving • Complete a reevaluation of risks at major the BCM production bases • Identified key risks and took appropriate (Business Continuity • Review the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) corrective actions ★★★ Management) system to and promote awareness through education • Continued the review of the BCP ensure stable supply and training • Put into place a human resources program that achieves work approach compatible • Hosted seminars on nutrition and carried out with a diverse range of values initiatives to encourage employees to take an Promoting diversity and • Host seminars that enable support for interest in diet and health creating a comfortable employee life and expand employee benefit ★★★ • Held a number of companywide events for 3. work environment programs employees and their families to foster a greater Develop a • Take steps to encourage active exchanges sense of unity global and interactions among employees in a way workforce that that transcends organizational boundaries can contribute Human Rights to the and • Expand the scope of candidates for • Implemented new training for manager-level international Labor Practices next-generation leadership workshops employees and established a human community Developing human • Find and train personnel using a universal resources training system linked to job resources responsible for grading system position and grade ★★★ global businesses • Find and train personnel worldwide • Offered selective training for individual through the expansion of recruitment positions and enhanced the leadership activities abroad program • Perform EICC audits at six overseas • Conducted EICC audits at six overseas CSR management system production bases production bases and found zero issues at Strengthening the • Compile a manual for EICC audits and three of them ★★★ CSR system work to increase the level of compliance • Compiled an EICC audit manual and applied it throughout the Group to affiliates maintenance and improvement Organizational Governance Building a labor and • Continue to expand the labor and ethics • Continued implementation of the ethics management management system throughout the ★★★ management system system ROHM Group 4. Make • Established a labor and ethics management considerations • Hold EICC audits at six major overseas system at six major overseas production for labor Respecting human rights production bases and work to further bases ★★★ practices and enhance respect for human rights Held EICC audits and implemented continuing thoroughly improvements respect human rights in the value chain Human Rights • Obtained third-party certification for domestic and Labor Practices affiliates (ROHM Apollo, ROHM Wako, ROHM • Acquire OHSAS 18001 certification at Logistec, LAPIS Semiconductor, LAPIS major domestic and overseas production Semiconductor Miyazaki, LAPIS Establishing a safe work bases to help achieve the goal of Semiconductor Miyagi) ★★★ environment eliminating occupational accidents • Received third-party certification for overseas • Apply the new human resources and affiliates (KOREA, REDA, RIST, REPI) salary system to all employees • Changed the human resources system for all full-time employees following discussions with the employee union 35 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Scope of FY 2016 Targets/Plans G4 Categories Reported G4 Indicators (FY 2015 Results) Indicators • Host a CSV workshop, compile ROHM CSV case studies Products and Development ratio of eco-friendly products among all from the perspectives of manufacturing, development, sales, Services ROHM developed products: 88% and management, and work to share them with employees (G4-EN27) Number of fines or violations of the PL law: None • Improve the overall quality of products, people, and conduct Compliance Number of fines or violations of environmental laws: None ROHM Group by adopting an approach to work that emphasizes prevention (G4-PR9) Assuming that the adverse effects on customers and Indirect • Review the BCP and increase awareness through education society due to shutdown or reduced production at Economic --and training production bases caused by natural disasters is an Impacts (G4-EC8) extremely important risk. • Develop a program and offer training for the promotion and Employment Return to work and retention rates after childbirth and/or ROHM advancement of women (G4-LA3) parental leave: 88% return rate, 97% retention rate • Expand the human resources training system established in Diversity and FY 2015 to include non-management positions Equal • Consider implementing a long-term training program for Ratio of foreign personnel: 1.66% ROHM Opportunity carefully selected candidates consisting primarily of partici(G4-LA12) pants of past training programs • Hold EICC audits at eight major domestic production bases More information on ROHM’s management system, which --is based on international standards, can be found on page ROHM 20. • Continue to implement an appropriate management system Supplier Human FY 2015 CSR Procurement Self-Assessment Results ROHM Group Rights (Aspect: Human Rights) business Assessment Grade A: 104 companies; A-: 29 companies; B: 17 partners (G4-HR10, 11) companies; C: 0 companies; D: 0 companies • Build labor and ethics management systems at Group companies Security Percentage of security personnel trained on Domestic Practices business-related human rights policies or procedures: production (G4-HR7) 100% companies ROHM [Women, Men] Types of injury: Cuts, burns, injury rate: [0, 0.00000075]; Work-related illness rate: [0, 0]; Lost day rate: [0, 0.00009]; Absenteeism rate: [0.0103, Occupational • Carry out cross-checks at major domestic and overseas 0.0083]; Work-related fatalities: [0, 0] Health and Safety ROHM production bases Contractors (Men only) (G4-LA6, 7) Types of injury: Cuts, injury rate: [0.00000175]; Work-related illness rate: [0]; Lost day rate: [0]; Absenteeism rate: [0.0063]; Work-related fatalities: [0] Workers engaged in hazardous work (435) Evaluation criteria ★★★: Achieved targets/plans ★★: Slight gap between targets/plans and achievements ★: Large gap between targets/plans and achievements 36 CSR ISO 26000 Priority Issues Core Subjects Initiative Themes FY 2015 Targets/Plans FY 2015 Results Evaluation • Implemented level-based compliance training • Continue to provide level-based for everyone from new hires to managerial Promoting fair business activities based on the compliance education staff Strengthening the • Continue implementing legal e-learning • Carried out awareness-raising activities during ★★★ compliance system classes for employees CSR Month for the legal guidebook • Continue conducting compliance • Verified employees’ level of understanding on 4. awareness activities during CSR Month the intranet as part of activities to raise Make awareness of labor and ethical issues considerations for labor • Expand CSR procurement and follow-up audits at all • Carried out CSR procurement audits at all practices and Group companies ROHM Group companies ROHM Group’s Business Conduct Guidelines thoroughly • Begin conducting CSR procurement activities targeting • Conducted CSR procurement audits at Fair Operating outsourced processing partners outsourced processing partners respect human Practices rights in the • Continue to conduct conflict mineral surveys • Continued to investigate conflict minerals in value chain Fair competition • Continue working to conclude Basic Purchase order to achieve 100% CFS ★★★ and trading Agreements with over 98% of business partners while • Held a CSR procurement briefing (at the Head implementing countermeasures against obstructive Office) factors • Continued to carry out CSR procurement • Continue to carry out CSR procurement self-assessments self-assessments • Provide business partners with feedback about • Provided business partners with feedback self-assessment results about self-assessment results • Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% from the • Reduced CO2 emissions by 7.3% from the predicted value based on the 2015 predicted value based on FY 2015 production production volume volume CO2 • Reduce CO2 emissions per unit by 1% • CO2 emissions per unit rose by 0.2% in FY countermeasures at ★★ from FY 2014 levels in FY 2015 2015 from the FY 2014 level. Deploying measures centered on medium-term targets for FY 2020 each site • Reduce greenhouse gas (i.e. PFCs, SF6) • Reduced greenhouse gases (i.e., PFCs and emissions by 1% from the predicted value SF6) by 22.7% from the predicted value based based on the 2015 production volume on FY 2015 production volume • Formulate an operational model for greenhouse • Formulated an operational model for greenhouse CO2 gases based on the Scope 3 standard and gases based on the Scope 3 standard and disclosed countermeasures expand the number of categories disclosed six categories (FY 2014: disclosed six categories) ★★ through the value • Increase the ratio of eco-friendly products • Increased the ratio of eco-friendly products among chain among developed products to 75% in FY 2015 developed products to 88% 5. Carry out • Maintain the 2014 results of PRTR • Reduced the PRTR substances handled per business Reducing substances handled per unit unit by 12.7% from the 2014 level activities that environmental • Reduce VOC emissions by 1% from the • Decreased VOC emissions by 15.7% from the ★★★ protect the pollutants predicted value based on the 2015 predicted value based on the FY 2015 global The Environment production volume production volume environment • Maintain the 2014 results of waste emissions • Reduced waste emissions per unit at overseas per unit at overseas consolidated companies consolidated companies by 0.6% from the FY 2014 • Reduce water consumption by 1% from the value Effective use of predicted value based on the 2015 • Decreased water consumption by 5.8% from the ★★★ resources production volume predicted value based on the FY 2015 production volume • Maintain zero emissions at domestic • Maintained zero emissions at domestic consolidated companies as well as the 2014 consolidated companies and reduced waste results of waste emissions per unit emissions per unit by 4.2% from the FY 2014 value Exhaustive chemical • Issued the second edition of the ROHM substance • Issue and ensure thorough implementation Group CSR Procurement Guidelines management in line ★★★ of new guidelines at all Group companies • Carried out a revised self-assessment for CSR with green procurement procurement guidelines • Co-sponsored numerous concerts, including some performed by the Kyoto Symphony Orchestra in Kyoto • Received the Musical World Award at the Contributing to the growth Contributions to 2015 Japan Mecenat Awards for sponsoring develop and the Kyoto International Music Students Festival • Continue to support music culture ★★★ expand music • Supported the Seiji Ozawa Music Academy (a culture project for nurturing young musicians) including the “Opera for Children,” (as part of the same project) targeting elementary school 6. children Contribute to • Supported ROHM Music Foundation activities local communities Suitable donations and well-being of society as a good corporate citizen through Community and support Involvement • Continue to provide donations and business initiatives that • Provided donations and sponsorships totaling and sponsorships in a timely and appropriate ★★★ activities Development respond to a broad 175.8 million yen in FY 2015 manner based on social need range of social needs • Continue to support local communities and • Offered manufacturing and environmental studies classes provide a forum for for elementary school students while improving industry-government-university collaboration educational content Activities that meet • Revise the manufacturing education curriculum • Held employee-taught classes for high school students the needs of local ★★★ and provide materials of interest to students and university students (totaling more than 1,900 students) communities • Carry out community-oriented social • Supported the Great East Japan Earthquake recovery contribution activities (such as active efforts through the Arigato-Bon program (donated over volunteering) 20,000 books in total as of May 2016) 37 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Scope of FY 2016 Targets/Plans G4 Categories Reported G4 Indicators (FY 2015 Results) Indicators Translated ROHM Group Business Conduct Guidelines (including the anti-corruption policy) into seven languages and distributed them to all employees at all Group companies, including overseas. • Continue to offer level-based compliance training Anti-corruption Raised awareness of the ROHM Group Business Conduct Guidelines, ROHM Group • Continue to raise awareness of conduct guidelines (G4-SO4) including policies on preventing corruption, as part of level-based compliance training (360 employees from the Head Office participated during FY 2015) For more information about ROHM’s compliance hotline, see page 26. Supplier FY 2015 CSR Procurement Self-Assessment Results Assessment for (Aspect: Formulated Ethics & Crisis Management Systems) • Expand CSR procurement audits and follow-up audits to all Impacts on Society Grade A: 77 companies; A-: 33 companies; Group companies (G4-SO9, 10) B: 28 companies; C: 8 companies; D: 4 companies • Continue to carry out CSR procurement activities for Supplier Human FY 2015 CSR Procurement Self-Assessment Results outsourced processing partners ROHM Group Rights (Aspect: Human Rights) • Continue conducting conflict mineral surveys business Assessment Grade A: 104 companies; A-: 29 companies; • Continue to carry out CSR procurement self-assessments partners (G4-HR10, 11) B: 17 companies; C: 0 companies; D: 0 companies • Provide business partners with feedback about selfassessment results Supplier FY 2015 CSR Procurement Self-Assessment Results • Host CSR procurement briefings for Group companies Assessment for (Aspect: Labor Practices (Health and Safety)) Labor Practices Grade A: 136 companies; A-: 7 companies; (G4-LA14, 15) B: 6 companies; C: 4 companies; D: 0 companies • Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% from the predicted value Scope 1 CO2 emissions: 42,904 t-CO2 based on the 2016 production volume Energy and Scope 2 CO2 emissions: 515,535 t-CO2 • Reduce CO2 emissions per unit by 1% from FY 2015 levels in Emissions Scope 3 CO2 emissions: 408,551 t-CO2 FY 2016 ROHM Group (G4-EN5,15,16, (Category 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7) • Reduce greenhouse gas (i.e. PFCs, SF6) emissions by 1% 17, 18, 20, 21) Scope 1 and 2 emissions per unit: 0.509 (tCO2/million yen) from the predicted value based on the 2016 production 2015 PFC gas emissions (GWP-t): 95,879 tCO2 volume • Formulate an operational model for greenhouse gases based Supplier FY 2015 CSR Procurement Self-assessment Results on the Scope 3 standard and expand the number of categoROHM Group Environmental (Environment) ries disclosed business Assessment Grade A: 131 companies; A-: 9 companies; • Achieve a ratio of eco-friendly products among developed partners (G4-EN32, 33) B: 4 companies; C: 4 companies; D: 1 company products of 80% in FY 2016 • Maintain the 2015 results of PRTR substances handled per unit Effluents and 2015 domestic waste emissions: 6,734t ROHM Group • Reduce VOC emissions by 0.5% from the predicted value Waste (G4-EN23) 2015 overseas waste emissions: 5,652t based on the 2016 production volume • Maintain the 2015 results of waste emissions per unit at overWater (G4-EN8) 2015 total water withdrawal: 9,915,000 m3 ROHM Group seas consolidated companies • Reduce water consumption by 0.5% from the predicted value based on the 2016 production volume 2015 energy consumed: 1,363,797 MWh; • Maintain zero emissions at domestic consolidated companies Energy (G4-EN3) ROHM Group CO2 emissions from energy consumption: 558,419 tCO2 Supplier FY 2015 CSR Procurement Self-Assessment Results ROHM Group Environmental (Environment) • Ensure thorough implementation at all Group companies business Assessment Grade A: 131 companies; A-: 9 companies; partners (G4-EN32, 33) B: 4 companies; C: 4 companies; D: 1 company; Supported a comprehensive redevelopment with the City of Kyoto of the Kyoto Kaikan, an historic cultural • Continue to support music culture institution beloved by residents for over 50 years located in the Okazaki district of the city’s Sakyo Ward, a world-class cultural and exchange area. In FY 2014 ROHM and ROHM acquired the naming rights for the next 50 years local for 5,250 million yen, which was earmarked for renovating the facility in order to better meet user communities needs. Local Supported the grand reopening of the theatre, which Communities included a ceremony and special performances, on (G4-SO1) January 10, 2016 • Continue to provide donations and sponsorships in a timely and appropriate manner based on social need • Continue to support local communities and provide a forum for industry-government-university collaboration Ratio of initiatives carried out to meet demands from local • Revise the manufacturing education curriculum and provide communities including manufacturing classes and factory ROHM Group materials of interest to students tours: 100% • Carry out community-oriented social contribution activities (such as active volunteering) Evaluation criteria ★★★: Achieved targets/plans ★★: Slight gap between targets/plans and achievements ★: Large gap between targets/plans and achievements 38 Company Information Corporate Data Organizational Chart Company Name: Research & Development ROHM Co., Ltd. Fundamental Research & Development Division LSI Product Development Headquarters Headquarters: 21 Saiin Mizosaki-cho, Ukyo-ku, Strategy Kyoto 615-8585 Japan Automotive Corporate Market Strategy Division Tel: +81-75-311-2121 Industry & IoT Corporate Market Strategy Division Fax: +81-75-315-0172 Consumer & Smart Device Corporate Market Strategy Division Date Established: Reference Business Corporate Market Strategy Division September 17, 1958 Production LSI Production Headquarters Representative: Satoshi Sawamura, President Discrete Production Headquarters Module Production Headquarters Capital: President Production Engineering Headquarters 86,969 million JPY (as of March 31, 2016) Sales Sales Volume: Japanese Sales Headquarters Consolidated 352,398 million JPY (fiscal year ending March 2016) Overseas Sales Headquarters Administration Number of Employees: Corporate Communications Headquarters Consolidated 21,171 (as of March 31, 2016) Accounting Headquarters Administrative Headquarters Human Resources Headquarters Corporate Quality Headquarters Legal Affairs, Intellectual Property Division Internal Audit Division (as of June 11, 2016) ■ Sales Volume ■ Operating Income ■ Number of Employees (million yen) (million yen) (people) 331,088 362,773 352,398 21,295 20,203 19,985 20,843 21,171 304,653 292,411 38,801 33,635 23,636 6,353 -921 ’12/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’12/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’12/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ■ Sales by Segment ■ Sales by Region ■ Sales by Application (million yen) (million yen) Computers and OA Other Europe Japan 14.8% 15,665(4%) 97,964 Automotive Modules 25,510 (28%) 28.6% 36,371 (7%) U.S. (10%) 18,163 Telecommunications ‘16/3 ‘16/3 ‘16/3 Total (5%) Total 11.1% Total 352,398 352,398 100% Industrial ICs Asia 11.1% 164,081 220,606 Consumer Discrete Semiconductor Devices (63%) 34.4% (47%) 126,436 (36%) 39 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2016 Major ROHM Group Offices / Centers 〈 Japan 〉 Sales Offices Production Facilities Japanese Sales Headquarters ROHM Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Kyoto TEL: +81-75-365-1077 Matsumoto TEL: +81-263-34-8601 ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-53-468-1000 Tokyo TEL: +81-3-6280-0820 Mito TEL: +81-29-300-0585 ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-865-67-0111 Yokohama TEL: +81-45-476-2121 Nishi-Tokyo TEL: +81-42-648-7821 ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-943-32-3000 Nagoya TEL: +81-52-951-9311 Sendai TEL: +81-22-295-3011 ROHM Mechatech Co.,Ltd. TEL: +81-771-25-4717 Fukuoka TEL: +81-92-483-3496 Takasaki TEL: +81-27-310-7111 LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-45-476-9212 Utsunomiya TEL: +81-28-633-2271 LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-22-345-1211 LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-985-85-5111 ROHM Shiga Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-77-531-3710 R&D Centers Distribution / Other Group Companies Kyoto Technology Center (Head Office) TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Kyoto Technology Center (Kyoto Ekimae) TEL: +81-75-365-1073 ROHM Logistec Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-865-44-3181 Yokohama Technology Center TEL: +81-45-476-2131 Narita Giken Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-6-6433-0410 〈 Global 〉 Main Sales Offices R&D Centers ASIA ROHM Semiconductor Korea Corporation ASIA Korea Design Center TEL: +82-2-8182-458 TEL: +82-2-8182-700 Shanghai Design Center TEL: +86-21-6072-8612 ROHM Semiconductor Trading (Dalian) Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Design Center TEL: +86-755-8307-3008 TEL: +86-411-8230-8549 Taiwan Design Center TEL: +886-2-2500-9390 ROHM Semiconductor (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. TEL: +86-21-6072-8612 India Design Center TEL: +91-80-4205-6225 ROHM Semiconductor (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. AMERICA America Design Center (Santa Clara) TEL: +86-755-8307-3008 TEL: +1-408-720-1900 ROHM Semiconductor Hong Kong Co., Ltd. EUROPE Europe Design Center TEL: +49-2154-9210 TEL: +852-2740-6262 ROHM POWERVATION Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor Taiwan Co., Ltd. TEL: +353-21-2425501 TEL: +886-2-2500-6956 ROHM Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. TEL: +65-6436-5100 Production Facilities ROHM Semiconductor Philippines Corporation ASIA ROHM Korea Corporation TEL: +63-2-807-6872 TEL: +82-2-8182-600 ROHM Semiconductor (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. TEL: +66-2-254-4890 TEL: +63-2-894-1536 ROHM Semiconductor Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. TEL: +60-3-7931-8155 TEL: +66-2-909-7100 ROHM Semiconductor India Pvt. Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor(China) Co., Ltd. TEL: +91-44-4352-0008 TEL: +86-22-8398-9000 AMERICA ROHM Semiconductor U.S.A., LLC ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. TEL: +1-408-720-1900 TEL: +86-411-8762-0001 ROHM Semiconductor do Brasil Ltda. ROHM-Wako Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. TEL: +55-11-3539-6320 TEL: +60-9-7741500 EUROPE ROHM Semiconductor GmbH ROHM Mechatech Philippines, Inc. TEL: +49-2154-921-0 TEL: +63-46-430-2281 ROHM Mechatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. TEL: +66-36-374-580～4 AMERICA Kionix, Inc. TEL: +1-607-257-1080 EUROPE SiCrystal AG TEL: +49-911-8177599-0 40 59C6994E 08.2016 ROHM © 7000・SG
