PT. PANGANSARI UTAMA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Report Content  From our Director  Company Identity  PT. Pangansari Profile  Implementation of UNGC Principles  Human Rights  Labor Standard  Environment  Anti – Corruption  Partnership in Support of UN Goals From our Director PT. PANGANSARI UTAMA (PSU) was founded in 1975, in association with Greatways Group of Companies that operated extensively throughout South East Asia. This group of Companies was involved in Restaurants, Bars, Coffee Shops, Supermarkets, Bakeries, Offshore Services, Food Supply, Industrial Catering and Remote Site Support Services. Firstly, between 1976 and 1979, PSU started to develop its Food Supply activities for PT. Pertamina at the Bontang LNG plant in Indonesia. In 1980, when the government issued a Presidential Decree No. 14A concerning Procurement and Distribution of Products PSU has further constructed a complete set of Cold Storage and Warehousing Facilities in Balikpapan to cope up with wide range of services to the Clients throughout East Kalimantan including Hotels, Restaurants, Commissaries and Remote Construction Sites. During 1981, PSU enlarged its scope of activities into Industrial Catering and Total Remote Site Support Services for Projects throughout Indonesia ranging from Aceh to Papua. Soon thereafter, In response to client needs, PSU further turned out leading to the construction of complete cold storage, freezer and warehousing facilities in Jakarta, Surabaya, and Balikpapan. Each project presented its own unique challenges and required its own tailored solution. PSU then developed its professional expertise and modern infrastructure of supply chain that ensures excellent end product quality and choice by applying highly approved technology to track, trace and coordinate the entire distributions. In 2011, PT. Pangansari Utama Food Resources became Holding Company of PSU. PSU has rapidly become bigger and bigger ever since, and expanded its operations from Eastern to Western parts of Indonesia. The rapid size and complexity of PSU within the devised framework of its contractual agreements with a number of companies, variety of community including the native tribes, has compelled PSU to consider what is the impact of PSU operations to all of these stakeholders, and how to develop and maintain the sustainability of PSU among these groups. All of these parallel with the current governmental regulations whereby a corporation must put into practice a strong commitment to implement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in their daily operational activities. COMPANY IDENTITY  Company Name : PT. Pangansari Utama  Address : Jl. Raya Poncol No. 24 Ciracas, Jakarta Timur  Country : Indonesia  Contact Name : Mr. FX. Bagus Ekodanto  Contact Position : Director  Contact Telephone : +62 21 871 7870  Membership Date : 22 March 2013  No of Employees : + 4200 employees  Sector : Catering & Support Services COMPANY IDENTITY Brief Description of Nature Business PT. Pangansari Utama (PSU) was founded in 1975. It operates as a food service and distribution company in the Asia Pacific and provides industrial, community, institutional and in-flight catering services, food processing, patisserie, manufacturing, storage and warehousing, shipping and handling, training, retail, facility management, maintenance, and remote site support services . PSU primarily serves catering and housekeeping services for the oil and gas and mining companies, hospitals, airports, international schools, and also factories in Indonesia. PSU’s head office is in Jakarta with the branch offices spreading out from the west to the east parts of Indonesia such as at Palembang, Pekanbaru, Batam, Surabaya, Balikpapan, Makassar, Timika, Sorong, and Tembagapura; while the overseas services include Singapore and Luanda, Angola. It operates with it’s current work forces comprising of employees 4,200 employees. President Director and Chief Operating Officer (COO) controls the whole operation. PSU has operationally changes during the last one year in terms of the structure of PSU since the addition of one of Director as Managing Director who control all operational matter in PSU and change of Company Head Office. For other changes in terms of the size, structure and ownership of PSU, there is no significant changes. COMPANY IDENTITY Vision, Mission, and Values  Vision “To be the leading Food Resources Solutions Company in the World”  Mission “To do our best in the company’s core business by providing a totally reliable service in the Food Business, Manufacturing Products, Supplies Consolidation, Trading, Retailing, Camp, Contract Catering Services and other related Hospitality Support Services”.  Values Our Corporate Values represent the slogan “PRIME”:  Positive  Respectful  Inspiring  Motivated  Efficient 10 UNGC Principles • Principle 1: Businesses should support and • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the respect the protection of internationally proclaimed freedom of association and the effective human rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit forced and compulsory labour; in human rights abuses. • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child HUMAN LABOUR labour; and RIGHTS • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 10: Businesses should work against ANTI corruption in all its forms, including extortion and ENVIRONMENT CORRUPTION bribery. • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our support and respect to the International declaration of Human right has been our commitment since years ago as the HUMAN RIGHTS implementation of our social responsibility. Internally, we facilitate our employee with, working safety environment, health insurance, and freedom in belief of such religion. Externally, we do provide customer care program to support customer satisfaction and gave quickly feedbacked when arise complaints, both for our products and services. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of PSU have to make sure that everyone in this company has internationally proclaimed human contribution to the success of company target achievement with no rights; and any discrimination. We ensure that there is no employee in the work place under intimidation and threaten in expressing their ideas. Principle 2: make sure that they are Outcomes: not complicit in human rights abuses. • PSU provides Musholla for Muslim employees to represent our commitment on supporting the freedom in belief of such religion and also provides a meeting room for Christian Prayer Community every Friday • PSU has a refreshment corner for employee that provides coffee and tea to refresh their mind after or during working. • PSU Provides a Nursery Room for breast-feeding Mother • PSU provides sport facilities and instructor for Employee’s health every week HUMAN RIGHTS Nursery Room Praying Room Potluck Sport Activities Refreshment Area Monthly Employee's Birthday PSU in doing business recognizes and respects the human rights. WORK ENVIRONMENT The human rights basically concerned with equality and fairness, freedom of choice, living a life free from fear, harassment, or discrimination, inhumane treatments, etc. All of these have made human rights to be universal. Since 2007 PSU has encouraged its employees to respect and implement human rights in the operational work place. The human Principle 1: Businesses should rights sessions were generally given to all level of employees support and respect the protection of regardless of their positions. PSU and its employees support and internationally proclaimed human respect the protection of human rights whilst ensuring that all are not rights; and complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 2: make sure that they are All employees regardless of their level of positions have attended numerous classes of the Socialization of Human Rights since 2007. not complicit in human rights abuses. Client company has allowed PSU to conduct the internal Socialization of Human Rights to its employees. The Socialization of Human Rights was given to make certain that PSU personnel were sufficiently knowledgeable in Human Rights and Human Rights Violations. Employees should adhere to the CLA that consist of all employment terms and conditions to be met, and right and duties of all parties involved. This include adherence to Human Rights regulations . Each employee has a right to report any violation against the Human Rights . Subsequent to this, each supplier or contractor has it’s own mechanism to handle and process all violations against the human rights. Certain areas like PT Freeport Indonesia has adopted a regulation WORK ENVIRONMENT that it’s suppliers, contractors, and privatized companies providing products or services to them must be given a mandatory human rights induction program.. PSU FI project has sent more than 80 percent employees to attend this mandatory sessions. No incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken whatsoever being reported involving PSU employees in the past . PSU received no complaints of Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the Principle 1: Businesses should right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at support and respect the protection of significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights , nor they are reported as having internationally proclaimed human significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective rights; and abolition of child labor and/ or identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor . PSU itself strongly restricts child labor in its operation. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PSU will consider about sending it’s security personnel to be trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations . PSU received no reports of incidents/ violations involving right of indigenous people and actions taken , nor any operation sites that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments , and/or grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms . Future Target: In 2018, PSU maintain this policy to remain the same • PSU encourage the employees to bound with WORK ENVIRONMENT anykind of activity due to implement equality within workplace. Outcomes: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of – PSU staffs enjoy the potluck together at least once internationally proclaimed human by two months rights; and – Management PSU always celebrate employee’s birthday every month and hold a farewell party for Principle 2: make sure that they are employee has in retirement period not complicit in human rights abuses. – Our employee relationship increases, they have a better communication with one other – No boundaries between employees and the management team WORK ENVIRONMENT Principle 1: Businesses should • To encourage employee to have a support and respect the protection healthy life, PSU holds a wellness of internationally proclaimed human rights; and program every months. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Outcomes: abuses. – Every employee had the chance to join this wellness program PSU opens the communication between employee/internal through some Internal communication programs to address their aspirations to management and vice versa. Some of the programs are: Communication • Management Review Meeting An annual meeting at the end of the business year, attended by all department head to recognize the achievers and communicate company’s quality target, customer survey and internal audit result. • Internal and External Training (Hard & Soft Skill) The Training is a monthly class for employee to sharpen their knowledge or help their productivity and services • Budget and Work Program Meeting Hold in the end of the year to discuss the budget for qualitative and quantitative program in the upcoming year • Coordination Meeting PSU’s Board of Director s invite all General Managers and Managers every month to discuss the company operational • Outcomes: – Management Review Meeting: 1. Effective to communicate the quality target and customer’s satisfaction 2. Inspire all employees to improve the quality continuously Community Service Mass Wedding at Papua Period III 2017 As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make some social activities per year. Scholarship for Local Papuan batch VI 2016 Community Service As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make some social activities per year. 14 June 2017, donated a package of bread and milk for kids' event at Ruang Publik Terpadu Ramah Anak (RPTRA) / integrated child friendly public space Community Service As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make some social activities per year. 21 April 2017, donated the children play facilities for kids at Ruang Publik Terpadu Ramah Anak (RPTRA)/ integrated child friendly public space Ciracas, Jakarta Timur Community Service As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make some social activities per year. 1. 13 June 2017, Donated to Yayasan Bangun Kecerdasan Bangsa, Jakarta Timur 2. 13 June 2017, Donations for Orphans and break fasting with them Community Service As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make some social activities per year. 1. 11 June 5 July 2017, held the Bazaar for frozen food to local communities with low price 2. 11 June 13 June 2017, Bazaar of clothes and cakes for Lebaran needs Community Service As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make some social activities per year. 28 August 2017 Donations of hewan Qurban / sacrificial animals for Ciracas and local communities Concern for the environment As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make some social activities per year. July 2016 until present, we deliver the waste of used cooking oil to PT. Arina Mandiri Kreatif to be processed into bio diesel • Combined training program with local Vocational High School. LABOR Receiving students on vocational high school level to do “field practice” for three months. This program is yearly basis, and PT. PSU is receiving STANDARD students from two school with their major of study “culinary arts” and “department office”. • The Effective Abolition Of Child Labor We do strongly committed against child labor with minimum age is over 18 years old and we apply such standard of employment based on company rules. • Avoid the Discrimination In Related with Employment And Occupation The discrimination relates to treating employee differently based on an unfair or unsubstantiated category such as race, nationality, gender or religious affiliations in recruitment, promotion, training and career development. We provide fair opportunity to all employees to get higher salary improvement based on individual achievement and performance appraisal. Personal evaluation is done independently by other employees at the same level who close relate in the work place. Promotion procedures are based on personal performance which evaluated by direct superior, head of department and human resources department. It is, therefore, different person get different amount or percentage of salary improvement annually. ENVIRONMENT  In water usage we are targeting to reduce 10% in compare to last year.  Encourage the use of reused paper and print any documentation wisely.  In diesel fuel usage for power generator in our Balikpapan Branch office, we have reduced 50% consumption in compare to last year, with programs : Generator activities scheduling To provide proper product which is use less power to storage Supporting PT. Freeport Indonesia (Environmental Department) on providing the used or scrap cooking oil from Mess halls to be proceed and produced as fuel/Biodiesel. This as an action which combining other company to achieve one of the principles of UN Global Compact in environment areas. ANTI CORRUPTION • We have committed and agreed with this principle and will not tolerate any kind of corruption in our personal life as well as business activity. We do not practice the bribery as well as corruption which do not allow in our business and personal life activities. ACTIVITIES IN INDONESIA GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK We are pleased to confirm that PT. PSU reaffirms its support to the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This is our Communication on Engagement with the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. In this Communication of Engagement, we describe the actions that our organization has taken to support the UN Global Compact and its Principles as suggested for an organization like ours. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Thank You www.pangansari.co.id
