2016 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix About this Report Contents CEO Message 2 Characteristics of the Report Company Profile 4 This report introduces the direction of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's business strategies and the sustainable management system Business & Strategy in place to pursue those strategies. It also includes the activities of Doosan Strategy for Sustainable Growth 8 Heavy Industries & Construction to seek sustainable growth and development Strategy 1. Expanding New Businesses 10 alongside society by connecting its business areas and the United Nations Strategy 2. Increase Order Intake 14 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Strategy 3. Improvement in Profitability 18 Business & Performance 22 Criteria for Writing the Report 2016 Highlights 25 This report has been written in accordance with the integrated reporting Commitments to Sustainability framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and G4 Core Option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The status of the detailed Introduction to the SDGs 28 application of GRI G4 can be checked through the GRI Index in the Appendix. Opportunity Analysis of the SDGs 30 Alignment with the SDGs 32 2030 SDG Commitments 34 Period and Scope of Reporting Increase Water Reserves 35 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction publishes annual reports to utilize Ensure Access to Sustainable Energy 36 them as a stakeholder communication channel. This report includes financial Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions 37 and non-financial results from January 1st to December 31st of 2016, and Prevent Diseases and Expand Treatment 38 the essential aspects that may influence stakeholders' decision-making contain Foster Local Talents 39 results up to the first half of 2017 in order to facilitate understanding. To ascertain the trends of financial and non-financial outcomes, 3 years of Sustainable Management quantitative results are reported while the financial performance has been Governance 42 reported in consolidated statements based on K-IFRS. Moreover, in the event Ethics Management 44 that the information presented in previous reports has been modified or Green Management 46 re-written, the details have been explained in the footnotes. The scope of Health & Safety 52 reporting includes 100% of the headquarters, local and international projects Customer Satisfaction 56 and, for certain data, also includes overseas subsidiaries. Quality Management 60 Corporate Security 62 Verification of the Report Talent Management 64 This report received third party assurance for the audits of financial information Shared Growth 68 through an independent audit corporation. And the non-financial information Social Contribution 72 are written based on DNV-GL's Verisustain 5.0 and ISAE 3000 standard, this Doosan Way Awards 78 report has undergone an external verification by a third party. Through a thirdCover Story party verification operating with objectivity and independence, the overall Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries reliability of the report has been increased. Detailed results regarding the Doosan Babcock 82 verification can be checked through the verification statement in the Appendix. Doosan Skoda Power 86 Doosan Lentjes 90 Additional Information Doosan Power systems india 94 This report is to be published and distributed in Korean and English, and Doosan Vina 98 may also be downloaded in PDF format from the website of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction (www.doosanheavy.com). For any inquiries about Appendix the report, please contact us through the following: Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Utilizing a square, the motif of Doosan's Assessment 102 brand identity, and the icon of SDGs presented by the UN, an active and continPerformance Summary 104 Website: www.doosanheavy.com uously progressive movement towards Environmental Guidelines 120 Address: 22, Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do the goal has been formed into an image Audit report & Independent Assurance Phone: 055-278-3063 in which Doosan's philosophy of ComStatement 122 mitment to People and the UN's aim for Team in charge: CSR Team GRI Index 126 sustainable growth are in great harmony. 3 Doosan Group Introducing Doosan Group Footsteps of the Group Group Vision Doosan Way CSR Value System As Korea's first modern corporation, Doosan has emerged as a We will become a Proud Global Doosan through peoDoosan Way, our belief and philosophy global enterprise with as many as 40,000 employees spread ple-oriented management and the establishment of prothroughout 38 countries and based on a 120-year history. Doosan's cesses that meet world-class standards, the source of our Doosan Aspiration storied history began when the Park Seung-Jik Store opened its global competitiveness. Doosan Credo Proud Global Doosan doors in 1896 and, through the start of the trading business and The Doosan Credo is a set of principles that represents Doosan's foundation of OB Beer in the 1950s, eventually formed a group. Proud Global Doosan philosophies and unique way of doing business. These principles have CSR Goal To rank among the world's Leading 100 CSR In the 1960s, the company entered a broad range of areas such been the foundation of Doosan's success for the past century. The Companies in 2025: as construction, food and beverages, engineering, media and Based on the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) Doosan Credo is integral to every aspect of our business and people, culture, and established the foundation of the corporation by clearly guiding our decisions and the way we conduct business. It is CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable modernizing and diversifying its management. Since the 1980s, it has been actively pioneering foreign markets centered on by realizing these values that Doosan accomplishes its ultimate goal. Growth construction, electronics, glass, machinery and trading and, by The Credo consists of Doosan's Aspiration and Core Values. CSR Pillars Respect for People pursuing various new businesses, has continued its remarkable growth and strengthened its global competitiveness with a Reliable Operation focus on technology enhancement in each area. In celebration Aspiration of the company's 100th anniversary, its 2G strategy (Growth of Responsibility in Engagement Doosan's ultimate goal is to create a Proud Global Doosan. It is our People, Growth of Business), which would form the backbone of Value talented Establish business vision that each of our employees and stakeholders will not only CSR Value Creation management activities for the next 100 years, was established in 1955, and a successful business transformation to the individuals as the processes that benefit from Doosan but that they will take pride in their association with us. We envision every employee being proud to be a member CSR Priorities 1. Establishment of a culture that values human infrastructure support business (ISB) started to take place. Since source of our meet world-class rights 2006, it acquired global companies in the infrastructure support competitive edge of Doosan; every customer recognizing and appreciating our high2. Fair employment standards business such as Bobcat, a construction equipment manufacturer, quality goods and services; and every shareholder valuing the fair 3. Establishment of a safe work environment and Skoda Power, a power generation facility company, to lead and high levels of profit that we generate. the market as a global brand. It continues on its path of new 4. Reinforcement of CSR in process operations challenges and opportunities through opening the Doota Duty and the supply network 5. Green management and responsiveness to Free outlets and acquiring Doosan GridTech in 2016. Founded climate change upon the notion of Trust in people, we will contribute to the Core Values 6. Reinforcement of responsibilities in products/ betterment of people's lives and the future of the world to become Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo services a Proud Global Doosan. wherever they operate, every day, in order to build a Proud Global 7. Advancement of social contribution activities Doosan. These values guide our business conduct, the manner in reflecting the value of work which we treat one another and the way we work with all of our 8. Reinforcement of activities that disclose Overview of Affiliates 2016 Group Financial Performance partners. These nine core values are as follows: company information (CSR) ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) Companies 9. Pursuit of businesses that create CSR values Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction | Doosan Infracore 10. Advancement of CSR performance 28,664.8 KRW billion Doosan Engineering & Construction | Doosan Engine Cultivating Integrity and monitoring Doosan Bobcat | Doosan Mecatec Assets People People Transparency Enabler Powerful CSR Governance Doosan Co., Ltd. (promotion system / will of pursuit by executives / awareness Doosan Corporation Electro-Materials | Doosan Corporation Mottrol Doosan Corporation Glonet | Doosan Corporation Industrial Vehicle Capital 7,900.9 KRW billion Inhwa Customers World-class Technology of employees in social responsibilities) Doosan Corporation Fuel Cell | Doosan Corporation Information & and Innovation Doosan Values 9 Core Values Communications | Doosan Corporation Doota Duty Free Operating Profit 917.2 KRW billion (People, Cultivating People, Integrity and Transparency, Inhwa, Customers, World-class Technology and Innovation, Profit, CSB (Consumer & Service Business) Companies Social ReSafety and Social Responsibilities, Safety and Environment) Profit Oricom | Hancom | Doosan Magazine | Doota Mall sponsibility Environment Doosan Bears | Doosan Cuvex | Neoplux Demand of Society Global CSR Initiative (UN SDGs · ISO 26000 · UN Global Compact · GRI) Affiliated Agencies Doosan Leadership Doosan Yonkang Foundation | Doosan Art Center | Institute (DLI) CEO Message Dear distinguished stakeholders, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is always highly appreciative of your generous support and encouragement. It gives us great pleasure to be able to share with you again through our Integrated Report the changes and innovation that we have been pursuing over the year at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Even amidst the low-growth trend that has been prolonged by the global recession, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been growing to become a global corporation that adds value to the Earth by offering world-class products and technology to our clients. Despite the difficulties of the past year, the company was able to win orders for large-scale projects in strategic markets, including Saudi Arabia and India, and lay the foundation for business expansion by establishing a new subsidiary, Doosan GridTech, winning performance improvement projects for local thermal power plants and participating in national nuclear decommissioning projects. In addition, we achieved significant business results by adopting marketing strategies tailored to each region, which led us to successfully enter the Egyptian and Indonesian power markets. Based on the Doosan Way, which is embedded in our work processes, our employees have helped to fulfill the social responsibilities we hold as a corporate citizen and supported our continuous efforts to achieve sustainable growth. Human rights management is being reinforced through town hall meetings and wider efforts are being made to promote the voluntary practice of business ethics, while we have also sought to upgrade our preventive Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) systems and energy efficiency systems. We also had the honor of being presented with the Grand Prize at the Korean Shared Growth Awards ceremony, in recognition of the various supply chain support activities we were engaged in, such as the Shared Growth Supporters work. We have received favorable recognition both at home and abroad for our performance in sustainability management, which includes receiving the ESG A rating from the Korea Corporate Governance Service and being listed a Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Korea company. Continuing the practice of sustainable growth in the global market Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is pursuing sustainable growth by responding proactively and swiftly to changes in the global power market. As part of these efforts, we launched the Service Business Group this year, through which we are seeking to broaden our service offerings for power plants worldwide and strengthen the area of recurring businesses to contribute to a stable business structure. Furthermore, we are continuing with efforts to expand our business by adopting innovative technology, which harnesses the benefits of information & communications technology, such as the RMS (Remote Monitoring Service) for power plants and Digital Factories, and we are also diversifying our business portfolio to better meet the needs created by the tightening of environmental regulations under the new climate regime. Faithfully fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities in alignment with the United Nations' SDGs Built upon the reinforcement of human rights, environment, safety, supply chain and ethics management activities and the faithful fulfillment of our social responsibilities, mostly achieved through contributions to local communities, we aim to tie together the sustainable development goals (SDGs) proposed by the UN with our core businesses to establish and achieve the goal of contributing to sustainable growth worldwide. We will particularly focus on effectively addressing the areas of energy, water and climate change and make every effort to produce greater outcomes. Moreover, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction seeks to continue the practice of sharing with local communities through events like the Doosan Day of Community Service, a heartwarming event arranged to help the needy and which is led by social volunteer groups composed of employees from 30 Doosan work sites around the globe. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction strives to continuously pursue sustainable growth this year as well and will always endeavor to do its best in line with the company slogan, Winning Team, all the while forging ahead to realize our vision of becoming the Global Leader in Power & Water. We kindly ask for your interest and support as we continue on our journey towards achieving sustainable business growth. Chairman & CEO Geewon Park 2 3 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Company Profile Global Network Europe Major overseas subsidiaries 14 Global Leader in Power & Water Major overseas branches, offices 28 Middle East Asia America Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, established in 1962 and boasting a storied history that dates back 50 years, is emerging as a global corporation that increases the value of the planet based on world-class quality and technology. Through the domestication Asia Africa and export of various industrial plants in power generation, desalination, casting & forging and construction, it has contributed to the growth of the national economy and, thanks to its specialized and technical capabilities in performing the entire process from design to Republic of Korea commissioning it has been attaining outstanding results in the overseas power generation and desalination markets. At the same time, it Headquarters and the Changwon Plant accelerates the securing of OEM technology in core power plant facilities and development of future eco-friendly technology in order to Technology Research Institute Seoul Office Middle East and Africa contribute to the growth of the local plant industry while aiming to take a bold leap forward as an international corporation. Vietnam Saudi Arabia Doosan Vina Doosan Power Systems Arabia DCS Vina Riyadh Office Vietnam Operation Center Damman Water R&D Center Hanoi Office America 13,893 791 7,728 India United Arab Emirates United States Middle East Operation Center Headquarters Doosan Power Systems India CEO Revenue Operating Profit Area of Business No. of employees Doosan Heavy Industries America Dubai Office Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, New Delhi Office Europe Doosan HF Controls Water Dubai Office Geewon Park, 13,893 791 Machinery and Gyeongsangnam-do 7,728 employees Mumbai Office Doosan ATS America Abu Dhabi Office Ji Taik Chung KRW billion KRW billion equipment Kolkata Office United Kingdom Seoul Office Doosan GridTech Chennai Office/Shop Doosan Power Systems manufacturing Seocho-gu, Seoul Pittsburgh Office Egypt China Doosan Babcock Newington Office Cairo Office (as of December 31st, 2016) Shanghai Office Doosan Enpure Beijing Office Service T&E Center Chile Kuwait Santiago Office Kuwait Office Taiwan Czech Republic Taipei Office Doosan Skoda Power South Africa Japan Johannesburg Office Doosan Heavy Industries Japan Germany Doosan Lentjes Philippines Frankfurt Office Manila Office Poland Thailand Katowice Office Bangkok Office Proud Indonesia Romania Global Jakarta Office Doosan IMGB Doosan Turkey Growth to a Global Istanbul Office Company 2016 2001~ · Acquisition of 1Energy Systems, 2011~12 US energy storage · Acquisition of system firm (current History Growth and 2009 AE&E Lentjes · Secured OEM Doosan GridTech) Development · Acquisition of technology in CFB Beginning and 1981~2000 2006 Skoda Power boilers · Secured OEM · Acquisition of · Acquire Chennai Challenge technology in 2001 Mitsui Babcock Works in India steam turbines 1962~1980 · Privatization Energy · Completed · Acquire Enpure and change · Secured OEM · Announced The Doosan 1982 of the technology in Vina Plant in Doosan Way · Groundbreaking company boilers Vietnam of the Changwon name to 1962 Plant (the world's largest) Doosan Heave Industries & Construction Panoramic view of the Changwon Plant Establishment Co., Ltd. of the Company 4 5 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix 01 Having built power capabilities in the power sector by first constructing thermal power and nuclear power plants dating back to the 1970s and entering the seawater desalination market, Business & Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction now takes position as the world's no. 1 player in the power and water sector. Strategy Strategy for Sustainable Growth 8 Strategy 1. Expanding New Businesses 10 Strategy 2. Increase Order Intake 14 Strategy 3. Improvement in Profitability 18 Business & Performance 22 2016 Highlights 25 Rabigh 2 Thermal Power Plant 6 7 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Strategy for Sustainable Growth Global Trends Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has formed a global network with over 20 countries around the world, Prolonged period of low growth | Increased awareness of stronger environmental regulations and eco-friendly products | Increased water scarcity risks (e.g., water shortage) including the United States, Europe, Southeast Asia and India to provide the best solutions for the power generation and water industries. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's greatest competitive edge is its business portfolio Industry Trends that is optimized for customers' needs and its unparalleled pursuit of technology, which is why the company is highly Prolonged period of low oil prices | Expanded private investments | Accelerated application of Industry 4.0 | recognized throughout the global market. The company accomplishes outstanding results in the construction, EPC, Expansion of distributed generation | Expansion of SW/ICT-utilizing services and water sector by manufacturing and supplying cast & forged products fabricated with the industry's fundamental materials as well as thermal/ nuclear power plant equipment and seawater desalination plants. Expanding new Increase Order Improvement in businesses Intake profitability Identifying new growth Build momentum to Improve profitability Global Leader in Power & Water Strengthening Core Competencies for engine & advancing increase order intake by through strengthened Sustained Growth commercialization implementing strategies by competitiveness The phrase Global Leader in Power & Water emphasizes how strongly region/ product type determined Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is to become the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has successfully evolved from world's leading player in the global power and desalination market. being a mere tool and equipment manufacturer to a bonafide player Based on the Doosan Way, which values transparency, technology, in the EPC industry and, in 2016, reinforced its business in the afterpeople and innovation, the company is strengthening its' foothold as market based on its expertise in in power plant equipment. Also, the a global leader in all aspects, cost competitiveness, quality, sales scale company has acquired the capability to respond flexibly and proactively and profitability, people and corporate culture cultivation while at the to market changes by pursuing various business areas including new Global Leader in Power & Water same time, staying at the forefront of technological trends, marketing and renewable energy (wind power), DG (ESS, microgrid), and etc., and market changes in the world in order to remain an advanced with its' expertise in the existing conventional power plant sector. global corporation. Backed by its' outstanding technological competence applied to businesses centered around the domestic market, the company has Continually Changing to Realize the Vision broadened its' horizons into the Middle East and East Asia (Vietnam, Seek the diversification of business areas in response to changes in the environment India) market, and is being recognized for its' excellence in technology As interest in the environment (e.g., greenhouse gas, fine dust, and in emerging markets as well. Obtain technology through acquiring global companies etc.) grows and the enduring low growth and low oil prices put strain Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction secures excellent capability on the Middle East government finances, private investment is being and competitiveness in equipment manufacturing but there has always Expand new markets backed by excellent technological capability boosted. Also, Industry 4.0 is expected to bring more opportunities in been the need for proprietary technology. To this end, the company Distributed Generation (DG) and the digital application sector as well acquired Skoda Power (Czech Republic, turbines), Babcock (United Establish a winning team by implementing the Doosan Way as the services market. To respond to such changes and reach its' vision, Kingdom, boilers) and Lentjes (Germany, CFB) to build its' technological Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction set its' strategic direction to capability to enhance its' capability in the renewable energy sector. focus on expanding new business areas, increasing order intake, and Acquisitions were pursued to secure the required technology and as enhancing profitability. The company will pursue the enhancement a result, companies of different corporate cultures were merged into and diversification of eco-friendly businesses in gas, biomass, wasteone. The increase in overseas projects led to a rise in the number of to-energy, Its' main areas of focus will be : the development and local manpower resources and thus, a unified corporate culture had early commercialization of the large-scale gas turbine, nuclear power to be established to achieve the company's vision and goals. As a biz expansion, services biz reinforcement through acquiring the result, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction announced and shared technology, organization and capability, DG biz expansion, Digital the Doosan Way in 2015 and has been sculpting a corporate culture Water IWP (Independent Water Project) biz expansion, and O&M biz befitting a global enterprise. enhancement. The Taean Thermal Power Plant 태안화력발전소 8 9 STRATEGY 1. Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Expanding New Businesses Taking on Endless Challenges for Growth Maintenance and Retrofit Projects The Service BG has been launched to pursue the after-market business, by integrating the businesses and organizations related to power generation services. It aims to provide a solution that can maximize stability and efficiency of the exiting power Advancing into the After-Market plants, through performance improvement of aging power plants, fuel conversion, and enhancement of fine dust relatedenvironmental technology. As service business opportunities in improving the performance and efficiency of aging power plants increase due to the aging of power plants worldwide and stronger environmental regulations, the scale The Service BG's Business The Service BG's Strategic Direction and business opportunities of the after-market are expanding rapidly. Thus, as a means to respond Scope immediately and effectively to such power market trends, the company launched the Service BG. • Building on the already obtained Meanwhile, as the storage facilities in domestic nuclear power plants are expected to reach saturation technology and capability, provide total service solutions across the entire value or the end of its' designed life span, cask (spent nuclear fuel storage) and decommissioning technology chain by developing technology and development is underway. • Operation & • R&M New build capability dedicated to service biz Maintenance Performance • RMS·Digital improvement Already obtained Service BusinessLife extension capability Specific Competencies AQCS Competencies Add-on/ Plant Extension •OEM Technology •Plant Assessment and •Plant Engineering Diagnostics Decommissioning Lifecycle Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Value Chain of the power • R&M Performance •Manufacturing, •Non-OEM Technology plants Installation •Reverse Engineering improvement •Procurement, •Field Engineering Life extension AQCS Quality control •Local Operation • Operation & Add-on/ •RMS/Digital, etc. AfterMaintenance Extension • RMS·Digital • Maximize business opportunities for the OEM fleet supplied by DHI • Expand business opportunities for Advancing into the the Non-OEM fleet supplied by other Plant Design Casting and Equipment Construction and After-Market Maintenance & Market Back-End & Decommissioning OEMs by expanding capabilities as total solutions provider Forging manufacturing Commissioning Performance Back-End Nuclear Fuel Cycle & Improvement Decommissioning of Cuclear Power Plant Back-End Nuclear Fuel Cycle As the spent fuel pools in the Hanbit and Gori nuclear power plant is Existing Business Areas After-Market expected to reach saturation in 2024, casks that allow temporary storage Business Areas of such spent nuclear pool must be acquired in stages. Since 2015, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has partnered with In addition to the service business that has been executed on a project basis, Doosan Heavy Industries NAC to develop a Korean type proprietary model for cask, with plans to & Construction has significantly expanded the recurring business sector to seek continuous growth in promote it as a new business area in the nuclear power sector. revenue as well as a steady stream of profits by establishing the Service BG. Decommissioning of Nuclear Power Plants The company will enhance the service business by setting up a differentiated organization and process, Nuclear power plants that have been shut down goes through a and gradually expand its' total solution offerings through closely managing its' clients based on a decommissioning process. If such power plants aren't being considered systematic-approach, identifying related business, and strengthening technological capability. As the to re-enter operation, a total of 12 domestic units will be expected to be 1) Process which uranium ore goes through a multi-stage process and is supplied world's nuclear power plants are expected to reach its' designed lifespan by the year 2030, a rising decommissioned. Therefore, Doosan will obtain core technologies (e.g., to a nuclear power plant demand in the nuclear power plant decommissioning market is expected. 2) Process which spent fuels burned in reactor are discharged, separated, redecontamination, remote cutting, decommissioning) to build up a track Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction focuses on the development of safe and economical processed or ultimately disposed record in the domestic market and afterwards, expand into the overseas 3) Restoration a nuclear power plant site to the original natural state prior to the market including the US and Europe. technology to enter the decommissioning business establishment of the facility Nuclear Power Business Front-End1) New Build Operation Back-End2) Decommissioning (Front-end nuclear Service (Back-end nuclear Decommissioning of Value Chain Construction fuel cycle) fuel cycle) nuclear power plant3) (local, overseas) 10 11 STRATEGY 1. Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Expanding New Businesses Taking on Endless Challenges for Growth Business Expansion that Considers Environmental Factors ESS1) and Microgrid2) Development of Equipment for Integrated Recently, stronger environmental regulations have led to a favorable atmosphere for business, particularly in the area of improving Environmental Solutions for Standard/New the performance of environmental facilities and aging power plants. By leveraging such opportunities, Doosan Heavy Industries As the importance of renewable energy increases under the Paris Standard Power Plants & Construction aims to solidify its position as an eco-friendly company and actively respond to global issues such as fine dust and Agreement, the market for ESS and microgrid, which are prerequisites greenhouse gases. for renewable energy and increased energy efficiency, will rapidly With growing concerns over rising levels of fine dust pollution, Special grow. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has acquired an USMeasures for the management of fine dust has been implemented based company that owns proprietary technology in ESS software and since June 2016. Expecting that this will drive the growth of AQCS changed the name to Doosan GridTech. Through this acquisition, a facilities, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will proactively win strategic foothold for the future energy business has been secured, and AQCS facility improvement projects for reducing fine dust at Standard the entire process from ESS design and installation to commissionings and New Standard power plants Moreover, it is currently seeking can now be performed. participation in national projects as well as the company is taking part in government projects and pursuing in-house development to 1) ESS (Energy Storage System): A system that changes and stores, via batteries, the electricity produced in thermal power plants and power sources such as meet fine dust emission criteria while shortening installation period. solar and wind power, and then discharges the electricity to meet sources of As for short-term projects prior to the completion of development, demand the company will forge technology alliances and implementation 2) Microgrid: A system that can independently supply electricity to small regions partnerships to win such projects in the early-stage market. in a stable manner by linking ESS and small renewable power sources of solar and wind power Improving the Performance of Standard Doosan Heavy's ESS & Mircogrid Biz Progress & and New Standard Power Plants Future Direction The Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant Units 5 and 6 2017~ Internal development Establishing technical Expand market and of total environmental cooperation and Performance Improvement of Thermal Power Plant Equipment product portfolio facilities partnerships • Blackout smog The Boryeong Thermal Power Plant Unit 3 The Yeongdong Thermal Unit 1, an Eco-Friendly | Foray into overseas market (e.g., US) separator Performance Improvement Project Biomass Power Plant • Non-leak combustion | Additional development Receive order for project on performance improvement of the Boryeong Claimed to release less carbon that result in less air pollution when 2016 of advanced products gas heater Thermal Power Plant Unit 3 which is 24 years old power plant. The compared to fossil fuel (e.g., coal, LNG, and etc.), biomass has been Enter the microgrid business retrofit will not only improve the plant efficiency by modernizing the growing in popularity as an eco-friendly fuel. By carrying out a project | Perform microgrid pilot projects aged facilities, but also help minimize environmental impact through to convert the Yeongdong Thermal Unit 1, an existing coal-fired | Secure core competency in control efforts such as reducing approx. 270,000 tonnes of CO2 every year. thermal power plant, into a biomass power plant, 1,270,000 REC systems, etc (Renewable Energy Certificates) will be obtained, and approx. 860,000 tonnes of CO2 will be reduced annually. 2015 Secure a foundation for the ESS business Obtaining Improving the Performance of the Latest Facilities Eco-Friendly Fuel from a Biomass Power Plant initial orders co2 | Perform local pilot projects of the total environmental Track record of the ESS business facility market for Reducing more than Saving about Reducing reduction of fine 270,000 tons 12 billion KRW 860,000 tons 15 35MW dust discharge An annual reduction of more than An annual savings of 12 billion An annual reduction of 860,000 Global Projects Total Capacity 270,000 tons of CO2 generated KRW in fuel costs tons of CO2 generated 12 13 STRATEGY 2. Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Increase Order Intake Pro-Active Efforts Towards Addressing Customer and Market Needs Diversification of Business Regions Gaining a Market-leading Status Seawater 1 Desalination Plant No. market share (2007 ~ 2013 1 Thermal Division, based on GWI1)) The Morupule A Thermal Power Plant The Jeddah PH.3 RO Desalination Plant First Order in the South Re-Entry into the Philippines Re-Entry into the Indonesian India's Obra-C and Kuwait's RO Seawater Saudi Arabian Fadhili African Generation Market with 300MW class CFB Power Generation Market Jawaharpur Power Plant Desalination Plant Combined-Cycle Power Plant As its' ﬁrst successful outcome since entering The demand for CFB boilers, which are charThrough a consortium with an Indonesian The Indian market is one of the world's two Kuwait's Gulf Coast is among one of the reAfter the successful construction of Rabigh 2 the South African power generation market, acterized as eco-friendly thermal power state-operated construction company, a congreatest power generation markets, the other gions with worst quality of water. In May Thermal Power Plant, a project for the Fadhili Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has generators, is growing mainly in developing version project for the Grati Combined-cycle being China, where USC power plant orders 2016, Doosan Heavy Industries & ConstrucCombined-Cycle Power Plant in Saudi Arabia signed a deal with Botswana Power Corp. to countries such as the Philippines and IndoPower Plant worth KRW 180 billion has been are expected to be continuously placed. We tion successfully obtained an order for an worth about 1 trillion KRW has been obimprove the performance of the Morupule nesia in Southeast Asia, Turkey, and South obtained. The company will supply three succeeded in winning the Obra-C and ZaRO (Reverse Osmosis) seawater desalination tained. It is a large-scale project with a powA thermal power plant. The plant is located Africa. Utilizing the CFB boiler technology acHRSGs and one steam turbine to the existing wahapur coal ﬁred thermal power plant in plant worth 460 billion KRW in Kuwait. Such er generation capacity of 1,519 MW, which northeast northeast of Gaborone, the capital quired through its German subsidiary. Doo300MW gas-ﬁred power plant and covert it northern India. Doosan will be responsible for a result stems from the trust that has been supplies power and heat to the Saudi Fadhili of the Republic of Botswana. The compasan Lentjes, Doosan Heavy Industries & Conto a 484MW combined cycle power plant. the engineering, procurement, and construcbuilt between partners when having successgas complex. The project will be carried out ny will replace and repair main equipment struction has obtained a 300MW class CFB This was the most successful re-entry into the tion (EPC2)) of the plants that consists of two fully carried out the Shuwaikh RO project in by EPC, which performs all the processes including turbines and boilers that have boiler project in Subic Redondo. This is the Indonesian market in 10 years since the Cire660MW units each, producing a total capaciKuwait in 2008. Backed by such order wins, from design to manufacturing, installation stopped running due to aging since 2012 ﬁrst application of 300MW class CFB boilers bon Coal-ﬁred Thermal Power plant project ty of 2,640MW. This project was a large-scale the company has solidiﬁed its position in the and commissioning. Amidst the slump of to successfully improve plant performance, in the Philippines, and Doosan successfully in 2007. Along with the Subic Thermal Power project that was awarded with international Middle East , the target market for seawater local construction ﬁrms in terms of orders expecting to contribute to stabilizing power re-entered the market after 10 years since Plant project in the Philiippines, this deal as competitive bidding, and we were able to desalination projects. Doosan Heavy holds obtained in the Middle East due to low oil supply in the Botswana region. Such achievethe establishment of the Cebu Power Plant in well is a case that proves the excellence of win orders after intense competition with the greatest share of the thermal desalinaprices, Doosan has acquired this large-scale ment is a result of the market diversiﬁcation 2007. This is signiﬁcant in that it has contribDoosan's technological capability and project Indian companies. Doosan Heavy Industries tion market and is determined to target the project and, thus, established an advantastrategy that had been pursued, and Doosan uted to an increase in orders obtained for CFB execution skills, laying the foundation for fu& Construction proactively target the Indian global RO seawater desalination market that geous position in the Saudi Arabian power will continue to proactively target the South boilers in the future. ture order wins. market, where orders for coal-ﬁred thermal is estimated to be worth $4.5 billion by 2020. generation market, which will build additionAfrican market with high growth potential. power plants with annual average output of al 50,000MW combined-cycle power plants. 18GW are expected to be placed by 2020. 1) GWI (Global Water Intelligence) 2) EPC (Engineering, Purchase & Construction) 14 15 STRATEGY 2. Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Increase Order Intake Pro-Active Efforts Towards Addressing Customer and Market Needs China An MOU was signed with China's Iran Canada Guangdong Electric Power Design Institute A power plant and desalination plant An MOU was signed with Canada's to discuss joint advancement into foreign MOA was signed for a comprehensive SNC-Lavalin for the lifespan extension of power generation markets through EPC and EPC financing contract for a utility operating nuclear power plants and business equipment business cooperation. plant. cooperation concerning new power plants. Kuwait Doha RO Saudi Arabia Fadhili, Shuaibah, India Jeddah, Ras Al Khair Obra-C, Jawaharpur, Barh, Bandel Egypt Ain Sokhna Egypt Cairo West, Assiut Philippines Subic Redondo Regional diversification Indonesia Based on the outstanding technical competency amassed in the local market, the company is Grati continuously expanding into the Middle East and East Asian (Vietnam and India) regions. At the same time, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's technology will become known worldwide as its areas of business are preemptively expanded to newer markets such as the Philippines and Africa. Vietnam An MOU was signed with EVN GenCo3, a Botswana Vietnamese power generation company, for Higher market status Morupule A technical support and business cooperation Based on its leading technology and project execution capabilities in markets such as India, Kuwait, in power plant operation and management. Saudi Arabia and Egypt where projects are currently in progress, Doosan has successfully obtained additional orders, securing a competitive edge in the global market by establishing a leading position. External partnerships Cooperative relations with external experts and stakeholders are being established through technical development agreements and business partnerships. By reinforcing and expanding positive partnerships in the future, we will continue to work towards pioneering overseas markets and securing outstanding external technology. 16 17 STRATEGY 3. Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Improvement in Profitability Securing Fundamental Competitiveness Industry 4.0 Integrated Design With the advent of Industry 4.0, the Digital Factory is being implemented to improve manufacturing competitiveness by converging digital technology into production sites. In conjunction with this, the Integrated Design System is being also expanded to achieve the Digital Factory. By Integrated Design System 2020, a variety of systems for each priority area will be implemented with a consideration of each BG's specificity and current status and, after To preemptively respond to changes in the external environment and eliminate design quality issues during the progress of a project, an that, an automatic production system with virtual simulation will be established in phases. integrated design system has been set up. It comprises 4 systems based on re-defined engineering work process and requests from different sectors of business, and plans to improve consistency and quality of design through the standard engineering process and strengthened utilization of the accumulated data. Achieving the Digital Factory through Utilization of 3D Data Conducting Concurrent Engineering among Automated Data Sharing Organizations ESS 3D concurrent engineering environment Consistency in design New Biz. Model Service Offering quality Design data Engineering Real-time data Database accumulation Major Changes Direction of 01 02 03 04 Industry 4.0 in the Heavy Industry Provide a design work Providing all groups and Provide a foundation Provide a foundation for environment centered on subsidiaries a foundation for the sharing, systematic management standard design procedures for 3D concurrent distribution and and utilization through the Direction of Pursuit mutually defined among engineering based on the document control of construction of a database Improvement in profitability through manufacturing innovation and teams database design outputs for design data and outputs increased competitiveness in quality, production cost and delivery by Integrated utilization of ICT and digital technology Expected Design Effects Promotion Activities and Plan Expected Quantitative Effects (based on EBIT*) Expected Qualitative Effects Secure fundamental competitiveness from the manufacturing (Unit: KRW 100 million) standpoint Operational Establish the Digital Factory 1. Preventing the omission of design change information Total 2. Understanding the status of the real-time engineering Excellence Secure fundamental competitiveness from a design standpoint 1,074 progress by participating design teams Establish an integrated design environment based on 3D models 3. Eliminating repeated work and securing consistency 4. Design capitalization possible through the systematic Digital 310 306 279 management of data Factory 162 5. Standardization of the design quality level between heavy industry and overseas subsidiaries 17 6. Ability to respond immediately to requests from clients 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and customers by utilizing the databases * EBIT: Earnings before interest and tax 18 19 STRATEGY 3. Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Improvement in Profitability Securing Fundamental Competitiveness Digital Factory Risk Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates an integrated risk management system to effectively manage risk factors that may potentially Areas to Pursue be generated in the midst of a business operation. Risk factors are categorized into financial, business, compliance and CSR risks and are being The Digital Factory involves technology that converges 3D design and simulation technology to actualize a virtual factory and derive optimized properly managed by teams with expertise. production process. By 2020, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to establish the Digital Factory in all production processes for increasing production efficiency and manufacturing competitiveness. Risk Management Financial Risk Risk Analysis As volitility of the global economy increasAs a global company that operates a numThe company checks both business opporProduction Input Production Process Production Output es, identifying and managing the potential ber of overseas business sites, Doosan Heavy tunities and risks through step-by-step operProduction plan ｜ Facility ｜ worker ｜ Production and quality risks that may occur during the operation Industries & Construction strives to minimize ating proﬁt simulation over the course of a work order materials performance monitoring of a business has become a critical element risks related to ﬁnancial factors such as stock project. Standardized checklists are used to in a company's sustainable growth. Doosan prices and accounting standards. To this analyze the impact on business and response Heavy Industries & Construction categorizes end, the company has established a Foreign measures, and the results of such analyses Standardization and digitalization Minimization of manual work Strengthened visibility of the of core production-related and human error by automating production process through automated risk factors by the potential for occurrence Exchange Risk Management Guideline to are reported to the CEO every month. information and data integration facilities monitoring of the production status and constantly manages them through each hedge currency risks. of features and safety control responsible team. Finance Major aspects: Sensitivity analysis by scenario including cost, cash flow, taxes, and etc. Risk Management System Business Risk Environment The executives and teams responsible for The risks related to new markets and busiMajor aspects: Establishing midto longterm reduction plans such as greenhouse each risk factor conduct monitoring on a regnesses as well as quality are recognized as gas emissions, water scarcity, etc. as well as Prevention of quality failures and an emergency response system Feedback maximization of productivity ular basis and, if an issue arises, it is to be business risks. Thus, the stability of the busibased on big data analysis reported directly to the CEO. Also, risks that ness is sought by establishing a preemptive Others have a great impact on the company are to response system that includes potential risk Utilization of a quality gate system on risks, human rights, transparent management, Major Functions be discussed in the board of directors meetfactors in all stages of business from delivery etc., which influence the performance of a project (clarifying major risk factors over ing for ﬁnal decision-making. Three directors of raw materials, provision of products and the progress of a project and establishing who are risk assessment experts in each area, services to post-management. A standardmitigation measures) Minimization of manual work Digitalization of on-site production Standardization and digitalization Prevention of quality failures and and human error by automating information and ensuring of visibility of core production information and maximization of productivity based once appointed and provided with relevant ized guideline is provided especially for qualifacilities through automatic creation relation among features on big data analysis training, make decisions based on their exty risks to thoroughly review all major aspects Automation of production facilities / Digitalization of production plan through pertise in laws related to the economy, envirelated to quality before proceeding to the Production status monitoring Facility operation analysis plant logistics simulation Automation of quality inspection Tracking management of production Digitalization of work orders based ronment, society, and internal transactions, next stage. Additionally, to manage various Companywide Risk Smart energy management etc. risks that may occur over the course of projdevices materials based on electronic tags on 3D design ect risk execution, standardized checklists are Management Culture EHS real-time monitoring Digitalization of quality information Big data quality control and documents used in each of the steps to allow for effecAll employees including the CEO are subject to Location-based allocation of heavy CEO tive decisions and minimized risks in advance. financial compensation through performance equipment Through this, a standardized process to be assessment in risk settlement. The onset of applied to future projects has been estabrisk and any relevant issues are reported in Achievements and Plan lished and is operational. regular management performance meetings and project operation committees, and a risk Securing fundamental competitiveness in manufacturing through Industry 4.0 in the production sector management culture is being established Head of Head of Head of Compliance & CSR Risk throughout the company through education 2017 2018~2019 2020~ Financial Strategic Management Compliance & CSR risks in terms of the envion management principles and processes for Management Planning Division ronment, human rights, information security, each type of risk. Securing visibility and data on site Increase in operational flexibility Optimization of data-based Division etc. are dealt with immediately by the rethrough data linking production operation Financial Risk Business Risk Compliance sponsible teams upon their occurrence, and • Monitoring the system-based operation & CSR Risk status and waste elements • Linking designs, production plans, orders • Simulation-based production planning a companywide education and improvement • Accumulating experience in successful and outcomes (quality) and management system has been set up and is running to preautomation • Sharing changed items in real-time / • Optimization based on big data analysis vent recurrences. improving the speed of response 20 21 Business & Performance Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Power Plant Service Power Generation Service Business By developing specialized service technology and competency based on existing technology and competency, we aim to continue our growth as a Total Solution Thermal Power Plant I Coal-Fired Thermal Power Generation Provider that offers the solutions that our customers need. Thus, we will expand our business From the design stage of a coal-fired thermal power plant, a total service that ranges from portfolio into all areas of power generation services such as parts repair & replacement and R&M, design, manufacturing and construction to supervision and commissioning of equipment all of which are existing areas of business, as well as power plant asset management and digital such as boilers, turbines and generators, which are major generation machines, is performed. solutions development, and, through expansion of the Recurring business, we will accomplish In 2016, the orders of primary machines for 660MW, ultra-super critical pressure coal-fired not only consistent growth in sales but also in profits. In addition, we will expand our business to thermal power plants in India such as Obra-C and Jawaharpur were obtained, and, by winning not only the power plants in which the company's OEM technology has been applied, but also to the CFB project for an eco-friendly power plant in Subic Redondo of the Philippines, we aim non-OEM power plants. to further expand our dominance in key markets. At the same time, we were able to re-enter During this process, we will seek a smooth integration with Doosan Babcock, which possesses the Egyptian power generation market by obtaining the order for the Cairo West and Assiut in-depth business experiences and know-how in the service industry, in order to maximize projects. Moreover, the construction of large-scale projects such as Song Hau 1 and Vinh organizational and personal synergy. As a Total Solution Provider, the service BG will put a Tan 4 in Vietnam are underway, and Saudi Arabia's Rabigh 2, Vietnam's Mong Duong and significant amount of effort into supporting the stable operation of our clients' local power plants, Saemangeum projects have been successfully completed as coal-fired thermal power plants of expansion of their overseas businesses as well as the establishment of foreign bases for their growth Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and are recognized for their state-of-the-art quality. as our sustainable partnerships. The headquarters serves a role of developing and providing core service competency at local bases, while local operations are responsible for close engagement Combined-Cycle Power Plant I Combined-Cycle Power Generation with customers during operation, repair and maintenance activities, thus establishing a virtuous Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supplies core equipment such as steam and gas cycle for discovering related businesses opportunities. Based on the service competency that our turbines needed for combined-cycle and cogeneration power plants. Based on its outstanding customers require, we will discover after-sales customers and establish long-term relationships by technology, it has constructed Hwaseong Dongtan 2 and supplied primary tools and equipment acting as the sole communication window of the service business. while winning the order for designing, the management of equipment and construction. In addition, a large-scale combined-cycle power plant construction project in Fadhili, Saudi Arabia has been acquired, firming up the company's position in the combined-cycle power market. We Water Plant have supplied essential equipment needed for combined-cycle power complexes in Seoul and Pocheon as well as cogeneration in Yangju and Sejong, and conducted large combined-cycle Water Business As a global leader in the water industry, we offer solutions for the full spectrum from seawater desalination to water treatment areas. With advanced technology power plant construction in Jebel Ali M in Dubai and Qurayyah in Saudi Arabia. and abundant experiences in supplying seawater desalination plants, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is one of only a handful of companies in the world that owns independently patented Nuclear Power Plant I Nuclear Power Generation technology in 3 major processes of seawater desalination including Reverse osmosis, multi-effect We supply the core equipment needed for nuclear power generation and have the capabilities desalination and multi-stage flash. It provides desalination production equipment that can supply to perform all services from design and production of devices to their construction and approximately 6,700,000 tonnes of desalination per day which can be used simultaneously by 22 commissionings. Based on this, we successfully carry out not only local but also overseas nuclear million people around the world, and also continues to build its reputation as a leading corporation power plant projects, promoting our advanced technology all over the world. in the seawater desalination EPC (engineering, purchase and construction) and O&M (operation and maintenance). Moreover, it supplies advanced processing technology and recycling equipment tailored to each source of demand based on the engineering competency and experiences it has accumulated throughout the water treatment industry. Casting | Forging Renewable Energy Casting and Forging Business From the manufacturing to processing of essential Renewable Energy Business Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction materials in various industries such as generation, shipbuilding, steel and automotive, a total production has successfully developed WinDS3000TM, a 3MW offshore wind power system, a first for a facility has been established. Furthermore, cast and forged products of outstanding quality have local company, and won a number of offshore wind power supply contracts including the been supplied all over the world based on our excellent technology and deep experience. As demand Woljeong project. Also in 2016, the 299MW British biomass projects and the 150MW Danish industries become more advanced, we seek the construction of optimal infrastructure for production and 74MW Pakistani projects were obtained to reach 523MW in the total amount of biomass of metal materials with high added values and high functionality in order to continuously improve our generation projects thus far. We have also entered the wind power service industry starting with competitiveness in the materials industry and, based on this, we've been consistently accumulating maintenance contracts for the Tamna Offshore Wind Power and Woljeong Characterization export results in Korea as well as United States, Japan, Southeast Asia and Europe. Also, by independently Village wind power generators, striving for the utmost in satisfaction among customers from developing and supplying various cast and forged goods, we make significant contributions in the equipment supply to services. In the future, by accelerating entry into overseas markets including localization of materials and improvement of competitiveness in export in relevant local industries. In Europe and Southeast Asia, the renewable energy business within the company's portfolio is the future, we will accelerate dominance of the ultra-large crank shaft market based on our special slated to expand. By acquiring 5.5MW offshore wind power generation technology, we secured manufacturing technology and exclusive facilities as vessels continue to become increasingly larger. In a superior model in the wind power generation equipment market by securing the 3MW model addition, through 17,000-ton press machines newly constructed to procure a future growth engine, we and the large model. will improve existing products' productivity and reduce production costs as well as secure competency in the manufacturing of ultra-large forged goods and expand the high-added value product pool, in order to promote the company's status as a leader of the global forging industry. 22 23 Business & Performance Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Securing Core Foundation Technology Technology of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction to Change the Achieved strong order acquisition Securing a new growth engine Future of the Planet and Mankind results for 2 consecutive years based on digital technology Despite the global economic recession, we have We have established a foundation to procure a new tallied strong results in order acquisitions for 2 growth engine based on digital technology. We have consecutive years. We have won not only local acquired a U.S. company that owns OEM technoloprojects such as the Boryeong Thermal Power Unit gy in ESS software to launch Doosan GridTech, and 3's performance improvement construction but also preoccupied an advantageous position in the global overseas EPC generation projects in India's Obra-C ESS market based on positive results in orders we Plant Behavior Performance Prediction Technology and Jawaharpur, Vietnam's Vinh Tan 4 extension, Saudi Arabia's Fadhili, and the Philippine's Subic acquired. At the same time, we have established a foundation for Industry 4.0 by introducing the digRedondo as well as large-scale RO projects including ital factory and the integrated design environment, By applying a system, which has combined individual elements that constitute a plant, to a virtual operation, design costs are reduced and issues in operation are checked for in advance. Based on this, data on temperature, pressure, etc. of the inside of a 2016 Highlights Kuwait's Doha Stage 1. and expedited ICT by starting a demo project for boiler plant care software services in the Dangjin Thermal Power Unit 5. plant is obtained in advance for the development of a module that can secure reliability as well as safety, and has been applied to actual projects including the Yeongheung and Sinboryeong Plants as well as Song Hau and Karabatan located overseas, completing successful field tests. Nuclear Power Service-Based Technology Diversiﬁcation of global EPC projects Reconfirmation of a solid position in Nuclear power establishing a stepping By developing repair technology and an inspection system of BMI nozzles that are not possible to be replaced in high We have sought to diversify our orders through exthe global RO market stone for the 2nd leap forward radiation zones, we have been selected as a preferred candidate for negotiation over repair of cover materials used in pansive local sales activities for global EPC projects. Our status as the global leader in the seawater desaliWe have made significant efforts to find new Hanbit 5's nuclear reactor vessels. In addition, in line with the trend of increasing needs in the replacement market due By obtaining a series of large global EPC projects nation business has been reconﬁrmed by obtaining markets. An MOU was signed with a Chinese nuclear to aging of nuclear reactors, we have successfully developed replacement head manufacturing technology for nuclear including Saudi Arabia's Fadhili, India's Obra-C and various RO projects. Based on the differentiated level facility service company to build a bridgehead for reactors and steam generators, and have delivered 112 defect-free products thus far through replacement devices in local Jawaharpur, and the Philippines' Subic Redondo, of technology possessed by Doosan Heavy Industries entry into the Chinese nuclear facility service market a Gold Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit has & Construction, we have surpassed many world-rewhile a business agreement was completed with a nuclear facilities and the Watts Bar Unit 2 Project in the U.S., among others. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will been awarded from the Korean government in 2016. nowned competitors and won the project for the Canadian design firm with key contracts on heavycontinue to expand its O&M services of the nuclear power BG to ensure competency in service-based technology. At the same time, we have conducted various local large-scale RO-type seawater desalination plant at water reactors in nuclear facilities in order to advance and global projects such as the Hwaseong Dongtan Doha Stage 1, Kuwait. In addition, a demonstration into the lifespan extension business for aging nuclear 2 group energy facility construction based on thorceremony was held for joint research on a seawater facilities. We have constructed the Shin Kori Unit 3, Water O&M and Water Treatment Process ough process control. desalination facility with a research institute under Korea's first-ever, 1,400MW-class advanced nuclear Saudi Arabia's seawater desalination administration, power plant, and successfully carried out water as part of the effort to develop advanced technology pressure testing at room temperature on the Shin The essential element in the seawater RO plant industry is understanding and analyzing the quality of different seawater in each in seawater desalination. Hanul Unit 1 while producing and supplying RCP region and selecting the proper pre-processing methods. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has led the development (Reactor Coolant Pump) and MMIS (Man Machine of the world's first multi-film pollution prediction technology and seawater precision analysis device that can measure fine Interface System) to the Shin Hanul Units 1 and 2. pollutants with a size as small as 0.01μm. Based on this, the most optimal pre-processing method for the water quality of Kuwait's Doha plant has been analyzed and the existing DMF pre-processing method was changed to the UF method, thus achieving a cost reduction of about 10 billion KRW. By securing fundamental competitiveness in the seawater RO preprocessing business, we will continue to expand our business in the water O&M industry based on our competency in RO film pollution diagnosis/analysis. Strengthened dominance Proving technology in boilers, IGCC Building infrastructure for the in the turbine/generator markets and wind power production of ultra-large forged goods 3D Printing Technology We have proven our outstanding technology in the We have successfully constructed the Yeosu Thermal To reinforce our fundamental competitiveness in the turbine and generator industries and taken a leadPower Unit 1 to which we applied CFB (Circulating casting and forging business, we have built producing role in the market. While obtaining orders for Fluidized Bed) boilers, and also completed the tion infrastructure. We have successfully completWith advantages such as reduced production costs and manufacturing processes and greater convenience in the production turbines and generators in Egypt amid ﬁerce comignition of the Shinboryeong Thermal Power Unit 2's ed the installation of the main body of a 17,000 of complex design products, 3D printing technology is widely regarded as a next-generation production technology that can petition with global corporations, we have simultaneously signed a technical partnership MOU with a boilers, which are of USC-type and Korea's first-ever ton-level press, which is the world's largest among replace existing processes. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has sought the development of 3D printing materials and state-operated generation company in southern Viet1,000MW-class boilers. Also, through commercial pneumatic type presses, using 4 supports, and the production process technology for manufacturing next-generation gas turbine parts through national assignments given by nam, solidifying a foundation for advancement into operation of the Taean IGCC plant, we now own the crankshaft factory recently manufactured its 3,000th the Vietnamese generation service industry. Also, world's 7th largest number of commercialized IGCC product 24 years after it was built. At the same time, the government. Also, we plan to create new businesses through the localization of nickel metal powder for 3D printers and, cooperation with KEPCO KPS has been strengthened plants, and have also started the era of large-scale we have pursued the diversiﬁcation of our business in the long term, reinforce the company's competitiveness in the next-gen gas turbine market by securing parts manufacturing to prepare for preoccupation of the market for looffshore wind power generation in Korea through by signing an agreement for the localization of tools cal standard thermal power 500MW performance the flawless construction of the Jeju Tamna offshore and equipment of offshore plants. and repair technology to which 3D printing technology is applied. improvement. Moreover, we have successfully perproject, Korea's first commercial offshore wind formed synchronization and connection of the Sinboryeong Unit 1, Korea's ﬁrst-ever 1,000MW-class power complex. USC thermal power plant. 24 25 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix 02 Commitments to Sustainability Light and water, this is the heart and soul of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Introduction to the SDGs 28 We supply bright light in dark Opportunity Analysis of the SDGs 30 places and clean water to dry Alignment with the SDGs 32 places. This is the calling and 2030 SDG Commitments 34 reason for the existence of Increase Water Reserves 35 Doosan Heavy Industries & Ensure Access to Sustainable Energy 36 Construction. Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions 37 Prevent Diseases and Expand Treatment 38 Foster Local Talents 39 26 27 Introduction to the SDGs Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through Technology that Increases the Value of the Earth The UN SDGs are objectives related to detailed activities for the prosperity of people and the Earth. Purpose By contributing to the achievement of SDGs through innovation and creativity in business, Doosan Heavy Industries Pursuing the creation of long-term values & Construction will continue to create new business opportunities and increase the value of the planet. through core businesses and socially responsible management Business Opportunity Creating new business opportunities amidst social and environmental changes Sustainable Development Goals CSR For sustainable growth that is responsible for both business and society, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has selected people-centered, reliable operation, responsible participation and creation of CSR values as core areas to implement a variety of socially responsible management efforts. Commitment For its execution with reinforced connection with the business, we have recently defined the purpose of pursuing the UN SDGs and analyzed Proposing objectives for the contribution of social potential opportunities in terms of our business. To this end, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has chosen clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, climate change action, good health and well-being and quality education as 5 major areas, and set midto longvalues by 2030 in association with the UN SDGs term goals to achieve by 2030. In the future, detailed activities will be conducted for each of the SDGs in association with business strategies, and the progress will be shared through an integrated report. 28 29 Opportunity Analysis of the SDGs Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Analyzing the Risks and Opportunities of Objectives in Contributing to the SDGs The worldwide interest in the environment is applied throughout the UN SDGs in diverse ways. In particular, clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, climate change action, etc. are closely related to the water and power plant businesses, which are two of Doosan Heavy Industries Analyzing Risks and Opportunities & Construction's primary areas of focus. To define the core areas of the SDGs and Doosan's objectives, the current overview and forecasting of water, energy and response to climate change worldwide have been examined and, subsequently, factors of potential risks and opportunities have been analyzed. Importance and Current Status Forecast water As a response to strengthened environmental regulations and water shortages, demand for desalination and advanced water treatment are estimated to increase. Also, the markets for innovative water reuse, recycling technology and infrastructure that help with supplying safe water will grow, which will further expand the water supply through desalination plants. In addition, the growth of the advanced water Clean Water and The Global Risks Report of 2016, published by the Forecast of clean water supply treatment market, such as ZLD (Zero Liquid Discharge), will also be accelerated due Sanitation World Economic Forum, selected water risk as one to reinforced environmental regulations. vs. demand in 2030 of the major economic risks along with the global financial and food crises. As the shortage of the 40% water supply and deterioration of water quality accelerate, water risk has become a factor that threatens not only people's health but also the Below very existence of communities. Source | 2030 Water Resource Group energy Reinforced environmental regulations will also induce an expanded distribution of new and renewable energy while demands on existing sources of power, including coal and gas, are estimated to continue. Coal-fired thermal power will maintain its status as a primary source of power in developing countries whereas gas-fired thermal power will experience a consistent growth in the United States, as well Affordable and Unlike the market environment of the past when Global power demand in 2035 as non-OECD Asian and Middle Eastern countries among others because of its Clean Energy energy was mass-produced and consumed, today's (Compared to 2013) low cost and eco-friendliness compared to coal. Also, strengthened regulations in energy market is entering a new era based on recent the construction of new plants will induce a greater number of projects for R&M 37% global trends of climate change, low oil prices and (Renovation & Modernization) and the improvement of environmental facilities. the expansion of new and renewable energy. Thus, it has become critical to establish strategies by comprehensively considering not only economic but increase also environmental issues. Source | IEA 'World Energy Outlook 2015' environment Since the Paris Agreement in 2015, each country has set its own goals for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and conducted energy reduction policies, and, in response, companies have also introduced a carbon pricing system. GE, GM, Google, Nestle and many other global conglomerates have applied the carbon pricing system to deal with the greenhouse gas emission rights and, as of 2015, Climate Change Action In response to environmental issues such as greenhouse Governmental goal to reduce about 36% of the entire amount of carbon emissions around the world are subject gas emissions and fine dust, most members of the greenhouse gas emissions by to these systems. Once a simple topic of discussion from the environmental OECD have strengthened their regulations through standpoint, greenhouse gas emissions now requires a greater focus of importance 2030 (compared to BAU) introduction of an ecotax. Meanwhile, the number of in its control and response from the standpoint of social responsibility. 37% nations that levy taxes related to the environment is on the rise and it has been analyzed that those countries have actually experienced a significant reduction in energy consumption and greenhouse gases, prompting reduction opinions that the Korean energy tax system needs to be reformed. 30 31 Alignment with the SDGs Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix SDGs through Technology that Increases the Value of the Earth Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction considers the UN SDGs new business opportunities. To actively participate in the execution of sustainable Through diversification of markets and expansion of business execution results, Doosan will continue to review and improve contribution goals. development goals through the technical competency that increases the value of the earth, it has reviewed objective connections, which apply For this, we will not only strengthen data management for each business and project from the social and environmental standpoint but also the company action guidelines proposed by the UN SDGs, through a feasibility review, market benchmarking and various innovation activity discover new business avenues that can contribute to the SDGs. analyses for each region of business. As a result, the SDGs that appeared to be closely related to business activities conducted by Doosan Heavy Also, we will analyze performance management indices on social contribution activities to manage social and environmental impact values. Industries & Construction are clean water and sanitation (Goal No. 6), affordable and clean energy (Goal No. 7), climate change action (Goal No. 13), quality education (Goal No. 4) and good health and well-being (Goal No. 3) among others. For these SDGs chosen through this process, Doosan has established its 2030 goals and aims to continuously pursue them in association with business objectives. 6. Clean Water and Sanitation Social Needs Review needs for the SDGs Increasing the amount of water Materiality for each reserves through the water business Assessment business region Connection to 7. Affordable and Clean Energy business goals Ensuring access to sustainable energy through high-efficiency, ecofriendly development technology 2030 SDG 13. Climate Change Action Industrial & Commitments Analysis of Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Global Trend of Doosan Heavy by developing climate change trends and best response technology Specification Industries & practice cases of of 5 goals Construction market-leading companies 3. Good Health and Well-Being Preventing diseases and expanding treatment through free medical care and the provision of medical supplies Connection to social contribution goals Impact on Business Internal 4. Quality Education promotional Fostering local talents through Value Chain activities education tailored to each stage of growth and resource analysis 32 33 2030 SDG Commitments Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been conducting business activities that can increase the value of the earth through technology which increases the amount of water reserves in areas with severe water shortages issues as well as by improving access to sustainable energy Increase Water Reserves in countries with emerging markets. Now, we aim to tie together the SDGs proposed by the UN with the core businesses of Doosan in order to establish and achieve the goals, which are set up to contribute to sustainable growth worldwide. By 2030, through our water project, we will increase the Based on business characteristics and sustainability activities, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has specified SDG commitments in the 5 amount of water reserves in the Arabian Peninsula region by following areas: 1) increasing the amount of water reserves, 2) ensuring access to sustainable energy, 3) reducing greenhouse gas emissions, 4) preventing diseases and expanding treatment, and 5) fostering local talents. 10% (2 billion tonnes) compared to BAU and continuously expand the supply of water resources in all regions around the SDGs Major Details of the SDG Commitments world that face water shortages. Increase By 2030, through our water project, we will increase the amount of water reserves in the Arabian SDG 6. Clean Water the amount Peninsula region by 10% (2 billion tons) compared to BAU and continuously expand the supply of water resources in all regions around the world that face water shortages. and Sanitation Clean, sanitary water is an essential part of people's lives. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction of water plans to contribute to solving the social issues of water resource depletion and sanitation | Continuously expanding supply of water resources in regions facing water shortages such as the Arabian Peninsula, Ensure the availability and reserves through a broad water resources purchase project that will be approached from the business, Africa and South America sustainable management of water | 2 billion tons is equivalent to the amount of water that may be simultaneously used by about 13 million people and sanitation for all environmental and regional standpoints. (based on about 400L water usage per person) 6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all Ensure With our high-efficiency, eco-friendly power generation technology, we will increase the amount of 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality access to eco-friendly coal-fired thermal power supplied to emerging markets around the world by 6% (40GW) by reducing pollution, eliminating compared to BAU by 2030, and, through enhancement of energy technology in high-efficiency gas dumping and minimizing release of sustainable harmful chemical substances and turbines, wind power, ESS, etc., we will contribute to the diversification of the overall energy mix. energy materials, halving the proportion | Constructing a high-efficiency, eco-friendly 40GWclass coal-fired thermal power plant in the next 15 years in of untreated wastewater and emerging markets substantially increasing recycling and | Diversifying the energy mix through high-efficiency gas turbines, wind power, smart grid technology, etc. safe reuse globally Reduce By 2030, we will reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions that occur over the course of our greenhouse business within Korea by 20% (70,000 tons) compared to BAU, and continue to develop climate change Major connected activities The Arabian Peninsula, which includes Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, is a region that severely lacks response technology to reduce greenhouse gas. in water resources. In this vital market, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has supplied gas | Actively contributing to INDC (Intended Nationally Determined Contributions) submitted to the UN through energy Business desalination facilities to Ras Al-Khair in Saudi Arabia and Shuwaikh in Kuwait, contributing to an emissions efficiency and the digital factory increase in water resources of the region. Also, by establishing a water R&D center, which plays • Seawater Desalination Plants | Continuously expanding investments into R&D in response to climate changes such as energy efficiency and a critical role in Doosan's water R&D global network, in Dammam in eastern Saudi Arabia, we renewable energy as well as energy reduction activities within the supply network • Water·Wastewater Treatment Plants • ZLD (Zero Liquid Discharge), MBR pursue the research and development of core technology in the evaporation system and hybrid (Membrane Bioreactor), etc. desalination areas. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's desalination plant project offers seawater desalination, and water treatment plant and water treatment facility solutions based Prevent By 2030, we will supply basic medical supplies and support local treatments for 80,000 residents Social contribution on professional technology. For the entire global population to be able to easily access sanitary of minority groups residing in impoverished areas of Vietnam and India, thus contributing to the water and use sustainable water, we will contribute to solving social issues. diseases • Installing and donating wells for local improvement of global health and sanitation. residents near construction sites in and | Conducting free local medical treatment activities for about 2,800 the underprivileged citizens of Vietnam every year India expanding through the social contribution project in cooperation with Chung-Ang University Hospital • Donating seawater desalination treatment | Providing health diagnoses and necessary medical supplies to about 2,000 marginalized citizens of India every year Saudi Arabia Kuwait Chile facilities to An Binh Island, Vietnam through our health camp program About 3,600,000 About About 220,000 (200 m3/day) (tons/day) in Ras 1,100,000 (tons/day) in Al-Khair, etc. (tons/day) in Escondida, etc. Shuwaikh, etc. Foster local By 2030, through Youth Energy Project, a renowned social contribution program, we will help foster Qatar talents local talents by providing opportunities for education and career exploration tailored to each growth About 270,000 (tons/ stage for as many as 50,000 marginalized children and teenagers. day) in Ras Laffan, etc. | Providing opportunities for equal education and career exploration for about 3,000 students in elementary, middle and high schools every year in the regions of our workplaces United Arab | Fostering engineering talents and improving the employment rate by providing education in engineering and Emirates Oman sciences through Doosan Class and vocational training consortium About 1,200,000 (tons/day) About 150,000 (tons/day) in Shuweihat, etc. in Sohar, etc. 34 35 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Ensure Access to Sustainable Energy Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions With our high-efficiency, eco-friendly power generation By 2030, we will reduce the amount of greenhouse gas technology, we will increase the amount of eco-friendly coalemissions that occur over the course of our business within fired thermal power supplied to emerging markets around Korea by 20% (70,000 tons) compared to BAU, and continue the world by 6% (40GW) compared to BAU by 2030, and, by to develop climate change response technology to reduce enhancing energy technology in high-efficiency gas turbines, greenhouse gas. wind power, ESS, etc., we will contribute to the diversification of the overall energy mix. SDG 7. Affordable and SDG 13. Climate Clean Energy In order for a society to grow, a stable and economical supply of energy is a necessity. Since the Change Action Climate change has a significant impact on the earth's ecological environment through extreme signing of the recent Paris Agreement, the market for eco-friendly and highly efficient 1,000MW climate phenomena, rising sea levels and the acidification of oceans. Ensure access to affordable, Take urgent action to combat ultra-super critical pressure coal-fired thermal power generation, which is favorable for CO2 reliable, sustainable and modern climate change and its impacts energy for all reduction, is continuously growing in markets like India and Southeast Asia. 13.1 Strengthen resilience and 7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access adaptive capacity to climate to affordable, reliable, and related hazards and natural modern energy services disasters in all countries 7.2 Increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030 7.3 Double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency by 2030 In response to climate change, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has set up and is Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction strives to supply eco-friendly and highly efficient thermal executing the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to BAU by 2030. power plants with improved power generation efficiency and reduced fuel consumption. This We will accomplish this by seeking an energy efficiency roadmap centered on smart energy Major connected activities Major connected activities can be accomplished through the popularization of ultra-super critical (USC) power generation control, which includes improvements such as the establishment of an integrated energy Business facility models in emerging markets, which have rapidly increasing demands for electricity. Business control system as well as improved equipment and facility efficiency at work sites. We will also Recently, the Service Business Group has been launched to actively deal with needs such as conduct waste power energy supply network improvement activities through, for example, • Improvement in energy efficiency • Reduction of greenhouse gas add-ons and retrofits in the local and overseas markets, It contributes to the purchase of a improving power generation efficiency by utilizing waste heat. Also, we have developed green • Renewable energy (power plant technology) stable supply of electricity through power plant performance improvement projects and reduced technology and products via wind power energy, combustion-and-collection technology and • Collection and reduction of CO2 • Renewable energy emission of air pollutants including NOX and CO2. In addition, through the commercialization of oxyfuel combustion in order to contribute to the reduction of air pollutants such as CO2, sulfur • Reinforcement of the after-market • Development of advanced D-NOx highly efficient gas turbines, we will contribute to the improvement of combined-cycle thermal dioxide and NOX, As well, we have actively supported business partners' climate change response business burner and eco-friendly combustion power technology, the expansion of the 3MW and 5.5MW offshore wind power system market, activities through green partnerships. • Development of green technology technology and the operation of stable grid networks in low-development countries through ESS technology. and products Operation 32 • Realization of Smart Industry 4.0 by 31 establishing an energy integration Greenhouse 30 (Unit: 10,000 tCO2eq) system gas emissions 30 Saudi Arabia Philippines Supplying about 7.5 GW Supplying about • Step-by-step application of the (BAU) to the Rabigh 2 Thermal microgrid system Power Plant, etc. 0.8GW to the 11% reduced 13% reduced Subic Coal-Fired Greenhouse compared to compared to BAU BAU 20% reduced Thermal Power gas emission compared to India reduction goal Supplying about 20 GW Plant, etc. BAU to the Mundra Coal-Fired Thermal Power Plant, etc. Indonesia Vietnam Supplying about 29 27 27 25 Supplying about 5.5 GW to the 1.5GW to the Grati Song Hau I Coal-Fired Thermal Combined-Cycle Power Plant, etc. Power Plant, etc. 2017 2020 2025 2030 36 37 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Prevent Diseases and Expand Treatment Foster Local Talents By 2030, we will supply basic medical supplies and support local By 2030, through Youth Energy Project, a renowned social treatments for 80,000 residents of minority groups residing in contribution program, we will contribute to fostering of local impoverished areas of Vietnam and India, thus contributing to talents by providing opportunities for education and career the improvement of global health and sanitation. exploration tailored to each growth stage for as many as 50,000 children and teenagers of marginalized people. Health is fundamentally related to human rights. Poor health and sanitation conditions restrict economic opportunities and expand poverty, preventing people from leading lives with the basic SDG 3. Good Health SDG 4. Quality Ensuring opportunities for quality learning to everyone in the world who needs education forms necessities. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has conducted social contribution activities the basis for the virtuous cycle growth and development of the global economy. Through Youth and Well-Being in medical health near work sites with insufficient medical infrastructure in order to respond to Education Energy Project, which provides education tailored to each stage of growth for everyone from Ensure healthy lives and promote issues related to people's basic rights including health and nutrition. Ensure inclusive and equitable children to teenagers and young adults, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction contributes well-being for all at all ages quality education and promote to offering quality, equal educational opportunities for all future talents including marginalized lifelong learning opportunities for all people in local communities. 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one-third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase (NCDs) through prevention and the number of youth and adults treatment, and promote mental who have relevant skills, including health and well-being technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship Major connected activities Vietnam and India have an inadequate level of medical infrastructure and manpower and also Major connected activities Through this project, Doosan operates a variety of programs from basic competency require a significant burden of medical expenses compared to GDP, so local residents exhibit a reinforcement programs to foster children and teenagers to industry-academia cooperation, Social contribution great deal of need for high-quality medical services. Doosan Vina, a Vietnamese subsidiary, has Social contribution fostering of outstanding engineering talents and technical training for the unemployed. • Free local treatment activities by carried out social contribution projects through free medical treatment and surgery support • Technical training for the By supporting educational activities at local children's centers through themed programs and Doosan Vina and Chung-Ang activities. Together with Chung-Ang University Hospital, they provide medical services and unemployed love-sharing reference book activities for about 2,000 students every year, we support career University Hospital (Vietnam) required nutrition to as many as 30,000 Vietnamese residents and students and supporting free • Operation of industry-academia exploration for about 100 teenagers per year to help establish proper job mindsets, thus helping • Q-Health medical consulting surgeries for 110 incurable disease patients up to 2016. Since 2014, India's DPSI, a subsidiary in cooperation, Doosan Class to foster the talents that the society needs. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will continue program (Vietnam) the heavy industry, has provided support to improve the health of about 5,000 local residents • Supporting science high schools to to secure positive educational conditions and establish the right vocational values to increase our • DPSI Health Camp program (India) through Health Camp, which offers oral and ophthalmology checkups, health diagnoses and foster talents in engineering and efforts to provide equal and quality education opportunities. • Bone-marrow donations by Doosan basic medical supplies for marginalized residents in 6 regions near construction sites. Doosan science Skoda Power employees (Czech Heavy Industries & Construction will continue to expand its contribution to enhanced medical • Operation of M.Y. Dream (Make Republic) access of marginalized citizens in Vietnam, India and other impoverished areas. Your Dream) Career Exploration • Blood donation of love campaigns Group and 5 other activities • Themed programs at local children's centers University students/youth Reinforcing competencies that society needs • DPS STEM support (Europe) and 14 others activities High school students Fostering creative and scientific talents Middle school students Exploring future dreams and hopes Elementary school students Fostering the right atmosphere and establishing values 38 39 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix 03 The faith that the greatest value is people, the technology that makes tomorrow bright. The solution of innovation leading mankind to hope. This Sustainable is the path of sincerity on which Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is running. Management Governance 42 Ethics Management 44 Green Management 46 Health & Safety 52 Customer Satisfaction 56 Quality Management 60 Corporate Security 62 Talent Management 64 Shared Growth 68 Social Contribution 72 Doosan Way Awards 78 40 41 Governance Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix The Board of Directors is the highest-level decision-making entity of Doosan Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals Heavy Industries & Construction, reviewing and deciding midto long-term An independent and professional Board The Board of Directors of Doosan Heavy IndusIn the appointment and operation of the of Directors performs healthy, efﬁcient tries & Construction reviewed and decided on Board of Directors, we aim to establish business plans and other major agenda. monitoring of corporate management. the company's major agenda including approva solid foundation for transparent corFor this, outside directors who satisfy the al of subcontracts between overseas subsidiries porate management by continuously rerequirement of independence are apand the signing of land and building sales coninforcing institutional fairness. Through pointed in accordance with commercial tracts, all of which were conducted through an various tools such as letter voting and Participation rate of outside Received Grade A in a governance 95.1 A law and a broad pool of potential canindependent, transparent process. To reinforce electronic voting systems to reﬂect the directors structure assessment didates is reviewed regardless of gender, the members' understanding of the company opinions of minority shareholders, we will The rate of participation of outside A designation of Grade A was obtained in race and nationality in pursuit of diversity. and professionalism, we hold factory tours and seek the independence of the Board and directors in 2016 was 95.1%, 2.5% the governance structure category of an ESG % Grade also introduce a variety of ways for minority its efﬁcient operation. higher than the previous year (Environment, Social, Governance) assessment shareholders to participate including a letter votconducted by the Korea Corporate Governance Service. ing system to protect their rights. Status of the Board of Directors Committees under the Board Direction of Board Operation As the highest-level decision-making organization of Doosan Heavy Under the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, Internal TransCompany presentation and shop tours at headquarters and Changwon Industries & Construction, the Board of Directors reviews and decides action Committee and Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Plant are held for the appointed outside directors and the if needed, site on major corporate agenda including mid-to long-term business plans, Committee are in operation. Each committee is composed of three visits are carried out both domestically and globally to help them acquire and the disposal or acquisition of primary assets. As of late 2016, it outside directors who strengthen their roles and functions in checking expertise on corporate management. comprises 5 people in total: 2 executive directors and 3 outside direcand supervising management based on professionalism and indepentors There are no restrictions in terms of gender, religion or educationdence. al level level when electing a director. 1 2 3 4 Leadership & Effectiveness Remuneration Relationship Composition of the Board of Directors (as of December 31st, 2016) CSR Committee Accountability with Position Name Gender Position/experiences Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates ﬁve CSR Committees Shareholders including Shared Growth, Ethics Management, EHS, HR, and Commu(Current) Chairman of Doosan Heavy Geewon Male Industries & Construction nity, all consisting of champions (great people), with the COO as the Park (Current) CEO (chairman of the board) chairman. These committees share global trends and discuss pursuing For mutual monitoring between The salaries of individual execIndependent and minority shareholders' rights, Executive directors strategies through CSR performance evaluation. internal and outside directors, 3 utives including the CEO and recognized by commercial law and other relevant (Current) Vice Chairman of Doosan Ji Taik outside directors, accounting for outside directors is made public laws, are acknowledged to protect the rights of miMale Heavy Industries & Construction Chung (Current) COO 60% of the entire board, are apthrough business reports and nority shareholders. The status of management is COO (Current) Chair professor, Korea pointed. audit reports. reported at annual general meetings of shareholdDongsoo University Male Advisory Group ers and the opinions of minority shareholders are Kim1) (Current) Head of Institute for Future Growth Strategy collected while operating a letter voting system to Coordinator Outside Current Status of Holding of Stocks protect their right to vote. Furthermore, through directors Youngrok (Former) Chairman of KB Financial Operational Excellence Male CSR Lim Group various communication channels such as a corpoTechnology Planning rate disclosure system and the company website, Dongmin (Current) Lawyer, Kim & Chang Law Male Foreign investors Cha Firm major information regarding the management is 13% open to the public in a transparent way. 1) Appointed outside directors SubHR Ethics Shared EHS Community * Appointed a new outside director, Ickhyun Nam, professor at the committee Management Growth Department of Business Administration of Seoul National University Business Doosan Shared School, at the 54th general meeting of shareholders held on March 31st, Legal Communication 37% Corp. 2017. (The Board of Directors is constituted of 6 members) Champion HR Executive Executive Growth Executive EHS Executive Executive Best Practice Case 29% Status of Board Operation HR Compliance/ Internal Shared Production Social Electronic Voting System Growth EHS Contribution Control Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Category An electronic voting system is in place to allow a shareholder to IR·GS Corporate (Governance) Purchase EPC EHS Customer Institutional Individual and be able to exercise his/her right to vote via the Internet (computer Number of board investors others time 10 9 12 21% or smartphone) without having to physically attend a shareholdmeetings held BG Purchase Energy & Environment ers' meeting. Participation rate of % 100.0 92.6 95.1 outside directors 42 43 Ethics Management Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will recognize ethical Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals responsibilities as a duty of the company, and adopt transparent and Propagation of an ethics management For an improved sense of ethics throughPromotions and education to instill a sense culture will positively inﬂuence the memout the company, various programs inof ethics in employees will continue to be fair corporate ethics. bers' basic grounding and attitude to cluding ethics training and conferences performed and, by expanding internal edeventually act to bring about an increase for ethics management-seeking leaders ucation and risk inspections led at the team in the company's productivity and value. are continuously held for employees. Of level, ethics management activities will be en99.5 12,502 Percentage of enrollment Enrollment in ethics training One of the prerequisites of a sustainable particular note in 2016, programs on recouraged to settle autonomously within each of research ethics To establish the ethical value of employees, company stems from its efforts to expand search ethics were newly established for division. Moreover, as local and global laws Research ethics were enacted in ethics training is mandatorily included % ethics management, which is why most employees in research and development, on anti-corruption are being strengthened, response to the increasing risk of persons in the introductory curriculum for New companies apply companywide ethics and the employees' autonomous ethics improvements in the current ethics managelocal and overseas research. We Employeess and experienced employees, as also enhanced the observance well as educational courses for promoted or management that conforms to social ethmanagement is constantly encouraged by ment system are sought and relevant actions of research ethics through newly posted employees. ics standards. expanding the internal control system. are taken. propagation and education. Ethics Management Enrollment in Ethics Training Training by Position/Type in Operate Conferences for Ethics Management-Seeking Strengthen the Internal Control System (Unit: person) 2016 (Percentage of enrollment) Leaders By conforming to laws and principles and practicing the fair operaWe are strengthening our preemptive prevention activities through the tion of business, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to be Meetings and workshops are hosted to share the direction and status operation of an Early Warning System, which manages early indicators a respectable organization and become an ethically leading company of ethics management throughout the company or within a division associated with risk in each business area to alert the relevant organithat can instill a sense of pride in its members. 2016 was a year during and, through research on local and global trends and case studies, zations to danger signals. 187% which a consensus on the autonomous practice of ethics was formed 12,502 the capabilities of the leaders are being strengthened. Additionally, for through close communication among ethics practice groups and eth7,299 the promotion of ethics management activities, a regular newsletter 79% 96.7% 100% Reinforce the Capabilities of Overseas ics activities led by each BG/department. (Ethics Management Briefs) that introduces ethics management trends 2,168 Subsidiries in Compliance and related activities is being published. 2014 2015 2016 Executives Office Shop New Vision Become an ethically leading company that can be respected, workers floor Employees/ A regular cooperation system with compliance organizations of overtechnical Experienced and instill pride through conformance to laws and principles workers seas subsidiries is in operation for ethics risk management at global and the fair operation of business Operate a Whistle Blowing System and work sites, and knowledge is being shared to strengthen the compli* The enrollment results for each class are the total number of people enrolled, Pursuing Establish the right path to increase the value of Doosan and the increase in 2016 stems from the expansion of education for the Counseling Center ance of the overseas subsidiries. strategies Heavy Industries & Construction along with the technology promotion of regulations explanation of rules due to the introduction of the To easily report ethics violations from both inside and outside, a cyber to improve the global value Anti-Corruption Law. reporting center and internal report box are in operation. Furthermore, Best Practice Case Improve sense Establish Install a corporate culture since 2015, the internal reporting system exclusively for overseas subof ethics and infrastructure in which compliance with Prevent Unfair Trading and Support the Ethics Participation in the for UNGC Fair Player Club reinforce for ethics ethics is commonplace sidiries, operated by a third party, has been introduced and produced prevention management Management of Business Partners activities positive results. The Fair Player Club is a local, anti-corruption public-private cooperation To prevent unfair transactions, education on fair trading and subconStatus on Disciplinary Action Status on Disciplinary forum to create a fair and transparent corporate environment. Having The infrastructure for ethics management has been established based tracting law is consistently provided to company employees, and we in 2016 (Unit: case) Action in 2016 (Unit: case) signed up as a member of Fair Player Club overseen by the UN Globon the strong will of executives, ethical standards, a cyber reporting diagnose the level of social responsibility and ethics management of al Compact Network Korea, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has system, employees' sense of ethics and operating organization, and suppliers and support their activities. 9 publicly demonstrated its strong commitment towards ethics managethis structure is used to carry out the planning, execution, inspec3,299persons Unfair trading prevention education for 5 ment and strengthened the sense of ethics in its employees. tion, countermeasure and improvement activities for the continuous employees in 2016 2 growth of ethical prevention. Ethics Management Program CSR/ethics management education for the CEOs of business partners in 2016 106companies 0 47 1 42 4 Research Ethics 3 Conduct Autonomous Activities to Practice Ethics at 24 As risks in local and overseas research ethics continue to be on the rise, we have enacted research ethics guidelines and conducted training the Employee Level for employees involved in research, development and design. Through Ethics practice activities are carried out at employee and team levels to 2014 2015 2016 Disciplinary Disciplinary action for action for the establishment of a research ethics system and operating structure establish an autonomous ethics management culture. Ethics training employees subcontractors and inspection of research ethics on major tasks by BG, we focus on with elements reﬂecting the characteristics of each division is provided Local Overseas Number of local cases handled creating a genuine, transparent atmosphere in R&D while striving to internally, and voluntary risk inspection activities are also conducted to check, understand and prevent potential risks within a division. Number of overseas cases handled prevent violations in research activities in advance. 44 45 Green Management Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Based on technology that increases the value of the earth, we will Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals deliver eco-friendly value to customers and preserve a place of life for For a company, practicing green manWe are internalizing a green management We aim to perform various activities to agement is no longer an option but a system into corporate management and exexpand a global-level green management the future of humanity. requirement. We conduct proactive repand eco-friendly investments that reﬂect resystem and continuously improve policies sponse and management for both current cent environmental issues such as greenhouse and activities at workplaces. By closely and future generation environmental isgas and ultraﬁne dust emissions. Moreover, monitoring environmental laws, which 69 Invest in green R&D Certification of early Reduced carbon emissions early sues through more active practices from we continue to reinforce the introduction of will be further reinforced in the future, a 175,182 We pursue research and development in warning certifications reduced environmental effects among eco-friendly equipment to respond to climate proactive structure will be established to environmentally-friendly future energy production processes to development of change-related policies and systems, and carry allow the company to respond more ac% sources. In 2016, we invested 69% of Starting in 2012, as much as 175,182 our entire R&D. tons of greenhouse gas have been eco-friendly technology. out activities related to the reduction of envitively. tons ronmental effects and preservation of biodireduced, which has led to the acquisition of certification of early carbon emissions versity in the local community. early warning certification. Green Management Product Stewardship Wind Power Energy commercialized system and secure competitiveness in R&M construction in the long-term, in order to enter and expand our business in the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction pursues eco-friendly and fuFor 10 years since the launch of wind power business, we have delivProud Global Doosan ture energy source assignments in 3 categories – minimize greenhouse ered a total of 200MW of wind power generators. Two models have retroﬁt market. gas emissions, minimize ultraﬁne dust emissions and eco-friendly wabeen developed and a new model for a lower wind speed is at the ﬁnal ter treatment. stages of development. It is expected to achieve a similar level of efﬁEco-Friendly Water Treatment Area Reduce 20% of GHGs by 2030 ciency as those of advanced companies overseas, securing competitive Electrochemical Desalination MISSION Status of Green R&D by Year (Unit: %) Reduce 25% of energy usage by 2020 edges of products. Starting with the Tamra offshore wind power O&M This is desalination technology that selectively eliminates ion and salt contract signed in 2016, we plan to enter the wind power services (as of 2017) in water via electrochemical reactions and, thus, produces eco-friendly industries and expand our businesses related to renewable energy. water resources at a lower cost than the existing technology. A joint 31 40 45 research agreement was signed with the Korea Electric Power Research GOAL Support responsible and sustainable growth Eco-Friendly Burner Institute and system development activities were performed. In 2017, 14% Eco-friendly burner systems are supplied through a technical cooperathe development of high-efﬁciency electrodes and basic system design increase tion with a U.K. subsidiary, Doosan Babcock. It is a low-carbon generawill be carried out and entry into power plant coolant processing and 60 69 55 tion technology in which only oxygen is injected when burning coals to industrial wastewater reuse markets will be pursued with the goal of Strategic assignment generate only water and carbon dioxide without any other combustion 2022. gases after combustion. Efforts will continue in the future for the comEco-efficiency · Resources recycling · Sewage recycling mercialization of this technology. Anammox 2014 2015 2016 · Water risk management Anammox (low-energy, high-concentration shortcut nitrogen removal Green R&D Other R&D Ultrafine Dust Area technology) is technology that utilizes microorganisms to remove ni· Reduce the emission of pollutants (air and trogen, minimizing energy consumption in the water treatment prowater pollutants, wastes, harmful chemical Greenhouse Gas Area AQCS (Air Quality Control System) Operation cess and signiﬁcantly improving the nitrogen removal speed. About substances, etc.) As local regulations of ﬁne dust emissions are reinforced and the · Reduce energy usage Mineral Carbonation 30% of O&M costs can be saved, and it is an eco-friendly technology global environmental pollution issue intensiﬁes in, for example, India This is a carbon resource technology to extract the Ca ion from industhat reduces the amount of electricity used, amount of sludge generatand China, the growth of the power plant AQCS market has gathered trial by-products such as steel slag and coal ﬂy ash and create a reaced and amount of CO2 generated by 63%, 80% and 90%, respectively. · Establish a management structure for green much attention. Based on the government's special measures for ﬁne Green products products and technology tion with CO2 to manufacture Precipitated Calcium Carbonate (PCC) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been pursuing entry into ·technology dust, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction currently pursues na· Reviews for commercialization and the with high added value. It can reduce about 20% to 30% in energy the local and overseas centrate, landﬁll leachate, food wastewater and performance management plan tional projects centered on boiler facility improvement and conducts costs compared to existing technology and has been gathering attenlocal sewage treatment markets by starting the development of the research to acquire comprehensive diagnostic and prediction solutions tion as a form of eco-friendly technology that can ﬁxate 0.2 to 0.25 Main-Stream process technology by 2018 and completing its veriﬁcatechnology of the AQCS system. Optimum AQCS equipment that is Response to · Improve energy efficiency tons of CO2 for each ton of industrial by-products. Doosan Heavy Intion by 2022. suitable for the operating conditions of each power plant has been emission trading · Reduce greenhouse gas emissions dustries & Construction has developed core process technology, which diagnosed from our own boiler combustion/analysis and operation enables the production of Precipitated Calcium Carbonate (PCC), for control technology, and we have also begun acquiring total solutions Environmental · Procure green products from business partners process optimization and scale-up research. In the future, we aim to technology that optimizes operation and maintenance by integrating responsibility · Protect the ecosystem expand our applied products and dominate the carbon resource plant it as a platform. Based on this, we will perform a demonstration of the market through an independent business model. 46 47 Green Management Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Desulfurized Wastewater Don-Discharge System Air Pollutants safety and prevent accidents. to prevent environmental pollution caused by abnormal operations. From 2015, we have begun to install and operate volatile organic As an example, a manual on operation and maintenance has been It is the latest, environmentally-friendly facility that puriﬁes the wasteWe thoroughly manage 300 air pollutant emitting and prevention facompound removal facilities within all painting booths. At the same provided for selective catalytic reduction facilities, which are installed water discharged from a thermoelectric power plant's desulfurization cilities at manufacturing factories. Pollution levels are monitored petime, we have reinforced facility inspections of activated carbon abin Mong Duong II of northern Vietnam, to eliminate NOx. facility through a reverse osmosis and vaporization method, and is riodically to check if any additional pollutants have been generated sorption columns installed in a large painting booth, which has led to capable of processing not only suspended solids and heavy metal eleduring the manufacturing processes and permission is obtained for a 130% reduction of harmful chemical substances, far exceeding the Environmental Clean-Up in Masan Bay ments, which can be ﬁltered by existing water treatment facilities, but newly detected pollutants, and monitoring continues to be reinforced. initial goal. In 2016, we replaced nine hazardous chemical substances also nitrates and selenium, which are deemed as elements that need Moreover, air quality and noise inspections are conducted near work On the 21st Marine Day, underwater and coastal cleaning activities in with non-harmful chemical substances, which exceed the initial goal of to be regulated around the world. Based on its world-class seawater sites every quarter to constantly monitor the any changes in environMasan Bay were held for the 8th time. On this day, 25 tons of waste, six chemicals (64%). As a result, this has reduced chemical substance desalination technology, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has mental effects surrounding them. including old nets, buoys and ropes, were collected and disposed. We control costs of about KRW 1.2 billion. In 2017, we plan to replace developed a desulfurized wastewater non-discharge system, which plan to continue such environmental cleaning activities that represent 2016 Signed up for insurance that guarantees liability for damages when two more harmful chemical substances. We will continuously search is expected to be supplied to the Yeungheung Thermoelectric Power bodily and/or property damages have occurred to a third party due to the local communities. to replace the remaining hazardous chemicals in order to eliminate Plant after completing an entire cycle of design, manufacturing and installation and operation of environmental facilities (in preparation for the Act on Liability for Environmental Damage and Relief Thereof) the use of any harmful chemical substances within the next ﬁve years. commissioning by August 2018. After this construction, the Yeung2017 heung Thermoelectric Power Plant is now able to purify 1,250 m3 of Expanded the application of the automatic creation process concerning environmental facility legal records using smart desulfurized wastewater on a daily basis. devices Water We plan to reduce the amount of water usage through the recircu2018 To participate in the work site investigation led by the Nakdong Minimizing Environmental Effects River Basin Environmental Office (in preparation for the Act on the Integrated Control of Pollutant-Discharging Facilities) lation of slag coolant, replacement of leaking pipes, reduction in toilet water usage, etc., and recycle water by establishing a rainwater Responding to the Emissions Trading System (ETS) non-discharge (recycling) system. In order to comply with local laws, By obtaining various information on climate changes in advance, DooImprovement in Energy Efficiency used water will be sent to a wastewater treatment facility before ﬂowsan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to minimize impact on the ing into a total sewage treatment facility operated by the local governWe simultaneously seek economic and environmental feasibility while company and carry out systematic responsive activities. A committee ment for an additional treatment. strengthening essential competitiveness through the efﬁcient use of constituted of experts in energy and greenhouse gas as well as execenergy. Through a variety of energy reduction activities such as the utives monitor risks related to climate changes annually on a regular Rainwater Non-Discharge (Reusing) use of a heat recovery steam generator, standby power shutdown, basis and also pursue improvement in operational efﬁciency and deimproved facility efﬁciency and replacement of LED lights, we achieved The Changwon Plant directly adjoins the Masan Bay due to which velopment of reduction technology. Furthermore, due to the greena 145% performance improvement in energy efﬁciency in 2016, as there is a great risk of pollutant leakage accidents from a geopolitical Best Practice Case house gas Emissions Trading System (ETS) introduced in 2015, the compared to our original goal. In 2017, we plan to continue various standpoint. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has introduced company would face a signiﬁcant, direct ﬁnancial burden as it has to Awarded as an Outstanding Case of forms of reduction activities including the application of an energy a rainwater non-discharge (reusing) system which is applied with the purchase certiﬁed emission reductions from the market for the amount Construction Waste Recycling management system, gradual replacement of ceiling lights with LED Water BG's water treatment technology, thus solving potential polof greenhouse gas it emits in excess of the allocated amount. Thus, We have won the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport award for lights in manufacturing factories plants, new energy-related technololutant leakage accidents at the source. This system, which normally through a detailed analysis of climate change risk factors and potential being an outstanding example of Utilizing Recycled Aggregate. Instead gy, operational efﬁciency by reducing the size of boilers, and enhancereuses rainwater in a large cooling tower inside the manufacturing scenarios, the amount of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the deof typical sand, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction utilized recycled ment of GEMS (Green Energy Management System). factory and collects and processes entire pollutants under emergency gree of ﬁnancial burden, are estimated. Also, by considering the cost aggregates* as primary materials used in the construction of the Incheonsituations, will be constructed by June 2017. and convenience that entails the introduction of ETS, lists of priorities Gimpo Expressway, and successfully reduced construction time and cost. are deduced for each response plan and applied to decision-making Responding to Fine Dust Regulations at the * Recycled Aggregate: Aggregate that makes it possible for construction at the management level while objective management for each BG is Changwon Plant Waste Management waste to be recycled through physical and chemical processing being implemented to meet its quota of carbon emissions. In addition, It has been reported that the production processes of the manufacturWe use a specialized vehicle to pick up the waste discharged from we strive to reinforce internal competency by conducting training on ing industry have an immense effect on the generation of ﬁne dust. each manufacturing factory and team in accordance with segregaGreen Management Results energy management and certiﬁed carbon emissions at each BG. tion waste standards. The segregated waste is safely transported and 26.6 Therefore, it is anticipated that the relevant regulations will become more stringent. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has put forth processed by an authorized waste management company by authorized transport vehicles under the law. In particular, we preemptively Energy savings KRW billion Reduction of Greenhouse Gas efforts to minimize the amount of ﬁne dust emissions that is generated among businesses. We control the amount of emissions within the prevent issues that can be generated during the waste transport and (as compared to 2012) We have been pursuing energy efﬁciency through the installation of legal standard of 30%, and continuously pay attention and prepare in disposal processes by only allowing companies that can conform to 30 high-voltage inverters and replacement of LED lights in manufacturadvance according to the trends in the government's detailed guidewaste transport regulations to participate in waste transportation. We ing factories. From this efforts, a total of 175,182 tons of greenhouse lines. In addition, when replacing aging facilities, long-term counterhave recycled nearly 88% of waste in 2016 and will continue to seek Fine dust emission from the Changwon Plant Within % gas emissions have been reduced since 2012, leading to the acquisimeasures on ﬁne dust are established to reﬂect eco-friendly conditions. out competitive recycling certiﬁed partners that ﬁt the characteristics tion of early reduction certiﬁcation for Certiﬁed Emission Reduction. (Legal Permissible Level) of green resources in 2017. In the future, a phased action plan for the total energy management system will be established to reduce carbon emissions by 20% from business-as-usual (BAU) levels by 2030. Harmful Chemical Substances A monitoring system to identify the status of all chemical substances' Provision of an Environmental Guide Amount of harmful chemical substances used 64 % reduced usage within the company has been established and is in operation To minimize the environmental pollution generated during the opersince 2015. SIxteen harmful chemical supervisors are trained and assigned at all sites where chemical substances are handled to ensure ation, maintenance and repair of power plants installed by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, an environmental guide is provided Recycling of waste 88 % 48 49 Green Management Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Preservation of Biodiversity in Local and Overseas Construction Sites Overseas Construction sites Overseas construction sites hold responsibilities to preserve ﬂora and fauna classiﬁed from the local community. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction including the project management team has conducted a ﬁeld survey prior to the start of the project to identify details about protected Local Construction sites species in environmental impact assessment reports and to also comply with any measure described on the reports as part of preserving ﬂora and In general, local construction sites have efforts to minimize adverse impacts on their ecosystem from their business by managing relevant environfauna. In addition, overseas construction sites should regularly monitor the project environmental aspects including air, water quality, noise and mental aspects including at least noise, vibration, air and water quality. In particular, the Jeju LNG Combined-cycle Power Plant site preserves the vibration as per the project requirement, and issue the monitoring reports to relevant project's clients as part of minimizing environmental impacts. yellow rosemallow which is one of endangered spices through transferring it to the client's area. In addition, provided that any plant on the ocean We ofﬁcially identify 11 species to be preserved around 3 sites as 3 ﬂora and 8 fauna in 2016. and land may be threatened during the construction phase, ground transport paths and the speciﬁc area for caring for marine biology only would have been made to preserve biodiversity and do business at the same time. Major endangered species under protection at the Samcheok Green Power I and II construction sites include otters, kestrels, mandarin ducks and whooper swans. Saudi Arabia Asia / Pacific Fadhili Combined Redondo Peninsula Energy Heat and Power Plant CFPP – Phase1 Hwaseong, Gyeonggi-do Samcheok, Gangwon-do Habitat area Habitat area Bibong-Maesong Samcheok Green Swamp Soil: Mountain Soil Expressway Power Unit 1 and 2 Water: Subic Bay, Creeks, River Species of ecological importance: 1 Habitat area Habitat area species Species of ecological importance: 3 amphibia: Spiny-tailed Lizard species Soil Swamp classified as VU Flora1) Katmom: classified as VU2) Species of ecological Species of ecological Tanglin: classified as VU3) Molave: importance: 4 species importance: 4 species classified as VU Pine tree, White oak, Oak tree, Otter, Kestrel, Mandarin Mongolian oak duck, Whooper swan Jeju Changnyeong-gun, Ulju-gun, Ulsan Gyeongsangnam-do Oman Vietnam, Binh Thuan Province Jeju LNG combinedChangnyeongShin Kori Nuclear #5 cycle power plant Miryang Expressway and #6 reactors Al ansab STP and Aaziba CPS Vinh Tan 4 Phase Ⅱ Terrestrial ecology around the sites Habitat area Habitat area Habitat area Habitat area Plants (56 kinds) Soil Soil Water Swamp Animals (53 kinds) Sky Species of ecological Species of ecological India Species of ecological importance: 7 Fish species (76 kinds) inhabit importance: 1 species Species of ecological importance: 55 species species Yellow rosemallow importance: 1 (soil) & 5 Conger, horse mackerel, FaunaBird EX (1), VU (3), NT Lara, Kudgi, etc. (sky) species jacopever, thornback ray, Song Hau 1 TPP (3)1) Egyptian Vulture: classified as Wildcat etc. Terrestrial ecology around the sites Endangered2) Greater Spotted Eagle: Terrestrial ecology around the sites Mandarin duck, sparrow classified as VU.3) Eastern Imperial hawk, eagle, kestrel Eagle: classified as VU.4) Lesser Kestrel: Plants (43 kinds) Plants (154 kinds) classified as VU.5) Ferruginous Duck: Animals (29 kinds) classified as NT.6) Pallid Harrier: Animals (53 kinds) classified as NT. 7) European Roller: Fish species (64 kinds) inhabit classified as NT. Fish species (35 kinds) 50 51 Health & Safety Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix We are going to contribute to making safe, healthy workplaces in line with Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals implementing the globally recognized health and safety management system. Recently, the EPC power plant market is becoming We have strengthened safety and health We plan to not only constantly reinforce an independent power plant business based on management capabilities throughout activities to prevent serious disasters at private ﬁnancial investments. It is widely believed the entire value chain both inside and construction sites, but also strengthen that EPC power plant construction projects are outside the company including headlegal observance programs to reduce Actively participated by Zero accident promotion on construction classiﬁed as having signiﬁcant social and environquarters, local and overseas ofﬁces and business risks that may be induced from workers in health and safety sites mental impacts, which can cause greater social business partners. Additionally, workers' violations of the local law concerning the and environmental requirements for EPC contracself-participation activities are carried opening of the new construction site. We will encourage all workers to actively Construction sites have been maintaining safe man-hours tors and let their EHS management systems meet out with a focus on increased awareTo apply the overseas environmental manparticipate on our health and safety without any accidents and have been globally recognized from its social and environmental requirements. In adness on safety, and health monitoring agement system that constantly changes management to safer workplaces. various clients and the Korean government. In particular, the dition, ISO 14001 requirements will be updated of the employees continues to be exover the midto long-term, we will preLara Super Thermal Power Project has been recognized by and are expected to be effective in 2018. We will panded. Guidelines and countermeapare a preemptive work response strucNational Thermal Power Cooperation Ltd., (NTPC) from India. seek to begin applying the newly updated envisures for infectious or endemic diseases ture to improve the capabilities to operate Additionally, the Yanbu Phase 3 Desalination Plant Project have ronmental system around the globe. are particularly provided to workers at the EHS management system at construcbeen certified by the Saline Water Conservation Corporation overseas construction sites. tion sites and working environments. (SWCC) from KSA as achieving zero accidents in 2016. Health and Safety Philosophy Practical Training Facilities of Hazard Identification Self-Safety and Health Activities by Workers Operate the EHS Academy Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction believes that the occupational Construction sites have been making practical training facilities for all Unlike previous safety and health activities led by managing superviTo reﬂect the trends of local and overseas environments as well as to health and safety for employees are the No.1 priority in our business. employees to raise their awareness of unsafe conditions and behaviors, sors, we enable workers to take a leading role and participate in such be equipped with the level of EHS competency similar to that of adTherefore, occupational health and safety management is anchored which are easily identiﬁable on construction sites, as part of efforts to activities. vanced corporations, we have introduced the heavy industry's unique in our business processes. We are going to regularly identify relevant prevent major accidents. Particularly, overseas construction sites entraining program for improvement in EHS competency, which is operCategory Description 2016 results hazards and to actively conduct their respective control measures as courage all new comers to take part in the practical training for idenated on a yearly education schedule. Safety Discuss safety work by Developing the safety part of implementing health and safety management to minimize the tiﬁcation on construction hazards and refresh training is required for discussion videotaping the progress discussion culture using likelihood of any incident in the workplace. relevant employees if necessary as per each site rule. of the work videos of actual work situations: 719 cases Zero Accident Promotion on Construction Sites Risk assessment Discover risk factors for Performing risk Site Managements make reports on weekly-based major activities with Safety each work process based assessment in which high risks to top management for review and take care of the hazards on the results of safety actual workers discussions and inspect participate by utilizing every week to raise safety awareness and risk perceptions at each site 1 the items to be checked the videotaped work as well as implement safety training at the safety practical training 2 Implement a Identify hazards prior to the work situations: 92% globally recognized from people, facility regarding fall, falling objects hazards and others to be likely health and safety processes and management equipment Critical Check Place the written Preparing the check happening on construction site. As a result, all construction sites have system sheets check sheets at the sheets for each workplace based on site based on risk maintained accident-free manhours. Particularly, 7 local and overseas 6 3 risk assessments at the assessments and placing Implement Establish construction sites have been recognized as accident-free workplace particular site them at all sites: 100% health and Safety safe work from various global clients and Korean Government for achieving their safety meetings procedures Reporting Safety Measures for High Risk TBM education During TBM, educate on Daily TBM monitoring targets. risk factors and items (Sept. to Dec.) and 4 Processes to inspect in advance of improvement activities 5 Conduct health and safety Since the latter half of 2016, project managers are directly making the daily tasks according (63 times) for daily TBM Conduct pre-use equipment training for to the mandatory safety inspections with all employees regular reports to the top management about hazards from the main inspection sheet supervisors including management and high-risk activities for the commitment to safety leadership. Each projnewcomers Safety Stop all tasks when Issuing co-worker ect site is making efforts to implement control measures from reported Observation an unsafe action is safety observation Card discovered during any card to those who major hazards at each schedule. point of work and have performed unsafe subsequently issue a actions: 500 cases safety observation card Controlling Three Major Hazards EHS Legal Compliance for self-awareness Saemangeum group energy facilities site Oman Al ansab site To eliminate the three major hazards of falling, jamming and dropWe have been proactively identifying the local EHS-related regulations Achieved 1.82 million zero accident hours Achieve 1 million zero accident hours ping, Around View has been installed on heavy equipment such as at each site and complying with them including the local laws because Reinforce Autonomous Execution of Safety and forklifts and transporters to eliminate the driver's blind spots. Also, fall of the increasing need from the local communities and relevant govHealth by Suppliers experience training was conducted for 1,200 managers and workers ernments. In 2016, we developed an EHS law register in Kazakhstan to while weekly reports are submitted to the management level on highrespond in advance to risks in the ﬁeld operation and legal violations, We support 40 of our in-house suppliers in acquiring risk assessment risk work plans and safety activity results at 65 work sites in order to and also to conduct periodic ﬁeld conformance assessments. In the approval and 25 companies in obtaining KOSHA 18001 certiﬁcation. thoroughly control major risk factors. future, we plan to develop EHS law registers in new project regions in We also perform consciousness reform education and special legal advance, fulﬁlling our social duty and responsibilities. safety education for the CEOs and managing supervisors of suppliers, India Lara site India Kudgi site strengthening their autonomous execution. 17 million zero accident hours 22 million zero accident hours 52 53 Health & Safety Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Overseas Site Security Health Prevent Infectious Diseases Sanitary Control Crisis management plan and emergency care plans are in operation to Health Management Program We perform safety education for employees dispatched or on a busiWe conduct a sanitary diagnosis on the nine canteens within Changprotect the personal safety and local properties for sojourning employness trip to overseas while, at the same time, support vaccination for won through a professional sanitary diagnosis company three times We operate a Total Health Care Program for all of our employees, ees who are dispatched to overseas sites and their family members in various local infectious diseases such as Type A inﬂuenza, typhoid, per year in addition to more than six internal inspections. Also, a total their families as well as business partners' employees. A variety of case of war, terrorism, riot, epidemic, or natural disasters. The headmalaria and yellow fever. As a result, not one case of infection overepidemic prevention system has been established to assure that our healthcare programs that take care of physical and mental health are quarters monitors the current status of overseas sites, and any issues seas has occurred yet. Also, medical teams visit foreign workplaces employees can be free of infectious diseases. As a result, there have being conducted with diet improvement activities, aquarobics classin relevant countries are constantly communicated for taking necessary periodically to aid healthcare management through health counseling not been any incidents of food poisoning thus far. es, anti-smoking classes and medical counseling. In addition, medical actions. and medical treatment, and company-supplied medical clinics are in support is also provided to employees of Doosan, orderers and subsidoperation at which doctors, nurses, physical therapists and sports therWorkers at Workers in dangerous Those on short-term iaries who currently work at overseas sites with a relatively poor level apists reside at all times. Not only employees but also their spouses and overseas sites countries business trips of medical facilities. children are beneﬁting from this system. · International SOS · Understanding and · Travel Tracker After Retirement (for 3 years) Monitoring of status applying issues in Securing safety by Health Examinations ㆍSupporting discount benefits for 20 of overseas sites, etc. advance checking real-time · Forming a plan to transport routes We support the early discovery and treatment of diseases for employHealthcare Program Cycle by th year comprehensive health examination establish measures through collaboration ees and their family members by providing comprehensive medical Company After Recruitment ㆍScreening tests conducted with relevant teams checkups, cancer screenings and special medical checkups. Over the From the moment one joins the company to for brain cardiovascular past three years, 29,343 employees and their spouses have received system and cancer retirement, we offer a healthcare program ㆍThose aged 45 or older, Safety and Health Management System comprehensive health examinations, and medical examinations were tailored to the age of each of our employees. or have worked for 20 or offered at large hospitals for those who were deemed to need conPrior to being positioned in different teams, more consecutive years Certification sistent monitoring. Moreover, for about 3,000 employees who are new employees, as well as their spouses and Since 2010, we have been operating an integrated system of ISO14001, exposed to harmful elements during work, biannual special medical children, are given the rights of health examOHSAS 18001 and KOSHA 18001 and, through internal and external checkups are conducted to prevent work-related diseases and syninations and ﬁnancial support for surgeries. audits, the compliance with the system is constantly monitored to dromes. Employees may also use the mental health 5 maintain the certiﬁcation. Also, by utilizing Doosan EHS Rating Systh program through which they can request At Work year tem assessments, which is Doosan Group's safety and health manageComprehensive Health Special Health Examinations counseling sessions with professional counment diagnosis tool, we diagnose the current level on a regular basis. Examinations (Unit: person) (Unit: person) ㆍVisiting the counseling center (Misodam) ㆍComprehensive health examinations selors for their everyday stresses and difﬁculㆍVisiting the company medical clinic ㆍThose aged 35 or older, or have worked Through this, serious disasters and catastrophes are prevented to conties. Also, for those who suffer from chronic ㆍSupporting medical treatment (surgery) costs for 5 or more consecutive years tinuously secure the risk management capabilities. diseases including musculoskeletal disorders, ㆍMedical treatment connection service with large/special hospitals high blood pressure and diabetes, aquaroㆍParticipating in smoking cessation and Emergency Situation Response Structure bics treatment exercises are provided, and 26 aquarobics classes We have made detailed response plans for emergency situations such employees were enrolled in this program in ㆍSupporting low-salt diets 2,794 3,095 2,984 as unforeseen accidents and disasters by treating them as potential 9,828 10,117 10,535 2016. scenarios and, thus, carry out emergency training at worksites. We have produced videos as evacuation guides for unexpected situations, and play them prior to all meetings and events while also utilizing smartphone apps to provide relevant information. Newly Recruited Employees 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ㆍHealth examinations prior to being positioned Dispatched or on a Business (technical workers) BCM (Business Continuity Management) Training Trip Overseas 1 ㆍVaccination for hepatitis A (1st and 2nd) st Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established a BCM system ㆍVaccination for the seasonal flu (every year) year ㆍEHS education prior to the dispatch/ ㆍAcquisition of rights of financial support for 15,481 to secure the safety of employees and their family members in disasbusiness trip surgeries (self, spouse, children) ㆍRegular health checkup ㆍSignup for foreign travelers' and ter situations. Considering the unique characteristics of each worksite, persons ㆍMedical treatment agreement services at large ㆍOffice workers: General health examination Vaccinations for the seasonal flu dispatchers' insurance response processes are prepared and training sessions are held once hospitals (biennial) ㆍVaccinations for endemic and infectious ㆍCompletion of CPR training ㆍTechnical workers: Special and general health diseases every six months. examination (annual) ㆍSignup for the SOS service ㆍProvision of guidance on how to live Vaccination for Type A influenza/endemic 233 persons safely abroad ㆍOperating the corporate medical clinic hotline ㆍMedical treatment services at foreign workplaces 54 55 Customer Satisfaction Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix We aim to preoccupy a leading position in the market by preemptively Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals responding to the customers' rapidly changing needs. As competition in the market intensiﬁes A distinguished customer management We plan to strengthen growing sales to and customer needs diversify, renowned system throughout the entire process continuously work on the management global companies improve the level of from sales and marketing to after postof customer relationships. In addition, customer satisfaction by strengthenmarketing was established and operated. we will improve to enable faster sharing ing the quality of products and services In particular, positive relationships with and responsiveness on various issues by 1,507 No. of participants in Received the Desalination as well as customer service. A customer customers were actively created from the expanding communication channels with the technical exchange Plant of the Year Award satisfaction management system is a key initial stage of business operation, and, customers, through customer satisfaction meeting We received the global water award known issue that directly affects corporate comthrough consistent customer satisfaction surveys and visiting technical conferences. In 2016, 23 technical exchange as the Desalination Plant of the Year Award petitiveness. surveys and result analyses, products and meetings were held in which after having been approved of the efficiency services were improved. persons 1,507 employees from clients in business operations through constant participated. communication with customers. Lifecycle Customer Management Step 1. Sales and Marketing Step 2. Manufacturing, Construction, ture projects based on customer demand. The joint repair project with the Delta Electricity Generation Board in eastern Egypt and the core By dividing the customer management process into the four stages We carry out establishment of marketing strategies and brand marCommissioning spare parts project for standard nuclear power plant turbines are ideal of sales and marketing; manufacturing, construction, commissioning, keting activities that are tailored to each region and customer. We We also prepare and execute countermeasures in advance, for issues examples of this. after-sales services; and improvement and post-marketing, we manage particularly induce growing sales* that utilizes differentiated competthat may be generated in manufacturing, installation and commissionthe potential complaints that may arise in each of the stages. itiveness to improve the chance of order acquisition as well as proﬁting stages, and also implement preventive diagnoses and measures to ability. The successful cases of growing sales are shared throughout Cases of Customer Satisfaction equip restoration devices in the management of aging and excessive Category Detailed Activities the company to accelerate the entry into new markets, and solutions Based on a corporate culture that places customers as its priority, we operation of power generation facilities and, subsequently, potentially of growing sales tailored to each region continue to be developed. communicate with our customers through various online and ofﬂine Step 1. · Undertake diverse customer support activities dire accidents. By proposing ways to resolve limitations and lack of Sales and · Ensure continuous VOC management channels to unlock new customer values. *Growing sales: Projects for which the development has been completed and execution of the power generation company, solutions to customer Marketing · Establish standardized CS work procedures proposal requests have been issued are grown through participation from the issues are offered. · PAM activities initial business feasibility review stage. Establishing Communication and Reliable · Support technical exchange meetings and seminars Step 3. After-Sales Services Relationships with Customers · Perform customer satisfaction surveys (annual, PAM Activities By successfully designing and installing Korea's ﬁrst-ever protective regular) A separate Warranty Team is operated to ensure quality of products and We have been conducting in-depth marketing activities from the inistructure for the RVI Measurement CVAP measuring device, Doosan's Step 2. services and a TFT is formed to quickly receive and respond to requests tial stage of the project development including the business feasibility OEM technology has been secured and a more reliable relationship Manufacturing, · Manufacturing (design and engineering) from power generation company clients when generation stops. Construction, · Construction (quality & delivery) review and approval, by inserting resources to improve the chance of with customers has been formed. Through early conference sessions Technical support center of and research paper presentations, we have increased the level of the Commissioning · Commissioning (performance & specification) order acquisition as well as proﬁtability. power company device's reliability through constant communication with customers Receive Customer support in the Replies to Step 3. PAM Activities Level of Resource Input by Project Stage and preemptive veriﬁcation, and also ensured work quality through · Operate strategic warranty systems questions event of power emergencies questions After-Sales from veriﬁcation prior to installation. Thus, we have not only provided ex· Build an overseas warranty operation system from Services Competitors' and existing customers Call Center · Create new business opportunities through customers cellent values to customers through safety and convenience in installafacility lifecycle management methods tion, but also formed a level of trust with them, which will contribute PAM activities VOC of power company · Operate the technology support center for power to an increase in future sales. generation companies · Respond promptly to a plant shutdown Step 4. Post-Marketing Dealing with Clients' Complaints Step 4. · Reflect on feedback Expanding from the customer management process of the past, which After garnering technical difﬁculties and complaints from clients, DooPost-Marketing · Explore business opportunities through business Project development stage EPC selection stage encompasses marketing, design, purchasing, manufacturing, installasan Heavy Industries & Construction has promoted its new die steel support for clients technology to help overcome the issues. The product has been develtion, commissioning and warranty, the lifecycle management of the · Manage database for region/customer power plant contributes to a better understanding of customers' needs oped by reﬂecting customers' opinions prior to technical development · Create new business opportunities through Business Approval RFP Bidding Contract facility lifecycle management feasibility review issuance and creation of new markets through various post-marketing activities and, by allowing clients to become involved in the lifecycle evaluation · Support execution of technical collaboration such as support in execution of technical cooperation agreements, colprocess, the overall sense of reliability has been improved from a cusagreement with power generation company laboration in switching from free to paid warranty, etc. Also, through tomer standpoint. As a result, the product has advanced to the mass the lifecycle management of power plants, we put in a large amount production stage and, based on the orders obtained, ongoing ripple of effort to ascertain the demands of our customers and discover fueffects are expected. 56 57 Customer Satisfaction Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Improving Customer Satisfaction Best Practice Case Operate Technical Support Center at Power Call Center Placing customers as the top priority of corporate management, we Generation Companies We operate a place to which urgent support can be requested via pursue innovation in services to improve customer values. Through diCustomer Satisfaction Survey for Power phone when an emergency occurs inside the power plant. Along with verse and systematic customer satisfaction activities, which includes Plants that have been Completed Less than Online Customer Technical Support online technical support, faster replies and assistance are offered. regular customer satisfaction surveys, lifecycle management of supa Year Ago We strive to provide more accurate and faster replies to the technical plied equipment, and operation of technical support centers at power support requests of our customers, which are received online. The time generation companies, we aim to maintain a positive partnership with Annual customer satisfaction surveys have been conducted for powit takes to reply has been reduced from 12 days in 2013 to 7 days as Lifecycle Management of Supplied er plants that have been completed less than a year ago. In 2016, our customers. of 2016. Equipment the survey was conducted on the Shin Kori #1 and #2 nuclear power Lifecycle management of plants and, measures for improvement, deduced from the results of The Number of Days to Process an Urgent Customer Support Power Plant Remote-Control Service Customer satisfaction survey supplied equipment this survey, are currently in progress. Request (Unit: days) Based on ICT, a remote-control system has been established to monitor · Regular customer satisfaction · Operation of rapid support team Moreover, by reﬂecting the opinions of customers who wish to create operation data of the power plant in real-time. Since the opening of surveys for power generation shut down a place for exchanging the latest information, we have held a survey RMSC (Remote Monitoring Service Center) in 2014, operating capabili· Yearly (constant) satisfaction · Lifecycle management of supplied results sharing conference and technical exchange meetings. The ties of the power plant have been improving in areas such as real-time surveys equipment · Continuous collection of VOC · Power plant remote control system participants enjoyed a time for sharing the annual customer satisfacoperation data and symptom monitoring and defect prediction analytion survey results, changes in technology trends, and the status of Reduced by 5 days sis, through a constant support operating system. Technical support centers at Technical cooperation with assignments to ﬁx major issues of the past year. power generation companies client companies Category Details · Online technical support · Visiting technical exchange 12 Generation Operating a special response team during peak · Call center meetings Visiting Technical Exchange Meetings stoppage special power usage periods and generation emergencies · Trend analyses requested as · Technical cooperation agreements response team to offer expedient customer support technical support for each client with power generation companies Visiting technical exchange meetings are carried out by visiting client 8 company and provision of proper · Inviting client companies for field companies to provide information on the latest technology and trends, 7.4 7 Lifecycle Providing services on supplied generation feedback trips to the plant and share the data on the client's facility enhancement and operation. management equipment before the closing of the plant, of supplied and continuously offering lifecycle support on A form of proactive participation from the client companies has been equipment equipment whose assurance periods have elapsed. encouraged with a combination of seminars and discussions. 2013 2014 2015 2016 Customer Satisfaction Survey We conduct customer satisfaction surveys on a regular basis to listen to customers' opinions and promptly reﬂect them in our improvements to our products and services. By actively responding to ﬁeld issues and enhancing our attitude towards customer correspondence, we will continue to increase the degree to which customers rely on us. Best Practice Case Category Direction of regular customer satisfaction surveys Ras Al Khair Project 1st (2007) Reinforcing rapid response system We have been creating values that meet and exceed customers' needs through open communication. We have prepared a rapid response plan Understanding customer needs and establishing a proper response system and carried out initial actions when a quality issue occurred while transparently sharing the progress with customers on a regular basis. Also, Establishing an active and responsible attitude in engineer coordinators from ordering organizations were employed for a better understanding of customers' demands and, by ﬁnishing the customer correspondence process previously speciﬁed with the client by 20 days, we have provided values that meet and exceed the expectations of our customers. At 2nd (2010) Strengthening technical capabilities Status of Technical Exchange Meetings by Year (Unit: times) the same time, an efﬁcient process was provided to reduce the amount of fuel and electricity consumed as well as the total cost. Requesting design and technology in areas of weakness (I&C, etc.) Reinforcing subcontract control (quality, technology, etc.) Global Water Awards 3rd (2013) Reinforcing mutual exchanges and relations Received Desalination Plant of the Expanding mutual technical exchanges and education 23 CustomerYear Award opportunities centered Regarded as Expanding service areas and requesting active 10 11 priority negotiator participation thinking Providing value for new orders 4th (2018) Creating customer values that meets 2014 2015 2016 Creating opportunities to provide values to our and exceeds Improving customers customer customers' Leading provision of customer value to business Contributing needs reliability and opportunity The Changwon Plant Field Trip Program to healthy satisfaction * Although it has been held once every 3 years, it is not being held this year due Inviting Client Companies profits Received Global to the preparation of clear criteria on customer satisfaction surveys; instead, it We conduct ﬁeld trips to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Water Awards will be held in 2018. Changwon Plant by inviting newly recruited and experienced employees of client companies. In 2016, there were 12 ﬁeld trip programs. 58 59 Quality Management Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix We will become a more reliable company by consistently providing Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals outstanding products and services to customers. Providing outstanding products and serWe have quality assurance program cusWe will be subject to a review for a certiﬁcavices to our customers based on the best tomized to the characteristics of each tion change in 2017 regarding ISO 9001, an competitiveness in quality is one of the business. Additionally, a non-destructive overseas standard in quality management sysmost important elements in improving examination system through ICT technoltem. Unlike ISO 9001:2008, ISO 9001:2015 customer satisfaction. Thus, many comogy is operated by subcontractor to seek has changed many requirements. Such chang7 panies establish quality assurance prothe stability of product quality. es have been applied to the quality assurance 60 Status on external certifications The gold prize from the gram to offer products and services of a program and will continue to be improved. acquired national quality management consistent, uniform quality. As many as 60 external certifications have competition been acquired in areas including the nuclear We have achieved the feat of receiving the certifications power, thermal power and desalination consecutive Excellence Award for the 7 consecutive year businesses. years from the National Quality Circles Contest. Quality Management Strategy Quality Management Result Non-Destructive Examination To achieve the management vision of Global Leader in Power & Water Status on external certifications acquired Non-destructive examination is a type of examination that inspects (Unit: EA) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving to be equipped with internal defects, etc. from the outside without deforming the shape global-level capabilities in plant design, manufacturing, construction Category Types of certifications 2016 or function of a product. Through this inspection, Doosan Heavy Inand commissioning. We possess global quality competitiveness and Nuclear power project ASME N type, KEPIC 16 dustries & Construction prevents and ﬁxes defects in products, while lead the nuclear power, thermal power, desalination and industrial Thermal power/desalination ASME U type, ISO 11 systematically controlling their quality. plant markets. We place total customer satisfaction and creation of project customer values as our No. 1 priority. We maintain the best quality Others PED, KR, NK, BV, etc. 33 Best Practice Case assurance system that is organized and systematic to fulﬁll the global Total 60 standards, which guarantees the performances desired by customers, Construction of NDE Subcontractor Management System by Utilizing ICT has no defects, and helps produce the level of quality that customers The Highest Number of Meisters* in the Industry need. Lastly, all of the organizations and employees of Doosan strictly The ICT-utilized management system has been established and operated in order to completely prevent counterfeit and fraudulent issues regarding inspection Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction possesses 32 meisters, the reports written by NDE subcontractors. Through the publication of standardized reports and real-time monitoring of inspection results from subcontractor, abide by the conditions required by the quality policy. largest number of its kind in the industry, and has formed a consulting quality is stabilized and, simultaneously, customers' satisfaction and reliability on the management system increase. group consisting of these meisters to conduct activities such as reinHierarchy of Quality Assurance Program forcing subcontractors' competitiveness and fostering of talents. Also, [Purpose] [Activities executed] Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established a systematic an internal selection procedure, which includes internal selection comfoundation of the quality assurance program that fulﬁlls various laws, To prevent counterfeit and fraudulent of mittee and peer reviews, is set up to assure that competent individuals regulations, codes and standards, and helps secure a sufﬁcient level of ICT-based inspection reports are chosen as meisters. quality. Using the quality assurance information portal, the contents * Meister: Human Resources To secure examiner management system may be browsed in any environment with Internet access. Development Service of Korea and Operating Constructing Operating Help Desk Korean Standards Association select technicians and engineers who own management portal database of NDE for system operation the highest level of experienced skills To construct NDE subcontractor's quality program examiner information in industries as Meisters, of Korea control system and National Quality. This contributes Quality assurance to the foundation of a quality Quality program structure innovation climate and activities. [Results] policy Level 1 QAM for business The Gold Prize at National Quality Circle Team Contest Inspections by certified Improvement in quality Prevention of counterfeit and Improvement in the provision Quality assurance personnel and prevention of of inspection reports fraudulent inspection reports and accessibility of information manual In the site improvement and free form categories, Circle Pro of the roll false signatures on inspection statuses QAM for manufacturing plant and Circle Hanuri of Nuclear Power QC competed, respectiveLevel 2 · Establishment of a self· Standardization and · Establishment of the inspection · Provision of status information Quality control Quality control ly, and both received Excellent Awards. From 2010 to 2016, Doosan authentication system for computerization of the report verification process for inspection management procedure procedure Heavy Industries & Construction received The Gold Prizes at the Nainspectors and reviewers inspection report format · Supporting the verification of · Provision of a real-time status through fingerprint recognition · Convenience in writing authenticity of inspection reports information browsing function Level 3 tional Quality Circle Team Contest for 7 consecutive years. Pro made a inspection reports on the mobile portal Work instruction, Detailed instructions process specification, presentation on Reduction of loss time by improving backup roll proetc. cessing while Hanuri presented on Reduction of foreign substances by improving methodology in steam generator cleanliness inspection. 60 61 Corporate Security Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix We will put forth a companywide effort to increase the reliability of Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction by establishing a thorough As the big data management system for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reviews We will continuously improve our security customer and business information beand improves its information system on a regsystem to respond to information securimanagement system for information assets. comes more advanced, issues regarding ular basis and, in 2016, enhanced the security ty incidents such as cyber terror that has the potential danger of cyber terror and of its internal work procedures and information become more and more intelligent. We personal information security breaches systems in order to deal with ﬁnance-related sewill especially construct a reinforced, 24have been constantly raised. To preempcurity risks. In addition, it provided standardized hour security monitoring system to deal On-site security review at major Establish information security tively respond to the potential risks of insecurity policies for improved security in overseas with security threats in real-time, while local power plants system at overseas subsidiaries formation leakage, companies establish subsidiaries and, to improve reliability to the outstrengthening the security system at maIn 2016, information security audits were Through the standardization of security policies at high-level security systems and also eduside world, has put forth a companywide effort, jor national facilities such as nuclear powconducted on local power and corporate Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, we provide cate employees on appropriate responses which includes the establishment of security-reer plants, thereby working to maintain the security was enhanced. support to be a future reference when overseas to security breaches. lated procedures to strengthen security at local safety of citizens and security of national subsidiaries establish their own policies. plant sites. information. Corporate Security Strategy Security Enhancement Activities Security Enhancement at Local Plant Sites [Status of Security Reviews at Major Power Plants in 2016] The Security Audit Team is in charge of companywide corporate secuTo improve the level of information security at major local plant sites Auditing, Major Information Systems and rity and, through continuous security activities, protects company reand prevent potential security incidents, we have established the ﬁeld sources from internal and external security threats, and sets the founSecurity Procedures security standard based on companywide security policies, and condation of business competitiveness, thus maintaining a higher level To protect our information system and ensure its operation effectiveducted reviews for each area of security. of security system compared to those of competitors in the industry. ness and efﬁciency, we provide guidelines on the overall IT operations and perform regular periodic reviews. Particularly in 2016, the security of internal work processes and systems were reinforced to preemptiveCorporate Security Technical Define security Taean IGCC Shin Hanyul #1 ly prevent intelligent crime activities that have become society-wide review weaknesses and #2 Security Planning issues such as the stealing of transaction costs through false impersonSecurity Audit Team and Auditing ation as a client, as well as to prepare for ﬁnance-related security risks. Execute Shin Boryeong Shin Kori #3, Plan & Strategy Physical improvement #1 and #2 #4, #5 and #6 Audit, Compliance Feedback Security Enhancement at Overseas Subsidiaries review measures & Monitoring Gijang RO To improve the level of information security at overseas subsidiaries, company regulations on security have been revised by applying the items of ISO 27001, an overseas information security standard, in Managerial Perform security 2015. review training IT Security Physical Management Security Security Security Policies PI Team Emergency BG/Division/ Report to Planning Team Researcher · Personnel Security Policy Inspection on suspicious incidents Security Audit Strategy Team · Trade Secret Protection Policy Team · Information Asset Management Security Policy Jeju LNG Combined· Establishing, · Establishing, · Operating · Information System Security Policy cycle Power operating operating and Operation and and managing · Facility Security Policy Control managing managing security at Also, we actively comply with the security regulations required by each · Security Audit Policy IT security physical workplaces power generation company in order to prevent hacking attacks on system security · Security Incident Response Policy power plants, which are essential national infrastructure, as well as · Research Security and Ethics Management Policy material leaks, and prevent potential security incidents by establishing separate support procedures for employees newly dispatched to the In 2016, the revised standard security policies of Doosan Heavy Inplants. dustries & Construction were provided to overseas subsidiaries to help them establish their own security policies that conform to the local environment and internal situations. 62 63 Talent Management Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Based on the understanding that every employee is an essential element to the Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals competitiveness of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, we will form an A competent talent is one of the compaA variety of development programs are We will expand our talent cultivation proorganizational culture that strives to allow employees to autonomously develop ny's biggest assets. The selection of caimplemented to increase the competengrams and online education courses to invite pable talents from a fair and transparent cy of local and overseas employees and, more students to take the classes. In 2017, their capabilities. process, coupled with the establishment at the same time, welfare programs have we will implement work competency assessof an advanced organizational culture in been reinforced for outstanding talents ments for about 4,800 people in 17 different 82 100 Average number of education Rate of return of employees which all employees voluntarily focus on to form a good balance with work and functions. We aim to establish profession-cenhours per person after maternity leave developing their own skills and conduct personal lives. The Smart Ofﬁce system tered human resources management which tasks with satisfaction, is an element that is especially established for the efﬁcient can help in developing career maps through hours We offer various educational programs % The percentage of female employees determines a company's competitiveness. operation of work hours, increasing our which employees can grow. This can also help to improve the work competency of our having returned to work after maternity employees. In 2016, we conducted 82 leave is 100%. We do our utmost for our employees' satisfaction levels. in securing and managing experts according hours of training for each employee. employees to maintain a healthy balance to their profession. between work and life. Talent Management Doosan People Improvement of HR Information System Strategy for Fostering Talents Position Education Curriculum Doosan People are Doosan talents that represent all members who The HRIS (Human Resource Information System) was implemented We believe that the greatest asset in a company's growth and develAssociate, Assistant Fundamentals of Accounting and Fundamentals of Economy Manager education continuously strive to improve their own competence with skills and for the purpose of standardizing the HR data, simplifying the HR proopment is people. Based on a balanced growth of talents instead Business Communication Competency Improvement education have a willingness to contribute to the organization regardless of curcesses and adopting a more user-oriented concept. The newly introof a selected few, the value of people has been instilled throughout rent level or level of capabilities. duced HRIS has been designed as a Global One System, one which the development system and, with a goal of fostering proud Doosan Manager BIG School I (Business Knowledge improvement) also encompasses the overseas subsidiaries and which provides closer People, a talent fostering system centered on the Leadership College Senior Manager, BIG School II Head Manager (Understanding business process and field application) alignment between the various HR processes, such as the competency and Professional College has been established. The educational curFC (Functional Competency) System Team Manager BIG School III assessment, performance evaluation, employee development, training riculum within each growth structure is differentiated by position and (Improvement in decision-making capabilities throughout Other than DCM (Doosan Competency Model) that assesses leadership business value chain) and recruitment. level according to individual growth roadmaps and, thus, every emattributes required from all employees, the FC (Functional Competen* Planning to reorganize training for team management in 2017 and develop ployee can select and enroll in classes tailored to his or her level of cy) system, which deﬁnes and evaluates skills and capabilities needed Global One Oversees employees' autonomous new executive education learning & development and HR competency. for each work aspect or position, has been established in order to System operations which are based on strengthen the professionalism and work competency of employees. objectives management Problem-Solving Capability Education Based on Talent Growth Program Based on the evaluation results, competencies required to be develStrategic Thinking oped for each individual and organization is deduced, and professionOversees the HR operation of Management Intelligence Education The logical thinking process learning curriculum, which is to reinforce alism is being strengthened, through establishment and execution of overseas subsidiaries From associates to executives, management intelligence education for problem-solving capabilities based on strategic thinking, has been sysindividual growth plans and competency reinforcement activities by each stage has been systematized for effective implementation. We tematized and executed for all employees, from associates to executhe organization. support all employees to continuously expand their business insights tives, for continuous learning at their respective levels. This curriculum Cultivating Proud Doosan People in, for instance, basic principles of economy and management as well is conducted for employees not only in Korea but also at foreign ofﬁces as strategic thinking throughout the value chain, and reinforce their and worksites in Vietnam, India, Dubai and other sites. Our plan is to The Doosan Way · Enhanced functionality for deriving HR data and execution. In 2017, we plan to take the existing management eduhave all employees enrolled and complete the curriculum by 2019. Cultivating global leaders Cultivating experts who help analyzing management indicators who have internalized the acquire a strong competitive edge · Supports decision-making in business cation for team managers and evolve it into a curriculum focused on Doosan Way and drive innovation increasing competency in decision-making and reinforcing a cooperaNegotiation Capability Reinforcement Education DCM System Work Competency System tive mindset, all of which are to strengthen their effectiveness at work. In addition, we will develop and operate new education programs for PM (Project Manager) Definition Definition · Behaviors identified based on traits · Knowledge and skills required for Respecting the Human Rights of Employees for directors and executives to help them exhibit business leadership For the establishment and execution of creative negotiation stratof Doosan people and which are successful execution of certain required of all Doosan employees functions All local and global worksites of Doosan Heavy Industries & Constructhrough the proposal of a new vision, and improvement in innovative egies based on the principle concept of win-win, WIN (Winning InStructure tion regard an employee's human rights as an essential value. We competency for the creation of new future business. telligent Negotiation) Academy education has been developed and Structure Main Competency Items, Sub Main Competencies, Sub strictly prohibit the employment or forced labor of children and teenimplemented to strengthen necessary negotiation skills for each PM Items, Behavioral Indicators Competencies, Job Skills/ Knowledge agers under the age of 18 and, in case a violation occurs, we immework process. This curriculum has been developed as systematized · Traits of Doosan people defined in · Expertise that needs to be secured the Doosan Way are itemized as for each function diately investigate to take necessary measures. Also, occasional and educational courses for each level from associates to executives and specific competencies also as a student-participation type through which actual case studies regular ofﬂine meetings are conducted to protect the human rights of Utilization & Characteristics Utilization & Characteristics minorities such as women and foreigners, in an effort to listen to their and roleplays form the foundation of the contents, maximizing the · Tied to leadership development · Functional Competencies of the grievances and improve the work environment. applicability to real work. In 2017, the education will be expanded to · Used as reference when deciding Organization / Individual assessing on compensation and promotions competency level & fostering the employees in purchasing, sales and marketing to further improve their development of competencies tied to career development competitiveness in negotiations. 64 65 Talent Management Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Corporate University, Department of Doosan Construct Advanced Labor-Management Retirement Assistance Program Major Activities Heavy Industries & Construction Relations Customized retirement support programs are provided for employees Activity Details of Activities whose retirement is imminent, as well as their spouses to guide them Negotiations Settled without Complications for 30 56 Simplify • Minimizes writing reports by establishing reporting in the post-retirement phase. It is comprised of basic and intensive reporting methods based on purpose graduated currently enrolled 11 Consecutive Years curriculums. Information on individual circumstances of concern is • Provides guideline on how to use PowerPoint based on Based on mutual trust that has been accumulated for years, stable and reporting types provided, and discussions and consulting are supported to offer more • Eliminates inefficient time through One Stop reporting* An agreement was signed with Changwon National University in 2013 reasonable labor-management relations are in place. Through peaceful practical assistance especially near the time of retirement. • Connects E-mail-electronic approval system to remove collective bargaining, we have settled dispute-free negotiations for the inefficiency in reporting or consultation to establish a corporate college named Department of Doosan Heavy [Education Process] Minimize • Avoids meetings held merely to deliver information and Industries & Construction in the department of mechanical engineer11th consecutive year. meeting orders or to check the status of progress ing. It comprises primarily of mechanical engineering classes with time • Encourages meetings through messenger and video Intensive Individual liberal arts courses in the department of business administration. By Basic curriculum conferences Labor-Management Communication and curriculum consulting • Performs announcement, reservation and schedule supporting 50% of the total tuition fees, we allow the employees to registration all on the meeting reservation system, which Participation Change in Establishment of Actualization and is connected with Outlook become satisﬁed with opportunities for self-development and growth, understanding of life individual action plan post-assistance Opportunities for employees to freely participate in the decision-makafter retirement after retirement and to strengthen their fundamental competitiveness by combining * Prior to the final report, the employee in charge shall report simultaneously the experience gained at work and engineering knowledge obtained ing process are offered through companywide labor-management to the executive(s) and team manager(s) on the report line from the · Education on utilizing · Basic grounding · Individual consulting meetings such as collective bargaining, the labor-management counstandpoint of growth and motivation. from school. working hours on · Provision of · 1:1 consulting with weekdays information experts cil and system improvement committees. Also, individual windows for communication at the consulting center or through counseling on dif· Education in which · Future design Results/Effects married couples may · Special lectures by Sales and Marketing Education for Locally participate topic ﬁculties by BG are prepared to actively reﬂect the opinions of employImportance of life Survey Results on Level of Satisfaction Felt by Recruited Employees ees in corporate operations. design Employees Regarding the System and Policies (Ratio of Change management We have conducted education for locally recruited employees who Positive Responses) Family relations work at foreign sales and marketing ofﬁces in East Asia, India, etc., Misodam The level of satisfaction experienced by the system and policies introduced to increase their work competence, sense of belonging and pride. The in March 2016 is generally high, and a great number of positive responses education comprises a ﬁeld trip to the Changwon Plant and a tour of A comprehensive counseling center named Misodam, a center for were shown in the areas of understanding, execution and results. Seoul to improve the technical understanding of each product and counseling on psychological, legal, real estate and ﬁnancial consulting, Smart Office In addition to the overall satisfaction, detailed items such as engagement major strategic processes for acquisition of orders. In the future, this is currently in operation. The Smart Ofﬁce system is in operation to encourage members to enon work and reduction in habitual overtime also show meaningful results. education will be expanded to locally recruited employees at all foreign Counseling Center (Misodam) joy work-life balance by improving productivity through the efﬁcient ofﬁces and newly established business units. operation of work hours and, subsequently, completing given tasks Understand the System purpose Form basis for within the work hours (8 hours). implementation changes in work Psychological Legal counseling Real estate counseling Financial consulting satisfaction counseling method (once a week) (once a month) (twice a week) (3 times a week) Major Systems Improve work productivity 89% We operate a psychological counseling center to help manage the89% 85% System Purpose Details mental health of our employees and their families. We aim to seek 75% Concentration • Create a mood for • Focuses on own mental stability and maximize work efﬁciency through counseling on work system increased concentration work during the psychological struggles related to self, family and children. during work hours to concentration work Satisfaction Understanding Execution Results (Effects/ improve productivity hours (10:00 – 12:00) Impact) Best Practice Case Overtime • Prohibits and eliminates • Only allows overtime consultation needless, habitual after supervisors and system overtime as supervisors employees consult 84% 83% TMS (Technology Management School) and employees discuss about work and and agree on the reason register it in the The TMS curriculum is offered for all technical workers every year. It is conducted in a 3-stage curriculum for each position level and, by utilizing a variety of for working overtime system The level of focus on work has Useless/habitual overtime has activities and contents, individual competency in communication is strengthened and growth objectives are met. Flexible hour • Flexible work hours • Provides alternate increased decreased [Direction of Education] [Progress on Education] work system or assigning alternate vacations or adjusts vacations for any work hours to refresh Results on Average Hours at which Employees Strengthening application of case TMS I In 2016 Cumulative status inevitable overtime due employees after Leave Work studies tailored to the field Thinking type executer to meetings with overseas frequent overtime Grows as a leading, active member 14 classes operated 48 classes operated personnel, thereby • Chooses and operates 10% + TMS II 352 completed the curriculum 1,304 completed the curriculum increasing the efficiency in work working hours suitable for each Business within 30 minutes Growth accelerator • Allows the organizations Group (BG) (8-5 or within 1 hours Expanding the percentage of 52% Leads open communication within that work primarily with 9-6) 34% management simulations the organization and contributes to within 2 hours oversea subsidiaries to fulfillment of objectives + flexibly adjust their work TMS III hours Changing leader Reflecting the latest business trends Operates organization as a Results on Substituted Vacation Days Used leader who leads changes 301 cases in one year after implementation 66 67 Shared Growth Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix By constructing a mutually-beneficial partnership with business partners, Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals we will perform a positive role in not just the local, but also the national Through shared growth with business Competency reinforcement programs For the advancement of shared growth partners, a company can fulﬁll social rewere implemented to strengthen the muactivities in 2017, we will help shared economy. sponsibilities and, simultaneously, achieve tually-beneﬁcial partnership with business growth business partners to become the sustainable growth. Thus, Doosan Heavy partners and, by utilizing an application best in the industry, establish a long-term 743 Industries & Construction recognizes for the Doosan Heavy Industries & Concooperative system, introduce a business Shared growth index assessment CSR evaluation of business business partners as mutually-beneﬁcial struction Cooperation Organization Compartner fostering system, reinforce supMost The Most excellent, or the highest grade was partners partners, and operates various support mittee, information is shared and comport for increased competitiveness and received in the shared growth index assessment. Doosan Heavy Industries & excellent As a result, we will receive incentives for the next Construction conducts CSR programs for fair selection and compenmunication is performed in a transparent conduct risk management for violations sation. manner. Evaluations are also conducted of subcontract law. grade 2 years through various schemes. This includes an exemption from the ex officio investigation companies assessments on 743 of its business partners. We will establish a value on a regular basis to deal with business of subcontractors and bonus points obtained in chain that fulfills its responsibilities as partners' environmental as well as health bidding for governmental construction projects. a member of the local community. & safety issues in advance. Shared Growth Strategy Building Business Partners' Competency Management Advisory Group Establish a Culture of Shared Growth Consulting to Reinforce Competitiveness A business partner that desires effective counsel suitable for its needs Communication Foster 200 or so strong global companies by 2020 and a retired executive who wishes to return the favor to the company Korea's top-level professional consultant from an external consulting To resolve major issues that are generated between Doosan Heavy InDevelop a mutually-beneficial partnership system through from which he/she has gained much are matched to conduct customﬁrm visited business partners for four months to derive assignments for dustries & Construction and business partners, regular discussions and which we can grow together with business partners ized consultation. In 2016, counseling in design, quality, business manimprovement and help with execution. The number of business partners visits to business partner ofﬁces by the execution team are held on a agement and technical management was provided to 12 companies. + supported in the past 3 years is 26 and this was spent as a consulting regular basis, and we also operate the Win-Win Call Center to which the Facilitate Enhance growth technology·productivity cost. Through this consulting, the business partners improved in the business partners' issues, complaints and opinions can be submitted for areas of purchasing, productivity and design and also achieved 10.4% Support Business Partners' Quality Improvement Activities counseling. In addition, a variety of communication activities are perof reduction in cost. For the improved level of quality control at our business partners, formed by inviting employees and their family members from business Doosan Heavy Industries & Business partner quality meisters are utilized to support the establishment of a quality partner companies to cultural events such as family culture festivals and Construction Capacity-Building Training system. In 2016, 16 meisters taught and gave guidance at 4 business concerts hosted by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. partner companies to help improve their overall level of quality. Mutually-Beneficial Partnerships By providing opportunities to develop work competencies for those employees under employment at our business partners including those Fair Trading Compliance Program By sharing the management, quality and technology systems of Doowho are expected to be recruited. Education and training expenses Support Overseas Advancement A team responsible for and working on fair trading compliance includes san Heavy Industries & Construction such as its technical capabilities are fully supported by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction to our By working on global projects with business partners, within our commita compliance ofﬁcer and fair trade compliance departments are operand business system with the business partners, the competitiveness business partners that and additional training allowances is provided tee we help them accumulate experiences in overseas projects and contribated in each BG. To prevent any legal violations in advance, work proof the business partners increases, which will bring win-win results in to encourage participation in the education and training. ute to the development of markets and expansion of sales by supporting cesses and computer systems have been improved, while education on the global market. Also, going beyond the existing purchasing subfair trading and the shared growth mindset is carried out for employees 114 the approval process of overseas customers for preemptive eligibility recontracting agreements structure, we will continue to improve the Participation of Business view. Additionally, the global network of Doosan Heavy Industries & Conwho work directly with the business partners. Furthermore, any cases of competitiveness of our business partners and share the outcome with Partners companies participated struction is utilized to participate in Power-Gen, the world's largest power unfair trading are investigated from the business partners' standpoint. them, establishing much stronger partnerships. generation exhibition, year after year. In 2016, we supported the particEducation on subcontract law is especially being implemented throughDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction Participation of Business Partners' Employees 662 people participated ipation of 17 business partners, 3 of which accomplished $2,280,000 in export sales. In particular, we assist the business partners that participate out the company and, efforts to prevent legal violations are being put forth by enacting executing regulations of personnel transfer for law Cooperation Organization Committee in the exhibition so that they can directly meet and introduce products to violators. Since 2011, which is we have been operating the Doosan Heavy Incustomers, and successfully conduct technical meetings and on-site mardustries & Construction Cooperation Organization Committee that is keting work, in which we expect to continuously secure new customers made up of shared growth business partners. Founded for the purpose and increase sales in the future. of mutual growth and communication between Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and its business partners, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Cooperation Organization Committee is a group that aims to establish a long-term, evolving cooperative relationship based on mutual trust. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction currently conducts a variety of mutual growth programs with the committee in competitiveness reinforcement, ﬁnancial support, strengthening of communication in joint overseas expansion, etc. 68 69 Shared Growth Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Purchasing Policies Status of Business Partners Risk Management of Business Partners In 2016, we conducted CSR assessments on 743 of our business partners and allocated 226 incentives and 4 penalties on companies reDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction has endorsed the『Doosan A business partner is deﬁned as a supplier that selects strategic and We conduct a business partner registration assessment through which spectively. Furthermore, we have empowered the business partners to Heavy Industries & Construction Suppliers' CSR Guideline』, which was cooperation products by considering price, quality, delivery, entry barcost, delivery, quality, collaboration, CSR, environmental safety, etc. self-diagnose their CSR levels to understand their own strengths and founded based on the United Nations Global Compact's 10 principles riers, etc. and maintains the relationship of a supplier over the longare evaluated based on annual transaction results, thus managing risks weaknesses, and offer practical support in weaker areas by supervisory of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and is acterm. of our business partners on a regular basis. Other items evaluated invisits and sharing of exemplary cases. tively applying it to all of its business partners. This guideline outlines clude credit rating, reputation and sales volume. Companies exhibiting the elements of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Selecting a New Business Partner high risks as indicated by the evaluation results are excluded from the pool of potential business partners, and the assessment grades are Support Social Contribution Activities of We select new business partners based on fair, transparent criteria. The Suppliers' CSR Guideline applied as points, when allocating incentives or penalties to business Business Partners selection criteria includes items related to the environment, safety and partners. An assessment is conducted by a representative or an audiDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction is participating in the Doosan · Human rights (health and safety, working conditions and wages, fair trading and, through a credit rating assessment, an evaluation of a tor designated by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction who visits Day of Community Service, a strategic social contribution activity, with etc.) company's ﬁnancial and governance structure is conducted. A compathe workplaces of business partners to inspect the state of compliance its business partners. To enable them to conduct social contribution · Labor (freedom of association, child labor, forced labor, etc.) ny that has ever been at the center of a scandal will be prohibited from with the CSR guideline. Business partners maintain all documents and activities on their own, we support the launch and activities of their · Environment (environmental protection and pollution control) registering as a new business partner. data needed to prove their conformance to the guideline within all own volunteer groups at business partners. · Anti-corruption (prevention of corruption, compliance with the law) workplaces related to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. April Clarifying Suppliers' CSR Guideline Business Management Activities Business partners participated in Doosan Day of Partners' Risks Community Service For the company's continuous growth, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to increase its competitiveness and execute soThrough regular/irregular monitoring CEOs and employees from 8 business partners participated in cial responsibilities through harmony (inhwa), customer-centered management philosophy, transparent management and innovation. and audits, sanctions and management a mural painting activity held in Daewon-dong, Changwon Thus, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction urges all suppliers to follow the guideline, which is founded upon the United Nations of potentially problematic suppliers are Global Compact's 10 principles of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Also, it urges you to continue to use this implemented to control issues such as guideline as a sustainable purchasing policy when dealing with other suppliers as well. Financial risks collusion among suppliers, unfair trading and violation of ethical management. June & October Ongoing education is also being held to prevent these issues. Supported their own volunteer groups activities While focusing on preemptive actions to by business partners prevent accidents, we carry out safety June: Participation in the cleaning of a residence for the Purchase Status of Local and Overseas Supply Chains and health symbiotic cooperation projects mentally handicapped (Haman Rosa's House) and delivery to improve the business partners' EHS of goods Environmental level. Moreover, we continuously stress October: Participation in the preparation and distribution risks the importance of suppliers' EHS by of meals at a soup kitchen (Masan Bohyun's House) reflecting their certification of ISO 14001 Asia environmental management system in a Europe comprehensive competency assessment of Germany 1.18% North America the suppliers. December Romania 1.23% Austria 1.82% Korea China United Through a comprehensive competency 61.90% Middle East 0.82% Japan States assessment of suppliers that includes 5 CEOs from business partners participated in a 4.08% 1.86% elements of competency in cost and delivery, kimchi sharing activity Saudi Arabia 11.86% we constantly control relevant risks by Business partners donated money and daily special management of or cessation of necessities to the needy Vietnam Social risks transactions with suppliers, over whom we 11.00% are concerned regarding potential illegal actions such as illegal employment, child labor and labor exploitation due to excessive measures to lower the cost of production and increase orders. Others 4.25% 70 71 Social Contribution Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will play its role as a partner Our Approach 2016 Results 2017 Goals who shares the trust and love received from customers and grows We strive to fulﬁll our social responsibiliBy establishing a process to systematiThrough Community-based programs ties through strategic social contribution cally manage social contribution activity social contribution activities, we contintogether with society. activities for the improvement of the comresults, we expect that the restructuring uously seek co-existence with the local munity's future competitiveness and corof programs based on performance will community in which we conduct busiporate values. We seek social contribution be carried out efﬁciently. We also expand ness. We plan to participate in an overthrough which value is shared throughcommunication channels with the local seas initiative by increasing connection to 60 91 Participation rate in volunteer Percentage of signup for social out society, not merely through one-time community and serve a more active role sustainable development goals (SDGs) as activities volunteer groups charity work, but by establishing a culture in dealing with community issues such as well as establishing long-term objectives 60% of the employees voluntarily participated As of late 2016, 91% of the employees had of social contribution where the company fostering talents and support for the unto continuously perform social contribu% in volunteer activities to carry out the social % signed up and served in social volunteer and employees all participate together. derprivileged. tion activities. responsibilities of Doosan Heavy Industries & groups. Construction. Direction of Social Contribution Talent Cultivation Social Contribution Performance Measurement Priority Direction of Social Contribution Objective With a goal to increase the future competitiveness of the community Based on Doosan Group's talent-centered management philosophy, By quantifying and systematically controlling the results of social conTalent · Talent-centered management Nurture tribution activities that the company conducts, programs conforming and company value, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction follows social contribution to nurture the outstanding talents of the future is cultivation in philosophy talents in the 3 basic principles of Business Oriented, Community Focused and speciﬁed as an area of focus. science and · Reflect the nature of the science and to the environment and purpose of the company's social contribution Employee Engagement to set up 3 domains of activity, which includes Considering the nature of the engineering industry, we have a high engineering engineering business engineering are discovered and continuously carried out and, through this, the pertalent cultivation, support for the underprivileged and local engageproportion of individuals from the ﬁelds of science and engineering. · Expand the scope of support for Solve and formance of the programs is measured in order to ultimately increase Support for the ment, and to promote a variety of social contribution activities for the Therefore, we feel the importance of nurturing talents in engineering the socially underprivileged prevent social the social and corporate value. underprivileged · Contribute to solving social issues issues The measurement of the social contribution performance of Doosan local community. and also concentrate on related social contribution activities. · Expand the local community Continuous Heavy Industries & Construction is conducted in 4 steps: 1) selection Communitynetwork growth of representative programs by area, 2) deﬁning key information, 3) Social Contribution System Support for the Underprivileged based programs · Support economic and social of local growth community speciﬁcation of measurement indicators, and 4) evaluation and perforWe lead social contribution to better the lives of the underprivileged mance measurement by stakeholders. including children, teenagers, senior citizens and the disabled. We Youth Energy Project continue to expand the scope of welfare policies to include more soSocial Contribution Performance Process Operation of Social Volunteer Groups cially underprivileged people who are currently placed in our society's Focus area As of December 2016, 91% of all employees are signed up for the DooStage 1 Select Define program Select core blind spots and also create an understanding on these issues for inProgram Mapping program performances indices san Heavy Industries & Construction social volunteer groups. Through creased public awareness and resolution. Talent cultivation regular social contribution activities primarily in Changwon and Seoul, sharing activities are carried out for the neglected neighbors in our Stage 2 Stakeholder Measure Calculate Employee Engagement Community-Based Programs community. In addition, to revitalize social contribution, the company Program Assessing evaluation performances effects Business Oriented To grow the local community and make lives richer through the paralso supports various activities by introducing the matching grant systicipation of various interested parties, we pursue social contribution tem, weekday volunteer activities, computing system and rewarding Results of Social Contribution Performance Measurement Improvement activities that closely engage with the community. in future outstanding volunteers. Measurement Area Program competitiveness A cooperation network for the growth of the local community is being Indicators of the community and company expanded with diverse interested parties such as local governments, Nurture talents Local children's Degree of Increased from 2.95 to values NGOs, social welfare agencies and farm villages. The foundation conSocial Contribution Performance Management center theme sociality 3.07 (out of 5 total) Su programs developed Co un ppor de t fo Since the launch of the social volunteer groups, Doosan Heavy Indused tinues to grow for the enhancement of economic and social conditions bas rpr Community Support for the Community Psychological Result of survey increased tyivil r the tries & Construction has established the purpose and direction of social underprivileged welfare center and mental from 52% to 80% uni ms as well as harmonious co-existence with the company. Ba Focused Sup eg ed mm gra po programs to health pro as rt a contribution and introduced a promoted system, activity management increase senior are rea citizens' selfsic process and acceleration system. In 2016, we focused on developing esteem a performance management system and, thus, selected vitalization of CommunityFarm exchange Degree of Contributes to social contribution participation and social contribution performance based programs activities contribution approximately 800,000 between 1 to profits for KRW/household in measurement in Seoul as core assignments. company and 7 each farming income for 150 farming villages household households (about 2.3% of an average profit made by a Doosan Community Blueprint farming household in the Gyeongnam region) 72 73 Social Contribution Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix M.Y. Dream Teenager Career Path Experience Group Doosan Class Environmental improvement mural painting Programs associated with community welfare centers Local children's center theme programs Kimchi Sharing Event Dasarang Dream Helping impoverished children overseas, Global Sharing Expanding Engagement in the Seoul Office M.Y. Dream (Make Your Dream) Career Operate Doosan Class, Industry-Academia Support for the Underprivileged Considering the nature of the social volunteer groups, which had been Exploration Group for Youngsters Cooperation Programs Associated with Community Welfare divided into 2 regions, Seoul and Changwon, vitalization activities The Career Exploration Group for Youngsters is a program that comTo support the nurturing of engineering talents, Doosan Heavy IndusCenters were conducted in the Seoul region where the performance of participrises of 3-stage activities of career path exploration, experience and tries & Construction has signed industry-academia cooperative agreepation was relatively lacking. With an aim to reﬂect the needs of the local community, programs are design through which teenagers are encouraged to develop interest in ments with Changwon Machine Technical High School, Busan AutoBy strengthening the communication with 5 reorganized social volplanned with community welfare centers, which are in direct contact different professions, and ultimately determine their own career paths mobile High School and Sudo Electric Technical High School at which unteer groups, in Seoul (EPC BG, Water BG, Technology Research Inwith socially marginalized groups of our society, to carry out volunin advance. Doosan Class curriculum is established and is in operation for technistitute, Doori and Power social volunteer group) and introducing new teers in which our employees participate. Together with 6 and 4 comIn line with the implementation of the free-semester system at middle cal and competency education tailored to Doosan Heavy Industries & programs such as operation of regular activities, the participation in munity welfare centers in Changwon and Seoul, respectively, emotionschools, we have signed an MOU with the Changwon Ofﬁce of EducaConstruction. In 2016, 13 students from Doosan Class were recruited the Seoul region, which only reached 33% in 2014, improved to 63% al support and sociality development programs are in operation for tion to operate the program for 86 students at 4 middle schools in the as a part of the plan to acquire competent engineering talents. in 2016. teenagers, senior citizens, disabled and multicultural families. city of Changwon since 2016. Youth Dream Up Project Talent Cultivation Dasarang Dream Local Children's Center Theme Programs For teenagers who have outstanding gifts and talents but cannot Dasarang Dream Project started in 2011 with the Gyeongnam Ofﬁce Youth Energy Project Since 2014, 9 theme programs in heritage exploration, ecological exdream big due to ﬁnancial difﬁculties, we provide support through of Korea Red Cross in order to assist the teens of the community's perience, Changwon tour, woodwork, gardening treatment, pottery the Youth Dream Up Project hosted by ChildFund Korea to help 5 The Youth Energy Project aims to support future talents to grow and underprivileged and, in 2016, we purchased daily necessities at tradiarts, social studies, science and history education have been in operstudents in 3 sports – 2 in archery, 1 in shooting and 2 in Taekwondo be independent as well-rounded individuals with diverse capabilities. tional markets and delivered them to 300 households for vitalization ation for 58 local children's centers in Seoul and the Changwon re– to enable them to pursue their dreams. All programs included in this project are offered in a personalized fashof the local economy and supporting of low-income families. Also, we gion with which we have formed partnerships. In 2016, 165 activity ion depending on the growth stage of the individual. regularly carry out activities to share bread and noodles with children sessions were held to contribute to the development of sociality and at welfare centers with which we have formed partnerships. emotional development of nearly 1,500 neglected children. Elementary School Middle School High School University Clean House Students Students Students Students Through technical volunteer group consisting of employees' talent shar· Theme programs for local child centers · M.Y. Dream Career Exploration Group for Youngsters · Supporting science high schools to nurture · Operating Doosan Class at industry· Matching the tuition fees for children from · Scholarships for outstanding students from lowscience and engineering talents academia cooperative colleges ing, house repair programs are implemented on a regular basis to check low-income families income families · Operating Doosan Class at Meister high · Technical dissertation contests and visits · Supporting love-sharing reference books · Sharing the love through school uniforms schools and specialized high schools to advanced countries overseas electric equipment and perform papering and painting for the under· Sponsorship for the Kumkum-Dda · Matching the tuition fees for children from low· Scholarships for outstanding students from privileged, farming villages and child welfare centers. Orchestra income families low-income families · Supporting love-sharing reference books 74 75 Social Contribution Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Doosan Day of Community Service Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix 12 countries, 30 business sites, 3,333 employees participated in 73 social contribution programs To fulfill the corporate social responsibilities and the local community's sustainable growth, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been hosting Doosan Day of Community Service since October 2014, an event that draws the voluntary participation of all employees from all worksites. In 2016, various community service activities including Clean Changwon, with Doosan , a well-known program, were conducted in association with interested parties in both the private and public sectors. In 2017, we will continue to maintain it as one of Doosan's leading social contribution festivals and facilitate Doosan People's heartwarming and fruitful sharing. Offering Helping Hands to Seven Farming Villages Environmental Clean-Up Community-Based Programs Environmental Clean-Up Offering Helping Hands to Seven Farming Villages To prepare a clean environment in the local community and environmental protection for the future generation, we perform environmenDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction has formed sisterhood relationUnited Kingdom Germany Korea tal cleaning activities on a regular basis over a broad region includships with 7 farming villages (Gwisan in Changwon, Janggi in Goseong, Doosan Babcock·Enpure Doosan Lentjes Doosan Heavy Industries & ing coasts, islands, rivers and mountains. Particularly on the annual Misan in Haman and others), which enables employees to participate Improving the environment such as children's Providing clothes for refugee agencies and Construction World Oceans Day, large-scale coastal and underground cleaning is during farming and harvesting seasons to lend a helping hand. In every center and local schools, and providing low-income families as well as food supplies 46 programs including Clean Changwon with performed in Masan Bay near the Changwon headquarters, and nearly food supplies to the underprivileged groups to the underprivileged groups Doosan, fostering an urban forest 'Corporate harvesting period during the fall, 450 Doosan employees, as well as memthrough a food bank Love Park,' and mural painting to improve the 100 people including members of in-house scuba diving club, emenvironment bers of the Changwon Volunteer Service Organization Association, visit the ployee volunteers and Changwon's private-public joint social volunteer sister farm villages to assist with the kiwi and sweet persimmon harvest. groups participate every year. October 2016 Kimchi Sharing Event Voluntary participation in community Environmental Improvement Mural Painting Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts the 'Kimchi Sharing service by all employees from all worksites Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been operating a mural Event' activity with the local community to share the love with neighevery year painting program in deteriorated residential areas and crime-prone bors every year. In 2016, about 200 people from the civil servant famdistricts to ensure safe paths for women, children and teenagers as ily social volunteer groups, voluntary service organization associations, well as to prevent various forms of crimes. This has been operational Danuri Social Volunteer Groups consisting of multicultural families with the help of the police department and the city of Changwon. as well as business partners of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction prepared 5,000 heads of kimchi at the Changwon headquarters, which were delivered to nearly 3,000 people at Changwon child welfare centers, the underprivileged groups, social welfare centers and multicultural households. Participation Rate by Region Czech Republic India Vietnam Doosan Skoda Power Doosan Power Systems India Doosan Vina Fixing facilities and improving the environment Improving the environment at sister Clean houses for low-income families, House Seoul (including Suji and Dongtan) at local hospitals, elementary schools, day-care elementary schools and public facilities, Building of Love centers, etc. 2014 2015 2016 digging a well at the Lara site 33% 53% 63% Changwon (including Gijang) 4,201 60 35,490 2014 2015 2016 5.93 61% 64% 59% Saudi Arabia UAE United States No. of Participation Volunteer activities Participation hours per participants rate (%) hours (hours) person (hours) Doosan Power Systems Arabia Middle East Operation Center Doosan Hydro Technology (people) Cleaning the environment in local streets, Cleaning the environment near worksites Supporting STEM programs and donating to parks, etc. child welfare institutions 76 77 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Fundamental Advanced Processes & Core Value Category Doosan Way Awards Competitiveness Systems Category (Clean and Safe Environment) Water Nuclear power Management We implement the Doosan Way, founded upon the faith and philosophy of the company, in an effort to become the Proud Doosan in the | Water treatment technology | Nuclear power plant production part | Energy environment team development team World. the Doosan Way is internalized as a core value to which all employees must conform. Every year, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction selects outstanding cases that have achieved the value of the Doosan Way through the Doosan Way Awards, where awards are given in categories of fundamental competitiveness advancement and scientification, and core values. This year, 65 outstanding cases were chosen to Technical development of thermal Establishment of remote control Use of replacement substances help distribute and share the value of the Doosan Way throughout the company. ZLD (zero liquid discharge*) leading to welding system inside steam in place of harmful chemical advancement into new markets of generators substances desulfurized wastewater The water treatment technology development For the ﬁrst time ever, the nuclear power plant By replacing harmful chemical substances used team has developed the zero liquid discharge production part has automated the welding on site with harmless chemical substances, leak technology for entering the eco-friendly water of structures inside a steam generator in an ataccidents are fundamentally prevented. After extreatment market, which is rapidly growing due tempt to reduce the workers' risks of injury and amining the status on usage of hazardous chemto strengthened environmental regulations, and high defect ratio of manual welding under poor ical substances in work sites, methyl ethyl ketone, diversiﬁcation of business models. Despite the difworking conditions. Firstly, GMAW*, which has sodium hydroxide and hydrazine hydrate have ﬁculties as a second mover, Doosan has secured shown satisfying results in speed, property values been determined as substances possessing a high competitive edges in both technology and cost and automatability, has been decided through a degree of harm. Methyl ethyl ketone, needed in through the development of 2 types of evaposurvey on manufactured goods, benchmarking manufacturing of generators, is used in the largrator design technology and optimization of the and group activity meetings to be applied to the est number of places while the substance with sizes of core facilities. In addition, through mulproducts that meet the conditions of automation the greatest scale amount of usage is sodium hyOverview of the Promotion 2016 tidirectional efforts for entry into new markets, including the organization of an exclusive sales devices. During the application, it was discovered that the existing gas lens generates an excessive droxide, which is a regenerant of ion exchange resin. Hydrazine hydrate, the most dangerous department and demonstration in front of seamount of eddy current and, thus, cannot shield substance, is used to remove dissolved oxygen to of the Doosan Way Awards lected customers, it has achieved positive results perfectly. Through a number of subsequent tests, prevent corrosion during water pressure testing. through increased orders and advancement into the part invented a new gas lens, for which a As a result of seeking various means to replace overseas markets. patent application has been given. It has also hazardous chemical substances, methyl ethyl keThe Doosan Way Awards of Doosan Heavy developed its own AAWE99, an auxiliary welding tone and hydrazine hydrate have been replaced Awards Categories * A facility that processes, recycles and minimizes the Industries & Construction officially started in 2016 amount of wastewater, and technology that responds to device that moves or transports along a speciﬁed with harmless chemical substances and sodium strengthened environmental regulations and improves path, and applied it to the new process. Through hydroxide is no longer used as water treatment and celebrates its 2nd anniversary this year. economic efficiency the remote control automatic welding system, facilities have been introduced. approximately KRW 304 million has been saved, Excellence of the secured and it is expected that KRW 1.7 billion would be Founded upon the Doosan Way, it selects and competitiveness Sodium hydroxide saved annually if the system is extensively applied awards outstanding cases in various categories Category Areas to other processes. Moreover, it strives to reduce • Developing proprietary ZLD technology at the global the cost of welding quality failure to zero via a Risk of necrosis of Reduced the amount of including operational and quality innovation, top tier level skin and/or loss of use by 100% through • Securing cost competitiveness through optimization preemptive defect alert feature by developed by eyesight when in the introduction of water social contribution and other areas, and also 3 change of core facilities utilizing big data. Fundamental Competitiveness contact treatment facilities shares them throughout the company in order models • Creating successful cases of stable demonstrative * GMAW (Gas Metal Arc Welding): A semiautomatic welding facility operation process that does not generate any slag while using solid to distribute the core values that need to be Advanced Processes • Solving scale risks, which have been an unsolved issue wires with shielding gas and without any coating materials Methyl ethyl ketone internalized in each employee of Doosan Heavy & Systems • Conducting aggressive customer marketing Industries & Construction. System establishment process Causes paralysis, Replaced with Cultivation of Doosan People visual impairment harmless chemical Doosan Way Awards Construction of welding automation facility when inhaled substances Entering overseas markets Development of automatic path-moving auxiliary Core Technology and Innovation and expanding desulfurized 2017~ welding device values wastewater and new markets Development of remote control welding system Social Responsibilities The Yeongheung headquarters Prevention of Saves KRW 1.2 Inhwa secured an order for a desulfurized wastewater non-discharge 2017 Preemptive defect alert feature based on big on-site accidents billion in cost data per year treatment facility (February) Clean and Safe Environment The Yeongdong headquarters Reducing cost secured an order for a total 2016 Preventing risks due to welding Customers nitrogen removal facility (June) of workers' quality failure injury (KRW 1.7 billion annually) 78 79 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix 04 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is turning the Earth's oceans into drinking water and turning its resources into light. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Babcock 82 Doosan Skoda Power 86 Doosan Lentjes 90 Doosan Power Systems India 94 Doosan Vina 98 Shuaibah Desalination Plant 80 81 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Doosan Babcock Business Strategy The business environment in the energy sector continues to evolve at a rapid pace. The Doosan Babcock thermal strategy has focused on maximizing domestic service activity with longstanding key customers. To cope with a sustained oil price depression and changing of industry investment flow , we offer an integrated solution for Doosan Babcock is part of a powerful combination of companies united refinery and petrochemical specialists. As we continue to successfully deliver breakthrough contracts with new customers in the Middle East, we seek to advance to strategic partnership models that have been mutually under the Doosan Group to deliver complementary technologies, skills and beneficial for both participating parties in the UK. With the dynamics of energy markets shifting towards distributed and low carbon generation due to a global drive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, demand for value to customers the world over. the fuel cell market is increasing. Through our Fuel Cell solution, Doosan Babcock offers continuous, peak or back up power suitable for urban environment. With the energy market evolving to favour distributed and low carbon energy generation, Doosan Babcock are well positioned to capture new opportunities in domestic markets and export core capability internationally. Business Performance and Goals Doosan Babcock delivers complementary technologies, skills and value to customers the world over across the following sectors: 1. Thermal: With a strong heritage of over 125 years enabling thermal production across the world, we have refined our skills to be market leaders in the decarbonization of the traditional thermal generation market. 2. Nuclear: We are supporting the low-carbon UK civil nuclear industry across the lifecycle of projects. Our market-leading services in life extension, decommissioning and support on new builds will keep the UK energy mix secure and lower carbon into the future. 3. Process: Our energy innovation is not limited to power stations. We work with pharmaceuticals, oil, gas and the wider petrochemical and process industries to drive efficiencies and improve quality. 4. Asset Management: Innovation is at the heart of our organization so it's only natural that our multi-specialist teams support the safe through-life management of customers assets, with a range of optimization, repair and maintenance services. 5. Green Power Solutions: The shift towards more local low carbon distributed energy solutions provides Doosan Babcock with opportunities to utilize our vast experience coupled with our innovative fuel cell technology to deliver integrated solutions that meet the needs of a diverse range of clients. Doosan Babcock has over one hundred and twenty years of history within the energy sector and long-term sustainable business delivery is ingrained within our heritage. Doosan Babcock continues to grow together with our local communities in order to build truly sustainable relationships and shared value. We are engaged in a wide range of ongoing social contribution in the areas of Education, Environment and Community, of which we actively support the voluntary participation of our employees in these projects. Doosan Babcock has achieved ISO 26000 and a 'rated supplier' on the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) Sustainability Index. * We were selected as a Rated Supplier according to the Chartered Institute of Sustainability Index, an indicator developed to measure sustainability in purchasing strategies and processes. Company Introduction & Financial Performance in 2016 ISO 26000 We are operating business in accordance with the ISO 26000 Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility. This standard Doosan Babcock is a specialist in the delivery of engineering, after-market Order amount Revenue independently verifies that we support the needs of our local and and upgrade services to the power generation, oil and gas, petrochemical 645 613 wider community. and process sectors. Based on its world-class technologies and abundant experiences, we provide power plant facilities to around 30 countries around the world, including the US and Europe. With a focus on the delivery of lower-carbon technologies and an industry-leading project management Rated We have been selected as a Rated Supplier for the Chartered Institute of Sustainability Index, an indicator developed to capability, the company builds, maintains and extends the life of customer Unit: USD Million Supplier measure sustainability in purchase strategies and processes. assets worldwide. 82 83 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Strategy for Social Responsibility Management this centered around monthly briefings delivered by line managers/ STEM Promotion supervisors, posters focusing on some of the most debilitating injuries Doosan Babcock continues to grow together with our local communities in order to build truly sustainable relationships and shared value. We are Doosan Babcock continues to be actively involved in supporting STEM and Your Hands at Work booklet which was designed and distributed engaged in a wide range of ongoing social contribution in the areas of Education, Environment and Community, of which we actively support the (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) events across across the workforce. Push and Pull Sticks for lifting operations were voluntary participation of our employees in these projects. the UK that enhance the technical, personal and employability skills also introduced allowing focus on keeping the upper limbs away from of young people typically aged between 11 – 21 years old. In 2016, the line of fire. Doosan Babcock STEM ambassadors supported the Renfrewshire Grow the People Grow the Business Chamber of Commerce STEM activities by inviting 70 children and their teachers from local primary and secondary schools to our Technology DEVELOPING PEOPLE RELIABLE OPERATION RESPONSIBLE ENGAGEMENT & Engineering Building Laboratories. This visit to our facility served to inspire the children to consider engineering and science subjects for Strengthen people development within Minimize our emissions and waste Strengthen customer, employee and their further education studies and their careers by offering them to the Doosan Babcock influence sphere through the management, quality and supply chain participation. participate in fun opportunities. focussing on Engineering, Education innovation of our products and services. Develop and fully support employee and the Environment. Reinforce ethics and fair operation. community involvement and Respect for Employees' Rights Build a great workplace with a focus There is nothing more important than development. In 2016 Selma Hunter, Director of Project Delivery attended the 5th on human respect, which is the undertaking any job we undertake safely. year anniversary of the Hawthorn Club at the House of Commons Doosan Way. in the Palace of Westminster. The Hawthorn Club is a professional international network for women in the energy sector which works towards promoting and supporting the professional development of women and facilitates increased gender diversity within the energy Push and Pull Sticks sector. More recently, Doosan Babcock attended the third annual Women in Nuclear UK (WiN UK) conference that attracted over 200 Environmental Management Safety & Health Quality Management people across the industry to raise the profile of WiN UK's work in First Environment Week Health and Safety Industry Recognition raising the profile and importance of gender balance. Obtained International Standard Certification We held our first Environment Week internally with employees We have held BS OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety Doosan Babcock maintains quality (ISO9001), environmental (ISO where we facilitated two-way communication on Doosan Babcock's Management Systems Certification for over 15 years. We had 14001) and safety and health (OHSAS 18001) management system Social Contribution low carbon ambitions, what we've done to date, and how we can outstanding Health and Safety Industry Recognition by winning several certifications. Power the Future improve further. Our employees gave lots of feedback and provided prestigious awards including the British Safety Council Sword of specific suggestions on how we can all make a difference, making for Honour Awards at Stanlow Oil Refinery and Heysham 1 Nuclear Power Power the Future focuses on the role of science and technology in the a successful event. Station, as well as the Engineering Construction Industry Association Achilles UVDB Certification Audit and Assessment UK energy sector and highlights key issues that society is likely to face RISE Award for promoting best practice health and safety standards. Doosan Babcock achieved excellent scores in the 2016 Achilles in the not too distant future. Doosan Babcock was delighted to get Improvements UVDB certification audit and assessment. Achilles UVDB audits and involved as part of its efforts to promote STEM education, in line with Accomplished 5,500+ Accident-Free Days assessment are a crucial part of validating the capability, competence our CSR program. 1. Zero waste to landfill across all our UK facilities. and compliance of suppliers. The Achilles UVDB audit comprised of Further success was seen at the Grangemouth Oil Refinery and 2. The achievement of the Carbon Trust Standard for Carbon a Management System evaluation and an on-site assessment. The Jeans for Genes chemicals complex where our team surpassed a staggering 11,000,000 Reduction scope involved key categories of Health, Safety, Environment, Quality, 3. Re-Design of our Tipton Weld School to reduce energy use in man hours since their last lost time incident (LTI) in 2001. This equates Jeans for Genes (United Kingdom) is a national children's charity, which and Corporate Social Responsibility. The areas covered included ventilation, re-circulate heat and reduce hazardous waste to more than 5,500 days of continuous, safe working across a highly raises money for the care of children and families who are affected purchasing, sustainability, carbon emissions, business continuity and production safety-sensitive working environment, incorporating year-round by genetic disorders. Staff at Doosan Babcock showed their fantastic 4. Installation of an improved Building Management System at our human resources. Doosan Babcock scored 100% across all categories. maintenance, turnarounds, construction, EPC projects and specialist generosity with the presentation of a GBP 7,000 check to the Jeans for Renfrew facility, reducing gas use technology services. Genes charity. 5. Installation of LED lighting and Passive Infra Red sensors across our Crawley facility and in particular areas of our Renfrew facility Human Resource Management Thank You Campaign Dream Placement Recruiting and Fostering Talent In 2016, Doosan Babcock launched Doosan Babcock is supporting the government's Dream Placement Project Carbon It remains Doosan Babcock's policy to support and encourage a campaign called 'Thank You for scheme, a leadership program in Cumbria, as part of our commitment We introduced our 20% Carbon Reduction by the year 2020 target. In appropriate further education opportunities for all employees in order Staying Safe' to reinforce our safety to the promotion of STEM and skills development. As part of the order to help meet this target and focus on carbon reduction across for them to enhance their skills and qualifications to maximize their message and engage hearts and scheme, students spent time on-site at our Westlakes office and was other areas of our business we launched Project Carbon with a potential and their contribution to their own and the company's goals. minds. As part of this awareness given exposure to various areas of the business including project team comprising senior managers from various areas of our business. This was demonstrated by our employees winning three awards and and our commitment to continual management, quality, health and safety and engineering. This gives Project Carbon aims to reduce carbon in the following areas: Product two commendations at the renowned industry recognized ECITB improvement Doosan Babcock them the opportunity to pick up knowledge on project management Performance, Infrastructure, Site Activities, Supply Chain, Individual. Training and Development Awards 2016. developed a Hand and Finger Safety and leadership skills. Campaign to heighten awareness of the hazards and the controls, 84 85 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Doosan Skoda Power Business Strategy As the power market trend changes from coal-fired power to combined-cycle power and new and renewable energy, the specialized technology development of steam turbines for combined-cycle as well as strengthening competitiveness in steam turbine models for CSP (Concentrated Solar Power), WtE and biomass have been the Doosan Skoda Power is a world-renowned company focus of pursuit. A variety of steam turbine models are being developed for specialized technology from the perspective of profitability and convenience of combined-cycle power plant clients and for new and renewable specializing in turbine OEM technology. energy. Also, new markets continue to be pioneered in Southeast Asia, the Middle East, etc. while maintaining existing markets of Europe and Central and South America. Project Outcome and Midto Long-term Goals In 2016, new markets such as Oman and Indonesia were found and renewable energy orders were received from TEES Rep in the UK and Hofor in Denmark among others. Doosan Skoda Power aims to actively expand the market and product portfolio beyond 2017 to play a leading role in the global market. Doosan Skoda Power fuses sustainable management into the scope of business. By establishing social responsibility management strategies to reinforce fundamental competitiveness while conforming to rapidly changing domestic and foreign environments, we aim to be a company that dutifully and diligently carries out our social responsibilities. Efforts for Social Responsibility Conducting CSR conferences with executives twice per year Management Hosting CSR donation meetings four times per year Publishing monthly CSR reports Strategy for Social Responsibility Management Proud Global Doosan Doosan Way 2025 Leading Global Company for CSR Growth of People Growth of Business Based on Doosan's people-oriented philosophy aimed Promoting a close relationship between our business Company Introduction & Financial Performance in 2016 at promoting the company's core values success and our communities Doosan Skoda Power is a world-renowned power generation equipment Order amount Revenue Education (STEM) Sport support Community 219 326 company with steam turbine OEM technology producing turbines since · Support for an agreed-upon program · Utilize football sponsorship to increase · Ensuring we are connected to the 1904 and supplying 450 turbines to 62 countries around the world. Doosan with the University of West Bohemia and engagement with local communities communities around our places of monitoring the success thereof · Increasing Doosan brand awareness work (including customer sites) Skoda Power is the owner of steam turbine OEM technology, and since · Raising understanding of engineering (Doosan Arena) · Encouraging our employees to supplying the first steam turbine in 1904, it provides total service such as among school and university students · Delivering equivalent advertising value contribute personally or financially to · Encouraging young people to choose · Observing employee satisfaction the benefit of society design, manufacture, supply, installation and commissioning of 3~1,200 engineering careers · Encouraging people to actively · Selective community involvement via · Developing pathways for job seekers to a participate in sports employee volunteering MW steam turbines. We achieved world-class performance, efficiency and Unit: U$ Million career in engineering with DSPW · Supporting regional sports · Paid day off will enable employees to · Supporting and aiding the development · Extending sponsorship experiences to volunteer for suitable opportunities reliability of steam turbines through advanced engineering capabilities and of engineering degree courses employees' families · Matching grant scheme will enable · Supporting engineering research in · Creating a strong regional and employees to give to their preferred highly developed manufacturing processes. Our steam turbine technologies universities European presence charities are constantly evolving to meet the changing needs of our customers. Establishing a new technical Communication program for all Engagement and participation of generation employees business leaders 86 87 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Acquisition and Auditing of International St. Lazarus' Hospice Standards St Lazarus' Hospice provides end-of-life care in the Pilsen region to We retain recertification to BS OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 people who are at the final stages of their terminal illnesses. Palliative certificates. And our company is required to carry out an Energy Audit care is delivered here, which is focused on providing patients with and CSR Audit per Energy Management. relief from and coping with the symptoms of their illness in its final stage – pain, shortness of breath, insomnia, anxiety and fear. Our company has been working with the hospice on a volunteer basis for Environmental Management two years now – some of our colleagues come regularly on Doosan The environmental profile of the company comprises the individual Day of Community Service in order to help out, and for that they environmental indicators. To assess the trends, individual indicators are deserve huge thanks. referred to the In-house Production Output. We are seeking to reduce our energy use by shifting to high efficiency lighting and installing Doosan Day of Community Service light control systems. We also installed insulation devices on the cuter wall of the building to conserve energy and cut down on heating To fulfill our corporate social responsibility and promote the sustainable expenses. development of local communities, we have been celebrating DDCS attended voluntarily by our employees. Examples of cooperation: the blood donation, Hospital elderly care reading, talking, walks with Turbine Modernization, Continuous Product seniors, LEDOVEC building of the shelter, preparing bazaar of old Improvement furniture, tree trimming, Elementary school spring cleaning in the By improving turbine technical level and efficiency we contribute to garden, Dog Shelter cleaning, painting of the fence, ZOO Plzeň reducing the consumption of natural resources (coal and gas) and spring cleaning, etc. emissions. Safety & Health Occupational Health and Safety & Fire Prevention Communication was held with the RHA of Pilsen Region and with the Health Institute in Ústí nad Labem, Pilsen Branch, concerning the issues of working environment, investigation of occupational diseases and hygienic limits not only in periodic measurements but also in newly measured workplaces. CS Management Customer Relationships We are performing regular customer satisfaction surveys during each year to establish positive customer relationships through our prompt response to on-site issues and improved customer responses. We Best Practice Case have reorganized the survey methods to focus more on customer Process Improvement in Blade Machining value, given that customers' product and quality needs give rise to customized customer service and improved reliability. In order to process an object, all steps require precision machining. This particular process goes through a pair of Social Contribution machines called TAJMAC and g-MILL, which often takes a significant amount of work time, which results failure to meet a Let's Give Children a Chance requested deadline. By collaborating with the Engineering Team, Our last CSR deed in 2016 was giving the sum of CZK 30,000 to the Team Blades I has measured the data to reduce the number of 'Let's Give Children a Chance' organization. Our donation will make processes and improved the software, ultimately increasing the the start of an independent life easier for children and young people machines' operating speed. This resulted in annual savings of coming from the children's home. USD 26,400 and shortened the production schedule. 88 89 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Doosan Lentjes Business Strategy The performance of the German capital goods sector on the global markets, especially on the emerging ones, has a significant impact on the growth of the German economy. Given the background of low market volumes during the last years, the price pressure will significantly affect all competitors in the industry. Furthermore, new Doosan Lentjes provides processes and technologies for the competitors enter the markets, compensating possible technical weaknesses through low prices. Doosan Lentjes will continue to deliver outstanding, integrated solutions to its clients around the globe. The aim is to strengthen production of renewable energy. the position in key target and emerging markets through a global network of alliances. Business Performance and Goals With proven waste-to-energy solutions being part of a modern and sustainable waste management concept, Doosan Lentjes helps customers reliably reduce waste volumes by more than 90% while recovering both energy and materials from the combustion. The WtE processes are designed to flexibly cope with changing waste compositions and qualities while simultaneously securing compliance with all applicable environmental standards. With a focus on reducing the environmental impact of energy generation, Doosan Lentjes' advanced air pollutions control technologies are capable of removing more than 99% of sulphur dioxide and other toxins from the power plant's flue gas. Doosan Lentjes is the global center of competence for CFB, WtE and APC within Doosan Group. Head officeed in Ratingen/Germany, Doosan Lentjes has also regional offices, e.g. in Katowice/Poland and Istanbul/Turkey deploying Doosan business globally while supporting customers locally. Together with its European sister companies Doosan Babcock and Doosan Skoda Power, Doosan Lentjes provides complementary technologies, skills and value to customers the world over. We see business and society as a close partnership and an opportunity for mutual growth. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy reflects our commitment to working together with communities for a better future. 105 City Cycling We participated in the City Cycling event, achieving 105% CO2 % CO2 reduction reduction. (compared to the previous year) 33 Make-a-Wish We participated in the Make-a-Wish Christmas Tree % increase Christmas tree campaign and delivered an Campaign increase of 33% over the previous year. Strategy for Social Responsibility Management Following our mission to become one of Fortune's Most Admired Companies by 2020, we put sustainability and responsibility in the center of decisions we make, technologies we create and the way we improve our business model, products and services. Unified in these shared values, we aspire to create a Proud Global Doosan that Company Introduction & Financial Performance in 2016 improves quality of life for people and communities around the globe. Doosan Lentjes is a global provider of processes and technologies for energy Order amount Revenue generation from both renewable and fossil fuels. The company's specific areas 17 26 Proud Global Doosan of expertise include circulating fluidized bed boilers, key technologies for the generation of energy from waste and flue gas cleaning systems. Doosan Lentjes' Key pillars Education Sustainability Community technologies have been pioneering energy solutions for 90 years and convert A commitment to people Minimizing the environmental impact of the Providing benefits to people Detailed millions of tons of waste into energy every year. With its three products lines development and to the promotion company's operations and prioritizing product suffering from difficult living Action of science, technology, engineering quality, health and safety. conditions, helping to create a circulating fluidized bed (CFB) boilers, waste-to-energy (WtE) and air pollution Unit: EUR Million Goals and mathematics (STEM) subjects better environment and quality of among young people. life for them. control (APC), Doosan Lentjes contributes to delivering on global efforts to reduce With a regular engagement in a We have developed products and technologies Our CSR-team coordinates a range the environmental impact of generation while securing maximum levels of both Germany-based initiative called Girls' that increase energy efficiency while minimizing of initiatives for regional charities Action Day, we aspire to encourage young pollutants. Simultaneously, we have established our including Neander Diakonie or resource efficiency and cost-effectiveness. women to start a career in those Supplier Code of Conduct that requires our suppliers Ratinger Tafel, who support people typically male-dominated disciplines. to follow ethical and sustainable behaviors. in financial or health needs. 90 91 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Environmental Management Safety & Health Community Make-a-Wish Christmas Tree Campaign Our environmental responsibilities begin with a commitment to Wherever we operate in the world, we are committed to the safety of Metro Marathon Run minimize any impact on the environment from our work. Our our people, partners and the local communities where we work. This rigorous, systematic approach helps to ensure full compliance with all culture extends to every project, where safety in design, construction environmental and legal requirements. and commissioning is systematically planned and implemented. We have a health and safety management systems according to OHSAS Research and Development 18001:2007 in place which helps to prevent and to minimize occupational hazards identified by the company. This management As the global center of competence for our product lines CFB, system is periodically audited internally and by accredited organizations Waste-to-Energy (WtE) and Air Pollution Control (APC) within our to verify the degree of compliance with legal standards and efficiency parent company, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, it is our levels. responsibility to optimize our processes with respect to conservation of resources. Shared Growth CFB Boiler Technology We have established our Suppliers Code of Conduct that is based on Together with our colleagues at Doosan Heavy Industries & our corporate values. This helps us to make sure our suppliers follow Make-a-Wish-Christmas-Tree-Campaign Construction, our focus is on developing advanced CFB boiler ethical and responsible behaviors, practices and standards while fully Metro Marathon Run participants On Wednesday, 30 November 2016, we followed last years' tradition technology capabilities for super critical (SC) and ultrasuper-critical complying with all applicable laws and regulations. In 2016, we continued our engagement in the Düsseldorf Metro and continued our engagement in our annual event Make-a-Wish(USC) steam conditions with outputs of up to 600 MWe per unit. USC Relay Marathon – this year for the third time. On Sunday, 24th April Christmas-Tree-Campaign . Many children wishes written on cards steam conditions achieve net efficiencies of up to 45%. In response to global aspirations to safe resources and minimize the environmental Social Contribution twenty employees divided into five relays participated in the marathon hanging from the tree's branches allowed all Doosan Lentjes' employees and were running for charity. Thanks to the donations of our staff to create a festive Christmas time for children by making their wishes impact of generation facilities, this helps to optimize the use of coal Education members, we were in a position to financially support the organization come true – a valuable experience for both employees and children. while reducing both emissions and the requirements for consumables used for air pollution control equipment such as limestone – milestones Master Theses' Support Ärzte ohne Grenzen (Médecins Sans Frontières) – an internationally to increase combustion efficiency. Following our commitment to people development and to promote active initiative providing medical care for people in need, e.g. those Book Sale for Médecins Sans Frontières STEM subjects, we are supporting students at several technical experiencing the consequences of natural disasters or suffering from We continue to support social organizations with our book sale universities in writing their master thesis. We provide internship local crisis. donations. Employees have the chance to bring books they no longer Air Pollution Control Plants positions and individual research projects for students, in combination require to some canteen based book shelves while in return employees Facilities have resulted in both minimized plant footprint and absorber with professional supervision during their thesis research and writing Activity Day of the City of Ratingen can take the books when paying a small fee. The collected money height. This compact design has substantial positive impacts on both process. This will give the students valuable practical experience by On 3rd of June 2016, the Aktionstag der Stadt Ratingen (Activity Day supports the globally acting organization Médecins Sans Frontières optimum flue gas flow conditions and minimum pressure loss resulting allowing them to convert theory into practical application. of the City of Ratingen) took place – a community-wide day where in their efforts to deliver emergency aid to people affected by armed in reduced consumption of resources. all Ratingen-based companies had the chance to actively support conflict, epidemics, healthcare exclusion and natural or man-made social institutions. The event is to become a lovely bistro, café, and disasters. Waste-to-Water information centre that provides insurable employment opportunities Together with our colleagues from Water Division of Doosan Heavy for disabled people, refugees fleeing war, poverty and political Industries & Construction, we have designed an Integrated Wastegrievances in their home countries as well as people suffering from to-Water Process (IWWP) using the steam from the incineration of long-term unemployment. municipal solid waste (MSW) for the energy intensive desalination in water-stressed regions. Reduce the Environmental Impact around the Workplace R&D project with student participation We participated in the City Cycling – an initiative of the City of Ratingen aspiring to encourage people to use the bicycle instead of the car. With Girls' Day CO2 savings of more than 610 kg, Doosan Lentjes was ranked 7th in We participated in the Girls Day, an initiative of the Ministry of Ratingen. Family Affairs to encourage young women to start a career in typically male-dominated STEM disciplines. During this day we allowed young +66% women from the ninth-grade upwards to explore the exciting universe of the plant construction business by immersing them in a virtual reality world. With our engagement, we aspire to proactively develop participants the talents of tomorrow, which is vital when it comes to the targeted recruitment of young professionals required to engineer safe and sustainable energy solutions for generations to come. 92 93 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Doosan Power Systems India Business Strategy India remains one of the fastest growing emerging economies in the world. Although growth did slow down temporarily as a result of disruptions to consumption and business activity from the withdrawal of high denomination banknotes from circulation in November 2016. However, the growth is forecasted to pick up again DPSI wants to be the leading company powering the Indian as the government focuses on accelerating the economic reforms' momentum. The Indian government's flagship program 'Make in India' and ambitious target of 'Power for All' by 2019 will continue to be the key demand power industry, with the state-of-the-art technologies for drivers for power. Over the mid-term, increase in industrial demand due to 'Make in India' and growing middle class's need for more high-quality electricity, is going to drive an upward pressure on the per capita electricity thermal power plants, delivering the best value to our customers. consumption. DPSI is actively seeking to introduce Doosan Power Group's environmentally-friendly technologies to be deployed in India and become a significant partner in the Indian government's commitment towards reducing the carbon footprint. Business Performance and Goals To fulfill the vision of becoming the leading company in India's power plant industry by providing the best value to customers, DPSI has established three strategic directions: 1. Strengthening fundamental competitiveness: Profit driven new order execution by strengthening engineering and operational capabilities and effective risk management. 2. Fortifying business execution: Project process management enhancement with optimized quality, cost, delivery and risk. 3. Advancing the foundation for sustainable business growth: Implement a sustainable management system that meets global standards and creates positive economic & social impact for the local communities, which yields longer term value for all stakeholders. DPSI has laid the foundation for its comprehensive sustainability management system by integrating key focus areas of Human Rights, Ethical Management, Shared Growth, EHS and Community Development & Involvement (CDI) initiatives within its business execution strategies. This is aligned with Doosan's corporate philosophy of the Doosan Way and 2G (Growth of People, Growth of Business) and drives the overall CSR strategy and its meticulous execution. In 2014, in accordance with the Indian government's CSR legislation, DPSI had formed the Board level CSR Committee. This Committee is the highest level decision-making body regarding CSR strategic direction, periodically reviewing CSR initiatives and their execution. In 2016, by incorporating the comprehensive Doosan Group philosophy, DPSI established the CSR Steering Committee, which further reinforces the DPSI CSR commitment. From 2017 onwards, annual initiatives for these five sub-sectors have been finalized along with execution plans by key executives in their respective domains and progress will be shared periodically with the CSR Steering Committee. 119 Social DPSI has invested INR 5.7 million towards its social Contribution % increase contribution. This is an increase of 119% compared Investment to the previous year. 0 Company Introduction & Financial Performance in 2016 Rate of Serious Through the systematic safety and health Accidents % management system, the rate of serious accidents Doosan Power Systems India (DPSI) is growing into a comprehensive power Order amount Revenue has been 0% in the past three years. 2,355 215 plant solutions company based on the OEM Boiler Technology owned by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, world-class manufacturing facilities at Chennai and end-to-end EPC solutions capabilities. DPSI has 5,000 Health DPSI has supported to improve the health of been the pioneer in bringing Camps people about 5,000 local residents through Health the super-critical technology to India by successfully commissioning the Program Camps, which offer oral and ophthalmology Unit: U$ Million first super-critical boilers (660MW 800MW) in India. DPSI is poised for checkups, health diagnoses and basic medical a multi-fold growth, as a national player in the power sector and achieve supplies for marginalized residents in 6 regions sustainable business growth. near project sites. 94 95 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Strategy for Social Responsibility Management Quality Management Social Contribution DPSI's CSR strategy, underpinned with the Doosan philosophy has been focused on three pillars of 'Developing People,' 'Reliable Operations' and To ensure timely delivery of a quality product, it is essential to DPSI's community development and involvement initiatives aim at 'Responsible Engagement' for sustaining growth momentum. The focus is on sharing growth with all the stakeholders and communities that we have thorough knowledge of products and systems with complete genuine welfare of the society. We believe in promoting self-respect co-exist with, while meaningfully engaging our employees to make a difference in the lives of the less privileged. understanding of scope, relevant manufacturing and systematic and developing self-reliance among our beneficiaries through inspection of delivery requirements by Quality & Expediting (Q&E) structured contribution, creating pride and joy for our employees in Proud Global Doosan Engineers. We, at Doosan, always take it as a responsibility to develop return. We emphasize on sincere involvement of DPSI employees for our suppliers by organizing 'Quality Schools' semi-annually. Quality social contribution under three kinds of support Cultivation of Talent, Doosan Way Schools provide a useful platform for exchanging knowledge and Support for the Underprivileged and Support for DPSI Competency learnings amongst Doosan employees, suppliers and industry experts. Related Causes. Under Cultivation of Talent, DPSI has renovated CSR Mission Fortune World's Most Admired Company in 2020 (Engineering and Construction) Doosan takes every single feedback from customers as an opportunity infrastructure in several schools. We also provided them education to 'analyze and improve' its processes. DPSI has implemented its facilities like laptops, furniture, RO and stationary materials, etc. to Growth of People Growth of Business commitment towards process improvements by launching an internal enhance their entire educational environment. Further supporting the CSR Pillars Responsible Customer Feedback Portal to log all feedbacks. underprivileged, we have donated generously to the Chief Minister Developing People Reliable Operations Engagement Relief Fund to support flood affected people in Chennai. We also CSR Dimension Human Resources Ethical Management Shared Growth EHS Community donated an Ultra-Sound Scanner to a Government Primary Health Human Resource Management Centre (Hospital) where patients previously travelled long distances · Enhance Talent · Enhance Ethical · Strengthen Fair · Advanced Safety · Strengthen Stakeholders' Manangement Management Operations Practices Management System Participation Respect for Employees' Rights for maternity related scans. We periodically organize Health Camps CSR Priorities · Establish Great · Establish Sustaincble · Health Care Progream · Establish Strategic CSR and road safety awareness activities for villagers. We have started to Workplace Supply Chain · Advanced and Scientific · Enhance Customer DPSI upholds the sanctity of human rights in letter and spirit and identify and support DPSI's competency related causes wherein we · Strengthen Partners' Green Management Satisfaction seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights impacts within its Strategic Competitiveness can utilize our employees' skills for greater social impact. This year sphere of activities. DPSI considers employees' rights as a fundamental we successfully aided drought-hit farmers around our Lara site by freedom and it is being extended to all employees of DPSI. DPSI Enabler · Establish companywide CSR execution system · Companywide CSR performance mgmt. · Strengthen CSR communication installing 10 borewells in their fields, ensuring and enhancing their provides special attention to human rights and employees are sensitized livelihood. To maximize overall impact of our CDI initiatives, in near Demand of Society Global CSR Initiative : ISO 26000 / UN Global Compact / GRI towards employees' rights through conducting 'Human Rights Week,' future, DPSI aspires to support more such competency related causes. Policy Awareness Program·Workshop·Training on discrimination or harassment, and unfair treatment. Best Practice Case Recruiting and Fostering Talent Environmental Management trainings, as well as establishing well-defined response scenarios for Human capital is important factor for our sustainable growth. Hence, Improved Productivity Through Development emergency situations. As reflected in our Accident & Safety Index 2016, The DPSI Chennai factory has been optimizing its production processes constant review of recruitment process is important to attract and of Innovative Rotating Jig DPSI Chennai has reached a new milestone, as we were able to achieve and has successfully executed numerous innovations focused on engage best available talent from the industry. Our strength is inthe Status of 'Zero Accident Year' and an improved performance on With a stringent goal to meet customers' timelines, processes reducing its energy usage. Significant innovations focused on energy house capability and capacity building through continuous on-the our incidents trend. that consume the longest time were improved. Potential issues usage reduction include the online continuous preheating system job training and knowledge sharing. We empower employees by in the welding process where energy cost savings of ~40% can providing exciting opportunities and instilling a sense of ownership. As with welding work that require highly complicated postures, be attributed to the modified furnace with zonal phased controls. part of our new learning techniques, e-learning is being used to reach excessive deformation of products and accidents during turning Additionally, energy usage has declined by 32% during Post Welding out to larger employee base. of products have been investigated and evaluated in order to 13 13 innovate and develop a rotating jig using scrap materials. This Heat Treatment (PWHT) by in-house portable furnace modifications innovation has successfully reduced the time taken for product of replacing ceramic pads with scrapped strip coils type heating Employee Welfare System elements. DPSI is also focusing on increasing the use of environment manufacturing and has optimized the overall manufacturing With a motto of 'Satisfied Employees are Productive Employees,' our process. friendly technologies in its operations. Also, DPSI's rigorous focus on welfare measures ensure well-being of our employees. In addition pollution control has ensured that it has successfully met all statutory to statutory benefits, DPSI also provides schemes for health security obligations as mandated. for employees and their family members. Periodic health checkups, provision of social security, birthday coupons & financial assistance for Safety & Health emergencies are a few other tangible welfare measures extended to the employees. Benevolent policies are also in place for the occasions DPSI is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace to all of marriage (self & children), the birth of children and deaths in employees and stakeholders. The safety mindset is driven by the top 3 3 the family. Family day celebrations, Doosan Cricket League etc. are management and is permeated across levels by well-structured safety 2 2 an annual feature in order to inculcate team work and a sense of procedures, in addition to safety training programs. The risks are belonging among employees. assessed; incidents tracked and corrective and preventive action plans 0 0 are developed to prevent any mishaps. DPSI has been raising greater awareness among its employees on the importance of safety in efforts 2013 2014 2015 2016 to keep the operations accident-free. This awareness is supplemented by varied trainings such as technical safety, general safety, on-jobAccidents Incidents Total 96 97 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Doosan Vina Business Strategy Technical capabilities in boilers, port and desalination facilities, etc. are to be continuously improved. In development businesses, we plan to consistently expand the spectrum of our supply range by taking part in India's Obra-C project and signing delivery contracts for boiler materials with global corporations such as Japan's Doosan Vina supports the global production system of IHI. For port facilities, we plan on successfully manufacturing port cranes set to be supplied to India, and plan to ship the first cranes to Mumbai, India. Moreover, for desalination facilities, we plan to expand our production of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction as it manufactures desalination facilities in the Middle East region by successfully manufacturing those for Kuwait's Az Zour North project. boilers, seawater desalination facilities and transport equipment, all of which are major tools in generation and Project Outcome and Midto Long-term Goals desalination projects. Even amidst many difficulties that the worldwide development industry has faced, collaboration with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction in addition to active internal activities to obtain orders has resulted in profits for two consecutive years. 1. Development business area: The Mong Dung II power plant, constructed in Northern Vietnam, was completed earlier than originally planned, achieving outstanding customer satisfaction in quality and development efficiency. Simultaneously, we supply boilers, tools and materials and steel-frame structures to various development projects including Vin Tanh 4, Vin Than 4 Estensing and Song hau 1, which is for supplying energy in the southern region. 2. Port facilities area: We have obtained orders for port crane facilities, which are manufactured and supplied to Singapore, Saudi Arabia, etc. In particular, through independent execution from design to production and shipment, we contribute to not only growth of the Vietnamese machine industry but also to the improved recognition of Made in Vietnam products around the world. Doosan Vina aims to contribute to the locals' improved quality of life as well as development of the machine industry in Vietnam. Though we have contributed to create a healthy local community through a decade of medical and educational community services, we will continue to lead the growth of the Vietnamese machine industry through fostering technically competent professionals and localization. Settlement Period of CSR Activities (2006-2015) Growth Period of CSR Activities (2016 and beyond) · Seek donations and social contribution activities to improve the · Continuously contribute to the improvement of local residents' welfare of local communities quality of life Continue medical services, improvement of residential environment, and scholarship contribution activities · Contribute to development of the Vietnamese machine industry Foster technically competent manpower, nurture subsidiary companies, teach advanced management techniques, etc. Structure of CSR Operating Organization For companywide CSR activities, we have formed a CSR operating organization structure and established and executed activity plans for each department. Company Introduction & Financial Performance in 2016 Chairperson Doosan Vina Corporate Director Doosan Vina is the one and only generation equipment manufacturers Order amount Revenue in Vietnam, established in Vietnam's Dung Quat Economic Zone in 292 227 HR Ethical Social EHS Mutual Growth November 2006. The primary areas of business are boilers, port facilities Management Contribution and seawater desalination facilities in which the company exports to 28 30,000 countries around the world including Vietnam based on the experiences Medical Providing medical services and required accumulated in over 200 projects. With the level of quality that exceeds nutrition to many Vietnamese residents Unit: USD Million Treatment customers' expectations and outstanding technology, it firmly established and students people (cumulative) a global business network with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 110 and strives for continuous growth and development. Supporting free surgeries for patients with incurable diseases people (cumulative) 98 99 05 Talent Management Social Contribution Employee Education Social Contribution Activities to Improve Local Doosan Vina offers a diverse range of training for each level to help Residents' Quality of Life cultivate job and leadership competency in employees. For office Doosan Vina has selected three primary social contribution activity workers a focus is placed on reinforcing leadership, work and global themes of medical services, educational activity support and residential business competency to develop the next-generation of leaders and, environment improvement to conduct social contribution activities for technical staff, training for the improvement of specialized skills and, thus, invested more than USD 550,000 up to 2016. For medical and leadership is conducted on a regular basis. Also, training on Code service activities, Doosan Vina has performed medical treatments Appendix of Conduct compliance and foreign languages are carried out to on about 21,600 patients in association with Chung-Ang University internalize the Doosan Way. Hospital. In addition, we have invited patients to Korea every year to conduct surgeries (85 child patients, 19 cataract patients, 2 heart surgery patients). In addition, we have provided more than 30 physical Establishing a Positive Workplace treatment devices worth about USD 153,000 to four hospitals in the We abide by Vietnam's Labour Standards Act and human rights Quang Ngai region, and have conducted medical technique instruction principles as specified by the International Labour Organization and, activities through collaboration between Quang Nam General Hospital provide sufficient opportunities for rest and welfare programs to and Chung-Ang University Hospital since 2012. improve the quality of life of workers. Also, a variety of services such Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment 102 as congratulatory and condolence expenses, dormitory, shuttle service, corporate housing and regular health exams at the company hospital, Performance Summary 104 is being provided for the convenience and health of the employees. In Environmental Guidelines 120 particular, education on human rights is being conducted on a regular basis in order to realize the value of Doosan Way that prevents various Audit Report & Independent Assurance Statement 122 instances of human rights violations and is focused on unity. GRI Index 126 Contribute to the Growth of the Vietnamese Machine Industry To contribute to the growth of the Vietnamese machine industry, Doosan Vina performs activities to foster technical manpower (390 engineers, 1,379 skilled workers), instruct subcontractors (2 In the education area, we have presented 1,077 scholarships to companies) and teach advanced management techniques. students of 12 Vietnamese universities and signed partnership agreements on education and recruitment with 17 colleges as well as conducted counseling activities every year. Also, we have provided Response to Climate Changes school supplies to local elementary schools and currently conduct Energy Usage Reduction Activities various education and community service programs in association with Through regular inspections on the state of energy usage, energy Chung-Ang University students. In the housing area, we have either loss due to waste is being minimized. Also, by implementing the constructed or performed renovation activities on 31 houses for the movement of turning off air conditioners 15 minutes before the end needy. of daily work, energy usage is being reduced throughout typical daily tasks and, when an air conditioner is running, we advise the closing all doors and windows. When certain employees work late, we ask them to always turn off all lights and electronic devices when they leave. Environmental Pollutant Control Waste water generated within the company is less than roughly 45% of the Vietnamese legal standard on pollutant emissions, and is being released after undergoing internal processing. For facilities that generate air pollutants, air control equipment such as bag filters and wet scrubbers is installed to allow for the release of air pollutants equivalent to less than 45% of the Vietnamese legal standard. We will continue to make efforts to reduce environmental pollutants in the future. 100 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment Communication with Stakeholders Process Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction defines stakeholders as individuals or organizations that have a significant influence on the management An issue pool has been formed based on GRI G4, an international standard index of sustainable management, DJSI, ISO 26000 as well as media of the company and divides it into shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, local community, government and competitors. Active mutual research, reported issues of advanced companies in the same industry, and internal data. The issue pool has been standardized based on surveys communication is enabled through communication channels for each group of stakeholders, and important issues are examined on a regular and of internal and external stakeholders, media research and benchmarking results to deduce 11 core issues. constant basis to reflect to the management. Detailed categorization Communication channels · Doosan Corporation Step 2. · Foreign investors · Investment relations (IR) events Step 1. Analysis of Step 3. Shareholders · Conferences · Institutional investors · Overseas NDRs (Non-Deal Roadshow) Composition of materiality Composition of · Minority shareholders issue pool assessment report results · Local public power generators · Roadshows · Local private power generators · Technology briefings International standard indices 5-point Media research Divide and report Customers · VOC (Voice of Customer) · Overseas clients (GRI G4, DJSI, ISO 26000) score Survey on stakeholders 11 core issues in system Benchmarking business strategy Media, benchmarking and and sustainable · Headquarter employees · Industrial Safety and Health Committee internal data Materiality Horizontal axis: Business management · Labor-Management Council assessment impact Employees · Overseas branch offices' employees · Operation of the Human Rights Committee for minorities · Training human rights through two-way communication Mapping Vertical axis: Level of · Overseas subsidiaries' employees stakeholder interest · Consultative groups · TOP (Total Operational Performance) Results · Tier 1 suppliers · Win-Win Call Center Suppliers · Shared growth conferences · Tier 2 suppliers · Supplier group discussion meetings Core issues GRI aspect Report page Development of eco-friendly products and services · Invitations to cultural events 4.0 Creation of new growth Business & Strategy Response Expansion Non-GRI Fostering of talents to into overseas engine (10~13p) · Consultative groups · Social volunteer groups Promotion of anticorruption and ethical climate changes markets · Local residents · Youth Energy Project/Career Exploration Group for management Reinforcement Achievement of stable Youngsters Reinforcement of competency in quality of industrial Achievement of stable Non-GRI Local Community · Academia, research institutes control safety and results in orders obtained results in orders obtained Business & Strategy · Programs affiliated with social welfare centers and Establishment of healthy laborhealth Level of stakeholder interest · NGOs management relations Expansion into overseas (14~17p) community children's centers Provision of educational Work-life balance Non-GRI · Doosan Day of Community Service culture in the local Creation of new growth engine markets community including new Securing of stability in employment projects Response to climate Strengthening of fundamental Emissions competitive edge in business changes Green management · Central/local governments · Overseas seminars Securing of healthy Development of ecoProducts and Services (46~51p) Government financial structure friendly products and · Related organizations · Exhibition participation services Reinforcement of Occupational Health Safety and health industrial safety and and Safety (52~55p) · Power generation facility health manufacturers · Quarterly IR presentations Competitors · Press releases Reinforcement of Product and Service Quality management · Desalination and water treatment · Company visits competency in quality Labeling (60~61p) plant companies Business impact 5.0 control Fostering of talents Training and Talent management Education (64~67p) Work-life balance Employment Overview of Materiality Assessment Establishment of healthy Labor/Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to utilize integrated reports as an important channel for communication with stakeholders. Thus, a labor-management Relations relations materiality assessment is conducted every year to verify the issues that significantly affect sustainability. The issues deduced are importantly reflected Community Social Indirect Economic Social contribution in the management strategies, and subsequent results and future goals are being reported through the integrated reports. Contribution Activities Impacts (72~77p) 102 103 Performance Summary Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Financial Results Other Financial and Non-Financial Performance Financial results Economy Orders obtained Revenue Operating profit Largest contributions and expenditures (Unit: KRW million) Unit: KRW 100 million Unit: KRW 100 million Unit: KRW 100 million On a consolidated financial basis On a consolidated financial basis On a consolidated financial basis 2014 2015 2016 Donated to Amount Donated to Amount Donated to Amount 9,655 Large and Small Business 190,569 Gyeongnam Center for Creative Large and Small Business 90,534 7,912 500 2,239 500 160,369 Cooperation Foundation Economy and Innovation Cooperation Foundation 6,192 144,705 Large and Small Business Korea Technology Finance Korea Foundation 205 500 416 Cooperation Foundation Corporation 85,687 138,927 (273) 2013, 2014 Association of the Korea Nuclear Association for 77,716 Electricity Supply Industry of East 100 367 Korea Credit Guarantee Fund 312 International Cooperation Asia and the Western Pacific 58,386 Gyeongnam Center for Social Korean Nuclear Society 30 Korea Credit Guarantee Fund 312 53 Economy and Entrepreneurs 2015 World Water Forum Korea Accounting Institute 25 250 Korean Nuclear Society 30 Organizing Committee * DHIC is not engaged in donation or supportive activities to political campaigns, political organizations, lobbyists or lobbyist organizations according to legal regulations in Korea and Code of Conduct. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total contributions R&D spending1) Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Despite delays in certain target projects, the amount of orders received on a consolidated management basis in 2016 recorded 9.0534 trillion KRW, KRW KRW 100 Donations 11,683 12,166 8,962 R&D expenses 1,568 1,665 1,932 a figure that is 484.7 billion KRW greater than the previous year, through large-scale EPC orders overseas. million million KRW 100 Sales 54,968 51,463 47,053 Revenue based on consolidated financial statements recorded 13.8927 trillion KRW, 577.8 billion KRW less than the previous year. Although the million heavy industry sector recorded a smaller sales figure than the year before, the revenue of subsidiaries such as Doosan Infracore showed a relatively R&D spending as % of % 2.85 3.24 4.11 stable trend. Operating profit increased from the previous year thanks to Infracore's restructuring and other subsidiaries' efforts to improve COGS, sales2) and net income also rose significantly by KRW 818.5 billion as interest expense were reduced due to a significant increase in operating profit as well as a reduction in debt. The heavy industry's sales on a consolidated management basis in 2016 was 6.2013 trillion KRW, down from 6.7206 trillion Environment 1) Calculated based on Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Headquarters 2) 2015 data was revised due to internal reasons KRW from the previous year. Major reasons include delays in orders for certain projects such as local nuclear facilities and issues with the progress Usage and recycling of raw materials of existing projects. Despite the drop in revenue, operating profit (287.4 billion KRW, YoY +23.6 billion KRW) and operating profit to sales ratio (4.6%, YoY +0.7%) were improved compared to the previous year through various cost reduction efforts. Net income also turned to black (20.5 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remark billion KRW, 2015: -252.3 billion KRW). Scrap iron tonnes 133,124 143,694 134,461 Externally purchased In 2017, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is expected to attain 10.6 trillion KRW in orders, 7 trillion KRW in revenue and 350 billion KRW Recovered iron tonnes 71,385 78,214 77,908 Internally recycled in operating profit on a consolidated management basis. If the current positive results of orders lead to an increase in revenue coupled with efforts Chips tonnes 14,247 14,616 12,363 Internally recycled for cost reduction, profitability will also be improved. Non-renewable Ferro alloy tonnes 6,826 7,586 7,318 Externally purchased raw materials Quicklime tonnes 8,948 9,483 8,934 Externally purchased Fluorspar tonnes 5,957 6,169 5,788 Externally purchased Lump coal tonnes 851 870 950 Externally purchased Sum tonnes 241,338 260,632 247,722 Recycled raw Recovered iron tonnes 71,385 78,214 77,908 materials Chips tonnes 14,247 14,616 12,363 Percentage % 0.355 0.356 0.364 104 105 Performance Summary Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Other Financial and Non-Financial Performance Energy Water Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Quality of treated wastewater By conducting greenhouse gas reduction activities such as fuel Energy usage and purchase Total water intake by source Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 conversion, process optimization, etc., we have been achieving an annual reduction of about 10% in emissions compared to the previous COD mg/l 12.87 15.76 10.07 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 year. SS mg/l 2.74 1.89 2.79 LNG Nm3 40,673,946 41,231,486 39,648,695 Surface water tonnes 53,667 75,619 25,907 2016 N-H mg/l 0.73 0.13 0.10 Category Unit 2016 goal 2017 goal LPG Nm3 172,043 160,512 196,049 Underground Performance tonnes 39,701 74,507 110,251 Cr mg/l 0.001 0.001 0.001 Gasoline water Reduction L 1,255,282 2,297,619 587,932 tonnes 3,000 4,939 2,500 (car) in emissions Zn mg/l 0,013 0.08 0.02 Rainwater Diesel repository Pb mg/l 0.001 0.002 0.00 L 1,132,823 1,769,380 1,186,886 tonnes 0 50,200 40,000 (car) within Fe mg/l 0.021 0.096 0.031 organization Amount of air pollutant emissions LPG (car) L 6,700 12,582 NonT-N mg/l 4.053 4.095 4.115 renewable Generator Wastewater Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 L 6,088,342 365,688 6,119 T-P mg/l 0.022 0.022 0.081 raw gasoline from another tonnes 0 28,614 4,860 materials Generator organization VOC (volatile organic L 921,821 656,548 1,206,014 tonnes 13.67 10.50 10.20 diesel compounds) Water supply Heating tonnes 1,326,587 1,844,467 1,928,555 Amount of waste disposal system PM (particulate matter) tonnes 38.0 37.0 36.7 L 22,859 38,089 16,750 kerosene Total tonnes 1,419,955 2,073,407 2,109,573 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Hi-sene L 5,923,398 4,946,804 4,825,713 Other Recycled tonnes 628 679 524 kg 21,600 Amount of hazardous chemical substances (anthracite) Incinerated tonnes 504 677 422 consumption Hazardous Total 56,190,514 51,472,826 47,708,340 Reuse of water waste Landfill tonnes 7,864 9,562 3,974 Purchased Electricity Kwh 340,037,118 325,257,573 315,946,555 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Others tonnes 3,494 11 3,052 energy Recycled and No. substances type 14 14 5 Reused tonnes 308 269 tonnes 25,900 31,716 40,060 Amount of energy reduction reused water Recycled tonnes 74,496 78,647 68,711 Amount of usage tonnes 800 800 420 Nonhazardous Incinerated tonnes 2,073 314 1,442 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 * Goal for replacement of hazardous chemical substances: 6 types (2016), 2 types (2017) waste Landfill tonnes 53,675 11,242 4,747 Heating equipment tCO2 2,291 1,803 0 improvement Emissions to atmosphere Others tonnes 18,694 13,280 49,978 Operation method tCO2 6,545 5,152 737 Greenhouse gas emissions improvement Wastewater and waste Introduction of highCategory Unit 2014 2015 2016 tCO2 2,946 2,318 3730 efficiency equipment Amounts of treated wastewater discharged and Direct Minimization of combustion tCO2 9,818 7,727 0 recycled greenhouse tonnes 149,189 136,861 127,608 Total tCO2 21,600 17,000 4,467 gas emissions Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Indirect Cost and reduction of energy consumption greenhouse tonnes 162,509 155,820 150,881 Amounts of gas emissions treated wastewater tonnes 261,036 290,493 283,789 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 discharged Total tonnes 311,698 292,681 278,489 Amount of usage* TJ 5,701 5,395 5,158 Amount of tonnes 25,900 25,900 25,900 wastewater recycled Consumption cost KRW million 94,801 80,283 73,400 * Wastewater treatment method: Physiochemical treatment method Amount of cost reduction KRW million 16,260 19,660 26,600 * Final Discharging point is Masan Bay * Reduction goal: 100TJ reduction (2016 and 2017) 106 107 Performance Summary Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Other Financial and Non-Financial Performance Total environmental protection New employment and turnover rate Parental leave Penalties and sanctions for violations of laws and regulations expenditures and investments Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total expenses regarding environment Male person 2 8 Total amount of KRW 100 Employees person 740 442 488 Employees on parental 166 45 3.6 New imposed fines million leave Female person 46 38 44 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 employment Percentage % 8.82 5.68 6.31 Number of nonEmployees who return Male person 2 case monetaty sanctions Investment KRW million 8,500 12,000 3,000 to work after parental Number of lawsuits case 2 1 Female person 49 36 38 Waste disposal cost KRW million 2,618 1,986 1,293 leave Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 * Paid approx. KRW 360 million in 2016 including a penalty of KRW 40 million Male % 100 for illegal joint activities occurred during the bidding process for the construction Waste Test & project of Wonju-Gangneung high-speed railway, and a penalty of KRW 320 KRW million 2 5 5 Male person 43 65 83 86 Return rate Analysis cost Female % 96 97 100 million for an illegal payment of subcontracting fee. Recycling cost KRW million 607 617 577 Male (retired, Employees who work Male person voluntarily resigned) person 33 333 4 128 Health & Safety Waste recycling continuously for 12 KRW million 1,227 818 425 earning Female person 21 16 16 14 months after parental Female person 19 36 35 Lost time incident rate (LTIR1)) Other costs KRW million 909 1,480 1,480 Subtotal person 97 414 103 228 leave and return to work Job Category 2014 2015 2016 turnover Turnover rate % 1.36 4.94 1.32 2.95 Retention rate after Total KRW million 13,863 16,906 6,780 % 79 73 97 Voluntary employee return Employees 0.44 0.25 0.31 All turnover person 64 81 99 100 Suppliers 0.08 0.08 0.16 Eco-friendly purchasing (net turnover) Performance evaluation and compensation Changwon Direct Operation 0.16 0.21 0.42 Voluntary employee All employees are assessed according to fair, transparent performance Local 2) Changwon suppliers 0.07 0.00 0.23 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 % 0.90 0.97 1.27 1.29 turnover rate evaluation. The criteria for evaluation and compensation are Local construction 0.08 0.06 0.09 Amount of products KRW differentiated based on individual work performance and competency, 1,779 18,597 29,147 Construction 0.01 0.00 0.00 purchased million Overseas and there is no discrimination based on personal differences in gender, Subsidiaries 0.16 0.11 0.10 Employee education religion, education level, etc. Overview of environmental regulation violations 1) LTIR: Lost Time Incident Rate, U.S. OSHA 2) Local lost time incident rate applies the converted accident rate announced by Regarding environmental regulations, there have not been any violations, Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Proportion of senior management hired from the Korean Ministry of Employment and Labor until 2014 penalties and environment-related liabilities for the past 3 years. local community Zero accident hours achieved in construction projects Total no. of training hours 617,917 562,253 633,835 hours Category Unit 2016 Site Unit 2016 Society No. of training Male hours 100.8 97.6 86.4 Local employees person 137 Saemangeum Group Energy Facility 1k hours 1,820 Female hours 112 101.6 87.2 Employees hours per Senior manpower among recruited person 12 Local Wonju-Gangneung Express Railway 1k hours 1,492 person Total hours 83 78 82 personnel Incheon-Gimpo Freeway 1k hours 910 Overview of employees Percentage % 9 Kudgi, India 1k hours 22,000 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Al Ansab, Oman 1k hours 1,000 Overview of labor union membership Overseas Total no. of employees person 8,388 7,779 7,728 Yanbu Ph.3, Saudi Arabia 1k hours 14,000 Compliance with laws and regulutons Lara, India 1k hours 17,000 Permanent Male person 7,148 6,753 6,770 Per Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 position Female person 300 284 287 Legal actions for unfair trade practices employment Total number of workers Human rights and anti-corruption Contract Male person 836 651 591 person 4,240 4,287 3,878 contract (subject to membership) position Female person 104 91 80 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Human rights and corruption risk assessment1) unions and the laborMale person 197 174 167 person 2,241 2,241 2,172 Legal actions for management council case 1 1 2 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Disabled Female person 3 3 3 unfair trade practices Percentage of people Total no. of workplaces ea 88 101 104 Total person 200 177 170 who signed up for labor * We were indicted in 2016 for allegedly carrying out illegal activities, in Minority No. of workplaces that % 52.9 52.9 56.0 accordance with the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, during the ea 72 84 86 group Male person 179 176 173 unions and the laborhave been evaluated Men of bidding process for the construction project of Wonju-Gangneung high-speed national Female person 6 6 6 management council railway in 2013, and charged with a fine of KRW 40 million. Also, we were Percentage of workplaces % 82 83 83 merit imposed a penalty by the Fair Trade Commission in 2016 on the grounds that Total person 185 182 179 unfairly subcontracting was agreed to in such a way as to make the lowest bid 1) The number of workplaces is calculated including local and overseas workplaconce again without any justifiable reason that took place from 2011 to 2013. es, subsidiaries, and construction sites. 108 109 Performance Summary Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Other Financial and Non-Financial Performance UN Global Compact Official reporting of complaints related to human rights1) Social contribution Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has joined the UN Global Compact since 2004 and has complied with the ten principles of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to fulfilling our social responsibilities and role as a global leader in sustainable Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Participation in community service activities management that represents Korea by reflecting international standards for social responsibility management and by solidifying our commitment No. of complaints to social responsibility management. case 23 47 56 officially reported Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 ten principles page 1) Including the number of reports from suppliers No. of activities case 605 412 621 Human Rights Participants person 3,721 3,853 4,201 Identified cases of corruption and mitigation measures Employee principles 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 3, 38, 64, 70~71 participation Participation rate % 52 58 60 principles 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Amount of Total hours 33,775 31,816 35,490 Labour No. of identified cases 1) case 9 2 5 community service hours Per person hours 5.17 5.19 5.93 principles 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 64, 66, pdf 108 No. of employee disciplinary collective bargaining case 7 2 3 action case principles 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 64 No. of supplier disciplinary case 14 2 4 principles 5 the effective abolition of child labor 64 action case Expenses in local community 1) The data that includes corruption case of supplier principles 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 64 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Environment Training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Total 100 mil. KRW 132 127 94 principles 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 46~51, pdf Charitable principles 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 120~121 Social 100 mil. KRW 22 14 19 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 donations contribution principles 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. 46~47 No. of people subject expenses Investment into person 8,388 7,779 7,728 100 mil. KRW 99 106 63 Anti-Corruption to education local community No. of people who Others 100 mil. KRW 11 7 12 principles 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 44~45, 70~71, Employees person 1,795 7,242 7,550 completed education Fostering of pdf 109~110 100 mil. KRW 83 65 53 Percentage of talent % 21.40 93.10 97.70 Expense education completion Supporting details by 100 mil. KRW 21 13 14 minority groups Total no. of suppliers ea 220 194 170 type No. of suppliers that ea 220 194 170 Communitybased 100 mil. KRW 28 49 27 Overview of Association Memberships completed education Percentage of suppliers having % 100 100 100 Category Associations that have been joined Category Associations that have been joined Suppliers completed education Large and Small Business Cooperation Foundation Welding Korean Welding & Joining Society Participation in local community, impact No. of education held time 4 4 4 assessment Korea Technology Finance Corporation Korea Radioactive Waste Society Korea Credit Guarantee Fund Korea Nuclear Equipment Advancement Association No. of people who have received person 880 776 680 Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Nuclear Korea Atomic Industrial Forum education Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 National Academy of Engineering of Korea power Korea Nuclear Society Regions in which local community growth % 16 37 29 Korean Federation of Science & Technology Societies Korea Nuclear Association for International Major negative impact on society and measures Common Cooperation programs are run Korea Management Association implemented within supply chain Korea International Trade Association Construction Association of Korea Local development program operation Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Housing Builders Association Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 % 16 37 29 region considering Korea Federation of Construction Contractors stakeholder needs Korea Engineering & Consulting Association EPC No. of suppliers that have been companies 1,073 852 743 Korea Electrical Contractors Association evaluated on social impact Korean Society of Combustion Operation of local Korea Information Certificate Authority No. of suppliers that have been community-wide Korea Plant Industries Association verified to actually or potentially companies 14 2 2 consulting committees International Contractors Association of Korea have a negative social effect % 16 37 29 Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers and processes, which includes minority Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers Korean Institute of Metals & Materials Percentage of suppliers that Casting & groups Korea Electric Association Korea Foundry Society have discussed the evaluation % 92.86 100 100 Power forging results for improvement Official community generation Korea Iron & Steel Association Korea Association of Machinery Industry No. of corruption cases in which grievance handling % 100 100 100 Korean Standards Association process workplace Korea Wind Energy Industry Association Quality penalties have been imposed on case 14 2 4 affiliates Korea Wind Energy Association Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 110 111 Performance Summary Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Consolidated Statements As at December 31, 2016 As at December 31, 2015 of Financial Position As at December 31, 2014 (Unit : Korean won in units) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Advanced receipts 358,558,830,351 346,939,985,983 361,265,911,412 Assets Due to customers for contract work 905,668,479,628 1,200,598,386,238 1,120,201,735,582 Current assets 9,035,151,846,465 10,724,405,644,031 10,812,341,341,836 Withholdings 71,843,985,942 84,990,443,174 116,998,812,277 Cash and cash equivalents 1,369,500,991,930 1,893,007,747,878 1,297,560,213,962 Accrued expenses 491,867,768,087 579,421,166,491 488,643,525,511 Short-term financial instruments 213,506,823,569 475,822,932,100 591,481,515,302 Current tax liabilities 47,638,985,415 35,923,644,791 69,207,517,934 Short-term investments in securities 141,391,168,087 440,994,129 31,385,470,088 Current portion of long-term debt 2,531,345,860,669 2,252,663,857,555 1,631,163,514,293 Trade receivables 2,077,740,448,109 2,512,793,814,167 2,564,431,426,660 Derivative financial liabilities 174,733,740,322 217,439,689,022 185,685,205,347 Due from customers for contract work 1,930,663,406,075 1,898,305,160,818 2,035,389,942,663 Firm commitment liabilities 11,617,547,945 16,325,825,501 65,365,984,651 Other receivables 310,731,723,694 389,866,374,113 331,073,026,441 Other provisions 118,561,044,391 130,417,938,027 137,223,875,500 Prepayments 509,753,411,844 617,000,416,576 623,678,714,210 Other current liabilities 214,167,916,135 195,873,537,768 179,750,645,637 Prepaid expenses 101,614,362,264 80,051,592,909 97,716,964,385 Non-floating liabilities to be sold 24,706,942,176 Short-term loans 114,094,313,691 178,384,058,498 541,593,602,039 Non-current liabilities 6,427,920,395,176 7,778,537,058,884 8,742,832,161,667 Derivative financial assets 24,494,373,789 24,409,004,032 37,340,410,136 Debentures 1,753,691,202,152 2,547,984,215,918 3,009,799,381,248 Firm commitment assets 108,462,686,041 111,500,155,075 64,068,051,449 Long-term borrowings 2,534,990,813,266 3,282,290,330,730 3,597,626,371,249 Inventories 1,730,606,651,053 2,196,491,764,508 2,331,909,520,735 Long-term asset-backed loan 246,974,997,243 150,408,282,978 42,677,714,962 Other current assets 237,819,498,203 227,111,159,002 264,712,483,766 Long-term other payables 35,611,850,491 41,882,360,478 51,247,058,484 Non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 164,771,988,116 119,220,470,226 Employee benefits liabilities 866,404,829,367 900,192,936,968 1,020,609,311,678 Non-current assets 15,797,416,343,890 16,535,734,966,227 16,739,565,170,467 Deposits received 189,263,467,929 152,617,695,614 223,675,032,387 Long-term financial instruments 31,395,752,125 77,402,476,564 84,712,208,686 Derivative financial liabilities 128,882,334,708 147,638,954,643 128,730,391,781 Long-term investments in securities 286,332,778,653 190,420,094,063 187,942,074,247 Firm commitment liabilities 18,966,908,638 28,734,919,118 26,648,783,925 Share of investments in associates and joint ventures 80,681,100,934 62,411,138,388 226,744,904,296 Deferred tax liabilities 183,072,101,886 118,224,240,213 82,460,285,676 Long-term loans 910,287,291,842 1,019,229,605,248 719,430,932,517 Other provisions 233,110,602,232 244,242,092,508 237,747,776,849 Property, plant and equipment 6,381,539,477,026 7,206,578,365,565 7,190,139,774,839 Other non-current liabilities 236,951,287,264 164,321,029,716 321,610,053,428 Intangible assets 6,646,199,554,028 6,657,774,324,948 6,863,345,310,432 Total liabilities 18,009,737,274,319 20,234,032,938,126 19,874,904,792,371 Investment property 270,299,018,663 30,516,385,496 68,163,327,038 Equity Derivative financial assets 80,958,564,225 63,996,129,207 27,913,927,369 Equity attributable to owners of parent 3,475,660,913,667 3,580,669,218,847 4,659,419,568,882 Firm commitment assets 80,039,145,810 73,771,115,605 56,626,716,041 Issued capital 596,808,980,000 596,808,980,000 596,808,980,000 Guarantee deposits 320,258,434,073 253,322,937,601 309,024,141,234 Capital surplus 1,652,835,160,666 1,563,917,672,526 1,828,284,636,585 Deferred tax assets 641,043,930,920 782,988,943,041 944,406,898,458 Other components of equity (17,273,121,037) (105,157,160,978) (101,795,674,821) Other non-current assets 68,381,295,591 117,323,450,501 61,114,955,310 Accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) 538,782,208,792 512,011,506,902 220,918,859,061 Total assets 24,832,568,190,355 27,260,140,610,258 27,551,906,512,303 Retained earnings 704,507,685,246 1,013,088,220,397 2,115,202,768,057 Liabilities and equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 3,347,170,002,369 3,445,438,453,285 3,017,582,151,050 Current liabilities: 11,581,816,879,143 12,455,495,879,242 11,132,072,630,704 Hybrid equity instruments 841,535,153,252 841,695,963,991 508,259,603,649 Trade payables 2,452,138,916,210 2,259,960,866,728 2,691,130,566,041 Other non-controlling interests 2,505,634,849,117 2,603,742,489,294 2,509,322,547,401 Short-term borrowings 2,892,687,287,708 3,943,165,035,852 2,967,464,808,128 Total equity 6,822,830,916,036 7,026,107,672,132 7,677,001,719,932 Asset-backed loan 432,987,691,317 394,044,438,739 397,347,705,208 Total liabilities and equity 24,832,568,190,355 27,260,140,610,258 27,551,906,512,303 Other payables 853,291,882,847 797,731,063,373 720,622,823,183 112 113 Performance Summary Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Consolidated Statements As at December 31, 2016 Consolidated Statements As at December 31, 2016 As at December 31, 2015 As at December 31, 2015 of Profit or Loss As at December 31, 2014 of Comprehensive Income or Loss As at December 31, 2014 (Unit : Korean won in units) (Unit : Korean won in units) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Revenue 13,892,680,512,183 14,470,549,808,958 16,036,926,354,291 Profit for the year (215,524,785,947) (1,750,899,329,509) (85,475,347,180) Cost of sales 11,477,492,314,794 12,283,242,564,168 13,425,292,815,877 Other comprehensive income (28,495,650,754) 319,962,397,817 (339,645,498,514) Gross profit 2,415,188,197,389 2,187,307,244,790 2,611,633,538,414 1. Items not subsequently reclassified to profit or (96,116,788,148) 378,588,917,167 (110,653,424,631) loss: Selling and administrative expenses 1,624,015,375,186 2,214,638,986,828 1,992,432,407,121 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (68,268,654,681) 18,841,106,569 (110,461,283,972) liabilities Operating profit 791,172,822,203 (27,331,742,038) 619,201,131,293 Net gain on revaluation of land (27,848,133,467) 359,747,810,598 (192,140,659) Finance income 1,016,003,108,731 1,203,283,247,735 888,144,450,500 2. Items that are subsequently reclassified to 67,621,137,394 (58,626,519,350) (228,992,073,883) Finance costs 1,563,194,963,292 1,898,601,312,784 1,724,664,210,367 profit or loss: Net change in unrealized fair value of Other non-operating income 108,705,659,500 93,211,050,263 125,337,412,846 19,919,849,838 (3,104,626,549) 1,496,857,115 available-for-sale financial assets Effective portion of changes in fair value of Other non-operating expense 584,176,245,595 901,586,608,247 277,116,594,993 20,130,625,897 12,063,776,264 (3,822,332,135) cash flow hedges Share of loss in associates and joint ventures (14,607,721,727) (81,659,482,860) (79,859,494,062) Equity adjustments in equity method (108,837,338) 1,340,919,348 (2,626,931) Profit for the year before tax (246,097,340,180) (1,612,684,847,931) (448,957,304,783) Net gain (loss) on translation of overseas 27,679,498,997 (68,926,588,413) (226,663,971,932) operations Income tax expense (benefit) 131,564,646,601 131,052,374,555 (162,275,783,774) Total comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (244,020,436,701) (1,430,936,931,692) (425,120,845,694) Loss from continuing operations (377,661,986,781) (1,743,737,222,486) (286,681,521,009) Attributable to: Profit (loss) from discontinued operations 162,137,200,834 (7,162,107,023) 201,206,173,829 Equity holders of the parent (191,711,547,908) (726,791,363,904) (277,122,175,008) Profit for the year (215,524,785,947) (1,750,899,329,509) (85,475,347,180) Non-controlling interests (52,308,888,793) (704,145,567,788) (147,998,670,686) Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent (170,750,790,211) (1,038,543,220,644) (94,675,179,547) Non-controlling interests (44,773,995,736) (712,356,108,865) 9,199,832,367 Earnings per share: Basic, profit for the period attributable to (1,777) (10,631) (1,082) ordinary equity holders of the parent Loss for the year from continuing operations (2,611) (10,210) (2,110) Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued 834 (421) 1,028 operations Diluted, profit for the period attributable to (1,777) (10,631) (1,082) ordinary equity holders of the parent Loss for the year from continuing operations (2,611) (10,210) (2,110) Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued 834 (421) 1,028 operations 114 115 Performance Summary Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Consolidated Statements As at December 31, 2016 As at December 31, 2015 of Changes in Equity As at December 31, 2014 (Unit : Korean won in units) Accumulated Accumulated Other Other other Retained Non-controlling other Retained Non-controlling Issued capital Capital surplus components of Total equity Issued capital Capital surplus components of Total equity comprehensive earnings interest comprehensive earnings interest equity equity income (loss) income (loss) As at January 1, 2015 596,808,980,000 1,828,284,636,585 (101,795,674,821) 220,918,859,061 2,115,202,768,057 3,017,582,151,050 7,677,001,719,932 As at December 31, 596,808,980,000 1,563,917,672,526 (105,157,160,978) 512,011,506,902 1,013,088,220,397 3,445,438,453,285 7,026,107,672,132 Profit (loss) for the year (1,038,543,220,644) (712,356,108,865) (1,750,899,329,509) 2015 Remeasurement of As at January 1, 2016 596,808,980,000 1,563,917,672,526 (105,157,160,978) 512,011,506,902 1,013,088,220,397 3,445,438,453,285 7,026,107,672,132 the net Profit (loss) for the year (170,750,790,211) (44,773,995,736) (215,524,785,947) defined benefit Remeasurement of the 3,500,483,847 15,340,622,722 18,841,106,569 liabilities, net of tax net defined Net change in benefit liabilities, net (69,873,976,427) 1,605,321,746 (68,268,654,681) unrealized fair value of of tax available-for-sale Net change in (30,340,636,819) 27,236,010,270 (3,104,626,549) financial assets unrealized fair value of Effective portion of available-for-sale 15,157,202,176 4,762,647,662 19,919,849,838 changes financial assets in fair value of cash Effective portion of 55,555,208,269 43,491,432,005 12,063,776,264 flow hedges changes Equity adjustments in in fair value of cash 2,183,896,859 (842,977,511) 1,340,919,348 8,543,444,308 11,587,181,589 20,130,625,897 equity method (debit) flow hedges Net loss on translation Equity adjustments in (16,612,368,911) (52,314,219,502) (68,926,588,413) (52,099,346) (56,737,992) (108,837,338) of foreign operations equity method (debit) Net loss on revaluation Net loss on translation 280,306,548,443 17,158,725,052 62,282,537,103 359,747,810,598 35,097,951,303 (7,418,452,36) 27,679,498,997 of land of foreign operations Dividends (84,230,535,915) (84,230,535,915) Net gain on revaluation (36,361,223,176) 26,527,942,918 (18,014,853,209) (27,848,133,467) of land Increase in paid-in capital Dividends (94,483,711,431) (94,483,711,431) Stock option 2,100,996,093 (1,116,157,779) 984,838,314 Stock option 2,015,482,504 (1,690,789,528) 324,692,976 Dividends of the Changes in (85,494,554,491) (85,494,554,491) 12,906,000 12,906,000 subsidiaries consolidation scope Transactions of treasury Dividends of the 23,860,561,032 (33,858,304,362) (9,997,743,330) (53,324,066,352) (53,324,066,352) shares by subsidiaries subsidiaries Acquisition of Transactions of treasury 6,256,086,126 (739,097) (18,581,712,073) (12,326,365,044) investments in shares by subsidiaries subsidiaries Capital increase by Capital increase by issuing new shares of 584,932,605 8,050,624,034 (7,961,277,354) 674,279,285 issuing new shares of (231,156,754) 916,908,916,650 916,677,759,896 subsidiaries subsidiaries Convertible bonds by (4,791,047,084) 7,112,878,144 2,321,831,060 Issuance of convertible subsidiaries (65,478,549,444) 105,988,016,531 40,509,467,087 bonds by subsidiaries Stock option of 1,524,014,014 (1,912,830,727) (21,735,404) (410,552,117) Others subsidiaries Business transfer between subsidiaries Changes in noncontrolling interests As at December 31, 596,808,980,000 1,652,835,160,666 (17,273,121,037) 538,782,208,792 704,507,685,246 3,347,170,002,369 6,822,830,916,036 2015 116 117 Performance Summary Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Consolidated Statements As at December 31, 2016 As at December 31, 2015 of Cash Flows As at December 31, 2014 (Unit : Korean won in units) (Unit : Korean won in units) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (290,902,622,062) (388,747,759,099) (372,668,244,664) Net cash flows provided by operating activities 967,566,785,961 (74,372,146,286) 603,808,922,454 Acquisition of intangible assets (248,694,126,605) (253,851,630,523) (260,695,999,999) cash provided from operations 1,491,876,388,986 565,940,588,916 1,399,114,247,015 Acquisition of investment property (1,122,000,000) (3,727,430,450) Profit (loss) for the year (215,524,785,947) (1,750,899,329,509) (85,475,347,180) Business transfer (4,573,742,849) Adjustments 1,667,514,803,768 2,796,807,824,518 1,830,501,922,424 Cash flows from financing activities (2,251,618,951,835) 1,058,645,079,958 326,347,849,486 Working capital adjustments 39,886,371,165 (479,967,906,093) (345,912,328,229) aggregate cash inflows from financing activities 3,041,909,023,273 4,838,023,592,354 5,507,657,268,169 Interest received 39,862,994,719 41,862,736,122 55,528,847,058 Net increase in short-term borrowings 1,172,995,994,644 580,935,632,821 Interest paid (495,762,417,342) (576,553,756,935) (618,203,026,965) Proceeds from short-term bonds 180,000,000,000 30,000,000,000 Dividends received 303,597,150 1,716,215,002 1,558,270,393 Proceeds from asset backed loans 714,113,619,260 1,294,518,541,269 1,028,000,000,000 Income taxes paid (68,713,777,552) (107,337,929,391) (234,189,415,047) Issuance of debentures 735,232,370,028 710,193,878,690 649,688,561,247 Net cash flow used in investing activities 804,766,783,274 (379,715,191,840) (544,738,511,865) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 886,199,800,000 742,556,421,012 2,842,390,469,873 aggregate cash inflows from investing activities 1,970,231,156,575 842,311,411,325 668,610,861,316 Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares 160,218,812,676 Proceeds from disposal of short-term financial instruments 297,898,738,398 202,203,565,224 288,798,834,598 Disposition of Investment Capital Investments 365,449,720,215 Proceeds from disposal of short-term investments in securities 80,499,361,714 73,071,978,911 Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares by subsidiaries 3,963,729,410 Collection of short-term loans 65,275,787,851 103,894,172,141 181,531,790,623 Capital increase by issuing new shares 372,678,874,818 Proceeds from disposal of long-term financial instruments 63,611,006,170 11,158,450,670 4,431,747,297 Capital increase by issuing new shares of subsidiaries 694,701,094 916,677,759,896 Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment in securities 2,435,824,713 15,745,912,830 6,911,704,798 Changes in non-controlling interests 1,080,996,843 Collection of long-term loans 229,701,707,401 132,493,369,838 78,556,516,994 aggregate cash outflows from financing activities (5,293,527,975,108) (3,779,378,512,396) (5,181,309,418,683) Disposition of Investment & Joint Venture Investments 5,999,506,443 6,474,033,289 Net decrease in short-term borrowings (865,054,268,013) Proceeds from disposal of investments in Subsidiaries 126,667,468,493 Repayment of current portion of long-term debt (2,189,786,666,558) (1,255,456,228,592) (2,030,330,435,447) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 69,257,010,540 30,891,342,577 14,126,457,253 Repayment of assets backed loans (682,900,000,000) (1,203,450,000,000) (829,350,000,000) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1,636,717,701 2,863,652,101 3,555,188,974 Repayment of debentures (300,602,677,526) (45,694,643,604) (137,771,678,621) Proceeds from disposal of investment property 1,173,000,000 1,577,382,829 1,486,728,579 Repayment of long-term borrowings (636,852,572,778) (1,094,394,528,323) (1,990,867,314,625) Proceeds from disposal of non-current assets Extinguishment of debt for financial lease (149,982,177) (660,278,141) 84,419,819,225 9,665,880,000 classified as held-for-sale Dividends paid (94,483,711,431) (84,230,535,915) (74,134,313,250) Changes in scope of consolidated subsidiaries (4,573,742,849) Dividends paid by the subsidiaries (53,324,066,352) (85,494,554,491) (28,418,000,000) Business transfer 1,154,821,544,576 128,317,226,465 Free charge of subsidiary (2,860,448) aggregate cash outflows from investing activities (1,165,464,373,301) (1,222,026,603,165) (1,213,349,373,181) Cost of issuing shares of subsidiary (11,253,730) Acquisition of short-term financial instruments (95,091,693,985) (79,222,803,135) (95,207,452,344) Acquisition of part of investment in subsidiaries (458,033,551,059) (4,763,339,000) Acquisition of short-term investments in securities (127,937,629,145) (3,955,604,933) (65,228,155,478) Acquisition of treasury shares by subsidiaries (12,326,365,036) (9,997,743,330) (85,674,337,740) Increase in short-term loans (27,800,272,132) (155,702,429,216) (104,582,725,328) Net foreign exchange difference (41,177,184,921) (9,110,207,916) (30,619,708,487) Acquisition of long-term financial instruments (16,895,446,044) (56,094,727,889) (1,117,551,401) Classified as held for sale (3,044,188,427) Acquisition of long-term investment in securities (131,466,690,976) (12,416,609,062) (20,269,579,917) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (523,506,755,948) 595,447,533,916 354,798,551,588 Increase in long-term loans (179,347,198,041) (212,259,140,998) (293,311,264,050) Cash and cash equivalents as at January 1 1,893,007,747,878 1,297,560,213,962 942,761,662,374 Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures (9,791,807,060) (1,108,000,000) (268,400,000) Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31 1,369,500,991,930 1,893,007,747,878 1,297,560,213,962 Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (31,841,144,402) (54,940,467,860) 118 119 Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Environmental Guidelines Based on its people-centered management philosophy and technology that enhances the value of the earth, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established environmental guidelines in accordance with Doosan Credo, internal environmental management rules and regulations for the protection of the environment together with employees, suppliers, customers and the local community. Thus, we are promoting the following activities to reduce environmental impact generated during the course of business, and continue to expand the scope to supply networks and business partners. 1. Production and workplace environment management 5. Waste management For efficient environmental management of production and business facilities, 10 procedures including objective management, educational Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction specifies the entire work process from waste generation to final disposal and operates and training, document and records management and internal audit as well as 9 directives on, for example, environmental impact assessment, manages it through a waste management order, which helps control the scope of application, definitions of terms, responsibilities air environment control and waste control, are used for management. and authorities, waste recycling and storage facilities, generation, collection, storage and disposal of waste, inspection, consignment contracts and monitoring. 2. Selection of supplier, contractor and service provider and continuous assessment Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction performs regular environment control assessments on subsidiaries within the company twice 6. Engineering and maintenance a year, and the results are utilized as the basis for incentives or penalties to be levied on the subsidiaries and as reference data for their To minimize environmental pollution generated during operation and maintenance of power plants, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction development planning. Also, areas related to the environment are assessed when evaluating suppliers and supplier CSR guidelines provides an environmental guide to fundamentally prevent environmental pollution that would occur from irregular operations. By offering including environmental control are distributed as a part of an effort to reduce environmental risks throughout the supply network. operation and maintenance manuals based on the characteristics of each power plant, a guide is provided to minimize the environmental impact generated during operations. 3. Development of products and services By recognizing the fact that various environmental issues related to climate changes pose both risks and opportunities for Doosan Heavy 7. New projects Industries & Construction, we have been conducting research and development that can minimize environmental impact when developing Prior to the start of a new project, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction utilizes its Project Environment Plan, to which detailed means of products or services. environmental control are applied, to ensure environmental control in project sites. Primary items of the Project Environment Plan include Project Policy, water supply and waste discharge requirements, hazard substance management, air pollution control, etc. 4. Logistics To eliminate environmental pollution that may occur during transport, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction manages it through a 8. Due Diligence of mergers and acquisitions guide, etc. Work standards are made and managed based on the best cases for each step, which includes transport quotes, preliminary Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts due diligence assessment on companies prior to merger and acquisition in order to surveys, transport company selection, contract signing, local transport (inland, barge, air, etc.) and cargo insurance. examine environmental risks and respond in advance, if needed. Major aspects evaluated include soil and underground water contamination, asbestos, hazardous chemical substances, environmental pollution prevention facilities and greenhouse gas emission management, and the assessment results are utilized and managed as important factors to consider during acquisitions or mergers. 120 121 Audit Report Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Independent Auditors' Report Management's Assessment on Internal Control over Financial Reporting To the Board of Directors and Stockholders The Board of Directors and Internal auditor (Audit Committee) of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. (the Company ) and I, as the internal control over financial reporting officer ( ICFR Officer ) of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. ( the Company ), assessed its subsidiaries (collectively, the Group ), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2016 and the the status of the design and operations of the Company's internal control over financial reporting ( ICFR ) for the year ended December 31, 2015. consolidated statements of profit or loss, consolidated statements of comprehensive income or loss, consolidated statements of changes in equity and consolidated statements of cash flows for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory The Company's management including the ICFR Officer is responsible for the design and operations of its ICFR. I, as the ICFR Officer, assessed informa tion. whether the ICFR has been effectively designed and has operated to prevent and detect any error or fraud which may cause any misstatement of the financial statements, for the purpose of establishing the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external Management's responsibility for the consolidated interim financial statements financial reporting purposes. I, as the ICFR Officer, applied the ICFR standards for the assessment of design and operations of the ICFR. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean Based on the assessment of the operations of the ICFR, the Company's ICFR has been effectively designed and has operated as of December 31, International Financial Reporting Standards ( KIFRS ), and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation 2015, in all material respects, in accordance with the ICFR standard. of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors' responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity's preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 and their consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. Deloitte Anjin LLC Deloitte Anjin LLC CEO Ham Jong-ho CEO Ham Jong-ho Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee ( DTTL ), Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee ( DTTL ), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as Deloitte Global ) does not provide services to clients. DTTL (also referred to as Deloitte Global ) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/kr/abou t for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Please see www.deloitte.com/kr/abou t for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 122 123 Independent Assurance Statement Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix Introduction Stakeholder Inclusiveness Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. ( Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction ) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Shareholders, Customers, Employees, Ltd. ( DNV GL ), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the Integrated Report 2016 (the Report ). DNV GL's assurance Suppliers, Local Communities, Government and Competitors. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction engages with the stakeholders at the engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engagement with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. In the future, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction could present the reasonable expectations and interests of stakeholders and good faith. report corresponding actions taken in the Report. Scope of assurance Sustainability Context The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period from 1 January to 31 st st Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established 2030 objectives based on the mapping the UN SDGs with its business strategy. Its efforts to achieve objectives and various performances associated with sustainability are presented in the report. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction December 2016. This included: addresses how 10 material issues are managed and what are the key performances achieved in 2016, which would help the stakeholder understand • Evaluation of adherence to the principles for defining the sustainability report content set forth in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the management approaches toward the material aspects. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 • Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process Materiality for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has conducted materiality assessment to prepare the Report. Various issues have been derived by analysing the topics covered in various global initiatives and standards, major stakeholder expectations, industry peers' reports & journalist reports and Basis of our opinion internal survey results. Subsequently the issues are prioritized by taking into account of the impact on the business of Doosan Heavy Industries The assurance engagement was planned and carried out using DNV GL's assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional & Construction and the interest of stakeholders. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has grouped the 11 material issues into 8 experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We provided the aspects and presented its management approaches on the respective aspects in the Report. The verification team has reviewed the materiality limited level of assurance. assessment process. Nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that material issues identified from the assessment are not The audit was carried out in April through June 2017 and the site visits were made to the Headquarter and Seoul Office of Doosan Heavy Industries & reported. Construction in Changwon and Seoul, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process:. Completeness • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management The Report has covered the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction system, information flow and controls; for the reporting period and the performance of overseas business sites that have important implications for sustainability is also reported. Nothing • interviewed representatives from the various departments; comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that the non-financial sustainability performances associated with material aspects are • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system and associated not reported. reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; • reviewed the materiality assessment report. Report quality: Accuracy and Reliability We found a limited number of non-material errors and these were corrected prior to inclusion in the Report. The data presented in the report were Limitations gathered from the teams responsible for data control in Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. The verification team interviewed the PersonThe engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's in-charge, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. The depth of associated companies, subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any thirdparties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external data verification is limited to the aggregated data. Based on sampling verification and other reported information and available evidence, nothing stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Financial statements of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, data announced on DART comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that the data and information presented in the Report have any intentional error or material system of the Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr), and data on the websites are not included in the scope of assurance. Data assurance misstatement. was conducted by checking the basis in a limited scope, including inquiry, analysis, and limited sampling method, on the data collected by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. The aggregation and calculation process for building economic performances is reviewed by the verification team. Competence and Independence Also, environmental and social data were verified using the aggregated data. The directors of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction have sole DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of Doosan customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. Heavy Industries & Construction in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or coresponsibility for any The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL's competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. The verification team has complied with DNV GL's Code of Conduct. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to 18 June 2017 the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared 'in accordance' with GRI G4 Core option. Further opinions with regards to Seoul, Korea the adherence to the following Principles in the GRI G4 are made below; In Kyoon Ahn Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) 124 125 GRI Index Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Report Report Classfication G4 Indicators Pages Classfication G4 Indicators Pages Rate Rate G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker ● 2~3 EC1 Direct econmic value generated and distributed ◐ PDF 112~119 Strategy and Analysis G4-2 Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 2~3, 21, 30~31 Economic Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to EC2 ● 37, 46~49 climate change G4-3 Report the name of the organization ● 2~4 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services ● 22~23 Market Presence EC6 ● PDF 109 operation G4-5 The location of the organization's headquarters ● 4 DMA 72~73 The number of countries where the organizaion operates, and names of countries where either Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ● PDF 110 G4-6 the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability ● 5 Impacts topics covered in the report EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● PDF 110 G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form ● 4, 42~43 Purchase Practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ● 70 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● PDF 105 G4-8 ● 4~5 Materials and beneficiaries) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● PDF 105 4~5, PDF 108, G4-9 Scale of the organization ● EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● PDF 106 Organizational Profile 112~119 G4-10 Total workforce ● 4, PDF 108 Energy EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● PDF 106 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● PDF 108 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ● 46~49 G4-12 The organization's supply chain ● 70~71 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● PDF 106 Water Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● PDF 106 G4-13 ● About this report sutructure, ownerhsip, or its supply chain EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas ● 50~51 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 21 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Biodiversity ● 50~51 List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other Biodiversity G4-15 ● 28~39, PDF 120~121 EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● 50~51 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in G4-16 ● PDF 105, PDF 111 EN14 ● 50~51 advocacy organizations in which the organization areas afected by operaions, by level of extinction risk List all entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent About this report, DMA 46~47 G4-17 ● documents 82~100 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope ● PDF 106 G4-18 The porcess for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries ● 102~103 Emissions EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope ● PDF 106 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content ● 102~103 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ● PDF 107 Identified Material G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization ● 102~103 Aspects and Boundaries EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● PDF 107 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization ● 102~103 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● PDF 107 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for Effluents and Waste G4-22 ● About this report EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● PDF 107 such restatements Identity, size, proteted status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and realted habitats G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries ● About this report EN26 ● 46~47 significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 102 DMA 46~47 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 102 Products and Services EN27 Extent of impact mitication of environmental impacts of products and services ◐ 46~47 Stakeholder Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by Engagement G4-26 ● 102~103 Monetary value of significatn fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nontype and by stakeholder group Compliance EN29 ● PDF 108 compliance with environmental laws and regluations Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 ● 102~103 Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by tyep ● PDF 108 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Supplier Environmental G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided ● About this report EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enviromental criteria ● 70~71 Assessment G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● About this report significant actual and potential engative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions EN33 ● 70~71 G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biannial) ● About this report taken Report Profile G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● About this report DMA 64~65 G4-32 Report the 'in accordance' option the organization has chosen ● About this report Total number and rates of new empoyee hires and empoyee turnover by age group, gender, LA1 ● PDF 108 and region Report the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Employment G4-33 ● About this report Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time for the report LA2 ● 66~67 employees, by significant locations of operation Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest Governance G4-34 ● 42~43 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● PDF 109 governance body Describe the organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of DMA 64~65 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 ● 44~45, Homepage 1) Labor/Management conduct and codes of ethics Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified LA4 ● 1191) in collective agreements 1) http://www.doosanheavy.com/kr/csr/ethics/creed/ 1) In the event there are any significant changes in management, employees shall be notified in a timely manner. 126 127 GRI Index Business & Strategy Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Appendix SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Non-Financial Performance Report Classfication G4 Indicators Pages Rate DMA 52~53 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and LA5 ● 52~55 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Occupational Health Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total and Safety LA6 ● PDF 109 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Excellence Award at LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ● 54~55 Listed for three Rated Grade A in the evaluation National Quality Circle LA8 DMA Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 52~55 64~65 consecutive years DJSI Korea performed by the Korea Coperate Governance Service Team Contest for seven consecutive years LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category ● PDF 108 Training and Education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability LA10 ● 65 of employees and assist them in managing career endings Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA12 ● PDF 108 Opportunity according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 최우수 Equal Remuneration for Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant LA13 ● PDF 109 Women and Men locations of operation LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria ● 70~71 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and LA15 actions taken ● 70~71 Shared Growth Index Assessment Celebrated the Human Rights Global Water Awards HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening ● 70~71 Week Targeting 'Most Excellent Received Desalination Plant Investment HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of ● 70~71 all employees Grade' of the Year Award human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Freedom of Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and and Collective HR4 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these ● 64 Bargaining rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Child Labor HR5 ● 64 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Forced or Compulsory HR6 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or ● 64, 70~71 Labor compulsory labor Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 175,182tCO 69% 12,502people Assessment HR9 ● PDF 109 impact assessments 2 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ● 70~71 Supplier Human Rights Assessment Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions Reduction in GHG Ration of Green R&D to Provided training on the HR11 ● 70~71, PDF 110 taken emissions total R&D Code of Ethics to suppliers Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, SO1 ● PDF 110 Local Communities and development programs SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities ● PDF 110 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the In 2016, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction achieved the lofty accomplishment of being incorporated into DJSI Korea for the third consecutive SO3 ● PDF 109~110 significant risks identified years based on its consistent commitment to carrying out socially responsible management activities, and obtained an A grade in the ESG Anti-corruption SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● PDF 110 evaluation conducted by the Korea Corporate Governance Service. It also received the Excellence Award for the 7th consecutive years in the National SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● PDF 110 Quality Circle Team Contest, achieved the most outstanding level in the Shared Growth Index and received the Shared Growth Company Awards Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ● PDF 105 and Desalination Plant of the Year Award at the Global Water Awards. Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Thanks to our diverse efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for strengthening our competitiveness in the fight against climate change, SO7 ● PDF 110 Behavior and their outcomes greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 175,182 tCO2 since 2012, and 69% of the total R&D investments has been allocated to Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nongreen R&D, thus contributing to the preservation of global environment. Through ethics education being conducted for every one of our Compliance SO8 ● 45 compliance with laws and regulations 12,502 employees, a culture of autonomous competency development has been established and we have been receiving glowing evaluations SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ● 70~71 Supplier Assessment for as a company of which employees would love to continue to work for. Also, through strategic social contribution activities, we fulfill our Impacts on Society Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions SO10 ● 70~71 social responsibilities by continuously improving the overall image of our company, among other related efforts. taken DMA 56~57 From this point on, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will actively serve its role as a corporate citizen to achieve sustainable growth of the Product and Service Labeling PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 58 company and society as a whole. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses Customer Privacy PR8 ◐ 62~63 of customer data 128 129 011053 Printed by a company with FSCTMChain of Custody certification (Certification no.: C011053). We use paper certified by FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council®) that is only attached to products using wood produced in forests developed and managed in an eco-friendly manner. DHIC Integrated Report by Year 2013 2014 2015 Headquarters 22, Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do TEL. 055-278-3063 Seoul Office 465, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul TEL. 02-513-6991~2 www.doosanheavy.com
