Sustainability Review 2017 Shaping the circular economy In this Review Our 2017 Highlights Our Approach At DS Smith, we are focusing our sustainability work 1 Group Chief Executive introduction in three key areas: 2 Our business overview 3 Our strategic goals and our values 4 Governance Our Business 6 Benchmarks Creating shared value through responsible recycling, paper and packaging. 7 Targets 8 10 Risk Materiality 95B (Management B) 6% revenue growth 14 Our Business an increase in increase our CDP score (constant currency) 15 Market context 16 Packaging reputation 17 Rehearsing the future 18 Performance packaging 19 Expanding sustainably into China Our Environment 20 Supply cycle thinking Minimising our impact from design to production and supply to recycling. 22 ‘Box to Box in 14 Days’ 6.7% 100% 24 Our Environment 25 Traceability and transparency 27 Fibre sourcing and availability reduction in of in‑scope sites 28 Recycling and waste CO2e emissions completed the Sedex 31 Carbon and energy per tonne produced self‑assessment 33 Water 34 Our People 35 Health and safety 37 Employee wellbeing and development Our People 39 Charitable Foundation and community Ensuring the safety, wellbeing and development of colleagues and contributing to our communities. 19% 12 42 About this Review 43 Data reduction in accident Worldstar Packaging frequency rate awards – the largest number of any supplier As you flick through the pages of this Review, our supply cycle image rotates in the bottom right‑hand corner. It demonstrates the simplicity of our business model that is at the heart of the circular economy. Explore our website at dssmith.com Explore our sustainability website at dssmith.com/sustainability Download our annual report & accounts 2017 at dssmith.com/investors/annual‑reports Group Chief Executive introduction 1 We are shaping the circular economy Our Approach At DS Smith sustainability is the foundation of our overall business strategy. We recognise that operating ever more sustainably can provide opportunities for growth, support risk management, help us operate more efficiently and enhance stakeholder relationships. “To us, truly sustainable value is found when balancing the needs of our business, our environment and our people.” Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive changing consumer lifestyles and retail trends. We deliver this through initiatives such as performance packaging, our Impact Centres and expanding into new markets. Our vision is to be the leading supplier of sustainable packaging solutions and to achieve this we focus on our core competence: A commitment to our environment is a key part of how we are the manufacture and design of reliable, brand‑enhancing working to create a sustainable business model. Throughout packaging, supported by Paper and Recycling divisions. our operations and supply chains, from design to production and supply to recycling, we are reducing energy consumption, I was delighted that last year’s Sustainability Review was minimising waste and embedding the highest ethical standards acknowledged by PricewaterhouseCoopers in its building to ensure the most positive impact on our environment. public trust awards. The award recognised the dedication and transparency of our sustainability work, and highlights Finally, we are dedicated to realising the potential of our people. our desire to share progress with our stakeholders in a We are committed to the highest standards of safety, and are consistent, accurate and honest way. keen to ensure DS Smith is an engaging employer in which our people can thrive and fulfil their potential. Across our business It also recognised that we are looking to create sustainable we play an active role in our communities, enabling our people value for all of our stakeholders: delighting our customers; to support the causes that matter to them. ensuring the safety of our employees; delivering excellent shareholder returns; using our scale to support regulators; I am pleased to reaffirm DS Smith’s support of the Ten Principles and providing a reliable, sustainable investment for of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human financial institutions. Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti‑Corruption and in this Review we describe our performance in those areas we believe Our products and our services create sustainable value for our are fundamental to integrating these principles into our customers through responsible recycling, paper and packaging business strategy. solutions. Our focus is on providing the right packaging for our customers, whilst simultaneously adding value through I really hope you enjoy reading about how DS Smith is shaping increased brand impact and ensuring functionality to reflect the circular economy. 2 Our business overview Our business operations Packaging Paper Recycling Plastics We are a leading European We are a leading European We are the market leading Our plastics business comprises packaging company of manufacturer of high‑quality fibre recycling and waste flexible packaging and dispensing customer‑specific recycled papers. Our papers management company and solutions, extruded and injection corrugated packaging are used by the packaging the largest paper recycler in moulded products, and foam with an emphasis on industry for conversion into Europe, collecting c. 5.2 million products. We work with many leading edge design and board for making corrugated tonnes annually. of the world’s leading companies the highest quality service boxes. We also make some in a diverse range of industries Our customers rely on us to in the geographies our specialist paper grades and markets. provide them with integrated customers demand. Our such as plasterboard liner, solutions, with the aim of Plastic packaging is a specialist product portfolio includes all of which are from making 100 per cent of market with numerous transit packaging, consumer recycled material. resources into something niche products. packaging, displays and We operate a unique paper useful once more. promotional packaging, sourcing platform that Flexible packaging and customised protective We harvest quality paper and coordinates the decisions dispensing solutions packaging and industrial cardboard for recycling from around ‘make, buy, sell’ for Our product brands include packaging, providing a range of sectors, including the paper grades and Rapak™, a global leader in solutions for each retailers, manufacturers, quality required by our bag‑in‑box packaging and market requirement. local authorities, print, packaging business. filling systems, and Worldwide recycling and waste Dispensers’ high‑quality We operate along the whole Paper is readily transportable management companies. precision moulding and supply‑cycle, from the raw and is traded globally. customer design solutions. materials to the high‑quality The recyclate we collect finished product. We offer provides the most cost our customers sustainable efficient raw material for Extruded products packaging which also helps the Group’s paper making We design and manufacture them achieve their own processes. We also sell extruded products such as sustainability targets. recyclate to third corrugated plastic sheets and parties globally. returnable transit packaging for Corrugated packaging is a variety of industries. typically produced within c. 200km of its destination Injection moulded products due to the requirements for We are a leader in Europe in just‑in‑time delivery and the the design and manufacture cost of transport. of plastic beverage crates, pallets, speciality trays and bulk containers. Foam products We design and manufacture foam moulded custom designed components and protective packaging. See page 18 in our annual report & accounts 2017 for our business model Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability Our strategic goals and our values 3 Our vision is to be the leader in sustainable packaging solutions Our Approach Our strategic To delight our To realise the To lead the way in To double our goals customers potential of sustainability size and our people profitability We do • Delivering on all our • Ensuring the safety of all • Building sustainability into • Winning market share and this by commitments • Creating a place where our decisions expanding into new • Further improving our people are proud to work • Growing our recycling markets quality standards and give their best platform across Europe • Building a resilient and • Driving innovation • Building a common culture sustainable business model • Building industry‑leading customer services Performance In 2016/17 we delivered: In 2016/17 we delivered: In 2016/17 we delivered: In 2016/17 we delivered: • Strong volume growth from • 207 sites without a lost • The achievement of 2020 • 3.2 per cent underlying box pan‑European customers time accident targets in reducing CO2e per volume growth • Two new Impact Centre and • An accident frequency rate tonne and water effluent • 6 per cent revenue growth 10 new PackRight Centres reduced by 19 per cent per tonne of production, (constant currency) opened • New Sharesave programme three years ahead of target • 5 per cent profit growth • Improved customer service for 40 countries • An improved score in the (constant currency) • Expanded capability in • An Engaging Managers highly regarded CDP • An expanded position in e‑commerce and display programme available in 28 (Carbon Disclosure Project) Iberia packaging countries and taking place to management B (95B) • Expanded capabilities in in 24 languages display packaging In 2017/18 we will: In 2017/18 we will: • Open further Impact In 2017/18 we will: • Set new long‑term In 2017/18 we will: Centres and PackRight • Continue our strong focus sustainability goals aligned • Continue to drive growth Centres, in particular in on health and safety with the changing through investment and Iberia requirements of the acquisitions • Continue our employee • Continue to invest in R&D industry, customers and engagement programme, • Optimise our manufacture non‑government • Invest further in specialist OWN IT! and sourcing of recycled organisations markets such as display, • Continue to drive our talent corrugated case material automotive and management programme • Work towards 100 per cent and kraftliner e‑commerce Forest Stewardship Council • Maximise efficiency • Continue to develop our (FSC®) certification at all • Continue to drive management development of operations and improvements in customer our sites procurement programmes service • Continue to invest in • Complete the roll‑out of best‑in‑class solutions to performance packaging and improve energy efficiency commercial excellence programmes See page 22 in our annual report & accounts 2017 for more information Our Values Be caring Be challenging Be trusted Be responsive Be tenacious We take pride in what We are not afraid to We can always be We seek new ideas and We get things done. we do and we care constructively challenge trusted to deliver understanding and are about our customers, each other and on our promises. quick to react to our people and the ourselves to find a opportunities. world around us. better way forward. 4 Governance Delivering for our stakeholders After completing our materiality analysis last year, the focus over the last 12 months has been on understanding how we manage each issue, delivering value for our stakeholders as a result. “We listen to our stakeholders, understand our impacts, assess new opportunities, and take action.” Iain Simm Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Our vision is to lead the industry in sustainable packaging solutions, which we aim to achieve through a combination of stakeholder engagement (see page 12), reducing our environmental impact (see page 31), developing our people (see page 37), increasing transparency (see page 25) and using our supply cycle thinking (see page 20). I am pleased that we continue to reduce our environmental impact, with a 6.7 per cent reduction in carbon emissions per tonne of production this year. We continue to invest in the development of our people and I am proud that we have produced an employee charter to strengthen relationships between employee and We have embarked on a challenging target to ensure all relevant employer. It is also very pleasing that our overall health and safety DS Smith sites are FSC® certified by summer 2018. I am pleased record has improved again, with our number of lost time accidents with the rapid progress we have made here, with 85 per cent of and accident frequency rate down from last year. our sites now holding FSC® certification. Last year I mentioned that traceability and transparency were Other successes include our CDP score improving to Management identified as our most important material issues and of growing B (95B), and achieving the ‘Gold’ award again from EcoVadis. Both importance. It was vital that we made progress in these areas, of these ratings are well above the industry average, and this with the first step being to increase visibility and management external recognition is a great testament to the progress we of key issues in our own operations. Therefore, I am delighted to continue to make. announce we have achieved our target of all in‑scope DS Smith sites completing the Sedex Self‑Assessment Questionnaire Recognising an ever growing requirement to be more transparent (see page 26). This exercise challenges each site to consider around a wider variety of sustainability issues, our last annual how they manage human rights, labour practices, health, safety Sustainability Review, published in August 2016, was modelled and environmental issues, and identify areas for continuous on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 reporting framework. improvement. Our consolidation of this insight at a Group This year, we are delighted to have produced our first Review that level will influence our social sustainability priorities. is fully compliant with the core requirements of the GRI framework. Our commitment to respect and support human rights extends The focus for the following year is to continue to reduce our to our suppliers, business partners and the wider communities in environmental impact, to make further progress in the safety and which we operate, captured in our updated Global Supplier development of our people and to build stronger relationships with Standard (GSS). our strategic suppliers to increase transparency in our supply chains. I look forward to being able to update you further on our progress next year. Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 5 We are committed to operating transparently Our Approach As a Group, we comply with the principles of good corporate governance and have policies in place to support this compliance. Trust is earned from our stakeholders as a result of our commitment to these values and the ethical manner in which we operate. Sustainability governance Commitment to international standards The Group Chief Executive is responsible for addressing We are committed to operating transparently, and sustainability‑related issues, and through the Group disclose our climate change, forest and water impacts Operations Committee a Group Sustainability Committee to the CDP annually. We are a member of the London has been convened in order to oversee the process and Stock Exchange FTSE4Good index, an international to set and monitor internal targets and strategies to responsibility performance benchmark, and we ensure sustainability‑related risks and opportunities share supply chain information with our customers are appropriately managed, and any residual issues through Sedex. are brought to the Board. The Group Sustainability Committee is chaired by the Ethics and compliance Group General Counsel and Company Secretary. Policies Ethical business conduct and compliance with local, are periodically reviewed and updated, with action plans national and international legislation are fundamental communicated to the heads of each business unit. to our way of doing business. We believe that an ethical Compliance with policies is monitored throughout the year. approach will lead to repeat business and protect our reputation, thereby preserving our licence to operate. Monitoring ethics and compliance and providing annual training to our employees are the responsibility of our Group Sustainability Committee members legal team. Chair – Group General Counsel All our employees are encouraged to report suspected and Company Secretary misconduct or unethical behaviour directly to their own supervisor, human resources or legal services. Our employees may also report their concerns in confidence Chief Operating Officer to a dedicated hotline, an external service through which anyone can confidentially and anonymously Communication Director report any issues. Code of Conduct Director Sustainability The DS Smith Code of Conduct sets out our ethical position on key topics. It describes common rules Head of External Affairs which apply to all of our employees, and provides guidance on our approach to ethical business practices, environmental values, and human and labour rights. Health, Safety and Environment Director It is made available to all employees as part of their induction, and has been translated into 27 languages. Human Resources Director DS Smith subscribes to the following international standards and guidelines: Paper Sourcing Director • United Nations Global Compact • United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and Procurement Director the Convention on the Rights of the Child • International Labour Organization (ILO) Eight Fundamental Conventions Risk Officer • Organisation for Economic Co‑operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Sales and Commercial Director Enterprises. 6 Benchmarks External recognition for our performance DS Smith has reported its greenhouse gas emissions and climate change risks to CDP since 2006, and we are a corporate member of Sedex. In 2016/17 we improved our CDP score to Management B (95B), an improvement on our score of 94C in 2015/16, and we achieved a Leadership A rating for the CDP Water and Forest modules. We take part in these annual submissions: CDP is an important benchmark for many of our customers, who seek to ensure that their suppliers are upholding similarly high standards to their own in sustainability, so we are pleased to have a score that reflects our commitment. We have once again achieved an EcoVadis ‘Gold’ rating, improving our score once more, securing a place in the top 5 per cent of organisations evaluated. UN Global Goals The United Nations’ Global Goals are a set of 17 targets sustainably clearly aligns with a number of the UN’s for sustainability aimed at ending extreme poverty, Global Goals. inequality and climate change by 2030. Following a prioritisation analysis of how our operations Whilst not formally integrated into our overall business relate to the Global Goals, we have explored which of the strategy, our ongoing work to operate ever more goals we can make the greatest contribution to. These are: UN Global Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns UN responsible consumption and production target How DS Smith is aligned By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and Our focus on performance packaging highlights our commitment to using efficient use of natural resources natural resources efficiently, providing reliable packaging that protects the product, and all the resources invested within it. By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through Through our Recycling division, we are working with numerous prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse organisations to drive materials up the waste hierarchy and, where possible, achieve zero waste to landfill. Encourage companies, especially large and transnational Through our refreshed DS Smith Global Supplier Standards, we are using companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate our scale to influence by embedding our environmental, social and quality sustainability information into their reporting cycle standards into our supply chains. UN Global Goal 15: Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss UN life on land target How DS Smith is aligned By 2020, ensure the conservation, restoration and Our ambitious FSC® certification project and our focus on using recycled sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater fibre are great examples of the work we are doing to ensure the ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, and the protection wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations of international forestry. under international agreements Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability Targets 7 We are focused on achieving our targets Our Approach We are delighted to have exceeded our 2020 carbon reduction and water effluent targets and remain on track to achieve our waste to landfill target. Building on our success, we have extended our carbon reduction target to 2030 and we will be reviewing our other targets in the coming year. % variance Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Unit 2011 2016 2020 target since 2011 Target status CO2e per tonne of production kg CO2e/tonne nsp 308.1 195 ‑20% ‑36.6% Exceeded Total water effluent per tonne of production m3/tonne nsp 3.10 2.41 ‑20% ‑22.4% Exceeded Waste to landfill per tonne of production kg/tonne nsp 13.70 11.91 ‑20% ‑13% On track We are committed to building a sustainable business for the long‑term. To ensure we continue to invest in and 2020 carbon reduction target exceeded develop the business and the environment in which we operate for a sustainable future, we have extended our 308.10 carbon reduction target to cover the period 2015‑2030, projected 246.48 actual using an updated 2015 baseline that is more 195.41 representative of the current business mix. This represents a substantial extension of our commitment to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Relative to production, we aim to: • Reduce our CO2 equivalent ‘CO2 e’ emissions by 11 12 13 14 15 16 20 30 per cent over the 15 years to 2030 This same review also found that aggregate Group‑level We have just achieved our target on traceability and targets to reduce water was less appropriate for the transparency, which was for 100 per cent of our own current footprint and business mix. Water continues to production sites to assess their ethical performance be actively managed at site level, and remain the subject using the Sedex platform. We will set a new target for of both Group scrutiny and national environmental this material issue in the coming months (see page 25). legislation. We found that aggregating the performance For our remaining material issues of packaging of over 200 diverse production sites spread across 32 reputation and supply cycle thinking, we currently countries into a single Group‑level KPI did not provide do not have targets. any meaningful insight into individual sites’ performance. Packaging reputation is an industry‑wide issue. In addition to our target on CO2 we have long‑term As a leader in our industry, we are increasingly able to targets in place for two of our other six material issues: influence this, but success will be dependent on a wide • Health and safety – zero lost time accidents range of stakeholders working together. As such, (see page 35) identifying a meaningful target that we have a direct influence over is challenging (see page 16). • Recycling and waste – zero waste to landfill (see page 28) Supply cycle thinking is the way we operate as a business. As a result, setting one definitive target is We also have a short‑term target on one of our material difficult. A number of our strategic targets such as issues that we hope to achieve by summer 2018: volume growth, return on capital and return on sales • Fibre sourcing and availability – 100 per cent of margin are all directly linked to supply cycle thinking, relevant production sites having a recognised, with our financial performance reflecting our accredited, responsible forestry certification commitment to creating sustainable value for (see page 27) our customers. 8 Risk Promoting a risk‑aware culture DS Smith has an established risk management process for each of its divisions, which focuses on management and monitoring as well as mitigating all important risks, including those that affect our key sustainability objectives. This process forms the basis for the Board’s conclusions on the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal controls. 1) Health, safety and environment The aim of the process is to: Our operations are subject to a range of environmental • Support the executive management across the and health and safety laws and regulations, which vary Group in decision‑making; from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We must adhere to a • Reduce the impact of adverse events; and number of laws and regulations in areas ranging from • Capitalise on potential opportunities. energy usage, waste water discharges and waste disposal practices to the health and safety of our employees and contractors. We are therefore exposed A multitude of risks can affect DS Smith, its assets and to substantial environmental as well as health and employees, as well as its neighbours and stakeholders. safety liabilities. Therefore, we use a number of risk management We continue to invest and improve health and safety systems and techniques to gather information, identify activities by developing divisional safety strategies potential risks, assess them and then consider the most and occupational safety programmes. We also see the effective response. At a strategic level, this process potential for improving CO2 and energy management continues to be the foundation of our corporate through our cleaner energy strategy. In doing so, we planning. All risk management actions are aligned to focus on production upgrades and redevelopment of our our strategic priorities and ensure the Board has a energy production infrastructure. In the event of serious clear oversight of the amount of accepted risk. or irreversible impact we are committed to considering In order to test the robustness of our systems and necessary and practical measures to prevent evaluate compliance across the Group, its divisions environmental degradation. and business units, we deploy several processes that encourage improvement. These include compliance 2) Climate change training, internal audits and review of our policies Domestic regulations and international agreements and procedures. aimed at reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases Throughout the Group we promote a risk‑aware culture, may pose risks and uncertainties for our business. As whilst remaining committed to seeking new producers of wood fibre based products, we are aware opportunities and minimising the barriers that might that the responsible management of forests is a impede the delivery of our plans. In doing so, we are prerequisite to a sustainable ecosystem. We are mindful mindful of our sustainability commitment, which we of local communities across the globe that rely on the discuss with our customers and stakeholders. Our biodiversity of forests and we are striving to adhere sustainability promise influences the decisions we to effective forestry management. make and the way we manage a number of our key Thanks to our supplier management activities we are sustainability risks. committed to sustainable sourcing, which is one of the most effective means to mitigate climate change. We are proud of our environmental credentials which demonstrate to our customers and their consumers that our products are responsibly sourced, renewable, reusable and recyclable. In 2016 the Group achieved ‘Management B’ score in the CDP Climate Change category and ‘Leadership A’ score in the CDP Forests category. Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 9 Our Approach 3) Modern slavery This process is controlled centrally using a network Modern slavery is a criminal offence introduced by of finance, legal, operational and support function the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. The crime arises professionals at Group, divisional and regional level. from deprivation of a person’s liberty for personal or Central control aims to ensure a high quality of commercial gain. This relatively recent law has helped information gathered and the appropriateness of to reinforce the importance of our policies that focus risk mitigation tools and implemented activities. on elements of human rights, labour law and The process is reviewed every six months and aims to antitrust legislation. challenge both Group and divisional approaches to risk. With that in mind, we have refreshed the Group’s Operating Framework and Code of Conduct. We are also Heat map in the process of conducting a thorough assessment of our supplier base. The steps undertaken to date have Consider alternatives On strategy Very high brought an enhanced level of transparency to our supply chain and increased awareness with regards to our procurement activities. Risk impact (with mitigation) 4 4) Anti‑bribery and corruption Under anti‑bribery laws a commercial organisation which 1 Moderate fails to prevent persons associated with it from bribing another person on its behalf can be guilty of a criminal offence. Responsible businesses must adopt adequate 2 5 procedures to prevent that from happening. As part of the Group’s Operating Framework, we rely on our management structure, our regulatory and legal resources and the effective operation of our compliance 3 Very low regime to directly manage and monitor the activities of Monitor risk investment OK our employees and agents. Level of risk mitigation 5) Managing waste Limited Thorough Managing waste lies at the heart of our business model and is not limited to our Recycling division. We recognise 1 Health, safety and environment Bubble size = degree to which risk the risks that poor waste management may have on our has changed since 15/16 2 Climate change sustainability credentials. Bubble colour = reflects risk 3 Modern slavery status as shown in position in map Our risk management approach encourages the design 4 Anti‑bribery and corruption lower risk higher risk of products and packaging to ensure that material retains its value after use. We believe in intelligent 5 Managing waste Title quadrants = explain packaging solutions that serve appropriate purposes management review/actions with sustainability in mind. We continue to encourage our customers to adopt a zero waste philosophy. See page 39 in our annual report & accounts 2017 for principal risks Our main risk management actions aim to ensure that we have the skills and experience to: • Identify and assess potential threats and opportunities; • Support a strategic planning process; • Influence executive management discussions; • Coordinate and challenge mitigation strategies; and • Foster the Group’s risk‑aware culture. 10 Materiality Our materiality matrix Defining materiality We carried out an exercise to assess the importance of Our materiality analysis enables us to engage a broad each material issue to our different stakeholders and spectrum of internal and external stakeholders on evaluated the best ways of communicating with these sustainability topics of concern to them. Through a different groups. rigorous and structured comparison with our own We engaged with a variety of external stakeholders, corporate objectives, this process generates new including customers, investors, insurers, NGOs and insights and highlights opportunities to improve our suppliers. For our internal engagement, we completed position and further delight our customers. DS Smith’s a number of site visits and workshops, attended by approach to materiality ensures that the most important operational staff, senior management and technical issues emerging from our analysis form part of our experts to get a cross‑section of opinion from the heart sustainability strategy. of our operations. All of our stakeholders ranked a range of issues in order Our approach of importance. Some issues are of universal importance; We completed our most recent materiality analysis in others are significant only to particular stakeholder early 2016, with our next one planned for 2018. In our groups or within niche areas. The analysis highlighted last materiality analysis we identified seven priority the great work we are already doing, as well as providing issues, and this year we focused our attention on direction and focus for our future work in specific understanding the needs of our stakeholders in relation sustainability areas. to these. Higher Traceability and transparency Legislation and compliance Recycling and waste Health and safety Labour standards and human rights Carbon and energy Importance to external stakeholders Diversity and equal opportunity Healthy and affordable food Supply cycle thinking Community involvement Employee wellbeing Fibre sourcing and availability Animal welfare Transport and logistics Packaging reputation Product life cycle analysis Other material sourcing Education and training Water Biodiversity Medium Medium Priority for DS Smith Higher Assessing the material issues The magnifying glass clearly identifies issues that are of high or growing importance to a large number of stakeholders. In essence these are our seven priority issues. The results inform our approach to sustainability, enabling us to focus on the issues that are most important to our stakeholders, those which are likely to impact our business the most and those where we can have the most impact. In the Review we will focus on the higher priority issues. Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 11 Material issues Our Approach Our material issues are at the heart of our relationship with our stakeholders. Below we explain how we define these material issues and why they are important. Carbon and energy Packaging reputation Supply cycle thinking This priority topic concerns the energy As packaging strategists we recognise Supply cycle thinking is our way of shaping consumption of our business, and the the role packaging can play in increasing the circular economy, transforming supply greenhouse gas emissions associated with sales, lowering costs and managing risks. chains, to focus on more cyclical our operations. resource systems. Good packaging protects products, keeps Energy consumption and associated food fresher for longer and reduces Constantly increasing pressures on carbon emissions are significant damage, using no more material than resource use, energy, water and waste environmental aspects that contribute to necessary; thereby helping our customers production mean we need to use what global challenges such as climate change, to lower cost, increase sales and operate we have ever more efficiently, considering and we are committed to reducing our more sustainably. every stage of the supply cycle. emissions relative to production. Occasionally, packaging can have negative At our PackRight Centres we design More information can be found connotations if it is oversized or inefficient. bespoke solutions that optimise the on page 31 Therefore, we realise the need to improve packaging required for a specific packaging’s reputation. product and supply chain. Fibre sourcing and availability Our Impact Centres are an important tool More information can be found on page 20 For DS Smith, this means continuing to to showcase how packaging can increase source good‑quality recovered paper, sales, lower cost and manage risk. ensuring security of supply, and sourcing Traceability and transparency More information can be found all virgin fibre responsibly. on page 16 To us, traceability is the ability to Fibre is our primary raw material and it is accurately understand our suppliers and essential for our business to ensure we Recycling and waste supply chains, and transparency is about have a continued, responsibly‑sourced supply. being open with this information. Waste is typically the ultimate destination More information can be found of resources considered to have ended We understand the important role we can on page 27 their useful life – but at DS Smith we see play as a responsible company in ensuring waste as a resource. our supply chains are managed to the high Health and safety standards that we and our customers and Harvesting virgin raw materials can be consumers increasingly expect. As a manufacturing business, health and costly in both financial and environmental safety means ensuring the physical and impact and added to that, no resource is We understand that being transparent mental wellbeing of all visitors, employees, infinite. We divert used paper and and traceable starts with us, and we are contractors, agency workers and members cardboard from landfill and recycle pleased that all of our relevant sites have of the public. materials back into production – helping completed the Sedex Self‑Assessment to keep materials in supply cycles for as Questionnaire. This remains our number one priority. It long as possible. is important to ensure our zero accident More information can be found on page 25 culture is embedded across the business, More information can be found on page 28 especially as our business continues to grow and expand into new territories. More information can be found on page 35 12 Materiality Understanding our stakeholders’ needs We understand that the needs of our stakeholder groups vary and the way they access information differs from one group to another. Earlier this year we completed numerous workshops with a number of our key stakeholder groups to fully understand their needs. The workshops allowed us to sense‑check our ongoing sustainability work and, crucially, enabled us to better understand the extent to which we are currently meeting our stakeholders’ requirements. For each stakeholder group we identified at least one action we will take to improve how we communicate sustainability progress. Shareholder Bank Customer “I want to be able to analyse a “My priority is to make sure “I want to know that our company’s sustainability in we are providing finance for suppliers are doing what the truest sense of the word reputable companies. There is we expect of them on – is the business going to be a risk for us in being associated sustainability. I am pushing around to deliver the returns with negatively perceived hard on Scope 3 data at the my clients expect? To make organisations. I want to know moment so that we can this assessment I need what companies are doing improve our CDP score. data that I can compare. about the issues where they I want to work with suppliers Benchmarks are good – can have the greatest negative that I can trust to support us I like CDP. impact – such as deforestation. on our key sustainability I’d like to be kept abreast of I want this information issues, who manage risks on performance updates, such to inform our investment our behalf and can give us as your FSC® certification decisions. Exposure to and knowledge and insight as programme.” management of sustainability we look to use ever more issues impact the risk sustainable packaging associated with a company solutions.” – we need that insight to protect ourselves.” Regulator Employee “A lot of the time I am looking for your knowledge “My site does some good things on the environment… and guidance. I have to try and make objective we reduced our energy consumption last year and decisions around what can often be emotive our waste to landfill is down too. For us, we see this issues. For this, I need facts and data. I need your as part of continuous improvement, being more support to try and shape things in a pragmatic way efficient, and we have targets on these topics. For that balances a variety of needs. site teams, it is really rewarding to understand the role we play in contributing towards Group activities.” To that end, dialogue is the key, through meetings, events, briefing notes and engagement with trade associations. You should be a thought‑leader and opinion‑former.” Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 13 Delighting our stakeholders Our Approach Identifying those sustainability issues that are most material allows us to maximise the sustainable value we create for our stakeholders. By focusing on those issues deemed most important, we create value in a number of ways. Traceability and transparency Our stakeholders Ensuring we are transparent in our assessment of our In our 2016 materiality analysis our focus was on own sustainability performance, our stakeholders are commercial stakeholders. To evolve our analysis, assured of the credibility of our successes. this year we have expanded our engagement with stakeholders in a variety of in‑depth ways including Recycling and waste customer visits, joining our financial institutes on their Our Recycling division focuses on avoiding waste to senior management sustainability meetings and inviting landfill and enables our customers to achieve their zero regulators to our premises to see our business model in waste targets, helping them to lower costs and operate action. Furthermore, we carried out a number of more sustainably. workshops with our stakeholders to really understand how our priority issues impact them. Carbon and energy Many of our customers are focused on reducing their Our next steps Scope 3 supply chain emissions. By reducing our In our 2018 materiality analysis, we will engage with a footprint, we help our customers to reduce theirs, greater variety of stakeholders including the end users reducing the life cycle impact of their product. of our packaging and a range of customers representative of all of our divisions. Fibre sourcing and availability Since our last analysis a number of issues have become Our target to achieve 100 per cent FSC® certification more high profile such as gender pay differential, plastics highlights our commitment to source fibre in the recyclability and scenario reporting. We expect some of most responsible and sustainable manner, managing these issues to be reflected in next year’s exercise. risk associated with deforestation on behalf of our customers, and influencing the overall risk profile of We are looking for stakeholders to be involved in our our business in the eyes of financial institutions. 2018 analysis. If you’d like to take part, please contact sustainability@dssmith.com. Health and safety By continuingly improving our health and safety record we are giving our employees a safe environment to work, where they are able to develop and thrive. Packaging reputation We are committed to improving the reputation of packaging and educating our stakeholders on the positive impact packaging has in the supply chain. Our ability to influence this topic helps our stakeholders to understand the real issues associated with packaging. Supply cycle thinking Our supply cycle business model puts us at the heart of the circular economy movement. Our integrated business model, based on a renewable and recyclable raw material, puts us at the forefront of the shift to a more resource efficient economic system, delivering sustainable returns for each of our stakeholder groups. 14 Our Business Creating shared value through responsible recycling, paper and packaging. 36 Impact and PackRight Centres across Europe delighting our customers Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 15 Market context DS Smith is a leading provider of corrugated packaging in Europe and of specialist plastic packaging worldwide, supported by paper and recycling operations. Packaging Paper Recycling Plastics c. 21,000 c. 2,000 c. 800 c. 1,900 Our Business employees employees employees employees 33 8 9 13 countries countries countries countries 9 27 Where we operate DS Smith operates in 30 countries in Europe and a further seven worldwide. Impact Centres PackRight Centres Our operating regions UK DCH1 and Northern Europe Western Europe Central Europe and Italy 1 Germany and Switzerland 16 Our Business Packaging reputation Good packaging protects products, reduces food waste and enables efficient supply chains. The environmental investment in the right packaging is often very small compared to that in the product itself. The right packaging is an insurance policy, safeguarding both the final product and the resources invested within. Our commitment 2015/16 Our actions 2016/17 Our next steps 2017/18 • Continue to invest in performance • Continued roll‑out of performance • Work with customers to implement packaging programme packaging systems and processes in performance packaging principles • Engage proactively with industry European sites • Continue to influence industry bodies across all divisions • Senior management sit on the CEPI bodies and trade associations • Grow our European network of board, CITPA board and Packaging to improve the reputation Impact Centres Federation of packaging • Opened two new Impact Centres • Continue to grow our European network of Impact Centres FMCG KPI – Number of Impact Centre workshops Many brand‑owning multi‑nationals have high‑profile corporate sustainability commitments including specific 330 targets for packaging and virgin fibre. These targets are aimed at positioning their brands as sustainable 200 to appeal to consumers, who are increasingly including sustainability as part of their purchasing decision‑making. Fifty‑two per cent of global respondents in a Nielsen survey* said they have purchased at least one sustainable product or service in the past six months. 15/16 16/17 E‑commerce Packaging reputation E‑commerce retailers face significant and growing Driven by consumers, brand‑owners and retailers are consumer dissatisfaction with excess packaging and their under pressure to demonstrate their own sustainability ability to dispose of it, with 33 per cent of respondents credentials, and good packaging is an important part of saying disposal was a key frustration in a 2014 survey**. this as packaging is consumer‑facing and highly visible. In these complex supply chains, with more touch‑points, As an industry, it is important to communicate the increased damage rates and higher returns, the role of positive messages around packaging. There is a packaging is crucial. perception that packaging results in waste and contributes to litter, however used packaging and Industrial litter are not the same thing. The high value products packaged and transported in DS Smith supplies packaging across many diverse automotive and industrial supply chains are likely to industries and it is important to highlight the positive have high embedded environmental value. As such, impact packaging plays for some of our key customer the primary sustainability driver related to packaging is segments; fast‑moving consumer goods (FMCG), to ensure products are protected, reducing damage and e‑commerce and industrial: protecting invested resources. The focus on sustainable packaging is driven more by resource efficiency, material use and logistical efficiencies than consumer differentiation or brand‑building. * nielsen.com/us/en/press‑room/2014/global‑consumers‑are‑willing‑to‑put‑their‑money‑where‑their‑heart‑is.html ** 2014 Sealed Air e‑Commerce Survey: Packaging for e‑Commerce Success Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 17 Rehearsing the future Some of our most basic assumptions about the world are being questioned. Globalisation is coming under fire. In politics and economics, rulebooks are being torn up. Our Business What might the packaging industry look like Scenario 2: Everything is an experience in 2025? Today it seems harder than ever to look into the future. The barriers to entry in many FMCG categories That is why at DS Smith we brought together a group of begin to diminish. Original equipment exceptional thinkers to look at current trends that are manufacturers’ factories are able to produce small having a big impact on us, our industry and society as a runs of products, distribution is handled online, and whole in the decade to come. We then thought about viral marketing does not need big media spend. how those drivers might develop and interact, shaping Microbrands are already threatening global players our ideas into three different versions of the world in in craft beer, cheese and chocolate. Packaging is 2025. These three scenarios are not predictions, but critical for these small brands. In many instances, they are plausible. it is the only publicity they get. By 2018, consumers are becoming much more interested in provenance, and sources of Scenario 1: Caring convenience ingredients have to be verifiable. Throughout the supply chain, as well as being beautiful, packaging Today, e‑commerce makes up about 10 per cent of becomes smart and traceable; anybody who wishes purchases in Europe and America, growing fast and to check where the beans in their chocolate bar seemingly unstoppable. Uber kick‑starts a major came from can just scan the wrapper. change. It begins accepting deliveries as well as passengers, and the price of last‑mile fulfilment drops as radically as taxi fares have, allowing the Scenario 3: Asian new deal traditional retailers to fight back. Instead of sharing rides with strangers, our co‑passengers become China’s growing middle class is becoming groceries, Lego sets and clothing. We even get increasingly concerned about smog and pollution. money off our taxi fare if we will take packages to In 2018, pollution rises to deadly levels in three neighbours’ front doors. This allows smaller players mega cities. The Chinese government reacts to compete with Amazon on price and beat them swiftly and promises to clean up the air. on delivery. By 2019, all emissions are measured and then By 2019, half our shopping is delivered to the taxed. In 2020, the Chinese announce that although doorstep. Transit packaging has been completely they will continue to recycle their own used re‑specified to protect products from damage, have packaging, they will not go on buying recovered no wasted space, be delightful to open and easy to fibre from Europe and America. Instead, they will reuse and recycle. However, not everybody is happy. grow their own. Millions of trees spring up across Asia – genetically modified for fast growth and carbon absorption. Farmers who once grew coffee, cocoa or palm oil become foresters instead. The price of recyclable fibre crashes, and in the West, companies and governments respond to the new Asian model by creating real circular economies built on dramatic improvements in the way that materials are recovered and reused. Watch our video at dssmith.com/packaging/strategists/our‑vision/ rehearsing‑the‑future 18 Our Business Performance packaging We focus on performance packaging, delivering reliable packaging designed for the specific requirements of its operations throughout the supply chain. Our Impact Centres play a crucial role in helping our customers to make their supply chains more sustainable. 330 Traditionally packaging specification has been based Impact Centres are where we show our customers what largely on weight, but this standard is changing, with DS Smith and packaging can do for them and we start DS Smith leading the way with performance packaging. showing them how the right packaging can help them We have developed a patented real‑time testing process increase sales, lower costs and manage risks. workshops that enables us to have complete confidence that every The Impact Centre network, currently nine locations 2,000 box that leaves a DS Smith facility meets our customers’ strong, is unique in the industry, and our plan is to performance requirements. continue to grow this network in the coming years. We focus on selecting the best raw materials for the unique Impact job, and on optimising our manufacturing processes Impact Centre visits Centre visitors to minimise damage to valuable fibres during the Our focus on using packaging to make our customers production of each box. more sustainable is already bearing fruit. In 2016/17 8.9 This approach can deliver significant environmental we ran 330 workshops with over 2,000 people living a benefits. Increased insight into the performance unique Impact Centre experience. In keeping with our requirements of our customers’ packaging enables strategy, those people came from various functions: /10 average us to more accurately specify individual requirements procurement (18 per cent), packaging technologists feedback score and guarantee levels of performance. This can reduce (16 per cent), marketing (23 per cent), sales (12 per cent) over‑specification and deliver significant reductions in and general management (10 per cent). The average fibre use, with potential marginal indirect reduction in feedback score is an impressive 8.9/10. energy consumption and water use, and a variety of other efficiencies in upstream and downstream resource use and logistics. Impact Centre in Fordham, UK Impact Centres inspire our customers Leadership in sustainability is not just about reducing the environmental impact of operational sites. Leadership goes beyond this, which is why we are committed to working with our customers to help make their supply chains more sustainable, through both our product and service offering. Whilst the focus of our Impact Centres is to work with our customers to explore the impact their packaging makes on‑shelf, this unique experience also delves into how their packaging is processed and managed after use. Alongside our PackRight Centres, we support our customers to identify opportunities to reduce the overall environmental footprint of their supply chains, enabled by efficient packaging solutions. Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 19 Expanding sustainably into China Expanding into new territories, such as China, is a key part of the DS Smith strategy to ensure we are delighting our customers. With local expertise in design and testing we are able to offer our customers efficient delivery of sustainable packaging through our certified partners. 35 Our Business Background DS Smith China was incorporated at the end of 2015 Achievements to align with our strategy of supporting our European During the first year of operation DS Smith certified supply customers across the whole supply cycle. Our business China achieved: partners in China aims to delight our customers with local design • Integration of key strategic customers including and testing of their packaging, and with the efficient Ericsson and Kathrein delivery of multi‑material packaging through DS Smith certified partners. • Set‑up and operation of a supply hub in Nanjing • Built a supply network of 35 certified supply Sustainability priorities partners For our customers in China sustainability is of growing • Site certification of our Engaging Managers importance, with the following high priorities: programme (EMP) • Health and safety • Quality management and assurance • Environmental management Supply capability in China • Labour relations and human rights Partner quality and compliance We only work with partners who meet our exacting standards. Potential suppliers go through a pre‑audit process to ensure that they adhere to our high standards of safety, quality and labour practices. Only after meeting stringent requirements can they be said to be ‘DS Smith‑certified’. We also host quality workshops to improve local workers’ awareness of quality issues and to ensure continuous improvement is embedded in our supply chain. We encourage suppliers to take an active approach to monitoring standards of social responsibility and engage in long‑term partnerships with those who have a programme to improve their performance in this sphere. We only partner with suppliers who meet the same standards that we apply to our own operations. corrugated plywood / solid wood foam moulded pulp honey comb 20 Our Business Supply cycle thinking At DS Smith, we talk about supply cycle thinking. For us, this is not just about ensuring resources are reused, but that this process goes on and on, delivering sustainable value for ourselves, our operations and our customers. Our commitment 2015/16 Our actions 2016/17 Our next steps 2017/18 • Carry out an exercise to monitor our • Completed ‘Box to Box in • Educate our people to show how fibre through the supply cycle 14 Days’ journey every employee contributes to the • Work with industry bodies to • Participated in circular economy ‘Box to Box in 14 Days’ journey help shape the EU circular packaging consultation process • Continue to take an active role in economy package through INCPEN, the UK shaping the circular economy • Grow our European network of Government, CPI Packaging • Continue to grow our European PackRight Centres Federation and FEFCO network of PackRight Centres • Provided input into consultation for BS8001 framework for implementing the principles of the circular economy in organisations • Opened 10 PackRight Centres PackRight Centres KPI – Number of PackRight Centres DS Smith has 27 PackRight Centres across Europe designed to bring inspiration from the drawing board 27 to the factory floor. Our skilled designers and engineers use our four‑step 17 process and the latest technology and tools to deliver bespoke solutions. Those bespoke solutions are focused on optimising the packaging required for a specific product and supply chain. 15/16 16/17 First of all, our packaging strategists design packaging for our customers’ specific supply chain, avoiding Supply cycle thinking unnecessary waste and damage. This not only protects As one of Europe’s leading packaging manufacturers, we our customers’ product, but also all the energy and are right at the heart of the circular economy movement resources they have invested in it. and are doing everything in our power to reduce waste Our pack design helps our customers use space more and produce packaging that is as sustainable and efficiently. The right pack size and shape allows our efficient as possible. After engagement with our key customers to get more packs on their pallets. This sets stakeholders this year we realise that supply cycle off a chain reaction of increased supply chain efficiency. thinking is not the fundamental issue: the true challenge is the shift to a more circular economy, and our supply Our customers need fewer pallets and less warehouse cycle thinking is part of our response to this shift. space. We can deliver the same product, with fewer journeys, taking lorries off the road. All this has a huge impact, reducing carbon, waste and the total environmental footprint of our customer’s supply chain. Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 21 Our closed‑loop, resource efficient business models are firmly aligned with the principles of a more circular economic system. Packaging, Paper Plastics n waste re and Recycling tio ion waste rec Prod uct uc cled od yc led cy Pr Recycled plastic New Pl Virgin Sh ast certified Cr ee ic bo plastic fibre Bu ate ts xe Pa lk‑ s s lle co n ts ta iner Product s Paper manufacturing manufacturing Corrugated and recycling manufacturing Custo me Our Business r ta ke ‑b ac k Pulping and Conversion Conversion Regrinding Secondary bleaching and packing and packing manufacturing or distribution centre Collection M and sorting iple re‑use ult Retail Mobile Manufacturing or recycling Manufacturing, distribution centre bottling or distribution centre The circular economy package is going to mandate a number of targets that will impact packaging. We are well placed to support our customers here: EU circular economy How DS Smith is aligned proposed targets Requirement to consider Through our PackRight Centres, Impact Centres, More from Less consultancy eco design and dedicated design network, we are always working to ensure our packaging interacts with the product and any primary packaging to deliver an optimised, sustainable solution. 5 per cent landfill cap Paper and board are, with few exceptions, 100 per cent recyclable. 30 per cent reduction in food Packaging plays a key role in protecting products and keeping food fresher for waste by 2025 longer. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization, between 20‑50 per cent of food in developing countries is wasted in supply chains because of inadequate or absent packaging. This compares to between 3‑5 per cent in more developed countries where the positive role of packaging is recognised. 90 per cent recycling target for Not only is corrugated packaging recyclable, it is recycled in practice. At 81 per paper and board packaging cent, paper and board packaging is the most widely recycled material in Europe. 55 per cent recycling target for Plastic recycling is most effective in business to business environments where plastic packaging high‑quality materials and return logistics are most economically viable today. We have on‑site recycling facilities at every plastic site and mobile regrinding units which offer take‑back services for many of our customers. For more information on how we shape the circular economy and supply chains please see dssmith.com/company/sustainability/our‑business 22 Our Business ‘Box to Box in 14 Days’ Through our supply cycle we can turn a used box back into a new one within 14 days. The synergies between our packaging, recycling and paper operations put our business model at the heart of the circular economy. At DS Smith, we produce over 15 billion boxes every year. Our packaging is designed to be recyclable, reduce waste, increase our customers’ sales and protect products in transit. Watch our video at dssmith.com/box-to-box-in-14-days Our Recycling division is one of the largest recyclers in Europe, collecting roughly 5.2 million tonnes of fibre per annum. By collecting and recycling the fibres that make up our boxes, over half a million fewer trees are harvested every year. Across Europe, roughly half the used corrugated board we collected was supplied directly into our network of nine testliner paper mills. We went on a journey to follow the fibre on its two‑week trip around DS Smith: Packaging division Day 1 Day 2 A customer A customer DS Smith delivers pre‑printed, flat‑packed boxes to a In our customer’s warehouse, stock pickers scan the barcodes customer’s factory. to identify where the order is going. Our retail‑ready packaging is designed to optimise the size, type When the packaging reaches the retail customer, it is taken to and quantity of our boxes, making it as easy as possible for the the front of the store and displayed for consumers to buy the customer to transport their product, but also for us to recycle products inside. 70 per cent of purchasing decisions are made the packaging at the end of its life. at the point of sale, so we have designed this consumer packaging to maximise the appeal to shoppers. When it is empty, the box is taken from the shelf ready to be recycled. Recycling division Day 3 contaminants, which can include other recyclable streams like A retailer food, plastics or glass. Most people think of discarded packaging as waste, but for Once in our depot, quality checks ensure that the fibre is good DS Smith this box is a resource that feeds our paper‑making and enough to be recycled. To allow us to report on how much we packaging production. recycle, fibre is weighed both when it enters and when it leaves a recycling depot. A high quality of raw material, in this case paper fibres, is vital for our supply cycle. We work with retailers to ensure that packaging intended for recycling is kept separate from all other Day 5 materials during the collection process, to keep it clean and free Recycling depot from contamination. The cardboard boxes from our recycling collections travel up into the baling press, which makes around 30 bales an hour, each Day 4 weighing 500kg. Recycling depot When the bales are ready to be transported, we load them onto Collection is our first opportunity to check the quality of the trailers while making our final health, safety and quality checks. materials for recycling. We ensure that there are no obvious Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 23 Paper division Day 6 Day 8 Paper mill Paper mill Fully loaded lorries arrive at the paper mill, where we can unload Liquid is sprayed onto the forming fabric. Our Business over 100 lorries a day to feed a continuous 24‑hour paper This paper web then passes through a series of rollers that manufacturing operation. squeeze out the remaining water and compress the fibres On arrival, we inspect every load to check the grade of into a dense and smooth sheet, before travelling through material and quality, and sort the bales according to their grade. steam‑heated cylinders. Different grades of recycled fibres are used to make different The paper is finally wound onto a reel, which can be over seven paper products. metres wide and weigh up to 60 tonnes, before being cut at the requested size to fit into the corrugators at the packaging plants. Day 7 Paper mill Day 9 Bales are loaded onto a conveyor belt which transports them up Paper mill to the pulper. We test paper in our quality control laboratory to ensure that Here, papers are mixed with warm water to obtain a fibre our products always perform at the highest levels when they suspension which removes any remaining contaminants, such are made into packaging. as staples, plastics or glass, before reaching the paper machine. We then dispatch around 300 lorry loads per day across the whole Paper division, producing a total of 2.8 million tonnes a year. Packaging division Day 10 Day 12 Packaging plant Packaging plant The reels of paper are delivered to the packaging plant. The conversion machines stamp cuts into each sheet, and fold lines are imprinted onto the cardboard. Once there, we store the paper in a controlled environment. Moisture levels are checked and maintained to ensure the Our high‑quality printing processes apply the branding and quality of the final corrugated product. product information to the box. Day 11 Day 13 Packaging plant Packaging plant The reels are placed in the corrugator machine, which is about Once completed, the flat‑pack boxes are loaded onto pallets, the length of a football pitch. wrapped with a stretch wrapper to secure the goods, and loaded onto a trailer for despatch to our customer. The wet end of the corrugator fuses layers of paper together into board. Day 14 At the dry end of the corrugator, sheets of board are cut to the A customer correct size to make the boxes designed by our team of experts. The fibre has now completed its journey around the supply The corrugated sheets are loaded into the conversion machines cycle. It has been recycled into another box that arrives at the that make the boxes. customer’s factory – and the cycle begins again. Our ‘Box to Box in 14 days’ is a sustainable solution for our business, our people and our environment. 24 Our Environment Minimising our impact from design to production and supply to recycling. 85% of our sites are FSC® certified Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 25 Traceability and transparency Traceability and transparency were ranked as the highest priority issues by both internal and external stakeholders in last year’s materiality analysis. Over the last year we have focused on better understanding our current position and laying the foundations for future development. Our commitment 2015/16 Our actions 2016/17 Our next steps 2017/18 • Supplier risk assessments • Undertaken country risk • Review risk register annually to • Formal dialogue with our strategic assessment based on spend and ensure any new high‑risk suppliers and high‑risk tier one suppliers geography. Focused on the top are identified. Risk assessment to 50 high‑risk countries be included in supplier on‑boarding • Use Sedex to audit our high‑risk • Created risk register and identified process. Work with existing suppliers potentially high‑risk suppliers suppliers to ensure compliance • Provide modern slavery and human with our GSS trafficking awareness training to • The basis of our dialogue will be our revised Global Supplier Standard • Major strategic and identified relevant members of staff high‑risk tier one suppliers to Our Environment (GSS), which is based on Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) base code have signed GSS and includes specific reference to • Develop a supplier audit the UK Modern Slavery Act programme, to include social • Full review of supplier audits and environmental topics currently taking place • 100 per cent of in‑scope staff • Online modern slavery and human to have received modern slavery trafficking awareness training and human trafficking system created with 190 staff awareness training already trained Traceability and transparency KPI – Number of strategic suppliers who Recent legislation, such as the EU Timber Regulations have signed our GSS and the Modern Slavery Act (UK), together with increased consumer interest in the provenance of products, is driving consumer‑facing businesses to 109 demand greater disclosure from their suppliers, so that they can understand more about the entire supply chain and better manage their supply chain risks. 36 For DS Smith, our position as a strategic supplier to many of the most famous and recognisable brands means that we have an opportunity to provide our customers with 15 16 the highest level of assurance that their packaging is sustainable and ethically sourced. Our circular model Target – to have a minimum of 200 suppliers means that we can provide an outstanding level of agreeing to operate in accordance with our transparency for the fibre in our paper‑based packaging minimum standards by adhering to our GSS products – from the box plant to the recycled paper mill, by summer 2018. all the way back to the recycling collections, we have complete and transparent visibility. However, we do also source externally, and understanding how these material flows from third parties complement our integrated supply cycle, and how to quantify and describe any changes in aggregate risk, is a strategic priority. 26 Our Environment Sedex DS Smith has been an AB Member of Sedex since 2014, We are proud to have achieved the target set last year of as part of our commitment to respect and support 100 per cent of in‑scope DS Smith sites to complete the human rights. Self‑Assessment Questionnaire on the Sedex Platform. Our supply chain Reaching this target highlights our commitment to The last 12 months have seen an increasing focus on the operate ethically and transparently across all of our sites. work we are doing to drive our ethical and sustainability This demonstrates to all of our customers that we are standards into our supply chains. In this area we have committed to managing the labour, health, safety and not made as much progress as we had intended. environment risks in their supply chain. We have carried out a detailed risk assessment on our A number of our sites also conduct third party audits, supplier base to identify any suppliers in high‑risk based on the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit geographical areas. Our new GSS, comprising our (SMETA), which provides external assurance of minimum requirements for quality and sustainability, the management of ethical supply chain risks for was finalised in May 2017. This document is being our customers. shared with our strategic suppliers and those suppliers SMETA methodology uses the Ethical Trading Initiative identified as higher risk based on geography. (ETI) code and local law as the foundation on which it Increasing visibility and control of our supply chain is is built. It includes four modules: a strategic priority for DS Smith and we continue to • Labour standards: includes questions on wages, invest in a strategic procurement function to develop working hours, children and young employees, deeper and longer relationships with our most freedom of association, non‑discrimination, forced strategic suppliers. labour and human rights In the coming year, DS Smith will build capability to • Health and safety: includes questions on management, engage with a greater number of suppliers, and to training, emergency and fire safety and worker health increase our understanding of our aggregated supply • Environment: includes questions on environmental chain. Our ambition is to design and implement systems management, waste, raw materials, water, energy to provide fully transparent traceability back to the and pollution source for all of our raw materials. • Business ethics: includes questions on bribery and corruption. Paper mill certifications At DS Smith we pride ourselves on operating to the highest standards. Our paper mills are regularly audited by independent assessors who inspect all aspects of our management systems and approve accreditations. Our mills’ certifications include: • Forest Certification & Chain of Custody • Quality Management ISO 9001 • Environmental Management ISO 14001 • Safety Management OHSAS 18001 • Energy Management ISO 50001 Forest ISO ISO OHSAS ISO Certification 9001 14001 18001 50001 Aschaffenburg, Germany x x x x x Belišće, Croatia x x x x Chouanard, France x x x x Contoire‑Hamel, France x x x x De Hoop, Netherlands x x x x x Kaysersberg, France x x x x Kemsley, UK x x x x x Lucca, Italy x x x x Pazardzhik, Bulgaria x x x x Witzenhausen, Germany x x x x x Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 27 Fibre sourcing and availability Fibre is our primary raw material and, whilst we prioritise use of recycled fibres through our circular business model, the finite recyclability of timber fibres means virgin fibres will always be required to top‑up the renewable corrugated system. Our commitment 2015/16 Our actions 2016/17 Our next steps 2017/18 • Introduce policy on Packaging • Policy signed off and shared with • Assess suppliers on compliance division’s sustainable paper our paper suppliers with policy sourcing and communicate • Now 85 per cent FSC® certified • Achieve 100 per cent FSC® to suppliers certification by April 2018 • Continue FSC® certification of relevant DS Smith sites 85% As a growing number of our customers work to ensure Our Environment KPI – Number of FSC® certified sites they have zero net deforestation in their supply chains, aligned with a commitment by the Consumer Goods Forum, we are working with them to meet their corporate of our sites are sustainability goals by providing packaging that is made FSC® certified 85% from 100% recycled or certified sustainable fibre. 62% DS Smith has embarked on an ambitious programme of FSC® certification, with an aim to achieve 100 per cent FSC® certification for relevant DS Smith operations which trade, process or manufacture products from virgin and/ 15/16 16/17 or recovered fibre by 2018. In August 2016 DS Smith was 62 per cent FSC® certified and we are pleased to Target – 100 per cent FSC® certification announce that in August 2017 we are 85 per cent certified. Sustainable fibre sourcing FSC® certification is not relevant or appropriate FSC® ce We believe that supporting responsible and sustainable rtif to all of our 300+ operational sites. There ied forestry is a matter of strategic importance for our are currently 191 DS Smith sites in scope sit e industry, although we do not currently own any for FSC® certification while 163 are s commercial forestry operations ourselves. already certified. We define a site Our work on sustainable fibre sourcing splits into as a single functional unit of an two key areas: organisation or a combination of units situated at one locality, 37 • Supporting initiatives that promote forest 30 which is geographically distinct management and chain‑of‑custody, and gaining from other units of the same certification across our operations; and 54 organisation. FSC® certification • Ensuring, through traceable and transparent supply only applies to sourcing, 42 chains, that any virgin fibres in our products originate processing, manufacturing and from sustainably managed sources. sale of FSC® material (virgin and/ or reclaimed). We support the FSC® standard, the PEFC standard and all other credible international certification schemes. The map shows the geographical spread of all 163 sites that have This year we introduced our DS Smith Packaging FSC® certification. Sustainable Paper Guideline, documenting the sustainability standards we expect our suppliers to adhere to. This document has been shared with our paper suppliers and is further evidence of the work we are doing to engage with our supply base on sustainability issues. 28 Our Environment Recycling and waste Our Recycling division manages supply contracts with a wide spectrum of organisations, including national retailers, news and print companies, blue‑chip brands, small and medium enterprises, local authorities and communities. Our commitment 2015/16 Our actions 2016/17 Our next steps 2017/18 • Feasibility study on recycling of • Feasibility study undertaken and • Work with customers to further plastic waste from Paper division project ongoing improve their recycling and overall waste streams • Over five million tonnes of material landfill diversion rates • Continue to support customers recycled and diverted from landfill • Feasibility study on new industry with their recycling ‘zero waste across Europe practices to trace the source of to landfill’ targets • Supported customers with materials – providing for better • Improve the quality of materials educating their employees on accountability and responsibility presented by our customers segregation of different for presenting quality materials for recycling waste streams for recycling Energy recovery techniques do have a place in diverting KPI – Waste to landfill per tonne non‑recyclables from landfill, but these technologies of production should not be used to replace resource reuse and recycling. Instead of allowing recyclable materials to end up as waste‑to‑energy and at landfill sites, we 11.9 10.7 recognise the environmental and sustainable benefits of ensuring that all materials intended for recycling are actually recycled. Waste to landfill by country 15 16 Croatia 49% 2020 target – 20 per cent reduction in United Kingdom 27% waste to landfill Italy 11% Long‑term target – zero waste to landfill France 5% Bulgaria 4% Approach to waste Next 26 countries 4% With an emphasis on providing quality materials for recycling, we pride ourselves on maximising recycling and recovery systems for all our customers, whilst simultaneously identifying cost efficiencies – delivering both economic and environmental sustainability. Every tonne of recycled paper fibre we collect offsets the need to harvest a tonne of virgin raw material. Within our corrugated packaging closed loop recycling solution, recycled paper fibres can be turned back into new packaging within 14 days, all within the confines of our recycling, logistics, paper‑making and packaging capabilities. Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 29 Our operations divisions actively segregate production waste – which We have decided to manage waste to landfill at a more could be off‑cuts, damaged product or samples, or other granular level, so we split out an analysis of our waste forms of waste – to ensure that materials that can be streams by country. This allows us to more accurately recycled actually are recycled. explore the options for our highest‑producing facilities, In Packaging, this waste is returned to our paper mills, and to provide more detailed explanations of the and in Plastics, our on‑site recycling facilities can regrind, inter‑relationships between national recycling and recycle and return material straight back into production. waste management infrastructure. The reduction of waste to landfill, both for our own Supporting our customers in new territories means operations and those of our customers, has long been that we have to operate in countries where the waste a Group target. management infrastructure is less mature. We aim to use the expertise within our company to manage the Waste as a resource waste from our mills as high up the waste hierarchy DS Smith’s Recycling division thoroughly embodies as possible, and we intend to reduce the amount of the concept of waste = resource, the circular landfilled waste in the future. economy’s paradigm. Our Recycling division is leading the way in improving Our recycling, paper and packaging operations are waste management infrastructure in these regions, closely integrated. Our focus is on ensuring that we keep within both our own and our customers’ operations. our materials in the supply cycle for as long as possible, making sure that the maximum value is captured Waste and recycling without relying on energy recovery as a catch‑all To us, ‘waste’ fibres – cardboard, old corrugated cases, solution for material end‑of‑life. By applying the waste and a variety of other paper grades – are a resource. hierarchy across both our own and our customers’ When they pass from our Recycling division to our operations, we can reduce waste and ensure that all Our Environment Paper division as part of our supply cycle approach, materials that can be recycled are actually recycled. they become a raw material – and as with any other This is where quality comes into it. Circular economies raw material, quality and consistency are vital for the need to be concerned with manufacturing processes – onward manufacturing process. The Recycling division and recycling is a manufacturing process. Without also works closely with our Plastics division to provide quality raw materials at the start of the process, sustainable recycling and waste management inefficiency will appear, and this in turn will create more solutions for our plastic‑based packaging solutions. and more waste. Poor segregation of recyclables leads Most of our Plastics sites have on‑site regrinding and to contamination, and therefore poor quality inputs. In recycling operations to process both pre‑consumer the worst‑case scenarios, the poorest quality materials and post‑consumer plastics. DS Smith Plastics division cannot be recycled at all and end up in waste‑to‑energy also has a unique capability to regrind at any site in any plants or landfill. location across the world, through several completely autonomous mobile recycling units, a service that we Our customers currently offer in Europe to some of the largest Collaboration throughout the supply cycle is an essential beverage companies in the world. part of circular economy thinking. By applying the principles of the waste hierarchy, setting clearly defined As part of our recovered fibre sourcing strategy, we are objectives, and creating innovative new opportunities to committed to working with waste producers to ensure reduce, reuse, recycle and recover material, we are able that material is, where possible, collected in separate to deliver quality recycling services and zero‑waste streams. This limits contamination and provides for a solutions to major retailers and other organisations. high‑quality recycling stream that positively impacts on the quality of the end product, and reduces waste in the recycling process itself. Where material is collected as Customer waste part of mixed recycling streams, we are committed to In recent years, food waste has become a high‑profile working with suppliers of paper for recycling to ensure consumer‑facing issue. Our role in designing and that robust sorting systems are in place to provide a manufacturing appropriate food packaging helps to high‑quality fibre. combat food waste by minimising transport and logistics losses, and ensuring food stays fresher for longer. Production waste Packaging can also play a key role in food security. Our internal production processes also generate waste. It protects food from damage, prolongs shelf life, We use Six Sigma and LEAN tools to minimise all forms adds convenience and reduces waste. of waste from our manufacturing processes, and the majority of the waste that we do produce is reused As part of its total waste solution, our Recycling through our closed loop model. division also manages post‑production, post‑consumer and end‑of‑life food waste. We have developed a core We are constantly looking for new and innovative ways competency of working with food waste and to reuse materials that would otherwise end up as end‑of‑shelf‑life produce to reduce, reuse and wastes. All of the plants in our Packaging and Plastics recycle potential food waste. 30 Our Environment DS Smith and Somerset Waste Partnership Like any production process we As well as ensuring a high level of recycling, Somerset Waste Partnership is keen to work with partners that require good quality raw materials – process their material in UK paper mills, rather than and that means sourcing recycled relying on the international export market. paper and card with minimum contamination from food and other The solution From 2010, Somerset Waste Partnership with Kier non‑paper sources. We can only make rolled out a new ‘Sort It Plus’ collections service. The paper from paper: we can not make it single‑pass collection vehicle used for ‘Sort It Plus’ from food, glass or plastics. performs weekly collections of food waste and dry materials, from paper to clothes. Somerset Waste Partnership manages and plans Though one vehicle collects all waste streams, the waste collection and recycling services for over materials are segregated at the kerbside and loaded 250,000 households in Somerset. It aims to increase separately. This double sorting – by householder recycling levels to 70 per cent and reduce the amount and then by collection crew – significantly reduces of waste being sent to landfill. contamination of each material type. The challenge This is a key component in helping to ensure minimum contamination of materials collected for recycling – The challenge was twofold, but with both challenges thus providing the quality raw material that paper clearly interlinked: mills and other reprocessors need for their • DS Smith Recycling needs good‑quality paper and production cycles. cardboard in order to supply our paper mills and After Kier has collected the material, it is supplied closed‑loop recycling processes. to DS Smith and other reprocessors as part of a • Somerset Waste Partnership, in providing services supply partnership. Crucial to this partnership is the to 250,000 households, wants to achieve high kerbside sorting of the recycling. This ensures that recycling rates and ensure that as little waste as contamination is kept to a minimum, and that material possible goes to landfill. It deals with around meant for recycling is actually recycled – and not 250,000 tonnes of household waste every year diverted to waste‑to‑energy due to its poor quality. through contractors Viridor, which manages recycling sites, and Kier, which carries out all kerbside collections. DS Smith helps Florensis to automate its cutting and seedling systems One of our customers, Florensis, was systems. Depending on the size of the cuttings, the tray is produced for 84, 128, 188, 288 or 510 seedlings. looking for a reusable, low waste tray The material is suitable to be applied with identification solution to meet the strict so each tray has a unique number, increasing their requirements for the state-of-the-art production line efficiency. robotic systems. With the tray, Florensis can achieve 100% uniform plants. Cameras evaluate the plants and the rejects are blown out and substituted by new plants, preventing The challenge contamination and damage to the other, healthy Florensis, a leading breeder and a worldwide supplier plants, and all the resources invested in them. of young plants, decided to automate its cutting and Florensis delivers over 2.5 million trays a year. With the seedling systems. In the past, Florensis used one-way reusable tray, Florensis has been able to make an trays, which produced a huge amount of waste and important contribution to the environment. After their did not perform to their requirements in automated, useful long life, the trays are fully recyclable, reducing humid environments. the waste to zero. The solution By using the latest scientific research methods, including computer simulation and extensive lab work, DS Smith Plastics’ Injection Moulding succeeded in identifying the right material for this application. The result is a dimensional consistent and sustainable plastic tray that is compatible with automated Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 31 Carbon and energy We are delighted to have exceeded our 2020 target four years ahead of schedule and we are already making excellent progress against our new 2030 CO2e emissions targets. Our commitment 2015/16 Our actions 2016/17 Our next steps 2017/18 • Ensure that all of our production • A further 32 sites have achieved • Continue our progress and ensure facilities have implemented an ISO 14001 certification more sites achieve ISO 14001 appropriate environmental • We have started to scope out a certification management system within Group wide ISO 50001 project • We have evaluated the programme one year and agreed to roll the ISO 50001 • Lighting designs have been • Roll out LED lighting to Italy, France, completed and evaluated for initiative out to all EU regions in Spain and Germany our main sites 2017/18 • Investigate potential to operate • We have completed initial design • Installation of LED lighting Our Environment combined heat and power (CHP) work to operate CHP plants with a scheduled to commence in France plants at our larger packaging sites preferred partner for two sites and during the summer 2017, followed to improve carbon efficiency and commenced investigations on a by other regions reduce our reliance on the grid further five in the UK • Complete detailed engineering designs and progress installations of CHP plants on viable sites 6.7% emissions compared to the previous year. In absolute KPI – CO2e per tonne of production terms this represents 80kt less CO2e emitted to the atmosphere. Relative to production this represents a 6.7 per cent decrease in CO2e emissions per tonne of decrease in production from 209 kg to 195 kg CO2e. CO2e emissions 209 195 81 Of the 198 manufacturing sites where a full year‑on‑year comparison is possible we also see good performance. 95 of these sites achieved a reduction in CO2e emissions per tonne of production sites achieved and 79 sites achieved a reduction in absolute Scope 1 a reduction 16 17 emissions. This is driven largely by reduced emissions in Scope 2 from our paper mills, which showed strong reductions emissions in Scope 1 emissions driven by the reduced generation 32 Target – 30 per cent reduction in CO2e per of power using fossil fuels in our CHP plants. tonne of production by 2030 Analysis of our performance in reducing Scope 2 Our performance emissions tells a similar story, with 81 sites achieving more sites an absolute reduction. This has largely been driven by achieved We are committed to reducing our emissions relative initiatives to replace high bay lighting with LED lighting ISO 14001 to production to lessen the impact on environmental and an increased emphasis on energy management at certification issues that contribute to global challenges such as our sites. Additionally, in the case of our businesses climate change. located in the UK, we have seen a reduction in the The business emitted 6.7 per cent less CO2e from both emissions factor of electricity purchased from the Scope 1 and Scope 2 sources, and once the emissions national grid which has helped our sites there to from energy exported by our power stations are reduce their carbon footprint. We anticipate this subtracted there is a net reduction of 5.1 per cent to be a trend that continues in the medium‑term. 32 Our Environment 8,000 The figure for total production volume is 8.2 million Karlovac renewable energy sources tonnes, 1.8 per cent higher than in 2015. This increase is due to strong performances from our Packaging and Our injection moulding plastics facility in Karlovac, Recycling divisions, as well as the reactivation of a paper LED lamps installed Croatia has set a goal to reduce CO2 emissions by across 35 sites machine at our mill in Croatia. This increase in production utilising renewable energy sources. These efforts complements the reductions we have made in CO2e are aligned with our overall commitment to the emissions to enhance our CO2e performance per tonne environment. To meet this goal, Karlovac has of production. signed a contract with HEP, a Croatian electricity distributor, to get electricity produced from Energy renewable sources under the brand name ‘ZelEn – Our paper mills produce their own steam and electricity prijatelj prirode’ ‘GreenEnergy – friend of nature’. in CHP plants, whilst most of our other production sites Since the main source of CO2 emissions is electricity, raise steam and purchase fuel and electricity from the expected reduction in total CO2 emissions at external suppliers. The energy procurement function is the site is 92 per cent. In this way, the Croatian site responsible for buying energy, including fossil fuels, and is making a contribution to the achievement of hedging with regard to energy prices and security of our energy target of reducing CO2 emissions by supply and for the trading of green certificates and the 30 per cent by 2030. monitoring of emission trading trends. Energy efficiency specialists help to find and exploit opportunities to save energy and reduce our overall emissions. One major project that continues is the replacement of high bay lighting with LED lamps. We have initially identified over 130 sites that would benefit from a “Renewable energy sources play 92% replacement in lighting. The deployment has been an important role in reducing CO2 expected reduction in total completed in the UK with in excess of 8,000 lamps emissions in our atmosphere, CO2 emissions at installed across 35 sites. These have reduced energy our Karlovac site consumption by 10,000MWh per annum, improved light which is one of the fundamental levels and eliminated the requirement for maintenance. The programme will now continue in France, to be objectives of the DS Smith Group. followed by Italy, Spain and Germany and the rest of We are making vigorous efforts to the business. In total over 35,000 lamps will be replaced which will result in an estimated £4 million worth of achieve reduction in CO2 emissions power savings. by improving energy efficiency and increasing the share of LED lights in Milton Keynes, UK renewable energy sources.” General Manager of Karlovac, Croatia Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 33 Water Despite adding many businesses to our portfolio in 2015, our assessment of water‑related risks in our operations continues to suggest that the majority of our sites are located in regions where fresh water is a relatively abundant resource. Water plays a central role in paper production processes. in our paper mills. As a process, paper‑making is It is used as a transport medium to carry fibres through water‑intensive, which has driven a large increase the production process. Water is also used for cooling in water usage, but through effective treatment we are machinery, for cleaning, and as a carrier of energy in able to ensure that our effluent does not adversely affect the form of steam. As a water‑intensive business, we the water bodies we share with our local communities. endeavour to consume and treat water responsibly We have decided to manage water consumption at a and efficiently. Water is a critical resource, but for our more granular level. This allows us to more accurately business its materiality relates more to reputational explain the impacts of our highest‑consuming facilities, risks from our stewardship over water resources. and to provide more detailed explanations of the Group‑wide, 53 per cent of our water comes from inter‑relationships between water consumption, boreholes, 5 per cent municipal, and 42 per cent is water purity and water stress. surface water and 75 per cent of this total volume is Our Environment returned to river sources after appropriate treatment. We also treat over 500,000m3 of water effluent on Water effluent by country behalf of local businesses and communities. Our Paper division is the primary user of water in our million m3 business. Whilst the vast majority of our paper mills are located in places where water is plentiful, we do have United Kingdom 6.9 two sites – Lucca, Italy and Kemsley, UK – located in Croatia 3.2 regions that are potentially susceptible to water stress Bulgaria 2.4 issues. As with all of our mills, water consumption at Germany 2.3 both Lucca and Kemsley is monitored and managed France 2.2 very closely, with specific, localised risk identification, mitigation and management plans in place. Each site Italy 1.9 has plans in place to use water more efficiently, thereby Netherlands 1.7 lowering exposure to water stress risk. Next 24 countries 0.3 Our paper mill in Italy does operate in an area of moderate water risk and therefore is subject to a stringent water regimen, but we are investing in and 400 innovating at this facility to ensure its sustainable Lucca mill combined heat and power operation (see case study). We have examined the water bodies that our most significant water users discharge At our Lucca paper mill, a CHP has been installed to into, and have found that in terms of volume the effect cubic metres of support the water recycling process. During the CHP water recycled of their operations is comparatively small. Many of the operation different flows are produced. In particular: water sources are of special ecological status, and the per day in our reverse osmosis concentrate, the flash tank and Lucca site comprehensive and responsible treatment of our cooling tower drains are collected into a dedicated effluent ensures that we do not adversely impact tank where conductivity is continuously controlled. these ecosystems. These flows are pumped toward the paper mill, in We use wastewater treatment systems to ensure that order to be used as process water. the effluent we discharge is purified, ecologically safe, A double advantage is achieved through the water and meets all regulatory requirements. We also recycle recycling system: a reduction of total groundwater water within our facilities where this is feasible, reducing consumption by the mill and a reduction of CHP the demand for fresh water intake. A direct benefit of discharge, with both economic and environmental these efforts to reduce water usage is an improvement benefits too. in energy and material efficiency. The quantity recycled is about 400 cubic In the areas of water effluent we are facing more metres per day. challenges, primarily driven by high production figures 34 Our People Ensuring the safety, wellbeing and development of colleagues and contributing to our communities. c. 26,000 employees Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 35 Health and safety At DS Smith, the safety of our people is our number one priority. We take great pride in our safety record, and are pleased with the progress we have made in reducing our accident frequency rate once more. Nonetheless, we remain focused on a zero accident culture, whilst increasingly working to protect the broader health and wellbeing of our people. Our commitment 2015/16 Our actions 2016/17 Our next steps 2017/18 • Roll out safety on‑boarding • Delivered four workshops to 80 • Turn safety on‑boarding leadership leadership training senior directors focusing on our training into a programme and offer • Continue to embed health and new acquisitions workshops to 160 employees, safety culture into the business • Rolled out and developed health including all our safety managers • Investment in safety equipment and safety communication toolkit • Emphasis on observational safety and machinery • Spent over €1.5 million in our and near miss reporting Packaging division on updating • Continue to find opportunities to existing hand fed platen machines invest in world class safety and to the EN technical standard production facilities Our KPIs for safety have both continued to improve. The KPI – Number of LTAs total number of employee LTAs was 113 and the number of sites with zero LTAs was 207. Our performance 120 against our KPIs for the year is shown in the table below. 113 Health and safety key performance indicators 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Variance Our People Total LTAs1 171 146 120 113 ‑5.8% AFR2 4.8 4.2 3.2 2.6 ‑19% 15/16 16/17 1 Lost Time Accident (LTA): number of accidents resulting in lost time of one shift or more. Target – zero LTAs 2 Accident Frequency Rate (AFR): number of LTAs per million hours worked. Health and safety The figures in the table above show the absolute The safety of all people – employees, agency workers, number of LTAs incurred by employees of the Group contractors and visitors – is a cornerstone of our during 2016/17. It should be noted that the scale of business. We set high standards and make exacting operations has increased substantially during the demands for continuous improvement in our safety reporting year, and the figures for 2016/17 include performance, and as a Group we strive to ensure that accidents at a number of sites that were newly everyone who comes into contact with our operations integrated to the business. is kept safe. On Saturday, 12 November 2016 a tragic accident happened at the DS Smith site in Fulda, Germany. During work on the perimeter of the factory premises an employee fell down from one of the building roofs and was injured fatally. This accident was fully investigated and all appropriate remedial measures have been taken, but this cannot detract from the gravity of the event. 36 Our People 207 There is a clear correlation between the length of time Safety improvement in Andorra that a site has been under DS Smith ownership and a consistently reducing AFR; this is mainly due to the high degree of management scrutiny and, where appropriate, sites with investment in safer equipment, processes and systems zero LTAs that are a hallmark of DS Smith’s management approach. There is, however, a lag between making these improvements and the ensuing reduction in accident rates. We remain committed to achieving a zero accident culture, and we recognise that more work still needs to be done to improve our sites, reduce exposure to hazards and raise safety awareness among our employees. We continue to believe that this target, whilst challenging, is achievable. At the start of the reporting period, DS Smith’s A health, safety and environment leadership team factory in Andorra, Spain, was one of the newest coordinates Group policy and ensures that best practice acquisitions in the DS Smith family. Our due and learnings from across the organisation are shared diligence had identified potential for improvements and disseminated throughout the business. This team in safety standards, and the site was identified as meets quarterly to review major LTAs/high potential a priority for improvement action plans. Through severity incidents, and to coordinate audit activity the dedication of the local management teams, and accident investigation. supported by central health and safety resources, we are delighted to announce that the site Celebrating safety in DS Smith celebrated 365 days without an LTA – a threefold We have a brilliant culture of pride surrounding improvement on the previous record. our excellent health and safety standards within The actions taken to achieve this milestone the company. included additional training, audits and regular Some excellent achievements in LTA free days include: safety reviews. Furthermore, numerous safety upgrades were made to machinery, the building • Our Recycling division celebrated a year without and protective equipment. any LTAs; and • Our Kuopio site in Finland holding the record for LTA‑free days. “We are all so pleased to achieve 365 days without an LTA, and we are looking forward to achieving our next milestone. I would like to personally thank everyone involved for their positive attitude toward safety and their dedication in ensuring safety is our number one priority.” Health and safety manager at DS Smith’s factory in Andorra, Spain Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 37 Employee wellbeing and development All of our people have an important role to play in achieving our corporate goals and objectives. To ensure the wellbeing and development of our people we continue to invest in safe, comfortable and engaging work environments. Employee development Designer exchange – Nicolo Barbieri Our most valuable asset is our people. Realising the potential of our people is essential for the continued growth of the business and is a key part of being a responsible employer. We are continuing to invest in learning and development within the business, providing a working environment in which our people can achieve personal success and enjoy fulfilling jobs and careers. Sit/stand desks in Erlensee In Erlensee, Germany we have 145 sit/stand desks. Best practice guidance suggests that the healthiest way to work is to change between standing and “In my career at DS Smith, I have been so lucky sitting at your workplace – increasing blood flow to have participated in not just one, but two and reducing the risk of repetitive strain. The exchange programmes, and I must admit that development of the Erlensee site gave the perfect they have provided some of the best and most opportunity to design a more ergonomic work useful experiences of my working life. Even after space, replacing traditional seated desks and many years, I still find that I can draw on the providing our people with greater flexibility and knowledge derived from those experiences a healthier working environment. and apply it to situations that are, sometimes, completely different. Healthy Hearts Gold Awards My first experience was at More From Less in Brussels. As soon as I arrived, I was impressed by Our People In February our Hinckley site, closely followed by the environment and the tools available. My new Redditch, was awarded the first ‘Gold Healthy Heart colleagues and I worked together to brainstorm Award’ within UK Packaging. This reward, reflecting and tackle problems. We drew on one another’s the success of health‑related initiatives such as knowledge and expertise. This made me grow both ‘Weigh in Wednesday’, ‘Free Fruit Friday’, various as a person and as a professional. It made me much nutrition quizzes and the ‘Breakfast Club’, has more independent and confident with myself and helped to educate and support a healthy lifestyle my capabilities. It also helped me to understand among teams and their families. Belper has now how constructive engagement can be. followed this example, achieving gold in March. In the future, I hope I will have further opportunities to exchange with colleagues from different sites, Growth in talent management and I hope I will be able to offer the same Our ‘Growing Together’ framework describes the magnificent hospitality that was always shown way DS Smith approaches people development. It is to me. During my second exchange, this time in a two‑way commitment between our people and the England, once again my professional profile was business, outlining ways of working, a mind‑set and enriched by many small experiences brought to me a commitment. by others, from situations that, from the confines of my office in Italy, I would have never had the People development is about growing through possibility to deal with. I was able to develop my experiences in both familiar and unfamiliar situations background, to see things through the eyes of within a supportive environment. We encourage our others, to understand them and to learn how people to actively engage with our performance best to work together. This undoubtedly made development review process and invest time in me a more open, proactive and cultured person.” preparing for and planning their own development. 38 Our People Employee charter Alliance For YOUth partnership DS Smith has always made quality dialogue with DS Smith is always looking to bring in fresh ideas our colleagues throughout the Group a priority. We and new thinking. Equally, as an employer across do this on a global scale with a biennial employee Europe, we are well aware of the difficulties facing survey and through local town‑hall meetings or young people in some of our markets in finding briefings in the normal course of doing business. employment. For these reasons, DS Smith is In addition, we have built strong relationships with delighted to be a part of the Nestlé‑founded our employee representatives through forums and Alliance for YOUth, an alliance of leading works councils where local, regional and European organisations that recognise the severity of topics are shared and discussed. To strengthen our youth unemployment in Europe as a significant commitment to effective dialogue we have taken social and economic issue. this a step further this year and drawn up an Since joining the Alliance, we have supported employee charter as a joint initiative between this initiative in two main ways: management and our European Works Council. The wide‑ranging statement clarifies various 1. Supporting students with ‘readiness for work’ aspects of the employee employer relationship. activities such as job fairs and site open days to Viewed alongside the DS Smith values, Code of showcase what we do and the opportunities Conduct and individual contracts of employment, available to young people; and it will provide employees with greater clarity on 2. Providing a genuine experience of work in our what is expected of them — and what they can industry by offering work experience, internships expect in return. and apprenticeship opportunities. The charter encompasses commitments to Our commitment to the objectives of the safeguarding fundamental employee rights, Alliance closely aligns both to our strategic goal as well as establishing longer‑term aspirations. of realising the potential of our people and to Examples of the pledges that DS Smith makes to our corporate values. its employees are to keep them safe while working, to apply a zero‑tolerance approach to child labour, In April 2017 we held our first open day for students to provide open access to senior leaders, to support and undergraduates in our Kutno plant in Poland. flexible working and to reward employees fairly On this day, almost 40 students from the Technical and equitably, wherever they are based. Universities of Łódź, Warsaw and Wrocław had a unique opportunity to get to know our company The document also sets out DS Smith’s core and visit one of our box plants. expectations of its employees — from taking pride in their work and being a good ambassador for the The students valued the opportunity to listen to business, to taking their full holiday entitlement managers representing different departments and and avoiding excessive working hours. learn in detail the challenges and competencies which were needed for particular roles within the plant. Each student has the opportunity to undergo a traineeship or apprenticeship in our company. Bartek Pacierz, a member of our Polish apprenticeship programme, spoke about his traineeship. He told the students all about his daily tasks and responsibilities. The plant looks forward to welcoming more apprentices in the future. Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 39 Charitable Foundation and community The DS Smith Charitable Foundation particularly supports charities engaged in improving or conserving the environment and those providing training and educational opportunities. We seek to make a positive contribution to our communities and build a reputation as a good neighbour and employer. Developing and maintaining good relations with the local DS Smith donates €50,000 to refugee communities in which we operate is important to us. The DS Smith Charitable Foundation was established children to provide funding to charities with activities and values For the third year in a row, DS Smith has decided to similar to those of DS Smith. give a €50,000 donation to UNICEF. Money that is normally spent on customers’ Christmas gifts is At‑Bristol Science Centre donated to children in need through the UNICEF ‘Donations. Instead of Gifts’ campaign. DS Smith supports the At‑Bristol Science Centre, “The positive feedback from our customers to the an educational charity that enhances science previous donations has encouraged us to support education and encourages people of all ages to children in need again this year through the explore the wonders of science and technology. DS Smith Charitable Foundation,” said Dr. Markus Support from the DS Smith Foundation enabled Kleiner, Director of Change Projects, Strategy and At‑Bristol to achieve its ambition of a new Marketing at DS Smith for the Germany and permanent exhibition called the ‘Tinkering Space’ Switzerland region. which opened in summer 2016. The Tinkering “As a company that produces innovative displays Space provides a creative environment that aims and clever packaging solutions using corrugated to inspire the next generation of innovators and board as the basic material, sustainability and inventors. The space is fully equipped with responsible action are among our corporate values,” sophisticated digital fabrication equipment stresses Per V. Frederiksen, Managing Director at including 3D printers and laser cutters. It is a space DS Smith for the Germany and Switzerland region. where everyone can gain confidence to engineer “Children are our future. If we want a good future, and test their own ideas and develop new skills we must begin here and show commitment.” and techniques using quality materials and tools. Our People Anja Röhrle, Marketing Manager at DS Smith for the As well as inspiring children in STEM (science, Germany and Switzerland region, adds: “We want to technology, engineering and maths) subjects make a contribution to help children and give them through creative design, the aim was to create prospects. The UNICEF campaign ‘Donations. a space that would provide special opportunities Instead of Gifts’ focuses on multiple regions: UNICEF for families and groups to learn together, helps in the field, along the refugee routes and in motivating and inspiring continued learning at the countries where the children arrive to stay home. Since opening, the Tinkering Space has permanently or temporarily. We consider this overall engaged thousands of visitors to At‑Bristol and concept very important.” over 5,600 visitors have taken part in drop‑in sessions, including deconstructing environmental Hermann Eichel, from the UNICEF Fulda working sensors to see how they work, laser cutting group, adds: “UNICEF does everything it can to snowflake shapes and building scribbling robots. ensure that children get help even under the most difficult conditions and experience a bit of normality in everyday life. A donation of €50,000, for instance, allows 430 children in Syria to participate in a self‑learning programme for one year. Teaching in times of war is more than knowledge transfer, it is hope for a better future.” 40 Our People DS Smith partners with London’s Museum of Brands The Museum of Brands has gone from strength to The Museum’s visibility and accessibility has increased strength in its remit to educate and entertain the their engagement with the local community and its wider public on the place of brands, advertising charities. This together with their learning programme and packaging in our consumer culture. means they are also actively involved with local schools and further education institutions locally, nationally Within the new larger space, the Museum has and internationally. The Museum is currently been able to display their collection to better effect. building their professional development programme Their improved capacity to stage lively, interesting, with a series of workshops and talks designed to temporary exhibitions has led to publicity in the enhance knowledge and create solid connections national, local and trade media and this in turn has with our industry. attracted more visitors. With better accessibility and overall visitor experience, monthly visitor numbers museumofbrands.com peaked at over 5,000 in March 2017 and visitor dwell time has increased by 60 per cent on the previous year. DS Smith Plastics USA gives back Europe’s ‘Paper Capital’ wows crowds with to the country’s troops amazing art DS Smith sponsored the Cartasia art festival in Lucca, Italy (Europe’s paper production capital) last summer. This paper and cardboard biennial contemporary art festival is a fantastic fiesta where paper and cardboard art take over the picturesque town. Lucca hosted the eighth edition of the festival, The committees representing DS Smith Plastics which offers artists from all over the world the in the USA, joined forces to support the USA opportunity to express themselves. Military Troops by collecting items for ‘Operation DS Smith supplied paper, cardboard and gave design Care Package’ (OCP), a non‑profit organisation support to the 400 plus artists involved. dedicated to supporting the men and women in the USA military. The theme for last year’s celebration was ‘borders and perspectives’. Donations were collected at all DS Smith Plastics locations in the USA. Collections were consolidated The exhibition was divided into four main areas: and sent to the headquarters of OCP, which will be • Art: 400 artists from all over the world created shipping all goods to the troops. eight giant outdoor works of art and 70 pieces The number of donations collected exceeded of art to be displayed indoors. 1,000 items and included paper, pens, toiletries, • Design: Three full days were dedicated to design games, puzzles, batteries, non‑perishable food during which universities, companies and the items, laundry soaps, t‑shirts, socks and more. ‘fab lab’ shared their experiences. This is the first year that DS Smith has participated • Talks: Over 40 external guests, from different in this worthy cause. Due to its success and the working environments, discussed the arts, support received from all parts of the organisation, technology, economics, anthropology and the DS Smith employee committee has committed communication in 20‑minute speeches to continue being proud supporters of OCP and the inspired by TED talks. USA military. OCP was extremely grateful for the • Fun: creative labs and games were organised for company’s donations as this is their low period children where they used paper and cardboard with receiving items for our troops. to create their own works of art. Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 41 Keep Britain Tidy Green Flag Award scheme DS Smith has been the primary sponsor of Keep Britain Tidy’s Green Flag Award scheme for three years. During this time our employees have pledged to volunteer and fundraise to support the development of green spaces and the Green Flag Award for communities and businesses in the UK. The partnership has been embraced by colleagues across all four divisions. We were invited to the Houses of Parliament to launch the new Green Space Business Award, which has been developed in partnership with Keep Britain Tidy. Our Bolton and Crumlin sites were also in attendance as the first winners of the Award. The Award encourages businesses to take more responsibility within their local community, by and green spaces in the vicinity of their operations. supporting and building relationships with Through our partnership with Keep Britain Tidy we community groups, and, in doing so, helping to have built good relationships with local community improve environmental standards in nearby groups and have found our volunteer work, on a recreational green areas. personal level, to be very rewarding. The Award followed the Tidy Britain All‑Party If we all make a small contribution, together we can Parliamentary Group Annual General Meeting, which achieve great things.” focused on ‘New approaches to supporting our local To conclude the meeting, Chris Rowe and Gary Finn parks in difficult times’. from Bolton Recycling, and Neil Walding, Depot Mark Greenwood, DS Smith Group Health, Safety Manager from Crumlin Packaging, were awarded and Environment Director, addressed the attendees, the very first Green Space Business Awards: two who included Labour and Conservative MPs, the Chief plaques which they can proudly display at their sites. Executive of Keep Britain Tidy Allison Ogden‑Newton Bolton’s award is in recognition of its continued and Chair Jim Fitzpatrick MP, along with Chris Worman working relationship with Friends of Longsight Park, MBE and parks management members. and Crumlin’s was awarded following its external site developments, which benefit employees at the site. DS Smith was congratulated and commended for its continued support and community involvement. We look forward to awarding many more DS Smith sites with the Green Space Business Award and Mark said: “We strongly encourage other companies to encourage other external companies to follow Our People follow our lead by supporting and preserving the parks our example. Bears in boxes DS Smith Oława and Kielce, Poland, joined the Polish Emergency Rescue Operation’s appeal by collecting soft toys to be donated to the paediatric wards of local hospitals. Large corrugated boxes of soft toys were collected, which will serve to comfort children suffering from illness. Thank you to all who joined the action and to the organisers of the Rescue Operations from Oława. 42 About this Review About this Review This Review provides a comprehensive description of the governance of sustainability issues within DS Smith, and how our strategy, targets and performance are monitored for each of our environmental, social and economic objectives. Our data collection strategy underpinning our sustainability reporting uses the GRI G4 framework. Unless otherwise specified, any statistical information Environmental incidents referred to in this document covers the calendar year During the year we received notification of breaches or January to December 2016. minor environmental incidents at four sites. No major Data about our people was separately collected from environmental incidents or incidents of significant human resources, and the numbers of our employees impact reportable to local or national authorities, or are derived from payroll data. These include permanent incidents potentially resulting in legal prosecution, and temporary employees as at 31 December 2016. were reported for the period of this report. Disclosure on management approach Assurance Statement The DS Smith management approach to sustainability Bureau Veritas Statement is based on those aspects of the GRI G4 framework Bureau Veritas UK Limited (Bureau that have been identified as material to our business. Veritas) has been commissioned by We measure, analyse and report on additional data for DS Smith Plc (DS Smith) to provide each of these aspects, where we consider this to be an independent opinion on the consistent with the legitimate demands of our following environmental stakeholders and appropriate from a commercial and performance indicators: energy consumption, legislative perspective. Unless otherwise stated, the greenhouse gas emissions, raw material usage, Group’s consolidated data published in this report or on water consumption, waste and discharge (to air our website covers DS Smith Plc (the parent company), and water) for calendar year 2016. The reporting and all subsidiary entities in which we hold over 50 per boundaries cover DS Smith’s global operations. cent of voting rights directly or indirectly. Consolidated Based on our verification activities and scope of sustainability performance data does not cover work, nothing has come to our attention to suggest investments where ownership is below 50 per cent. that the reported data do not provide a fair These are undertakings in which DS Smith has influence, representation of environmental performance but which we do not control. DS Smith Plc complies with across the DS Smith Group for the defined period. the corporate and accounting regulations of the UK and all subsidiary companies comply with the regulations, DS Smith should be commended on its approach to legislation and permitting requirements of all countries environmental data collection, including the use of and regions in which they operate. a central reporting system, clear responsibilities at Head Office and site levels, frequent data gathering, Questions and feedback and the existence of an audit trail from source evidence to reported data at the sites visited. Any questions about this document should be directed to the Group Health, Safety and Environment Director A full verification statement including the via the Group website. methodology, basis for the opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a statement of Bureau Veritas’s independence can be found on the DS Smith Plc website at: dssmith.com/company/sustainability/our-environment/ performance Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability Data 43 Environmental performance indicators Group greenhouse gas emissions KPI Unit of measure 2015 2016 % variance Scope 1 Kt CO2e 1,678 1,570 ‑6.4 Scope 2 Kt CO2e 355 333 ‑6.2 Emissions from energy exports Kt CO2e 348 299 ‑14.1 Total CO2e (net energy export) Kt CO2e 1,686 1,604 ‑4.9 Energy exported GWh 962 852 ‑11.4 Total production Kt nsp 8,059 8,209 1.9 Waste to landfill Kt 87 98 12.6 Total water effluent Mm3 19 20 5.3 CO2e per tonne of production kg CO2e/tonne nsp 209 195 ‑6.7 Water effluent per tonne of production m3/tonne nsp 2.34 2.41 3.0 Waste to landfill per tonne of production kg/tonne nsp 10.74 11.91 10.8 1 Data based on 247 manufacturing sites. There are 121 sites which require fossil fuels for their production process (paper mills, corrugators, plastic plants) and the remaining 126 smaller sites use just electricity in their processes (sheet plants, recycling and logistics depots). 2 2016 data based on sites we have owned since January 2016. 2015 figure restated from last year as the business grew by over 10 per cent in one year (this is our policy for restatement); this figure includes all the sites we owned from January 2015 as well as those added during the course of 2016 through acquisitions. The same calculations have been applied for both years. 3 Total production is the sum of printed reels and paper reels from our paper mills; plastics production (all types) from our plastics sites; recovered fibre and other materials collected and processed through our recycling depot network; and boxes and sheets sold to third parties from our packaging sites. 4 DS Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), to the extent that this is practicable. 5 The CO2 and CO2e emissions were calculated using the UK DECC 2016 factors for all fuels and the UK national grid. Emissions from other national grids use the DECC factors (IEA) from 2015. 6 Where available we use the emissions factor for bought electricity from the supplier of energy to our business. If this figure is not reported, the country emission’s factor from the IEA is used instead. 7 The CHP that supplies our Witzenhausen paper mill with steam is fired predominantly by biogenic fuels. The emissions factor for this site has been estimated as 92.019 kg/MWh of CO2e. 8 The CHP that supplies our Belisce paper mill and corrugator with steam and electricity is fired by a combination of natural gas and flare gas. The emissions factor for flare gas is estimated to be 240 kg/MWh of CO2e. 9 Scope 3 emissions, external to DS Smith but involved in the supply cycle for the Group’s products and services, are not included. 10 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations; they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling. 11 Where water effluent figures are available from meters and invoices they are used here, otherwise they are calculated to be 50 oer cent of the water abstracted and bought onto site. Some of our paper mills have their own waste water treatment plants and treat water for third parties. This water flow is measured and subtracted from our total effluent figures. Data 44 Data continued Group greenhouse gas emissions by scope Group greenhouse gas emissions by greenhouse gas type Total CO2e Scope 2 Scope 2 Total CO2 Total CH4 Total HFCs C5H12 emissions Scope 1 location based market based emissions emissions emissions emissions Country (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (CO2e) (CO2e) Austria 6,838 4,934 1,904 1,904 6,828 7 0 0 Belgium 8,488 5,412 3,217 3,076 8,713 7 0 0 Bosnia and Herzegovina 542 263 279 279 532 0 0 0 Bulgaria 76,834 37,615 39,219 39,219 76,591 59 0 0 Croatia 109,807 80,368 32,103 29,438 84,410 72 0 0 Czech Republic 8,571 3,545 5,025 5,025 8,409 4 0 0 Denmark 9,648 4,923 4,725 4,725 7,625 7 0 0 Estonia 3,225 1,034 2,190 2,190 3,202 1 0 0 Finland 4,089 1,462 2,627 2,627 4,042 7 0 0 France 144,718 131,966 12,752 12,752 146,035 180 0 0 Germany 262,476 222,039 84,786 40,437 308,948 429 0 0 Greece 12,900 6,489 6,411 6,411 12,719 8 0 0 Hungary 8,893 5,061 3,832 3,832 8,916 7 0 0 Italy 374,522 352,684 21,838 21,838 377,952 491 0 0 Lithuania 3,162 1,886 1,276 1,276 3,172 3 0 0 Macedonia 1,891 995 895 895 1,876 1 0 0 Morocco 33 6 26 26 32 0 0 0 Netherlands 203,539 189,697 13,842 13,842 205,938 272 0 0 New Zealand 236 31 204 204 233 0 0 0 Poland 41,601 18,453 23,148 23,148 27,740 6 0 0 Portugal 53 16 37 37 52 0 0 0 Romania 3,056 1,662 1,394 1,394 3,060 2 0 0 Serbia 4,199 1,968 2,230 2,230 4,166 2 0 0 Slovakia 6,283 2,746 3,545 3,537 6,319 4 0 0 Slovenia 5,383 3,499 1,885 1,885 5,067 4 0 0 Spain 28,145 17,836 10,643 10,308 27,706 19 0 0 Sweden 2,977 2,208 789 769 1,163 5 0 0 Switzerland 1,800 1,792 123 8 1,899 2 0 0 Thailand 126 0 126 126 124 0 0 0 United Kingdom 559,916 468,221 90,341 91,695 559,996 730 937 206 United States 9,602 1,291 8,310 8,310 9,445 2 0 0 Grand total 1,903,551 1,570,105 379,723 333,445 1,912,908 2,332 937 206 Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 45 Operation data 2016 Paper Other Total Measure mills operations operations Production Total production Tonnes 2,830,990 5,378,308 8,209,299 Energy Electricity generated MWh 1,628,272 0 1,628,272 Electricity purchased from grid MWh (electricity) 378,248 579,834 958,082 Electricity exported MWh 724,800 0 724,800 Fuels Fossil fuels MWh 6,451,761 1,054,633 7,506,394 Renewable fuels MWh 86,753 0 86,753 Water Water abstraction Borehole water m3 13,406,474 509,346 13,915,820 Municipal water m3 343,255 1,102,014 1,445,269 Surface water m3 11,013,485 187,853 11,201,338 Total fresh water utilisation m3 24,763,214 1,799,213 26,562,427 Emissions to water Total effluent from site m3 19,370,713 380,842 19,751,555 Emissions Total NOx emissions mt NOx 738 0 738 Total SO2 emissions mt SO2 5 0 5 Total dust emissions mt Dust 10 0 10 Waste Total solid waste Tonnes 646,862 442,320 1,089,183 Hazardous waste Tonnes 405 6,262 6,667 Solid waste to off‑site landfill Tonnes 88,908 8,776 97,684 Solid waste to off‑site landspread Tonnes 111,322 0 111,322 Solid waste to off‑site recycling Tonnes 55,172 623,795 678,967 Solid waste to third party incineration Tonnes 186,918 14,292 201,210 Data 46 Data continued Paper mill data 2016 Aschaffenburg, Belisce, Chouanard, Measure Germany Croatia France Production Total production Tonnes 408,688 188,995 30,712 Energy Electricity generated MWh 337,202 32,484 0 Electricity purchased from grid MWh (electricity) 598 74,894 12,189 Electricity exported MWh 165,519 10,669 0 Fuels Fossil fuels MWh 914,122 366,146 47,448 Renewable fuels MWh 48,939 0 0 Water Water abstraction Borehole water m3 0 0 0 Municipal water m3 37,959 20,701 115,855 Surface water m3 2,175,093 4,112,843 164,558 Total fresh water utilisation m3 2,213,052 4,133,544 280,413 Emissions to water Total effluent from site m3 1,456,676 2,730,596 199,827 Emissions Total NOx emissions mt NOx 103 11 0 Total SO2 emissions mt SO2 1 0 0 Total dust emissions mt Dust 2 0 0 Waste Total solid waste Tonnes 48,428 47,927 937 Hazardous waste Tonnes 41 14 80 Solid waste to off‑site landfill Tonnes 0 47,835 64 Solid waste to off‑site landspread Tonnes 0 0 0 Solid waste to off‑site recycling Tonnes 10,945 79 116 Solid waste to third party incineration Tonnes 37,483 14 757 Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability 47 Contoire‑Hamel, De Hoop, Kaysersberg, Kemsley, Lucca, Pazardzhik, Witzenhausen, France Netherlands France UK Italy Bulgaria Germany Total mills 74,027 361,095 141,314 777,399 407,454 83,094 358,213 2,830,990 0 265,049 57,930 409,716 511,630 0 14,262 1,628,272 24,309 16,430 50,470 51,724 63 47,587 99,984 378,248 0 148,100 38,445 43,475 318,584 0 9 724,800 100,546 918,504 280,792 1,968,866 1,579,292 182,701 93,344 6,451,761 0 0 12,589 0 20,448 0 4,777 86,753 0 2,252,544 0 7,008,015 1,120,725 2,649,878 375,312 13,406,474 22,099 0 0 0 4,227 12,996 129,418 343,255 556,240 0 1,555,743 0 1,115,233 0 1,333,775 11,013,485 578,339 2,252,544 1,555,743 7,008,015 2,240,185 2,662,874 1,838,505 24,763,214 342,292 1,712,293 1,366,321 6,731,671 1,834,636 2,212,048 784,354 19,370,713 11 128 30 302 134 11 9 738 0 0 0 1 0 1 2 5 0 0 0 3 0 5 0 10 2,730 23,334 18,273 222,334 46,687 4,611 27,058 442,320 0 35 10 112 94 3 15 405 2,730 0 749 25,535 8,247 3,748 0 88,908 0 696 3,015 106,051 1,560 0 0 111,322 0 676 10,172 7,997 19,480 863 4,843 55,172 0 21,962 4,336 82,752 17,400 0 22,215 186,918 Data 48 Data continued Waste by country 2016 Solid waste Solid waste Solid waste Solid waste to Hazardous to off‑site to off‑site to off‑site third‑party Total solid waste landfill landspread recycling incineration waste Country (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) Austria 16 57 0 8,356 35 8,448 Belgium 13 150 0 14,099 300 14,549 Bosnia and Herzegovina 0 0 0 0 0 0 Bulgaria 23 4,004 0 1,182 0 5,186 Croatia 40 48,112 0 8,421 18 56,552 Czech Republic 60 188 0 13,663 15 13,867 Denmark 24 8 0 12,522 4,497 17,026 Estonia 0 0 0 1,524 0 1,524 Finland 37 26 0 7,379 99 7,504 France 4,302 4,892 3,015 151,439 8,477 167,823 Germany 247 392 0 95,442 59,999 155,833 Greece 900 207 0 12,963 0 13,171 Hungary 283 352 0 19,062 69 19,483 Italy 243 10,515 1,560 102,327 17,656 132,058 Lithuania 6 80 0 4,842 52 4,974 Macedonia 2 0 0 1,460 0 1,461 Morocco 0 0 0 122 0 122 Netherlands 52 269 696 17,425 22,032 40,423 New Zealand 0 89 0 60 0 149 Poland 63 673 0 33,421 0 34,095 Portugal 0 0 0 48 0 48 Romania 0 24 0 6,072 22 6,118 Serbia 0 113 0 2,878 0 2,991 Slovakia 25 107 0 5,677 24 5,808 Slovenia 41 5 0 11,973 331 12,310 Spain 34 887 0 27,569 9 28,465 Sweden 32 13 0 16,590 308 16,911 Switzerland 0 7 0 5,876 67 5,950 Thailand 0 31 0 0 0 31 United Kingdom 216 26,338 106,051 90,326 87,045 309,760 United States 0 109 0 484 0 593 Grand total 6,660 97,650 111,322 673,202 201,058 1,083,232 Sustainability Review 2017 | dssmith.com/sustainability GRI tables This GRI content index has been prepared in accordance with GRI G4 Core in reference to the DS Smith Sustainability Review 2017 and DS Smith Annual report & accounts 2017. For the full GRI index table, including specific standard disclosures, please see: dssmith.com/company/sustainability/sustainabilityreport General standard disclosures Page number External Page number External and links assurance and links assurance Strategy and analysis G4‑19 See GRI report* G4‑1 SR pg. 1 G4‑20 SR pg. 11 and GRI report* Organisational profile G4‑21 See GRI report* G4‑3 AR pg. 130 Yes G4‑22 SR pg. 43 Yes G4‑4 SR pg. 2, AR pg. 18‑20 G4‑23 SR pg. 43 Yes G4‑5 AR pg. 132 Yes Stakeholder engagement G4‑6 SR pg. 15, 44 G4‑24 SR pg. 10 G4‑7 AR pg. 130 Yes G4‑25 SR pg. 10, 13 and GRI report* G4‑8 AR pg. 10‑13, 16‑17 G4‑26 SR pg. 10, 13 G4‑9 AR pg. 10, 17, 31,33 Yes G4‑27 SR pg. 10‑12 G4‑10 AR pg. 25 and GRI report* Report profile G4‑11 See GRI report* G4‑28 SR pg. 42 Yes G4‑12 See GRI report* G4‑29 SR pg. 4 G4‑13 AR pg. 58, 126, SR pg. 43 Yes G4‑30 SR pg. 4 G4‑14 SR pg. 8,9 G4‑31 SR pg. 42 Yes G4‑15 SR pg. 5 G4‑32 SR pg. 42, 49 Yes G4‑16 See GRI report* G4‑33 SR pg. 42 Yes Identified material aspects and boundaries Governance G4‑17 AR pg. 130, 131 Yes G4‑34 SR pg. 5 G4‑18 SR pg. 10 Ethics and integrity G4‑56 SR pg. 3, 5 and GRI report* Key SR = Sustainability Review 2017, and if external assurance column contains “Yes”, please find statement on SR pg. 42 AR = Annual report & accounts 2017, and if external assurance column contains “Yes”, please find statement on AR pg. 81‑84 * Our Sustainability Review 2017 content is defined by the topics which our internal and external stakeholders collectively found to be most important, during our materiality analysis in 2016. However, there are some further aspects and indicators which are also material to our business. We have reported our actions on these aspects in our GRI disclosure report which can be found here: dssmith.com/company/sustainability/sustainabilityreport/GRI‑disclosure‑report Data DS Smith Plc 350 Euston Road Find us on Regent’s Place London NW1 3AX Telephone +44 (0)20 7756 1800 www.dssmith.com Printed in the UK by Principal Colour Ltd on Magno Silk made from FSC® certified fibre Principal Colour Ltd are certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc (London) www.blacksunplc.com +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
