Annual Review 2016 i Syngenta Annual Review 2016 In this year’s report Strategic overview Operational performance ii Regional overview 35 Making a habit of being ever better iii Group performance 36 People 01 Bringing plant potential to life 37 Sustainable operations 02 Chairman’s statement 04 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 41 Business integrity 43 Public debates 02 06 Our business model This change of share Performance data ownership allows Syngenta Research and Development 45 Product line performance to remain Syngenta, a global 08 Stepping up productivity 46 Financial information company headquartered and innovation 53 Non-financial information in Switzerland, focused 61 Independent Assurance Report on sustainable growth. The Good Growth Plan on the Syngenta Non-financial Michel Demaré Reporting 2016 Chairman 12 Adding value sustainably 13 Make crops more efficient Corporate information 14 Rescue more farmland 16 Help biodiversity flourish 62 Corporate governance and compensation 17 Empower smallholders 64 Board of Directors 19 Help people stay safe 66 Executive Committee 20 Look after every worker 68 Shareholder information 04 Regional performance 2016 was another good 22 New technologies driving growth year for innovation at 23 Europe, Africa and Middle East Syngenta, demonstrating 26 North America the power of our 29 Latin America 32 Asia Pacific R&D engine. J. Erik Fyrwald Chief Executive Officer About the Syngenta Annual Report Syngenta’s Annual Report also serves The full edition of Syngenta’s Annual Report 2016 comprises: as our annual Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations 3 the Annual Review 2016, summarizing both financial and non-financial performance Global Compact. To read the full Syngenta Annual Report 2016, go to 3 the Financial Report 2016 www.ar2016.syngenta.com 3 the Corporate Governance Report and Compensation Report 2016 For further information, including the Form 20-F, the Our Industry The Annual Review includes quantitative and qualitative information on policies publication and a section with and actions taken regarding our business and corporate responsibility goals. answers to many “Questions about Syngenta”, visit our corporate website: www.syngenta.com ii Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Regional overview North America Europe, Africa and Middle East Sales1 $ m 3,202 Sales1 $ m 3,793 Employees 2 4,176 Employees 2,3 12,429 Research and Development sites 33 Research and Development sites 47 Production and Supply sites 31 Production and Supply sites 44 North America comprises Canada EAME is our largest region in terms and the USA. It generates about of sales. At present, our business 25 percent of Syngenta’s revenue, comes mainly from Europe, with and its growers – among the most an increasing share of future sales competitive and productive in the coming from markets like Russia, world – are typically early adopters Ukraine and Africa. of new technologies. Read more on pages 26–28 Read more on pages 23–25 North America Europe, Africa and Middle East 90 Countries 27,810 Employees 2 107 Production Latin America Asia 119 Research and and Supply sites 4 Pacific Development sites Latin America Asia Pacific Sales1 $ m 3,293 Sales1 $ m 1,839 Employees 2 5,161 Employees 2 6,044 Research and Development sites 12 Research and Development sites 27 Production and Supply sites 12 Production and Supply sites 20 Latin America accounts for almost Accounting for 40 percent of the 10 percent of the world’s cropped area and world’s cultivated land, APAC is is the global leader in soybean, sugar cane a region dominated by smallholders and coffee production. Farm scale ranges farming less than 2 hectares. from a predominance of smallholders Changing diets and good scope for in Central America to highly-technified improving yields present significant large-scale farms in Argentina and Brazil. opportunities for growth. Read more on pages 29–31 Read more on pages 32–34 1 Excluding Lawn and Garden 2 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) as of September 30, 2016 3 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 4 Including four multi-functional production sites iii Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Group performance Financial Non-financial performance performance Group sales Cash flow return People trained on safe use on investment4 $12.8bn -2% (CER1) 12% 6.8m 2016 12.79 2016 12% 2016 6.8 2015 13.41 2015 11% 2015 5.7 2014 15.13 2014 11% 2014 4.7 Crop Protection sales2 Seeds sales Seed supply farms in our Fair Labor Program $9.6bn -2% (CER1) $2.7bn -3% (CER1) 82% 2016 9.57 2016 2.66 2016 82% 2015 10.00 2015 2.84 2015 84% 2014 11.38 2014 3.16 2014 53% Earnings per share3 EBITDA Recordable illness and injury rate6 $17.03 -4% $2.7bn +2% (CER1) 0.39 2016 17.03 2016 2.66 2016 0.39 2015 17.78 2015 2.78 2015 0.38 2014 19.42 2014 2.93 2014 0.37 Research and Efficiency savings5 Smallholders reached7 Development investment $1.3bn $620m 16.6m 2016 1.30 2016 620 2016 16.6 2015 1.36 2015 300 2015 17.2 2014 1.43 2014 13.8 1 Growth at constant exchange rates (CER) 6 Per 200,000 hours, according to US OSHA definition 2 Including sales of Crop Protection products to Seeds 7 Through sales 3 Fully diluted excluding restructuring and impairment 4 For a definition of cash flow return on investment, see page 52 5 Cumulative since 2015 Read more about “Financial information” Read more about “Non-financial information” on pages 46–52 on pages 53–60 Strategic overview Syngenta Annual Review 2016 01 Bringing plant potential to life We apply world-class science and the most productive research and development in the industry to achieve a step change in agricultural productivity. In more than 90 countries around the world, our employees enable millions of farmers to improve global food security by making better, more sustainable use of available resources. 02 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Chairman’s statement Ensuring choice wherever appropriate and in different forms, an integrated approach to our customers, tailor-made to their needs and expectations of what a broad portfolio company like and innovation for Syngenta can offer them. While the instability that beset emerging markets in 2015 to some extent subsided, growers worldwide market conditions in 2016 remained tough for the fourth consecutive year. Syngenta had already responded quickly to a more challenging environment with the announcement, in February 2014, of the Accelerating Operational Leverage This change of share 2016 has been a momentous year for program. This has already yielded Syngenta and for the agriculture sector. substantial cost savings, and I have been ownership allows In the wake of challenging market impressed by the way in which the entire Syngenta to remain conditions and rising innovation costs, organization has adapted to the process Syngenta, a global our industry has embarked on a wave of consolidation, which has a profound and platform efficiencies put in place. company headquartered transformational impact for all the players Innovation is vital However, for a company like Syngenta, in Switzerland, focused involved. I am pleased that Syngenta, cost savings alone cannot drive longer after a period of turbulence, has found a on sustainable growth. path that guarantees the Company’s longterm performance. Growth is the key factor Michel Demaré term future and safeguards its identity. for long-term success and, in our field, Chairman The option we have chosen is more a it means that our business is dependent change of ownership than a consolidation on continuous innovation, whether this move. Syngenta will remain Syngenta, be in the form of new crop protection as you have known it for years, with the products, improved seeds or novel traits. same commitment towards food security, The development timelines are long, innovation and farmers, whatever the size often exceeding ten years. Regulation is of their farms. becoming ever more demanding, meaning that the cost of bringing a new product The closing of such a transaction obviously to market increases while the certainty takes time, as it requires review and of achieving approval diminishes. When approval from a large number of regulatory revenues are under pressure – as they have authorities. In the meantime, we are not been in recent years – it becomes difficult standing still and waiting for the changes to to sustain Research and Development happen. We have worked hard at adapting (R&D) at the necessary level. This dilemma Syngenta to the new realities of our has been one of the catalysts for markets. Profound management changes, industry consolidation. starting at the CEO level, are coupled with crucial simplification initiatives to make ChemChina transaction the Company leaner and faster to make reinforces strategy decisions. We have clarified our strategy, The transaction with ChemChina will giving our Seeds business a much more secure Syngenta’s long-term investment transparent focus and expanding our skills in innovation. ChemChina has recognized and capabilities, with an immediate, very the value of our pipeline and of our worldpositive response from our customers. leading scientists, and has explicitly We continue expanding and investing in our committed to maintaining a high level leading Crop Protection business with the of R&D spend in the coming years. same intensity. And we continue offering, This transaction reinforces our strategy Strategic overview Syngenta Annual Review 2016 03 Management changes In May, after a rigorous search, the Board announced the appointment of Erik Fyrwald as Chief Executive Officer. Erik’s considerable experience in both agriculture and chemicals, along with his strong track record of success as a CEO, made him an excellent candidate for the role. I look forward to continuing to work with him to create the next chapter in Syngenta’s history. After a career at Syngenta and legacy companies spanning 32 years, John Ramsay decided to retire from the Company at the end of September. John was instrumental in the foundation of Syngenta and served with distinction as Chief Financial Officer since 2007 and latterly also as Chief Executive Officer ad interim. I should like to thank John for of being a leading provider of technology with the expertise and reach of others. leading the Company during a period of and will ensure continued choice for Data on each of the commitments is uncertainty with great skill and judgment. growers worldwide. It will allow us to independently collected and validated and maintain a broad portfolio and geographic our open data policy allows people to make I should also like to thank employees, who presence and to further strengthen our their own assessment of our progress. have worked tirelessly through a time of position in emerging markets, notably in We are further promoting transparency turbulence, for their dedication and loyalty. China itself. as a partner in GODAN, the Global Open Syngenta remains Syngenta Data for Agriculture and Nutrition initiative, We are excited by the opportunity to Many of Syngenta’s shareholders invested a public/private collaboration of more than assist in the ongoing modernization of in the Company for the long term and 400 organizations that supports global Chinese agriculture, bringing not only remain invested today. I am glad that efforts to make agricultural and nutritionally our products but also our experience they will be amply rewarded through relevant data accessible and usable. and know-how in promoting the highest ChemChina’s recognition of the Company’s environmental standards. Sustainability has Living our company values strategic value. This is a transaction always been at the core of our business The launch of The Good Growth Plan that benefits not just shareholders but model, impacting the way we do business in 2013 was not a new beginning for all stakeholders, including customers, on a day-to-day basis, and reinforced Syngenta – it represented a continuation employees and communities. This change by our smallholder-focused initiatives and a quantification of a long-standing of share ownership allows Syngenta to through the Syngenta Foundation and focus on sustainability. This focus has remain Syngenta, a global company the commitments contained in The been embraced by the Company’s headquartered in Switzerland, focused Good Growth Plan. ChemChina has 28,000 employees and infuses its culture on sustainable growth and committed enthusiastically endorsed these values and and values. In November, I was privileged to helping growers worldwide achieve principles, which are the foundation of our to host the 2016 Syngenta Awards food security. Company and will remain so in the future. ceremony, at which outstanding teams Transparency and partnership from around the world were recognized bring added value for their contributions to those values and to the company purpose of Bringing plant Nequae prenita. In 2016, we made further progress potential to life. The entries were without towards meeting our Good Growth Plan exception inspiring, and I was deeply targets for 2020. An expanding network impressed by the passion, motivation Michel Demaré of partnerships is enabling us to broaden and spirit of healthy competition that Chairman our contribution by combining our skills reverberated through the event. 04 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Chief Executive Officer’s statement A clear sense When I was appointed CEO of Syngenta in June 2016, I was thrilled to return to the world of agricultural technology. The need to grow food sustainably has never been of purpose in a greater and our industry has a vital role to play. I am proud to be part of the Syngenta Team that does so much to help farmers and their communities all around the world. changing industry Common sense of purpose In my first months at Syngenta, I traveled to every region, meeting our people and environment the customers they serve. From vegetable and rice growers in Vietnam and China to corn and soybean farmers in the USA and Brazil, and many others, I found a common sense of purpose to produce better crops 2016 was another good year while making the best use of inputs and natural resources. During my travels, I for innovation at Syngenta, witnessed firsthand the tremendous energy demonstrating the power and dedication of Syngenta employees around the world, who develop and deliver of our R&D engine. innovative products and agronomic advice J. Erik Fyrwald to help farmers succeed, and I would Chief Executive Officer like to thank them all for their capabilities and commitment. It is a true joy to see these farmers use our products and services to help improve their lives and lift up their families and communities, while contributing to global food security and a reduction in carbon emissions and water usage. Robust long-term prospects With regard to the agriculture industry, 2016 was another difficult year. Crop prices remained low and grower profitability was under pressure in many areas. This led to a contraction in the crop protection market, with the seeds market about flat. It is important to remember that, until 2013, both markets saw years of almost uninterrupted growth, driven by the adoption of innovative technology and intensification. These drivers remain in place as the global demand for grains continues to rise, so we look towards the future with confidence that the prospects for our industry are robust. Strategic overview Syngenta Annual Review 2016 05 Resilient performance Innovation is at the heart of our business New Executive Team established in a difficult environment model and extends well beyond new There were several changes in the crop protection active ingredient launches. Syngenta Executive Team in the course Our sales in 2016 were 2 percent lower Our broad portfolio and formulation of the year. I warmly thank the three at constant exchange rates and 5 percent expertise enable us to continuously bring outgoing members – John Ramsay, lower in reported terms. In the fourth new crop protection products to market, Davor Pisk and Jonathan Seabrook – for quarter, adjusted for a non-recurring addressing the varying and evolving their many years’ service and substantial royalty payment, regional revenue growth needs of growers of multiple crops in contributions to the Company. I was was 7 percent. We continued our focus different countries. In Seeds, our breeding pleased to announce the appointments on costs through the Accelerating capability delivers many new hybrids and of Mark Patrick as Chief Financial Officer Operational Leverage program and were varieties every year, providing growers and Jeff Rowe as President Global Seeds able to increase EBITDA in the second half. with continuous yield and quality benefits. and North America. Mark brings more For the full year we generated free cash In those regions where GM technology is than 20 years’ experience in the Syngenta flow of $ 1.4 billion, helped by our focus accepted, we also offer a leading suite of Finance function. Jeff comes from outside on inventory management. Meanwhile, traits for corn. the Company and has tremendous seeds we continued to invest in order to meet demand for best-in-class chemistry and Clear corporate goals industry experience. In his new role, he seeds, with the completion of capacity will focus on making our performance in This strength in innovation will support expansion projects at key sites in Brazil seeds match the quality of our technology. the achievement of our first corporate and Switzerland. The team has been further strengthened goal, which is to improve the customer with the appointments of Alexander Tokarz Proven innovation success experience and to profitably grow as Head Business Development, Mark market share. Achievement of this goal 2016 was another good year for innovation Titterington as Head Corporate Affairs depends not just on leading innovative at Syngenta, demonstrating the power and Laure Roberts as Head Human products, but also on our entire approach of our R&D engine. Our new herbicide Resources – all strong leaders who bring to the customer. The approach varies ACURON™ propelled market share gain great experience and energy to their by market as it is driven by local needs in the North American corn market, new positions. and knowledge. providing growers with a much-needed In 2016, we made progress despite the solution to the problem of weed resistance. Our second corporate goal is to drive many challenges we faced in the external Its success shows that, even in difficult simplification to continuously improve environment. Our people remained focused market conditions, growers embrace everything we do, thereby unleashing on the business in the knowledge that, new technology that can deliver value. our people to focus on the customer. under the future ownership of ChemChina, In Argentina, we received approval for We have built the foundations for this Syngenta will play an increasingly important the breakthrough fungicide ADEPIDYN™, through the Accelerating Operational role in the future of agriculture. I personally which builds on our strong fungicide Leverage program, which is now fully am very excited by the growth opportunities heritage including ELATUS™ and AMISTAR® embedded across the Company. that this transaction will bring and look technology. In Brazil, the outstanding Our third corporate goal, which we will forward to its successful conclusion. performance of our VIPTERA™ insect pursue with continued determination resistance technology enabled us to grow as a private company, is to meet our our corn seed share in this critical market. financial commitments. J. Erik Fyrwald Chief Executive Officer 06 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Our business model Creating value The resources we depend on by taking a long-term view Financial capital People and the intellectual property Our ability to create value for employees, the communities where they create they live and for all other stakeholders is contingent on the value we create for our customers. Chemical, biological, Our innovation enables farmers – from smallholdings to large-scale genetic and farms – to safely produce food, feed and other plant-based products computational sciences as efficiently as possible, without using more natural resources. We take a long-term view to developing technologies that will not just meet demand in the years to come, but will do so without depleting Natural resources already overstretched resources. Facilities and services Our broader value proposition comes not We cannot achieve our goals alone. just from the food that we help farmers To create the business and social value produce today, but from the support we we aspire to, we have built a rich network Local communities give them in building prosperous rural of productive alliances with NGOs, communities and sustainable farming academic institutions, other agricultural practices. That’s why our Good Growth businesses and growers. Our knowledge Laws and regulations Plan commitments are integral to our and open, collaborative culture contribute business strategy. They put sustainability to making us a trusted and respected center stage in the way we do business. partner. Through these relationships And they align closely with many of the we can leverage our own resources – UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. accelerating innovation, sharpening efficiency and increasing our flexibility. We’re mobilizing our expertise and innovation to create a sustainable future in agriculture. Factors such as climate change are among the global risks that we consider in addition to normal business risks. This means that we plan not only for the short term but also for the decades ahead. Strategic overview Syngenta Annual Review 2016 07 What What The value we do we create we provide Research and development Products, services and solutions Return on investment for What we do Who we work with growers and shareholders 3 Crop protection 3 Scientists and Products discovery and universities innovation 3 Herbicides 3 Seedcare Food, feed, fuel and fiber 3 Research institutions 3 Advanced seed 3 Farmers and suppliers 3 Insecticides 3 Seeds breeding 3 Addressing insect, 3 NGOs 3 Fungicides 3 Traits fungus, weed and 3 Agricultural extension Sustainable intensification services environmental stress of agriculture to provide on crops Crops food security Production 3 Cereals 3 Specialty crops What we do Who we work with 3 Corn 3 Sugar cane Grower and 3 Active ingredients 3 Chemical suppliers 3 Diverse field 3 Vegetables customer satisfaction 3 Intermediates 3 Toll manufacturers crops 3 Lawn and 3 Formulation, fill 3 Seed supply farms 3 Rice Garden and packaging 3 Lawn and Garden 3 Seed production supply chain 3 Soybean Sustainable production Commercial Adjacent technologies Development of our people and What we do Who we work with 3 Nutrients partners along the value chain 3 Product life cycle 3 Growers management 3 Distributors 3 Financial solutions 3 Crop-based offers 3 Demonstration farms 3 Marketing 3 Information systems Economic value shared 3 Processors and and sales the food chain 3 Digital agronomy with employees, suppliers, 3 Distribution 3 Agronomists governments and communities 3 Agricultural extension services 3 Technology providers Collective wellbeing of communities Supporting activities What we do Who we work with 3 Safe and sustainable 3 Industry associations Stimulating research use of our products 3 Government and and sharing knowledge 3 Product registration regulatory authorities 3 Health, safety and 3 NGOs and IGOs environment 3 Communities 3 Multi-stakeholder dialogue 08 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Research and Development Stepping up Faster, smarter innovation The quality of our R&D is reflected in an exceptionally strong pipeline. Our aim is productivity to target our activity where we see major opportunities for growth and differentiation. We will invest selectively in new technologies that can differentiate us in the marketplace. and innovation This exploratory portfolio will take us deeper into novel products such as biocontrols and hybrid wheat while expanding our capabilities in areas such as genome editing and predictive toxicology. Our continuing success and sustainability will be determined by Biological controls complement other crop our ability to keep creating new solutions that meet and anticipate protection technologies with new modes grower needs. We invest around $1.3 billion a year in research and of action or enhanced spectrum, and have development (R&D), covering chemistry, genetics, breeding and particular value in managing resistance computational science. We have demonstrated the productivity challenges and food chain requirements. This market is expected to see double-digit of our R&D – and in 2016, we adapted our strategy to accelerate growth over the next decade, and we are the pace of delivery further. increasing our capabilities by establishing a biocontrols lab at Research Triangle Park in the USA, working in close collaboration Our R&D world is changing with specialists at Jealott’s Hill in the UK. Investment in Research The biocontrols partnership we launched and Development $bn In a changing industry landscape in 2016 with DSM has already built a Syngenta’s commitment to R&D is 2016 1.30 portfolio of biologically active candidates unwavering. The regulatory framework in for further investigation. 2015 1.36 which we operate is also evolving. We need to work with governments and other bodies We remain committed to promoting 2014 1.43 to help shape policy and ensure that innovation by sharing our knowledge – regulatory requirements are science-based. both through licensing and through our Our goal is to create value for our increasing publication of open data. Against this background, the opportunities customers through higher yields and better For example, as a pioneer in the emerging offered by science have never been use of resources. Constant innovation is science of RNA-based biocontrols, in 2016 greater. The convergence of chemistry, necessary to meet the evolving needs of we became the first agrochemical company biology and mathematics is enabling us growers and the value chain, to address to share RNA-based biocontrol research to innovate faster, more precisely and with the ever-changing pressures presented by as open data. more predictable results. Increasingly, we pests, diseases and climate change, and can apply predictive science to innovate to deliver the sustainability commitments by design, using data-driven techniques of our Good Growth Plan. to create better products that meet In 2016, we invested $ 1.3 billion in growers’ needs. research and development at 119 sites around the world. Research and Development Syngenta Annual Review 2016 09 Cl Cl F O Cl F N We also publish large amounts of Key achievements in 2016 agronomic data from our Good Growth O We continue to be leaders in productivity Plan. For more on our approach to open within crop protection R&D and are meeting N data, see “Open data: accelerating N 3,800 our target of launching on average at least progress” on page 43. one significant new active ingredient (AI) For some years, we have provided access each year. In 2016, ADEPIDYN™ received In developing new fungicide ADEPIDYN™, to our patented native vegetable traits its first registration in Argentina and is now we screened over 3,800 candidate and enabling technologies through our being marketed there as MIRAVIS™ DUO, compounds and conducted over e-licensing website. And in 2016, we a combination of ADEPIDYN™ fungicide 5,000 trials. It took eight years to develop entered into a cross-licensing agreement and difenoconazole for use on soybean on native vegetable traits with Dutch plant against late-cycle diseases. ADEPIDYN™ breeding company, Rijk Zwaan. This gives is a highly effective fungicide with a broad Pinoxaden, the AI in herbicides such both companies the right to exchange range of applications and is set to become as AXIAL®, achieved EU Annex 1 listing. patented biological material for breeding a blockbuster – see case study below. This means that cereal growers can and commercial purposes. For use on multiple crops, it provides a step continue to use it to control a broad change in leaf spot disease management, spectrum of weeds and grasses, and it delivers excellent control of powdery protects our sales of this effective herbicide. mildew, and is highly effective on difficultOur insecticide AI abamectin received label to-control diseases such as Fusarium head extension approvals in the USA, allowing blight and molds, which cause severe it to be used on a wider variety of crops. crop damage. Our fungicide ORONDIS™ received its first premix registration in North America, along with new uses on citrus and potatoes. Untreated soybean In seed treatment, Brazil granted registration for FORTENZA® 600 insecticide treatment, China approved oxathiapiprolin fungicide and the USA approved the first oxathiapiprolin combi-formulation. Our new EPIVIO™ herbicide biostimulant also has great market potential as a seed treatment solution enabling early vigor in seedlings. In 2016, we launched EPIVIO™ VIGOR in Brazil for this application in Soybean treated with ADEPIDYN™ soybean, and received product approval in China for use on corn. In our pipeline, Lead 5 – a long-lasting nematicide with a novel mode of action – moved into stage 2 development. Growers are eagerly awaiting an effective solution for microscopic nematodes, which today represent one of the largest unmet pest control needs. New fungicide set for global success Our new broad-spectrum fungicide ADEPIDYN™ is a potential blockbuster: we’re forecasting peak sales of over $ 750 million globally. It’s both effective and versatile – we are currently developing products based on ADEPIDYN™ for soybean, wheat, corn, canola, vegetables and specialty crops. Following its launch in Argentina at the end of 2016, we’re preparing to take it into the USA, Canada, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand in 2018 – reinforcing our global leadership in fungicides. 10 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Research and Development Our strengths in plant breeding are that will allow us to customize our products reflected in leadership positions in a for growers based on their needs, field number of markets including cereal seeds. conditions and weather forecasts in a given Our plant breeding work has experienced a paradigm shift since researchers began using analytics tools to identify and harness year. In 2016, Syngenta received the Genius Award for Analytics Innovation from the US Association of National Advertisers, which 5,000+ Skilled employees high-performing genetics for new seed cited our “creative analytical approach to working in varieties. We are developing technology the complexity of plant breeding”. R&D worldwide Recent Crop Protection launches Product Indication Crops Peak sales SEGURIS® Fungicide Cereals, diverse field crops, rice, specialty crops, vegetables >$ 150m VIBRANCE® Fungicide Cereals, corn, diverse field crops, rice, soybean, specialty crops, ~$ 500m vegetables ELATUS™ Fungicide Cereals, corn, diverse field crops, soybean, specialty crops, ~$ 1,000m SOLATENOL™ vegetables FORTENZA® Seedcare Cereals, corn, diverse field crops, rice, soybean, specialty crops, >$ 400m MINECTO® vegetables ACURON™ Herbicide Cereals, corn, diverse field crops >$ 500m ORONDIS ™ Fungicide Vegetables, specialty crops >$ 150m EPIVIO ™ Seedcare Cereals, corn, cotton, sorghum, soybean ~$ 80m ADEPIDYN ™ Fungicide Cereals, corn, soybean, specialty crops, vegetables >$ 750m Crop Protection Pipeline Product Indication Crops Status Lead 1 Insecticide Multiple crops Stage 3 Lead 2 Herbicide Corn Stage 3 Lead 3 Fungicide Soybean Stage 1 (late) Lead 4 Insecticide Vegetables, specialty crops Stage 3 Lead 5 Seedcare Cereals, corn, soybean Stage 2 Lead 6 Seedcare Multiple crops discontinued Lead 7 Seedcare Cereals Stage 1 (late) Lead 8 Herbicide Cereals, corn Stage 2 Lead 9* Herbicide Rice Stage 1 (late) Lead 10* Crop enhancement Rice Stage 1 (late) * New addition in 2016 Stage 1: Invention, optimization Stage 2: Evaluation Stage 3: Development and launch Research and Development Syngenta Annual Review 2016 11 Traits Pipeline 70 Native Product GM Traits Crops Status vegetable Lead 1 Disease control Soybean Stage 1 trait patents covered by Lead 2 Insect control Corn Stage 1 (late) our 2016 Lead 3 Insect control Corn Stage 1 (late) cross-licensing agreement Lead 4 Weed control Corn, soybean Stage 1 with Rijk Zwaan Lead 5 Insect control Corn Stage 2 Lead 6 Weed control Soybean Stage 3 Syngenta continues to be recognized in the Lead 7 Insect control Corn Stage 3 scientific community as an attractive place Lead 8 Insect control Corn Stage 3 (late) to work. We are regularly placed in the world’s Top 20 biotech and pharmaceutical Stage 1: Invention, optimization Stage 2: Evaluation Stage 3: Development and launch employers in Science magazine’s annual survey, ranking 14th in 2016. Plant breeding highlights in 2016 included Investment in people We support our talented people with US authorizations for our glyphosateand resources continuing investment in high-quality R&D and glufosinate-resistant corn molecular To fulfill our strategy we must invest in both facilities. In 2016, scientists at our Research stack product and for a molecular stack facilities and talent. Diversity of thought, Triangle Park facility in the USA moved into engineered to express three proteins disciplines and experience is fundamental a new state-of-the-art innovation center that confer resistance to herbicide and to our approach, and we actively pursue designed to stimulate scientific interaction. to insect damage. cross-functional development across In the Ukraine, we invested in a new corn Canada gave commercial approval for the organization. and sunflower breeding station for Eastern our AGRISURE® refuge-in-a-bag trait Europe and the CIS, where we are a market Attracting and retaining capable, creative stacks, which give growers a flexible and leader. We also initiated investment in: scientists and engineers is crucial. convenient way to comply with refuge cutting-edge sample storage and retrieval Our Science and Technology Ladder requirements and manage the development hardware at our UK Central Research provides clear opportunities for career of resistant insects. Dispensary at Jealott’s Hill; a new Breeding progression for employees whose Center of Expertise in Chartres, France, Our rich seeds pipeline includes a nextcontribution is focused on science. where activity will include our high-priority generation above-ground insect control We have also updated the role and hybrid wheat program; and a new Global trait, now entering early development. purpose of our Fellows community. Nursery in Kenya to support vegetable and Further leads have entered late research, Fellows are Syngenta scientists and hybrid cereal production. and we are working on multiple insecticidal engineers at the top of the Science and proteins with new modes of action against Technology Ladder who are role models corn root worm and fall army worm. for scientific and technical delivery and who help us to identify new business and technology opportunities. They also play an ambassadorial role, helping to ensure that our R&D productivity benefits from effective information exchange with the international scientific community. 12 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 The Good Growth Plan Adding value The Good Growth Plan is a learning process, both for us and the people who work with us. Its value will depend to a large extent on how successfully we pass sustainably on what we know, and what we learn – to smalland large-scale farmers, the farmworkers we train, and the partners who use our openly published data. That’s why we’ve set targets for each of As a business serving the agricultural industry, we help farmers our commitments. We report our progress feed a fast-growing world population. But there’s more: we aim against these targets each year, and to lead in sustainability. The Good Growth Plan is not only driving provide additional progress information the way we add value to a sustainable agriculture system; it’s online at www.data.syngenta.com measuring the results, so we can quantify the difference we make. We are now going further, seeking to measure not just the extent of our reach but also the nature and quality of the value The Good Growth Plan is part of our we add. We are assessing our programs’ The Good Growth Plan business strategy, designed to focus our impact on people, communities and skills and resources on understanding and the environment. Our six commitments to help farmers meet the challenge of feeding a fastmeeting the most pressing needs of our The principles and priorities of The Good growing world population sustainably. customers and stakeholders. It demands Growth Plan are now deeply embedded in innovation and enterprise from every part the way we do business. And as we build of our organization. what we learn into our commercial offer, Make crops we are also building the evidence that it The Plan considers the resource efficiency more efficient delivers real, measurable value for growers that must underpin current productivity, the ecosystem resilience necessary to and society at large. Rescue more sustain it in the future, and the knowledge transfer needed to support and strengthen For more on the UN’s SDGs, visit farmland sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics rural communities. It pays particular attention to smallholders, because they See detailed performance data for Help biodiversity have the greatest potential to increase The Good Growth Plan on page 55 flourish farm productivity. Today, we have a well-developed network of more than 3,700 farmers and many other Empower partners working with us to demonstrate smallholders and measure what’s possible for 23 crops, the environment, rural communities and Help people agriculture workers in 42 countries. Our six Good Growth Plan commitments stay safe help us quantify how we contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals set out Look after in the United Nations Agenda 2030. every worker The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2016 13 Make crops more efficient Increase the average productivity of the world’s major crops by 20 percent without using more land, water or inputs Average land productivity increase1 % 1.2% 2020 20 2016 1.2 2015 1.9 2014 0 1 On reference farms compared to baseline 2014 Getting the most out of every hectare Farm network Tanner Tanke grows soybeans, sugar beets and wheat in North Dakota, USA. 2016 2015 2014 As a Good Growth Plan reference farmer, he tracks the resources it takes to grow No. of reference farms 1,039 1,062 860 his crops. Knowing the efficiency of his farm inputs helps him not only keep an eye No. of benchmark farms 2,694 2,586 2,738 on his bottom line, but also improve the sustainability of his farm. This helps him get the most out of every hectare. Progress and key achievements 3 Combined farm-level data with “big data” Measuring the difference Such a large farm network sees constant we make changes over time driven by developments to give richer, more consistent analysis in the business environment. For example, and feedback To test and measure what’s possible, we we are now focusing our reference farm have created a network of farms across 3 Helped drive creation of open data network in Africa and the Middle East 23 crops in 42 countries. In 11 countries we ecosystem to accelerate innovation entirely on smallholders to make our service are focusing particularly on smallholders, to them more impactful. We’ve improved 3 Began to identify key drivers for who have the greatest potential to increase our progress measurement to allow for sustainably enhancing productivity productivity. We have reference farmers changes in reference farms while still working with our field experts to trial new measuring consistently. Find more details solutions and raise productivity and we The world needs to grow more food in online at www.data.syngenta.com have benchmark farmers who share with the next 50 years than it has produced in us their data to compare and complement Making our data more valuable the past 10,000 while using resources far the assessment. more efficiently. We work together with We’ve improved the way we share our growers who use our products every day, In 2016, we collected data from a total of Good Growth Plan data with growers and focus particular effort on smallholders, 1,039 reference farms that follow Syngenta by focusing on the results most relevant who have the greatest potential to increase protocols, as well as 2,694 randomly to them. productivity and in turn improve their selected benchmark farms for comparison. own livelihoods. Across all our reference farms, the average land productivity increase in 2016 was 1.2 percent. This was 3.8 percentage points higher than benchmark farms where we saw an average 2.6 percent decrease in land productivity. 14 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 The Good Growth Plan Farm performance is affected by many factors, both controllable and uncontrollable, and what works for one 8% Average land Rescue more farmland grower, crop or location may not work for productivity another: the more data we can analyze, the increase on greater our chances of understanding why. smallholder Improve the fertility of 10 million We now have unprecedented quantities reference farms hectares of farmland on the brink of detailed farm-level information, which – of degradation by sharing them as open data – we are supplementing with global information We aggregate full-year data to calculate Benefited farmland1 m ha on factors such as weather, soil and global averages on reference and growing conditions. Global food security is too big a challenge benchmark farms. In this report, we focus on how efficiently land, pesticides 4.3m for any one organization, and the pace and nutrients are used. In addition, we 2020 10.0 of innovation will depend on how easily detail smallholder farm productivity – 2016 4.3 1.9 people and organizations can share data. they achieved the hoped for higher rate Without an efficient global infrastructure of increase in productivity of 8 percent, 2015 2.4 for agricultural data, our openness and compared with larger farms where the 2014 0.8 transparency are of limited value. average was 1.2 percent. 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014 To help build this infrastructure, we Yields and pesticide field application efficiency generally seem to correlate with Progress and key achievements joined GODAN, the Global Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrition initiative, which external factors such as pest pressure, 3 Integrated soil conservation protocols now has over 375 partners including adverse weather conditions, access into commercial offers as additional governments, NGOs and commercial to training and our agronomic advice. farmer benefit organizations. At GODAN’s 2016 Summit, Pesticide field application efficiency for we co-presented a discussion paper setting example was generally lower this year, 3 Continued campaigning to promote out priorities for creating an effective data though reference farms performed better good soil management practices ecosystem for the industry, from engaging than benchmark farms. 3 Joined multi-stakeholder platforms to stakeholders to sourcing, sharing and What’s next? promote the adoption of conservation collaborating with data. Commissioned by agriculture Each growing season provides us with Syngenta with contributions from partners – more data to help us and our partners to the Consultative Group for International identify keys to more productive agriculture. Poor farming practices expose soil to wind Agricultural Research, the Open Data Initiative, information specialists Agroknow Meanwhile, a particular focus in 2017 and rain erosion, leaving millions of hectares and Agrimetrics – this paper is helping will be to create more value for farmers infertile. Every year, the world loses enough to drive an open data revolution in participating in our reference network. land to produce 20 million tons of grain. our industry. We can analyze their data to make The UN Convention to Combat optimized recommendations or support Desertification (UNCCD) estimates that What we’re learning from multi-stakeholder partnerships that provide our data 52 percent of the land used for agriculture incentives for sustainable improvements is moderately or severely affected by soil In collaboration with external partners, in the field. For example, our Fruit Quality degradation. There’s an urgent need for we have been conducting a wide range Contract program helps farmers comply action by governments and the agricultural of analyses, using computers to mine with stringent food chain standards. sector to restore the fertility of existing our data and test environmental models. And, while building trust externally by land and prevent further degradation: this Using machine intelligence will help us publishing data openly and transparently, is explicitly recognized by the UN in its gain previously unavailable insight into we will take care to earn growers’ trust by Sustainable Development Goals. patterns and correlations. Given the huge protecting their privacy so that they stay numbers of variables involved, it is too early in control of their own data and results. to draw firm conclusions about the keys to sustainable productivity increases. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2016 15 Measuring the difference we make We are raising awareness of this issue and promoting conservation agriculture practices based on minimum soil disturbance, crop rotation and permanent ground cover. In 2016, our programs benefited an additional 1.9 million hectares of land – bringing the cumulative total to 4.3 million hectares and keeping us on track towards our 2020 target of 10 million. The substantial increase in 2016 was due mainly to better integration of soil management practices into our commercial offers, which now account for some 70 percent of hectares benefited. Driving positive change Integrating soil conservation practices into our product protocols and training is helping us to differentiate our commercial offer. In 2016, we began investigating the Investing in soil health soil conservation profiles of key products and integrated offers so we can help Péter Szabadka knows taking good care of his soil is an investment in the future. growers to maximize their contribution His family farm in Hungary grows a variety of crops using our CONTIVO® solution, to soil conservation. Our hybrid barley which promotes conservation agriculture to reduce erosion and maintain soil health. HYVIDO®, for instance, has valuable He says it’s not only good for the environment – but for his productivity as well. characteristics such as deep root systems that can contribute more to soil fertility We are engaging the conservation What’s next? when enhanced by protocols that include community to promote the adoption In 2017, we’ll be working with expert crop rotation and nutrient management. of conservation agriculture and secure partners to pilot impact assessments of The science behind conservation validation for our methods. This includes eight soil conservation projects across all agriculture is well established. Our aim is presenting to major conventions – such as our major regions. These environmental to drive effective technology transfer by the 2016 UNCCD World Day to Combat and socio-economic assessments will help helping farming communities and local Desertification in Beijing, China, where to accelerate change by showing more stakeholders to adapt it to local conditions. Syngenta was invited to represent an agriclearly the returns farmers can expect. Farms of all sizes will benefit, but there is no business viewpoint. We are promoting They will also highlight immediate benefits – one-size-fits-all solution: soil conservation the benefits to farmers and showing them such as savings on tractor fuel – that arise needs to be tailored to local environments how conservation agriculture can protect before longer-term benefits such as climate and crops, and the best results come against stresses such as drought. Seeing is change resilience become apparent. from marrying proven science to local believing, and investment in demonstration knowledge. In this way, agriculture – and plots and farms is an essential part of our We’ll continue working with commercial the communities that depend on it – will advocacy and technology transfer effort. partners by creating and promoting open become more resilient to challenges such platforms that combine technologies, as climate change. machinery, financial solutions and education. We’ll also continue working with the UNCCD on the Soil Leadership Academy to increase awareness and urgency among policymakers on soil health and fertility issues. 16 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 The Good Growth Plan Measuring the difference So far, we have engaged in programs Help biodiversity we make in 34 countries benefiting a total area flourish of 4.9 million hectares. This reflects the Our approach seeks to restore farmers’ great success of our partnerships with role as custodians of the land; but we also other stakeholders and in particular Enhance biodiversity on recognize that they have livelihoods to The Nature Conservancy in Brazil, which 5 million hectares of farmland earn and businesses to run. To present alone contributed 2.8 million hectares in a persuasive case to them, and to 2016. The Soja+Verde project works on policymakers, we need to quantify the Benefited farmland1 m ha the restoration of rainforest in agricultural benefits that can be delivered and the landscapes. The significant positive impact 4.9m returns farmers can expect. So we have developed an impact assessment methodology that we piloted in 2016 at on biodiversity is achieved through a new approach to landscape connectivity. 2020 5.0 As a consequence, we are already close eight sites in Asia, Europe, Latin America to our 2020 target of 5 million hectares. 2016 3.3 4.9 and North America. The assessments are being carried out by Arcadis, a leading Stimulating thought and action 2015 1.6 global consultancy in natural assets, We aim to be both thought leaders and 2014 0.7 and are designed to measure both the practitioners – publishing technical papers 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014 returns to farmers and the wider socioand making the case for action, while also economic benefits. providing seeds, demonstrations, training Progress and key achievements and expertise to facilitate that action. 3 Developed new methodology for assessing environmental and socioeconomic impacts of biodiversity interventions in agricultural landscapes 3 Worked with the conservation community communicating to policymakers the importance of landscape connectivity 3 Increased the impact of our partnership with The Nature Conservancy to benefit 2.8 million hectares in Brazil The sustainability of agriculture relies on biodiversity – for plant breeding, pollination and food diversity. Our customers and our own seed production rely on this critical resource. Biodiversity suffers as species’ habitats are lost or fragmented, and in recent decades it has been declining at an unprecedented rate. Climate change increases the risks. We are promoting and enabling action to protect and enhance biodiversity – Preserving the land for generations primarily by managing marginal and less Luciane Copetti is a grower and has been Secretary of Environment of Lucas do Rio productive farmland alongside fields and Verde municipality, which is a major production area for soybean in Brazil. She’s been waterways to create rich, connected wildlife a leading figure in mobilizing growers, government, NGOs and companies to establish habitats. This is recognized as the greatest forest conservation areas amongst the numerous farms that operate there. Her work opportunity to enhance biodiversity in supports the Soja+Verde project, an environmental partnership involving Syngenta agricultural landscapes. and The Nature Conservancy. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2016 17 We are making biodiversity solutions an In 2016, sales of products targeted at integral part of our commercial approach. Empower smallholders were reduced by adverse To support this, we are building an smallholders weather and changes in our go-to-market extensive network of partners: regional strategies; as a result, the calculated number governments, municipalities, NGOs, of smallholders reached through sales farmers and academics. Farmers want Reach 20 million smallholders and reduced to 16.6 million (2015: 17.2 million). to see evidence of the benefits on offer, enable them to increase productivity However, we remain confident of reaching so partnering with a local university on a by 50 percent our goal of 20 million by 2020. demonstration plot is a typical first step. Productivity gains on smallholder farms Smallholders reached1 m We work closely with conservation bodies come from a combination of state-ofto review and validate our approach. With the World Business Council for Sustainable Development we brought 16.6m the-art products made available in pack sizes appropriate for smallholders and the necessary training to use them effectively. 2020 20.0 together a coalition of businesses, We are measuring our progress in conservationists and institutions to produce 2016 16.6 improving smallholder productivity through a policy briefing paper on the multifunctional our network of reference farms. Today, 2015 17.2 benefits of promoting biodiversity corridors we have 73 smallholder reference farmers in agricultural landscapes. Part of this 2014 13.8 in our Good Growth Plan farm network. work was presented at the UN Convention 1 Through sales The average productivity gain on these on Biological Diversity conference in farms in 2016 was 8 percent, and we December 2016. Progress and key achievements assess the benefit this can bring through social impact assessments. Driving action up the value chain 3 Land productivity increase on A key goal is to establish biodiversity smallholder reference farms 8 percent Measuring the difference alongside water and soil conservation as we make 3 Partnerships to scale-up social a primary focus for value chain partners. impact assessment Reaching more smallholders is a means We are encouraging them to include to an end: we want to increase our impact biodiversity in the criteria they set for 3 Addressed grower challenges through on the wellbeing and prosperity of these supply contracts with farmers, and are partnerships such as the Sustainable farmers and their communities. pleased that a growing number of food Table Grapes Initiative in India manufacturers now see this as part of their To see the broader picture of what we bring own responsibility towards the environment to them through our products and services, Smallholder growers are critical to the we have been working with the Sustainable and their customers. Some even advertise world’s food security, yet they often Markets Intelligence Center (CIMS) and it on their consumer packaging. face high financial risks and low returns. other partners including the Sustainable What’s next? Every day, 180,000 people leave rural Food Lab to develop a new impact In 2017, we’ll continue to work with partners communities to live in cities. assessment methodology. This brings a to make investment in field margin habitats consistent approach to all our social impact Over half our sales are in developing simpler and cheaper for farmers, and assessments worldwide. It enables us to countries dominated by smallholder to embed the concept more deeply into examine our impacts from economic, social farmers, particularly in Africa, Asia Pacific our commercial offer. We’ll also continue and environmental perspectives, and to and Latin America. As our contact with promoting the benefits across a broad consider a broader range of factors such smallholders is largely indirect through spectrum of stakeholders, supported by as farmer and farmworker safety. vendors of our products, we use sales findings from our impact assessments. volume data to calculate the number of smallholders reached. 18 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 The Good Growth Plan Harmonizing our approach will allow us to scale-up the number of assessments by working with multiple partners – customizing individual studies to suit different countries, cultures and crops while still obtaining rigorous, consistent and comparable results. The new approach is currently being tested in Indonesia. This work will be supported by our new global partnership with Solidaridad – an international development organization that has been focused for over 45 years on social justice and the sustainable production of food. Solidaridad’s goals are closely aligned with those of The Good Growth Plan, and the organization is well respected for its work with companies in the value chain on practical action to improve conditions for farmers. Putting what we learn into action Improving yields and livelihoods In 2016, we received the findings from three social impact assessments Priscar Mwangangi grows tomatoes, peppers and corn on a small plot of land in conducted in 2015 in China, India and Kenya. Heavy rains, crop disease and low-yielding seeds kept her from achieving her Mexico. These are giving us a better dream of growing healthy plants all year round. With training and high-quality inputs understanding of our interactions with from Syngenta, her farm is now thriving. She’s helping show growers in her community smallholders in these countries, which will how they can improve their yields and livelihoods as well. help us to refine our go-to-market models to increase the benefits we bring to farmers One encouraging model is the multiWhat’s next? and communities – for example, by helping stakeholder Sustainable Table Grapes to ensure more rigorous adoption of In the year ahead, we will continue Initiative in India, where we are one of the developing partnerships to tackle structural safe-use practices. partners providing input on sustainable challenges facing smallholders in areas Not all the issues we identify can be growing protocols. India is one of the such as financing and access to technology addressed by us alone. While prioritizing largest exporters of table grapes to the and markets. We will also be undertaking factors we can influence directly, we European Union (EU). Sales have grown new social impact assessments using are actively seeking and developing dramatically, but further success will our new methodology in Brazil, Guatemala, partnerships to drive broader change by depend on significant progress in areas Indonesia and Mexico. addressing challenges that our impact such as pesticide residues. Co-ordinated assessments bring to light. In India, for by IDH, The Sustainable Trade Initiative, example, we have gained valuable insights this project brings together stakeholders into the problems caused by growers’ lack ranging from growers in India to retailers of access to microfinance. And in both in the EU with the aim of making the entire China and India there’s a need for more industry more sustainable. effective ways of recycling our product containers after use. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2016 19 deliver high-quality training. In 2016, we As one of the outcomes of our 2015 Help people emphasized that this is central to the way Farmer Safety Workshop, we have formed stay safe we do business by introducing a cadre a joint working group with Solidaridad to of Master Trainers who are part of our seek deeper understanding of farmers’ mainstream commercial organization behavior and ways to improve knowledge Train 20 million farm workers on labor rather than a specialist stewardship team. transfer and adoption of training messages. safety, especially in developing countries Our target is for each of our territories to Our partnership on training is part of a have at least one Master Trainer responsible People trained on safe use 1 broader collaboration with Solidaridad m for training new trainers: in its first year, the on smallholder empowerment, which also new scheme has already covered more 17.2m than 50 percent of territories, including all territories where we reach smallholders. covers aspects such as capacity building and productivity enhancement. 2020 20.0 What’s next? Driving real behavior change 2016 6.8 17.2 In the year ahead, we aim to engage more Effective training will have a lasting effect organizations in the discussion on behavior 2015 10.4 on farmers’ behavior. To maximize its change. To help farmers recognize the real effectiveness, we need to ensure that 2014 4.7 value of using chemicals safely, we need farmers and farm workers fully understand 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014 to involve more of the value chain. This will our recommendations and why they be the focus of a second Farmer Safety matter, so that actions such as using Progress and key achievements Workshop. We are planning to widen the the right personal protection or correctly participation of the private sector as well as 3 Strengthened and scaled-up train-thefollowing instructions on product labels the NGOs and academics who were the trainer initiatives through new Master become instinctive. main contributors to our first workshop. Trainer Program 3 New partnerships to improve knowledge transfer We share a responsibility to help improve occupational safety and health in agriculture. This applies particularly to smallholders, especially those in developing countries, who often lack access to guidance on using crop protection efficiently, responsibly and safely. Measuring the difference we make In 2016, we reached 6.8 million people with dedicated safety training programs and safe-use awareness-raising initiatives linked to commercial activities. This brought the cumulative total since 2014 to 17.2 million and kept us well on track to meet our 20 million target by 2020. Smallholders make up some 70 percent of the people we train on safe use, as part of a broader training on using our products to best effect. Spreading the word on safe use Enhancing our training capability Shi Lijie was trained by Syngenta on the safe use of pesticides 10 years ago. As a corn and rice grower in Liaoning province, China, she learned first-hand how We constantly look for ways to enhance the pesticides can be applied and stored safely through the “5 Golden Rules” of safe and reach and quality of our safe-use training. effective use of crop protection products. She now leads trainings in her community Key to this is our train-the-trainer program, for Syngenta to help spread the word as an advocate for safety. which equips our commercial teams to 20 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 The Good Growth Plan We have worked with the Fair Labor remediation plans and reports on progress Look after Association (FLA) since 2004 to develop against these – are available on the every worker and manage our Fair Labor Program, FLA website1. requiring suppliers to comply with laborIn 2016, we completed implementation of rights codes in nine areas: Employment Strive for fair labor conditions Relationship; Nondiscrimination; the program in China, Colombia, Mexico throughout our entire supply Harassment and Abuse; Forced Labor; and Paraguay. At the end of the year, it chain network covered over 24,000 suppliers, representing Child Labor; Freedom of Association 82 percent of our seed supply chain. and Collective Bargaining; Health, Seed supply farms The slight decrease of coverage from Safety and Environment; Hours of Work; in our Fair Labor Program % 84 percent in 2015 is due to adaption to and Compensation. local market demand for seed production 82% Measuring the difference we make in a couple of countries in the program. We now have 100 percent coverage of suppliers in Latin America and Asia Pacific, 2020 100 Each year, we aim to audit compliance and of all countries regarded as high-risk for on 20 percent of farms in each country. 2016 82 labor rights. During the year we monitored The findings trigger corrective action compliance at 4,500 farms representing 2015 84 plans and improvements to the program. 18 percent 2 of the farms in the program; the In higher-risk areas the FLA independently 2014 53 FLA undertook some 20 independent audits audits a further 2 to 5 percent and during the same period, visiting around publishes its findings. The FLA audit Progress and key achievements 200 farms covering about 2,000 workers. findings – together with the Syngenta 3 All our seed suppliers in Latin America and Asia Pacific covered by our Fair Labor Program by end-2016 3 Of our commercial flowers farms, 73 percent have GLOBALG.A.P. certification and 24 percent have G.R.A.S.P. assessment 3 Two-thirds of our chemicals suppliers covered by our Supplier Sustainability Program We recognize a responsibility to ensure that our supply chain meets the highest ethical standards, especially in developing countries. Offering workers fair and attractive conditions will also help agriculture to stem the population drift to cities that can undermine efforts to increase production. We are committed to ensuring fair labor conditions across our supply chain. But this is no simple task: our seed supply Advocating for fair labor chain – with almost 30,000 farms – poses particular challenges. Renukamma Umapathi’s small family farm in southern India produces Syngenta seed. After being trained in our Fair Labor Program, she advocates for the eradication of child labor, workers’ rights, and issues of health and safety for farm workers. She’s been 1 www.fairlabor.org/affiliate/syngenta 2 In some countries, the growing season was still underway instrumental in changing attitudes of other seed growers in her village to help keep when we completed our reporting year on September 30 – children out of the fields and enrolled in school. so some farms monitored are not included. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2016 21 73% Percentage of Certifying our flower suppliers Work continues in our flower business What’s next? By 2020, we will have added some 20 more to obtain certification to GLOBALG.A.P./ countries to our Fair Labor Program to our commercial G.R.A.S.P. social practice standard for all ensure 100 percent coverage. In 2017, we flowers farms our own and third-party commercial flowers will be rolling the program out to four more that have farms. Take-up among our major suppliers countries in Europe; North America will GLOBALG.A.P. has been rapid, and by the end of the year follow in 2018. We will continue working certification 73 percent of farms had GLOBALG.A.P. to build rigor into our monitoring so that certification and 24 percent had undergone we can provide robust progress reporting. the G.R.A.S.P. assessment. In some Our findings correspond largely to those of Our goal is not merely to tick compliance countries, the largest challenge has been the FLA. Although some topics are more boxes but to achieve real improvement. finding auditors certified to carry out both common in certain regions, there are more We have come a long way, but are under the GLOBALG.A.P. and G.R.A.S.P. work. general themes – including compliance no illusions about how much more there is with safety measures and trust in existing Auditing chemicals suppliers to do. These are complex issues involving grievance mechanisms. We have a long tradition of assessing and many actors from farmers to governments: auditing our chemical suppliers’ compliance we welcome discussion to share ideas and A particular challenge that we are experience, and by reporting transparently with our health, safety and quality standards. currently addressing is compliance with on our progress we hope to contribute to In 2015, we joined the Together for minimum wage payments to workers better informed debate. Sustainability (TfS) initiative, which pools on our supply farms in India. This is a the resources of its member companies well-documented problem for agriculture to optimize the efficiency and frequency in India, as prevailing market wages of supplier audits and assessments. differ – sometimes significantly – from TfS also covers a broader range of criteria the legal minimum wage. In 2016, we including labor rights compliance. organized a multi-stakeholder dialogue on the topic, held jointly with the FLA, in During 2016, we carried out risk Hyderabad. Eleven companies representing assessments on all our chemical suppliers 80 percent of the hybrid seeds industry over a certain spend and categorized them in India attended the meeting, along with as high-, mediumor low-sustainability risk. 21 civil society delegates representing We aim to bring all mediumand high-risk trade unions, NGOs, research institutions, suppliers into our Supplier Sustainability multilateral agencies, as well as both male Program in the coming years. In 2016, and female farmers and farm workers. two-thirds of our target suppliers were covered by either our internal HSE audit Building on feedback from delegates, we or the TfS supplier program. started two pilot projects – one in corn and one in hot pepper, covering a total For more on the TfS supplier program, of about 3,000 workers – to address the see “Supplier impacts” on page 40. challenge of ensuring that workers receive the wages agreed and paid to farmers. Other companies attending the dialogue have also committed to run pilots in their supplier networks. 22 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Regional performance New technologies In some areas, farming flourished despite low crop prices: bright spots included favorable conditions in Russia and Ukraine for corn and sunflowers, and driving growth economic measures benefiting agriculture in Argentina. Innovation remains the key to success Syngenta is a global organization of some 28,000 people working Even in a difficult market environment, innovation continues to be a powerful sales in around 90 countries. To understand and meet the needs of driver. Our new carboxamide fungicide farmers across a wide range of climatic conditions, we have SOLATENOL™ is set to make a growing 119 research and development sites and 107 production and supply contribution to sales over the coming years. sites. Our teams around the world use their expertise and local It is the principal ingredient in a range of knowledge to tailor our offer and to provide solutions that create new products launched in the USA in 2016 value for growers. for grains, fruit and vegetables. The roll out in Europe began with the launch of In 2016, the world’s farmers faced a diversity of challenges – climatic, the fungicide ELATUS™ PLUS in France, economic and agronomic. In addition, they continued to come under effective against all key foliar diseases in pressure to demonstrate that farming can be carried out sustainably. cereals. ELATUS™ has already achieved Increasingly, Syngenta is differentiating itself not only through the significant success in Latin America and is now being followed by the fungicide strength of its portfolio but also through The Good Growth Plan, which ADEPIDYN™, which received approval represents a roadmap towards more sustainable farm practices. in Argentina in November. In the USA – where growers have been particularly affected by the weak Climate change brings corn price – the success of our weed unpredictable challenges management solutions has been reinforced Climate change continues to bring extreme with the launch of ACURON™. This new and unpredictable weather patterns around corn herbicide uses three modes of action the globe. In 2016, this meant droughts in for superior weed control and protects Europe, much of Asia, Australia and Western and against rapid resistance development. Africa and North Midwestern USA – while large parts of It represents a game-changing solution Europe suffered from exceptionally cold for growers that also preserves soil and Middle East America and wet weather. Latin America fared water resources – both key elements of Pages 23−25 Pages 26−28 rather better, with relatively benign weather The Good Growth Plan. following two difficult years of drought in Product innovation also drove growth in the North and floods in the South. Asia Pacific, where farmers are increasingly Commodity prices put pressure adopting new technologies to enhance on farm investment productivity and address the growing problem of labor scarcity. Weak commodity prices affected growers across Asia, Europe and North America. Poor returns can undermine Latin growers’ willingness to invest in advanced America Asia Pacific technologies, but yield protection remains imperative in order to avoid a further Pages 29–31 Pages 32–34 erosion of their incomes. Regional performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 23 Europe, Africa and Middle East EAME is our largest region in terms of sales. At present our business comes mainly from Europe, which has some 20 percent of the world’s planted area – ranging from intensive farming of field crops in Western and Central Europe to production of high-value fruit and vegetables around the Mediterranean. An increasing share of future sales will come from growing markets including Russia, Ukraine and Africa. $3,793m 12,429 Sales Employees1 47 44 Research and Production Development sites and Supply sites Sandro Giacobbe Wheat grower, Gavorrano, Italy 1 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 24 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Europe, Africa and Middle East The region delivered a solid performance in challenging The CIS countries – particularly the growth markets of Russia and Ukraine – and South East Europe present substantial >50% Drop in conditions, with exceptionally opportunities for modernization and malaria cases wet weather affecting the cereals intensification and will continue to make reported in market in Western Europe. a significant contribution to our growth Northern Ghana This was more than offset by in this region. after the dynamic growth in Russia and adoption of Africa and the Middle East currently Ukraine and a resilient performance ACTELLIC® 300CS account for less than 9 percent of our sales in other emerging markets. in EAME. There are major opportunities to Sales1 EAME $m increase yields and sustainably intensify production with modern technology. Western Europe, hit by exceptionally bad $3,793m Working with local partners, we aim to weather and weak commodity prices, saw help Africa ensure its self-sufficiency while a significant cereals market contraction. developing into a major food exporter. France reported the worst cereals harvest 2016 3,793 for 30 years. Nevertheless, our strong 2015 3,884 Growth despite value proposition encouraged growers to multiple challenges invest in HYVIDO® hybrid barley. The poor 2014 4,547 cereals market was partially offset by strong In 2016, we achieved sales growth against 1 Excluding Lawn and Garden a background of significant challenges demand for fungicides in specialty crops Performance highlights across the region. War and political such as potatoes and grapes, and a good instability resulted in currency weakness year for rice in Italy. 3 Strong growth in Russia and and difficult business conditions in many The vegetable seed market across the Ukraine, led by cereals parts of the CIS, Africa and the Middle East. region was challenging due to low prices and sunflower Rain and cold weather severely damaged across most of North Africa and the Middle 3 European launch of the cereals production in Northern and Central East, and to political tension in Turkey. fungicide ELATUS™ PLUS Europe and France. Low commodity prices were a continuing challenge, limiting Lawn and Garden sales in EAME, not in France growers’ willingness to invest. included in the regional figures reported 3 Continuing success of above, rose by 10 percent (CER) in 2016. ACTELLIC® 300CS against Sales: driven by CIS success In the increasingly competitive Flowers malaria vectors in Africa Despite these headwinds, we achieved market, we benefited from successful overall sales growth of 5 percent at product launches with further new product constant exchange rates. introductions expanding our portfolio in 2017. In Europe and the Middle East, Sales growth was driven mainly by a we had considerable success with our strong performance in Russia and Ukraine, innovative tree care business, protecting primarily for cereals. We also registered species such as palm trees against market share gains in sunflowers and a invasive pests. strong performance in Seedcare. Regional performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 25 The principal growth driver in Lawn and In Africa and the Middle East, we have Garden, however, was the outstanding reached some 350,000 smallholders, success of the insecticide ACTELLIC® primarily by offering products in smaller 300CS in controlling malaria-transmitting pack sizes with pictograms on the 717 mosquitoes. This long-lasting insecticide labels. We are now building on a model is now helping to protect an estimated originally developed in India, which 20 million people across Sub-Saharan Number of field trials involves training smallholders as lead Africa. As an example of its impact, undertaken to register farmers who help with knowledge Northern Ghana has seen malaria cases ELATUS™ PLUS transfer and product distribution to fall by over 50 percent since adopting in France neighboring growers. We have linked ACTELLIC® 300CS. And after a malaria our outreach to smallholders to the control campaign with ACTELLIC® expansion of safe-use training, and 300CS in Mutasa, Zimbabwe, there we have been able to recruit many Supporting delivery of was a 38 percent decline in predicted lead farmers into this activity through The Good Growth Plan malaria cases compared with the previous our train-the-trainer programs. two years. We are making significant progress on all six Good Growth Plan commitments. In 2016, we started preparations for Strong in cereals and sunflower Our focus on sustainability is having an implementation of the Syngenta Fair Labor Our excellent performance in the CIS increasing influence on our commercial Program with seed suppliers in Germany, countries is built on leading positions in performance and clearly differentiates Italy, Spain and the UK. We expect both crop protection and seeds. We have our business model. implementation to be completed in 2017. particular strength in cereals, but were also Over 80 percent of commercial flowers Our EAME farm network covers 13 crops farms in EAME hold GLOBALG.A.P. helped in 2016 by our excellent sunflower in 19 countries and reflects the region’s certification and more than 20 percent portfolio and competitive offering in crop diversity, climatic range and focus a G.R.A.S.P. assessment. Both certification sugar beet. on high-quality produce. In enhancing and assessments are renewed yearly. Our major new carboxamide fungicide crop productivity, we consider quality SOLATENOL™ provides growers with a new as well as quantity to better meet the Of our chemical suppliers in EAME, over tool for managing disease. EU registration needs of the value chain and reduce 70 percent are included in our Supplier at the end of 2015 cleared the way for us crop wastage. Sustainability Program. to introduce an array of new offers and We are continuously improving how soil combination products for the European conservation is built into our commercial cereals market. France issued our first activities such as HYVIDO® hybrid barley, European country registration in July 2016, the CONTIVO® solution or minimum and sales began for the 2016/17 season tillage in South Russia. Commercial offers under the brand name ELATUS™ PLUS. including biodiversity in loyalty programs SOLATENOL™ shows outstanding potency account for half of the benefited acreage. and long-lasting control against all key We’ve had particular success in Germany. cereal diseases including septoria and Our loyalty program provides biodiversity yellow and brown rusts. It delivers very high seed mixtures and planting support for levels of leaf protection and corresponding better management of field margins. yield benefits for the grower. We have This, in turn, often attracts additional submitted registration applications across benefits for the farmer from local rural Europe, and in 2016 held demonstration development plans. days for growers in France, Germany and the UK. 26 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 North America North America comprises Canada and the USA. It generates about 25 percent of Syngenta’s revenue. Its growers – among the most competitive and productive in the world – are typically early adopters of new technologies, from crop and seed protection to soil conservation and digital farming. The region has about 10 percent of the global planted area, but half the world’s genetically modified seed cultivation. $3,202m 4,176 Sales Employees 33 31 Research and Production Development sites and Supply sites Ryan Peterson Syngenta GOLDEN HARVEST® Seed Adviser, Pocahontas, Iowa, USA Regional performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 27 In 2016, some weather challenges and depressed commodity prices The USA is our center for seeds biological research and development, including genetic engineering and new plant breeding 176ha Average size made it harder for farmers to innovations. Weed, disease and insect of a North American farm invest in technology. However, resistance are a persistent challenge in we maintained our reputation for the region, and we continue to develop innovation, with new products technologies to help growers combat these In US Seeds, soybean sales were limited by and new applications. pressures while remaining competitive in a supply constraints, but we had a very good generally low commodity price environment. year for corn. In Canada, our soybean seed Sales1 North America $m business was led by strong short-season Helping growers tackle climate varieties in Western Canada. $3,202m and commodity price challenges Water, a critical resource for agriculture, is We continued to increase both sales and margins in corn – benefiting from 2016 3,202 challenging in parts of the region. Much of the Western and Midwest USA experienced the continuing success of AGRISURE 2015 3,410 droughts in the first part of 2016; and in the VIPTERA®, and further growth and adoption South, while timely rains supported good of AGRISURE® traits by independent seed 2014 3,582 crop yields, the weather turned dry later in companies through our GREENLEAF 1 Excluding Lawn and Garden the season. As climate change brings less GENETICS® business. The market for predictable and more extreme weather, we ENOGEN® is broadening, with 24 ethanol Performance highlights offer growers solutions such as AGRISURE plants signed up by year end. 3 Launched 16 new crop protection ARTESIAN® corn, which delivers strong Our Vegetables business achieved steady products performance in both drought and growth and maintained its market share excessively wet conditions. while enhancing profitability through 3 Extended seed distribution footprint During 2016, low commodity prices had portfolio mix improvement. 3 Grew ENOGEN® market share and an increasing impact on North American Lawn and Garden sales are not included launched into promising new markets farmers. While low commodity prices can in the regional figures reported above. reduce farmers’ willingness to invest in In North America, they rose by 1 percent Around 70 percent of the region’s cultivated advanced technologies, our broad product in 2016. We further increased our market area is planted with corn, soybean and portfolios enable us to offer growers a leadership in Turf & Ornamentals through wheat, representing about 30 percent of range of price points, and we are able continued emphasis on product innovation, world production in each case. The USA is to highlight technologies designed to and we also gained share in the pest, the world’s largest seeds and traits market, protect yield. public health and vector control markets. and the second largest for crop and seed In the increasingly competitive Flowers Innovation and strong products protection after Brazil. In Canada, key crops market, we benefited from successful that perform new product introductions and strong include cereals, canola, corn, soybean and pulses. Excluding the impact of non-recurring partnerships across the value chain – with royalty income in 2015, sales were just further launches due to extend the portfolio 2 percent lower. We maintained Crop in 2017. Protection sales, despite the dry weather in the West and South, which reduced demand for fungicides. Sales growth was led by strong new product introductions including ACURON™ corn herbicide – one of our most eagerly anticipated product launches in recent years – and a range of fungicides applying our SOLATENOL™ technology. 28 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 North America Expanding in Crop Protection and Seeds ENOGEN® corn is a feedstock for ethanol plants: it delivers alpha amylase enzyme directly in the grain, substantially enhancing 95% Retention rate of growers in our We continue to meet our customers’ ethanol yield. It has been well received AGRIEDGE EXCELSIOR® farm management needs with innovative solutions, and in by ethanol plants, and we now have program, combining Syngenta products 2016 we launched 16 significant new crop agreements with plants representing with computer-aided management protection products. The most important, almost a fifth of the accessible market. ACURON™ selective herbicide, combines Growers receive a premium price bicyclopyrone with three additional active for ENOGEN® corn, and by targeting ingredients for control of the most difficult farms around ethanol plants we have weeds in corn. The four overlapping rapidly ramped up our share in these modes of action provide high effectiveness local markets. combined with strong protection against resistance. Syngenta has been a leader in applying data analytics and predictive science to We also launched a range of fungicides plant breeding programs, accelerating the applying our novel SOLATENOL™ development of new varieties with hightechnology: TRIVAPRO™ for corn, soybean performing genetics. In the USA, this work We have continued to build on longand wheat; ELATUS™ for peanuts and began with soybean and we have been standing partnerships with conservation potatoes; APROVIA™ for apples, grapes extending it successfully to other crops. groups to help farmers manage for and pears; and APROVIA™ TOP for fruiting Meanwhile, to maintain our leadership increased biodiversity. In 2016, this work vegetables and cucurbits. For vegetables, in seed treatment, in 2016 we opened a benefited a further 219,000 hectares potatoes and tobacco, we launched $ 21 million, 3,500-square-meter Seedcare of farmland. ORONDIS™, a new mode of action Institute in Minnesota. fungicide based on oxathiapiprolin. As part of our safe-use outreach, we In Seeds, we expanded our distribution Supporting delivery of have trained more than 900 pest control The Good Growth Plan professionals in the safe and correct footprint by growing our seed advisor and application of an insect control technology GOLDEN HARVEST® dealer channel – North America has a sophisticated from our Lawn and Garden portfolio to where farmers are advisors and distributors agricultural industry achieving high levels help fight the spread of the Zika virus. to their neighbors. This helped to drive of productivity through technology. strong sales growth, particularly in corn. But there is still potential to increase We also work with our suppliers to improve Through GREENLEAF GENETICS® we productivity while also ensuring that processes and implement sustainability continued to expand strategic partnerships performance is sustainable. In 2016, we standards. In 2016, almost 50 percent with other seed companies, growing our expanded our North America network of our chemical suppliers were covered sales of traits and seeds for distribution of reference farms to more than 150, by our Supplier Sustainability Program. under partners’ own brands. including the first Canadian reference farms, to capture additional sustainable productivity data for canola, wheat, peas and barley production. To promote soil conservation techniques more effectively, we seeded cover crop demonstrations at selected sites in our Grow More Experience network of demonstration farms. These will enable us to show channel partners, growers and other influencers the benefits of minimumtillage techniques. Regional performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 29 Latin America This is the second largest of our four regions by sales. Latin America accounts for almost 10 percent of the world’s cropped area and is the global leader in soybean, sugar cane and coffee production. Farm scale ranges from a predominance of smallholders in Central America to highly-technified large-scale farms in Argentina and Brazil – where over 90 percent of soybean and 80 percent of corn includes genetically modified traits. $3,293m 5,161 Sales Employees 12 12 Research and Production Development sites and Supply sites Paulo Coutinho Veit Corn and soybean grower, Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil 30 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Latin America The region’s promise has been Despite political, economic and overshadowed in recent years by agricultural challenges in several political and economic volatility – major markets, our LATAM exemplified in 2016 by severe disruption businesses successfully captured in Venezuela, contrasting with business opportunities while managing risks. As a result, we retained our leading recovery in Argentina. Maintaining progress 90% Percentage of soybean production market position, maintained pricing in unstable conditions grown from GM seeds in Argentina and discipline and improved profitability. After two years disrupted by El Niño – with Brazil – reflecting the high degree of floods in the South and drought in the modernization in these two major markets Sales1 Latin America $m North – a more moderate La Niña brought $3,293m relatively benign weather conditions in 2016. However, a variety of countryInevitably, sales were impacted by political 2016 3,293 specific political, economic and agricultural and economic volatility in key markets. challenges made 2016 a volatile year The most severely affected was Venezuela, 2015 3,632 across the region. where our temporary suspension of 2014 4,279 distribution due to difficulties in obtaining In times of political and economic payment for deliveries reduced sales by 1 Excluding Lawn and Garden uncertainty, farmers are more reluctant to around $ 75 million. However, we addressed invest in technological solutions and can Performance highlights difficult conditions across the region face problems in gaining access to finance. through action on pricing, go-to-market In Brazil, for example, while the currency 3 Further penetration of INTEGRARE™ strategies and financing for farmers. stabilized, credit conditions remained tight. corn and soybean solutions We also continued to offer complete On the upside, Argentina had a very packages of products and services to 3 Continued success of VIPTERA™ positive year with a turnaround in address farmers’ needs, giving us the 3 New seeds operating model raising macroeconomic policies that favored opportunity to demonstrate the value quality and margins agriculture. Andean countries saw of the full breadth of our technologies. improvements in agronomic conditions as In the North, our strengthening position in rainfalls ended two years of drought, and The LATAM region’s main crops are Mexico offset challenges in the Andean conditions in Mexico were also favorable soybean (40 percent of acreage) and corn countries. In Brazil, we benefited from despite devaluation of the peso. (around 25 percent). Brazil and Argentina our strong customer relationships as are among the world’s top three exporters Go-to-market strategies and the economy started to recover. A good of corn and soybean. Brazil is also the financing solutions performance in the South was underpinned leading producer and exporter of orange by political and macroeconomic change For the full year, sales were down by juice, coffee and sugar cane, and accounts in Argentina. 9 percent at constant exchange rates. for 67 percent of our LATAM sales. Excluding the change in sales terms In Crop Protection, we expect to have Mexico is a key producer and exporter implemented in 2015 and 2016 the increased market share with a strong of vegetables. reduction was 3 percent. contribution from Latin America South and some improvement in Brazil. In Seeds, we expect to show gains in germplasm share for corn, soybean and sunflower. Regional performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 31 Adding value Smallholder inclusion programs provide across the portfolio improved farming practices, better market access and boost the prosperity ADEPIDYN Offering growers end-to-end products ™ and services that meet their specific of local communities. Examples include needs – helping them to increase yields, the MasAgro Program in Mexico, run in Argentina was the first country partnership with the International Maize crop quality and productivity – has in the world to register our new deepened customer relationships and and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), fungicide blockbuster ADEPIDYN™, and NUCOFFEE™ Sustentia in Brazil, which strengthened both margins and market which is expected to generate share. We can demonstrate added value has UTZ as a certification partner. significant sales in the coming years not only in crop yield but elsewhere in the On biodiversity, we have made excellent value chain. For instance, our Sillus corn progress in Brazil. In partnership with solution offers increased milk yields for The Nature Conservancy and local Seed sales showed strong growth, driven farmers who grow corn as cattle feed; organizations in the Cerrado, the country’s by the success of VIPTERA™ corn in and GranoTop increases productivity in main agricultural region, we support Brazil and an uplift in corn and sunflower feed grain for poultry and pork producers, growers to preserve parts of their land sales in Argentina, where lower export with high nutrition quality that attracts as biodiversity habitats. This outstanding tariffs resulted in increased planting. premium prices. program encourages growers to go Profitability benefited from our new In Argentina and Brazil, we continue to operating model for seeds, which has led beyond meeting national legislation increase the penetration of our high-yield to portfolio rationalization and improved requirements. Through carefully planned INTEGRARE™ solution for soybeans and product quality and availability. landscape connectivity, the program corn. Offering growers higher productivity benefited more than 2.8 million hectares per hectare, it combines best-in-class Supporting delivery of of farmland in 2016 and is our largest seeds, seed treatments and crop The Good Growth Plan Good Growth Plan biodiversity project. protection with robust protocols and a We are making good progress on all Over the last few years, we achieved range of optional agronomic and financial six commitments in LATAM. impressive improvements in labor services including nutritional advice and risk conditions on our seed supply farms in As well as offering higher crop management tools. We now also offer the Argentina and Brazil. We have now taken productivity, our integrated solutions VIPTERA™ insect-resistance trait as part of this experience to other countries, and in generally incorporate other benefits an integrated solution including herbicide to 2016 we completed the implementation that support The Good Growth Plan. deliver the industry’s most comprehensive of our Fair Labor Program in all seed For example, INTEGRARE™ in Brazil corn insect control and yield protection. supplying countries in the region. and INTEGRASOJA™ in Latin America The fungicides ELATUS™ and MAZEN™, South include water and soil nutrition which are based on SOLATENOL™, are management services that ensure more winning increased adoption as part of a sustainable use of land. We’ve had sustainable approach to long-term fungal significant successes in soil conservation control for soybean in Brazil and Paraguay. across the region. Insecticide sales were constrained by high channel inventories, lower pest pressure We have extended safe-use training and the growing trait adoption, which across the region. We doubled the number reduces the need for crop protection. of people trained to close to 800,000. This increase was driven by the introduction of the safety multiplier train-the-trainer program in Latin America North and better inclusion of safe-use training in the sales team’s reporting tool in Brazil. 32 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Asia Pacific Accounting for 40 percent of the world’s cultivated land, APAC is a region dominated by smallholders farming less than 2 hectares. Changing diets and good scope for improving yields present significant opportunities for growth. $1,839m 6,044 Sales Employees 27 20 Research and Production Development sites and Supply sites Margareta Fatimah Corn grower, West Nusa Tenggara, Indonesia Regional performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 33 Our portfolio is built around key brands in Business momentum across herbicides, insecticides, fungicides and APAC built through the year 40% seed treatment, supporting our overall despite a challenging start marked position as market leader. We have by drought across ASEAN and successfully rejuvenated several key Asia has Australia, a variable monsoon in brands and introduced more than 15 new 40 percent South Asia and low crop prices. crop protection products into the region of the world’s Compelling solutions in corn, rice in 2016. We see further opportunities as cropped area, and vegetables – supported by farmers move to more intensive cropping representing only differentiation in key markets – cycles, greater scale in their operations and 27 percent of the technology upgrades. world’s agrochemicals, helped drive business growth. Momentum built through the year seeds and traits market Sales1 Asia Pacific $m The start to the year in APAC was $1,839m challenging with drought in Vietnam and As the middle class grows, diets are Thailand, extended dryness in Eastern changing; this will result in increased Australia, heavy rainfall in southern China, 2016 1,839 demand for high-quality vegetables and for and a delayed and variable late monsoon protein, which will be fed with cereals grown 2015 1,837 in South Asia. Crop prices for corn in in the region. Farmers will continue to adopt particular remained low throughout the 2014 2,033 new technology to drive yield, reliability and year, reducing growers’ incentive to invest. 1 Excluding Lawn and Garden quality in food production. Crop protection Weather conditions improved in the second technology will also need to demonstrate Performance highlights half, which had a positive effect on farmers’ improved environmental profiles and to purchasing decisions. This led to increased enable a reduction in farm labor. Corn and 3 Focus on the grower through strong investment in rice, corn, cereal and rice hybrids, as well as better seed varieties, existing brands and new product vegetable crops, and we saw a significant are being adopted more widely across Asia introductions in both our Seeds and expansion of cotton acreage, leading to and genetically modified corn has been Crop Protection portfolios greater demand for our seed treatment introduced in a second market, Vietnam, 3 New go-to-market model in India, products. For the full year, sales were up after its successful introduction in the Pakistan and Thailand 2 percent (CER) having been significantly Philippines some 13 years ago. lower in the first half. 3 Differentiation through Syngenta is at the forefront of this evolution The Good Growth Plan and the Brand rejuvenation in ASEAN, led by in APAC, with a broad portfolio in Seeds, creation of strong partnerships SCORE® fungicide, resulted in a strong Seedcare and Crop Protection chemistry rebound in our performance. In China, that is being progressively adopted as strong sales of FORTENZA® DUO saw farmers intensify production and as farming We are a market leader across Asia Pacific us make good gains in cereals. Our new in APAC increases in complexity and scale. (APAC), a region characterized by large product introductions in Crop Protection developed markets such as Japan and and Seeds in India continued to gain Australia on the one hand, and a variety momentum and now account for more of emerging markets on the other. We are than 20 percent of our sales. well placed to capture the opportunities created by low levels of technology adoption, Continued growth changing consumption patterns and through differentiation demand for more food of better quality Growth in APAC will predominantly come from a rapidly emerging middle class. from developing markets, driven by an existing portfolio of strong brands and the delivery of value-adding customer solutions. Syngenta will continue to differentiate itself through innovative go-to-market models and through our commitment to sustainable agriculture under The Good Growth Plan. 34 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Asia Pacific In 2016, we introduced a new go-toThe large number of smallholder farmers market model in India, focused on in APAC means that effective stewardship improving the capacity and capability of of our products is extremely important. our major distributors who are a key link In 2016, we reached almost 6 million in the distribution chain. Investing in our key channel partners and deepening this 400m APAC is home to farmers through farmer meetings, training them in safe use with the application of relationship has differentiated Syngenta the “5 Golden Rules” of safe and effective some 400 million from competitors and is supporting strong use of crop protection products. We also smallholders – they demand creation at the grower level. continue to work with our distributors and grow 80 percent retailers to ensure they understand the We are also progressively introducing of the region’s food importance of safe use, recognizing that the improved information systems to help channel is often a key source of information drive better customer relationships for farmers. Increasingly, we are working through deeper insights and better data. In 2016, we initiated a project in partnership to partner with external organizations In 2016, we announced the opening in with Mercy Corps to address a key to extend the reach and impact of our APAC of our second Seedcare Institute. constraint faced by smallholder corn stewardship training. Located in Singapore, the Institute is farmers in the Dompu, Bima and Sumbawa districts of Indonesia. Finance is crucial In recognition of the importance of focused on the effective application of for these farmers if they are to access biodiversity, we have created several seed treatment technology in tropical better technology to help improve innovative partnerships to support and sub-tropical markets, responding productivity. We worked with Mercy improvements in pollinator health. to intensification in the use of this Corps, which provides financial literacy Our early work with the Institute of innovative technology. training to help farmers understand their Apicultural Research within the China Supporting delivery of options and better manage risk, and Academy of Agricultural Science, the The Good Growth Plan a micro-finance institution that provides University of Western Sydney in Australia low interest loans and crop insurance. and the Indian Council of Agricultural The Good Growth Plan is a key differentiator Syngenta offers agronomy knowledge Research holds great promise for for Syngenta in APAC, helping to focus and training, and the project has resulted establishing the key role that modern our efforts on improving the sustainability in an average yield improvement of agriculture can play in ensuring the health of agriculture, in particular empowering 12 percent and a 23 percent improvement of pollinating insects. We have also actively the 400 million smallholder farmers who in farmer profitability. extended the application and reach of are responsible for most of the agricultural Operation Pollinator projects across APAC activity in the region. The Good Growth Plan also commits to provide essential habitats for feeding and Syngenta to achieving significant nesting pollinators in field margins, tailored improvements in crop productivity. to local conditions. In Bangladesh, we have recognized that women farmers are often the key to improving rice productivity, and we are working to partner with local organizations to improve women farmers’ access to quality inputs, agronomy knowledge and market information, all of which help to drive significant improvements in overall productivity and profitability. Syngenta Annual Review 2016 35 Operational performance Making a habit of We are harnessing a key element of AOL to drive a systemic, continuous improvement capability using a standardized methodology in operational excellence and sustaining it being ever better over time. We are now embedding this as a permanent part of our culture. Long after AOL has concluded, operational excellence will continue to help us reach new and ever more ambitious goals. Our outlook is inherently long term. We exist to support the The keys to sustainable long-term success of the growers who feed the world. To play productivity our part, we must be an organization that keeps on delivering Operational excellence is more than sustainably. We aim to be flexible, innovative and efficient a methodology; it’s a state of mind for in all our operations – continuously, day after day. continuous improvement. Its results are delivered not by systems but by people. So our long-term, sustained success will Making operational excellence continue to depend on our investment in the talent, skills and motivation of our a permanent way of life people – and those who lead them. Our operational strategy aims to enable profitable growth by delivering outstanding, Just as we invest in our people, we invest innovative products with scale, agility and in our production assets to ensure that efficiency. Since 2014, our Accelerating we have the right facilities and capacity Operational Leverage (AOL) program has to satisfy demand resource efficiently Sustainable and profitably. We also work in ever-closer focused attention across the business on People operations partnership with our suppliers, who make enhancing efficiency, profitability and the Pages 36−37 Pages 37−40 experience we provide for customers. a large and expanding contribution to our operations. AOL is the most recent in a series of programs that have aimed to realize As an integral element of our operational significant operational efficiencies since strategy, we focus on the long-term viability Syngenta was founded in 2000. But AOL of our internal and external operations. is more than a periodic cost efficiency Our approach is to maximize the pace intervention: it is a systematic approach and impact of our sustainability initiatives to making sustainable productivity by focusing on the areas offering greatest improvement a routine part of the way scope for resource efficiency: energy, water Business Public and waste. We are treating our production we work – a habit. integrity debates and logistics suppliers as additional focus Pages 41–42 Pages 43–44 areas, given their growing role in the sustainability of our business. See Non-financial information and data on pages 53–60 36 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 People 746 The Syngenta Awards 2016 received As part of our diversity and inclusion agenda, we have been actively working to develop women into leadership roles. 746 entries, which represented more than This is now resulting in increased promotion We strongly believe that leadership 7,000 employees from 51 countries of women into senior management, where and culture, together with employee the proportion of women rose to 16 percent engagement, drive innovation in 2016 (2015: 14 percent). and outperformance. We strive for continuous improvement in all During the year we received external these areas. recognition for our employment policies and performance. Science magazine Attrition rate % again placed Syngenta in its annual Top 20 employers list and ranked us 2016 6.0 14th in 2016. In the magazine’s worldwide 2015 6.1 survey of some 25,000 individuals and 400 HR professionals, Syngenta was cited 2014 5.5 Employee engagement in particular for its social responsibility, We believe it is important to recognize alignment of work culture values and Recordable illness and injury rate employees’ exceptional commitment and per 200,000 hours the loyalty of its people. And in Russia, enterprise – both to celebrate excellence Syngenta received an AON Best Employer 2016 0.39 and to share inspiration and best practice. Award reflecting the high level of employee That is the aim of the biennial Syngenta engagement there. 2015 0.38 Awards. In 2016, the program attracted 2014 0.37 746 entries from 51 countries; the Women in Agribusiness (WIA) named 20 finalists gathered in Basel in November Syngenta as Company of the Year in its to receive their awards and share Demeter Awards of Excellence, for our Developing our people their stories. achievements in initiating programs to and capabilities support the professional development, To foster employee engagement, it is achievements and overall growth of Leadership development is a long-term important to listen to our people and women in the industry. investment, and in 2016 we implemented a act on what we learn. During the year, new strategic approach. We see leadership we formalized and expanded our global Keeping our people safe development not as a one-time action feedback program with the launch of We aim to be an industry leader in health but as an ongoing journey that enables regular employee pulse surveys. and safety standards and performance. individual growth aligned to organizational needs. To increase our pipeline of A significant development, which we believe To this end, we make continuous managers at every level and to accelerate will help us retain talented people, is the investments in our safety program to the development of our leaders, we have flexible working policy introduced in 2016. sustain a top-tier Illness and Injury Rate launched new development “pathways” This is designed for global implementation, (IIR) of below 0.5. The rate remained low for leaders throughout the organization. with local variations in line with local in 2016, at 0.39 recordable incidents per legislation. It introduces greater flexibility 200,000 hours (2015: 0.38). To sharpen the strategic focus of on working hours, work location and jobSadly, there was one fatality during the our reporting on investment in talent sharing to help people manage their lives year: a sales employee in India was found development, in 2016 we adopted a new better, strike a more satisfying work/life dead on the road beside his motorcycle. KPI: leadership and talent development balance and live healthier lives. Reports indicate that he was struck by a investment. Our leadership and talent development investment in 2016 totaled We maintained a high level of retention in speeding vehicle, which then left the scene. $ 3.7 million (2015: $ 4.1 million). 2016. The number of voluntary leavers – excluding retirement and restructuring – was 6.0 percent (2015: 6.1 percent). Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 37 We maintain a number of programs aimed We believe every incident is preventable, at reducing driving-related risks, including online e-training focused on accident and since 2011 our Goal Zero initiative has targeted zero harm to people and Sustainable causes. In 2016, we extended the satellite tracking of fleet vehicles introduced in Latin zero safety incidents. It is deepening our understanding of risks and how to operations America in 2015. This monitors parameters mitigate them, and sharing this knowledge such as speed, seat belt use and driving globally has underpinned the strong safety To be a sustainable business with a time, enabling us to identify opportunities performance of our sites worldwide. long-term future, we need to invest for improvement. It now covers some in efficient production capacity to In 2016, several of our North American meet demand profitably. And we 60 percent of our fleet vehicles in Brazil, Research and Development (R&D) and must understand what we have and we have launched it in 11 countries production sites were honored by external across Africa and Asia, including Kenya to do to ensure we use resources organizations for outstanding safety and Bangladesh. performance. In North America, we also with ever greater efficiency. Further improvement is expected to launched a program to assess site-safety CO2e emissions intensity g/$sales come from the integration in 2016 of culture and further improve performance, our fleet management under a single with encouraging initial results. In Brazil, 2016 121 global service team, allowing more 25 R&D sites completed 500 days 2015 124 sophisticated monitoring and management. without a recordable incident. All our 2014 114 Across Syngenta, the number of incidents seeds facilities in South Asia completed per million kilometers driven was 1.5 in 1,000 days without a lost-time accident, 2016 – up slightly from 1.3 in 2015. and the Mezotur site in Hungary completed Water usage intensity liters/$sales 1,500 days without a lost-time accident. 2016 2.5 2015 2.6 2014 2.5 Hazardous waste intensity g/$sales 2016 15.2 2015 14.4 2014 15.6 The capacity to deliver efficiently We aim to produce high-quality seeds and crop protection products safely, reliably, responsively and cost effectively. This involves continually reviewing and adjusting our own production assets and building on established relationships with suppliers and tollers who have demonstrated their ability to deliver to our quality and cost standards. When it comes to accidents, it’s not about luck After several serious road accidents in Africa, we were determined to prevent further accidents. Working with leaders in Africa and the Middle East, we sought to build a culture of road safety through “behind the wheel” driver training for employees, leaderled discussions and GPS monitoring for risky driving behaviors. A campaign to raise awareness of driver safety highlighted life-changing stories of colleagues involved in road accidents. Thanks to these efforts, we’re saving lives on the road. 38 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Sustainable operations In 2016, capacity expansion projects were completed at three key sites. We expanded Making our operations more sustainable our corn seed factory in Formosa, Brazil, and opened a new ELATUS™ fungicide These are the principal activities currently underway to help us understand what’s plant in Paulínia, Brazil. This is a zero necessary to ensure sustainable operations and monitor our progress. effluent plant, further improving our environmental footprint. At Kaisten in Action by focus area Progress in 2016 Switzerland we stepped-up our ability to produce the S-Metolachlor herbicide used Energy in many of our successful brands. Carry out detailed audits of our Audits completed at 30 sites, based In June, we divested our active ingredient top 10 sites, accounting for over on EU energy requirements (AI) manufacturing site in Goa, India, to 80 percent of our energy use one of our strategic suppliers, Deccan Set targets for Syngenta Action plans created for our top 10 sites Fine Chemicals. The other seven global managed facilities AI sites continued to increase efficiency while maintaining their ability to deliver Water at high capacity. Our principal finishedproduct processing sites maintained Establish the water footprint for the Footprint assessment completed. their Operational Excellence approach seed supply business Developed water-use-optimization plans to continuous efficiency improvement. for high-risk areas Our partnership approach – together with Waste a structured consolidation of the number Establish waste footprints for Footprints completed. Now assessing of our key suppliers – provides a platform top 10 active ingredients generating principal opportunities and actions for that drives continuous improvement over 80 percent of our hazardous waste improvement, both within Syngenta in our supply chain. We concentrate manufacturing sites and at key active our investment in compatible and ingredient suppliers complementary technology and processes. To maintain the quality of our partnerships, Supplier impacts we select and monitor our suppliers to ensure their internal ways of working are Rank 100 percent of procurement Ranking assessments completed consistent with our own. categories to establish sustainability risks and focus areas identified Ensuring our future viability Actively participate in the Together Agreement completed and suppliers Our strategy for reducing external impacts for Sustainability (TfS) initiative categorized by sustainability risk. is to identify and focus on the areas Roll-out plan implemented where there is the greatest opportunity for Engage key suppliers in our audit Supported key suppliers and providers improvement. Since 2015, we have been and support program, and key with audits and driving continuous working on the five focus areas set out third-party waste treatment providers improvement initiatives targeting in the table “Making our operations more in our audit program process efficiency sustainable” on this page. CO2 from distribution Adopt fourth-party logistics (4PL) to 4PL roll-out underway. CO2 baselines cover our global operations in Crop set for sea logistics globally and overland Protection and field crops logistics in Europe and North America Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 39 Three of these areas concern the way By metering and measuring in more we use resources: energy, waste and sophisticated ways, we are increasing water. Our energy and waste impacts our understanding of the balance between come primarily from our production sites; rain-fed and irrigation-fed water use in 107 our focus has been the top 10 sites that fields, and how to optimize it. We aim to account for about 80 percent of our energy implement water management plans for footprint. While some of our manufacturing Number of all our field production in high-risk areas sites use large amounts of water, our Production and by 2020. greatest water-consuming activity by far Supply sites Waste is seed production. So, while we continue to work on reducing our industrial water Our active ingredient manufacturing sites consumption, our focus has been on generate hazardous waste. As well as In 2016, we completed EU-standard energy working to reduce waste generation, understanding and managing water use efficiency audits at 30 sites, covering on our seed supply farms. we also aim to convert or reuse more of well over 80 percent of our energy use. what we do produce, and our percentage The two other focus areas concern the These audits enabled us to identify the rates of recycling and reuse are high. way we work with suppliers and logistics actions and investments offering the We constantly review opportunities service providers. As our operating greatest opportunities for improvement, for optimizing both new and existing model evolves – with greater emphasis and we have developed action plans for processes, and for regenerating or on partnerships – external suppliers 2017 accordingly. reusing unavoidable waste – usually account for a large and growing part of Water as an additional source of energy. our environmental footprint. We are paying closer attention to the ways in which In 2016, water use at our manufacturing In 2016, hazardous waste generation we can work with them to help them to sites was down 7 percent in absolute terms remained constant at 195,000 tonnes. manage their environmental impacts. and 2 percent in intensity. The principal Reductions in manufacturing due to As well as working with our production factor was the reduction in cooling water efficiencies and lower production were supply chain, we are also transforming the used at our Monthey production site. offset by a remediation project in Paulínia, way we transport and store our products, We are focusing on more efficient Brazil. This accounted for the generation of to reduce both CO2 emissions and costs. water use in field production, including an additional 9,500 tonnes to landfill above sustainable water abstraction rates. normal operating activities. Using resources more efficiently In 2016, we completed the water footprint Ongoing waste reduction initiatives continue A summary of our performance in each study commissioned in 2015 across at individual site level. Although our main of our focus areas follows. For more our seed production supply chains, as focus so far has been on our own sites, detailed performance data, see pages well as our own sites, and established a our technical teams are working with our 58–59. We report our performance reporting framework for field production. suppliers on how to develop waste-efficient both in absolute terms and as intensity, We undertook water risk assessments processes. We also completed waste expressed per dollar of sales. for crops in high-risk areas as a basis for footprints for the top 10 active ingredients Energy setting management plans for optimizing producing more than 80 percent of our water use in these areas. waste. We are now undertaking deeper In 2016, our absolute energy consumption reduced by 10 percent to 8,341 TJ, driven investigations into optimizing our wasteprimarily by the reduction in production reduction programs. over the year. Energy intensity decreased by 5 percent. We have energy efficiency programs at all our sites. These are continuous and permanent: when targets are met, we will set more demanding ones, and we are focusing on the areas with the greatest potential for improvement. 40 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Sustainable operations In 2016, we grouped our existing chemical CO2 from distribution suppliers into high-, mediumand lowWe are committed to long-term CO2 82% impact categories. We tested the TfS audit intensity reduction for all our distribution and assessment methodology, and started logistics: by air, sea and overland. We are Percentage of rolling-out the TfS supplier program across currently implementing a global program suppliers in our our chemical suppliers. of outsourcing, primarily to “fourthfair labor programs We have continued to refine the way party logistics” partners who integrate we manage third parties, working in and co-ordinate all logistics operations partnership with them. Having ranked all across supply chains. By standardizing Air emissions our third-party suppliers for sustainability and optimizing processes and gaining risk and established a governance process economies of scale, we expect to improve Intensity-based and absolute greenhouse to track their performance, we continue to energyand cost-efficiency, compliance gas emissions decreased by 2 and work with key suppliers on aspects such and CO2 emissions. Over 50 percent of 7 percent respectively. Emissions from as process efficiency and process safety. our logistics footprint will be covered by our own operations were reduced by this approach by the end of 2017, with 22 percent partly due to the abatement In 2016, our fair labor programs, which a focus on North America and Europe. measures implemented at Huddersfield, to date have focused on countries with UK, and at Monthey, Switzerland, and to the highest risk of labor abuses, include To help us manage and measure the the divestment of our manufacturing site 82 percent of our suppliers. We are on benefits accurately, in 2016 we set CO2 in Goa, India. track to cover 100 percent of our suppliers baselines for sea logistics globally and including chemicals, seeds and flowers overland in Europe and North America. Supplier impacts suppliers. For more details, see “Look after These enable us to calculate our CO2 As we increase our reliance on external impacts and set targets. Baseline work will every worker” on pages 20–21. suppliers, we seek out partners who meet continue for overland logistics across the our own standards of operation. In our rest of the world over the next two years. drive to ensure sustainable procurement – and to audit suppliers rigorously and efficiently – we have joined the chemical industry’s Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative. The TfS members work jointly on supplier audits and assessments on health, safety and the environment, as well as social and ethical issues. The TfS framework supports the principles of the UN Global Compact, Responsible Care and the International Labor Organization. By auditing together, TfS enables us to focus on raising standards for our suppliers with greater efficiency. A safety journey with our suppliers Our process-safety management program aims to drive commitment, understanding and improvement of safety standards at our Asian chemical manufacturers. The program includes engagement sessions with senior management, visits to our own manufacturing sites in Europe and a platform to encourage the sharing of safety practices between our suppliers. Working collaboratively with our partners is driving a step change in their safety culture and ensuring safe working conditions for employees within our supply chain. Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 41 Business Building a “do the right thing” culture 95% Percentage integrity Our Code of Conduct sets out clear ethical, of leaders environmental and social responsibilities attending for all employees; we expect them to or leading We comply with all local, national honor these and report any suspected compliance and international laws, codes breaches. We also monitor our suppliers’ sessions and conventions, and uphold compliance – with both our own standards the principles of the Universal and external regulations – on issues such as health and safety, the environment, fair Declaration of Human Rights Significantly, this increase was labor practices and animal welfare. and the International Labor concentrated on the period during and Organization’s Core Conventions. Building a “do the right thing” culture is an immediately following the compliance We expect our suppliers to do explicit line management responsibility. sessions – clearly indicating that they are the same. We want to create a climate in which successfully influencing the values, risk people feel confident about speaking to awareness and openness of our culture. Compliance cases reported their leaders without hesitation, so that ethical issues can be addressed before Compliance and risk management is a 2016 214 they become problems. To drive this, we standing item on the regional, territory and 2015 196 now hold annual “leader-led” compliance functional leadership agenda. This builds sessions throughout the organization, in the culture we seek and drives responsibility 2014 96 down the line through the leader-led which managers discuss with their teams relevant compliance topics and encourage compliance sessions. It underlines Corporate community investment people to speak up if they have concerns. the importance Syngenta attaches to $m compliance and risk management and line We held the second round of these managers’ responsibility for building a 2016 24 sessions in 2016. We also began “do the right thing” culture. 2015 24 recording the number of leaders engaged: 1,741 either attended or led a session in We have continued working to make our 2014 25 2016 – which represents 95 percent of all approach to compliance more systematic leaders required to participate. Building and consistent globally. We are currently on our experience in 2015, we sought to rolling out a new due diligence process True business integrity demands more engage participants more actively in 2016 to screen third-party service providers than regulatory and legal compliance. by giving them real scenarios to discuss as for compliance risks as part of the We believe that a culture of doing the a group. We plan to build on this approach appointment process. Following successful right thing is crucial to managing risk and year on year, and for 2017 the scenarios pilots in Argentina, China, Morocco growing a sustainably successful business. will be updated to focus team dialogues and Turkey in 2015, we introduced it in It is also the essential foundation on which on locally relevant issues. nine countries including Brazil, India, The Good Growth Plan is built. Kazakhstan, and Vietnam in 2016. We look beyond a rules-based approach We recognize that compliance – not just with legal and regulatory requirements but We will take a major step further in 2017 and strive to build a values-based culture, with society’s evolving expectations – is by implementing it in the countries where which we share with our partners and an unending journey. Maintaining the right we have the largest number of suppliers suppliers. We aim to preserve the security culture requires investment and constant and supply contracts: Switzerland, the and integrity of our organization, operations effort. So it is vital to create a climate where UK and the USA. and products, and to engage actively with the communities in which we operate, to people feel safe and encouraged to raise build mutual understanding and benefit. concerns with their managers or through our confidential compliance helpline. In 2016, the total number of cases raised rose by 9 percent to 214. 42 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Business integrity 326 t Amount of counterfeit and illegally imported chemicals seized In 2016, we held workshops in nine countries across all relevant functions – R&D, Production and Supply, Stewardship, Commercial and Marketing – to consider how we can make life harder for counterfeiters. Outcomes included enhancement of our safe-use training to increase grower awareness of counterfeiting in 2017, and targeted projects to improve the security of our seeds throughout the product life cycle. Earning the support of our neighbors We believe it’s in our interests to listen to Growing support for US food banks local communities and share knowledge, Food security is not an issue for poorer nations alone. Even in rich countries, there are protect our common environment, promote people going hungry. Since 2014, we’ve partnered with Future Farmers of America to health and improve their quality of life. help young volunteers in rural parts of the USA grow food in community gardens. So far, By actively engaging with our neighbors, in three years, they’ve harvested almost 16 tonnes of fresh food – donating it to needy we build mutual understanding – protecting families and using it in their community outreach programs. our reputation and becoming a welcome and trusted partner wherever we operate. Protecting our critical assets Counterfeiting of our products is not just Fostering open and constructive dialogue Our security team works with functions a commercial risk. It can harm users, with the local community is part of every across the organization to protect our the public, the environment – and our site manager’s job. We expect them to be people, assets, information and products. reputation. We work with our commercial visible, available and responsive to local teams, the distribution chain, trade concerns – whether these relate to the We assess emerging risks proactively and associations, local law enforcement impact of our operations or to community train local staff in appropriate measures bodies and Interpol to detect and disrupt needs that we can help to address. to protect people and sites, focusing on criminal activity. In 2016, we handled areas and activities where the risks are Each year we report a total for our 761 cases – up from 677 in 2015, reflecting greatest. Under our Security 360° program, “corporate community investment”: in 2016, better intelligence and detection as well as we evaluated 122 sites in 2016 – reflecting it was $ 24 million (2015: $ 24 million). But this increased activity in what is still a relatively a modest increase in locations classified figure understates the value we bring to the low-risk area for criminals. as risk-relevant sites compared with 2015. community. In addition to offering donations We helped to secure seizures of and facilities, we believe we contribute best Our Information Security and Information 326 tonnes of counterfeit and illegally when we transfer knowledge – applying the Systems teams collaborate closely to imported chemicals (2015: 323 tonnes) practical skills and expertise we’ve gained preserve the security and integrity of our and 615 tonnes of counterfeit seeds from our operations. Common examples data. We constantly evaluate our resources (2015: 91 tonnes). The sharp increase include improving farming practices for and enhance our capabilities in cybercrime in seeds seizures resulted in part from local growers, providing technical support to detection and prevention. our “big fish” strategy of targeting larger keep communities and schools pest-free, or cases and criminals higher up the applying our expertise in managing waste. distribution chain. Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2016 43 Public debates Open As well as publishing open data, we’re also improving access to the patented data intellectual property that we develop Our business environment is partly from our data. As a founding member of the International Licensing Platform, we shaped by society’s view of us, and In 2016, we became provide access to Syngenta patented native what it expects from corporations the first agrochemical vegetable traits and enabling technologies like Syngenta. Over time, different company to share RNA-based through our e-licensing website – making topics come to the fore: three biocontrol research as open data it easier to exchange know-how and that we debated with a variety of breeding material and to speed the external stakeholders in 2016 were development of diverse crop varieties. open data, the UN’s Sustainable Our Good Growth Plan is generating So far, we’ve made some significant strides Development Goals (SDGs) and unprecedented amounts of agronomic in increasing openness and transparency. human rights. and socio-economic data, primarily from But as a competitive, private R&D company, our network of over 3,700 benchmark where do we draw the line about what data and reference farms in 42 countries. Open data: accelerating progress We’ve collaborated with The Open Data to make public? And how do we decide? In a world where population growth The fact is, we’re still finding out – and we Institute, a non-profit organization, to put threatens to outstrip food production, welcome continuing debate. this information into the public domain in a our ambition is to make a meaningful way that’s easy to access and understand, Global goals that contribution to food security. The challenge is safe to reuse and protects individual challenge old habits is unprecedented in magnitude and farmers’ privacy. In this way, we aim to complexity: it won’t be met if everyone In 2015, the UN Sustainable Development extend our cooperation with partners and works in isolation. Collaboration is a Summit in New York adopted 17 Sustainable universities in exploring the drivers and necessity. We’re partnering increasingly Development Goals (SDGs). These define impacts of technology adoption, resource with governments, universities, NGOs the UN’s development agenda up to 2030. efficiency, sustainable practices and grower and other businesses – and sharing our livelihoods. Publishing the data also gives We welcome and support them. knowledge in new ways. us a chance to improve our metrics and They underscore the relevance and Openness is not the norm in our industry – data collection processes with external significance of our own Good Growth Plan: nor in any industry that relies on innovative partners and stakeholders. its six commitments directly contribute R&D and the resulting intellectual property. to SDG2 (“zero hunger”) and significantly One of our most exciting development But we’re finding that greater openness support seven of the other goals. The way areas is RNA-based biocontrols. It’s a new can benefit all stakeholders, including us. we measure and report on our progress is technology that could bring significant also closely aligned with the SDGs and their Technology is helping to monitor and benefits to farmers and the environment. performance measures. measure more things, and generates But it’s still in its early stages: rapid huge amounts of data that can be used progress will depend on stimulating As goals for humanity, the SDGs should not to accelerate technological progress. informed dialogue with scientists and excite controversy. They’re about showing For instance, our R&D teams doubled the researchers. To help make that happen, respect and consideration for our fellow efficiency of our soybean breeding program in 2016 we became the first agrochemical humans. But if they’re going to be more by using satellite imagery, soil and weather company to share RNA-based biocontrol than just aspirations, both the business datasets released to the public under open research as open data. The datasets and non-business sectors are going to data licenses. Open data is a public good. we’ve published include screening data for have to change. So shouldn’t we be sharing more of our our lead biocontrols candidate covering Just as The Good Growth Plan has own in return? We think so. both pests and beneficial species. We’re done for Syngenta, the SDGs require the committed to being transparent as this world to abandon old habits. We need technology develops. new ways of thinking and working, fresh approaches that create new learning and new opportunities. And that will mean dismantling traditional corporate versus non-profit silos. 44 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Public debates There is still too much polarization, whether Getting human rights right When the UN published its Guiding ideological, cultural or just habitual. If we, Syngenta is a business built on a Principles on Business and Human Rights as a society, are going to create the rapid fundamental human right. Our declared in 2011, we welcomed them as a unique change that the SDGs envision, we’ll have business goal is to make a meaningful product of multi-stakeholder consultation, to challenge people who may not be in contribution to food security – a human resulting in agreed roles and responsibilities one another’s comfort zones to embark right recognized by the UN. for both states and corporations. In 2012, on deep and sustained collaboration. we joined the Global Business Initiative The corporate sector will have to look For many years, we have worked to build on Human Rights, a collaboration of beyond immediate profit and embrace its respect for people and human dignity corporations coming together to share responsibility for the planet at large; the into everything we do – from the way we experiences and learn from one another. non-business sector will need to move interact with our colleagues and suppliers In 2013, the launch of The Good Growth beyond suspicion and find more areas to our commitment to the UN SDGs. Plan was a further sign of our determination of common ground. And we’ve made an important contribution to engage our whole organization in making to supporting human rights through the role a difference in areas beyond traditional Things have begun to change – but too our products, services and training play in corporate concerns. often partnerships still fail because the improving not only food security but also constituencies behind the organizations access to water, farmers’ livelihoods and Over the years we have continued refining are too conservative and defensive. rural development. our policies and standards to reflect current To mobilize action and unlock the conditions and thinking. And we have innovation needed, we have to build As an organization operating in over 90 been working with other companies to multi-stakeholder partnerships, address countries – with supply chains employing accelerate changes that help to improve governance challenges, and invest many thousands and with millions of conditions for workers and communities: in new technologies and business customers – we know it’s not easy. Nor do in particular, we have been encouraging models. We also need better data for we always get everything right. How does peer companies in the value chain to adopt sustainable development, monitoring and an organization ensure that the wages common standards. accountability. As discussed earlier, more it pays to a seed farm end up in the farmworkers’ pockets? How does it ensure But frameworks and policies and standards open accessibility of key data will stimulate that its products are used safely in remote can only take us so far. So, we have also collaboration and accelerate sustainable corners of developing countries? Finding been working hard to foster a culture where innovation and technological advancement better answers to challenges like these respect for human rights is explicit and for people and planet. is what many Syngenta people do for a instinctive. For more on this, see “Building This is the journey we have begun with living – day in, day out. It takes vigilance, a ‘do the right thing’ culture” on page 41. The Good Growth Plan and its focus on determination and persistence. By ensuring a culture where rights are improving the sustainability of agriculture. respected and concerns are freely shared, Our ambition is to facilitate a paradigm Since 2004, we have been collaborating we aim to be an organization that’s united shift in collaboration among governments, with the Fair Labor Association to set and in constant improvement to make people’s NGOs, businesses, financial and donor verify fair working conditions for workers lives better. institutions, schools and universities. on our seed farms: the program now The shared goal should be to depolarize covers over 24,000 farms. For more on our See Syngenta’s point of view on a variety of debate and make educated decisions fair labor practices, see “Look after every subjects at www.questions.syngenta.com for a sustainable future where economic worker” on pages 20–21. We built specific growth goes hand in hand with a healthy standards and actions on human rights into environment and respect for human rights. the Code of Conduct we published in 2008. Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 45 Product line performance saw a strong recovery, with late season Sales in the fourth quarter were affected Crop Protection demand in cereals and good demand on by the non-recurrence of the $ 200 million specialty crops. Innovation continued to corn trait royalty received from KWS/ expand the portfolio with the launch in the Limagrain in the fourth quarter of 2015. Selective herbicides fourth quarter of ELATUS™ PLUS in France This revenue was recorded in North Sales1 $m and MIRAVIS™ Duo (based on the fungicide America ($ 145 million) and Latin America ADEPIDYN™) in Argentina. ($ 55 million). Full-year branded corn seed 2016 2,853 sales were slightly higher in the USA but 2015 2,894 Insecticides lower in Europe due to reduced acreage. 2014 3,083 Sales1 $m In Latin America we saw strong underlying growth in both Brazil and Argentina 2016 1,643 supported by the adoption of VIPTERA™ Sales growth was driven by EAME and trait technology. Soybean sales were lower 2015 1,705 North America. In Europe, AXIAL® continued in a competitive environment. its success on cereals and CALLISTO® 2014 2,066 expanded on corn in Africa and the CIS. Diverse field crops In North America, the main growth driver Insecticides saw growth across the Sales $m was the continued adoption by US growers northern hemisphere, with particularly good of the novel corn herbicide ACURON™, performances by ACTARA®, DURIVO® and 2016 666 combining three modes of action and four KARATE®. In Brazil, sales were affected 2015 658 active ingredients. by low insect pressure and soybean trait 2014 827 penetration, with channel inventories Non-selective herbicides remaining high. Sales in Asia Pacific, which Sales1 $m were affected by drought in the first half of the Sunflower sales grew strongly in Russia and year, rebounded strongly in the second half. Ukraine. In addition to increased acreage, 2016 773 growers continue to adopt superior 2015 913 Seedcare genetics with a proven track record on 2014 1,445 Sales1 $m the field. Sugar beet sales also increased. 2016 1,003 Vegetables Performance reflected the deliberate 2015 994 Sales $m reduction in solo glyphosate, now complete, undertaken in order to improve profitability. 2014 1,115 2016 616 At the same time, glyphosate prices continue 2015 616 to decline. Sales of GRAMOXONE® were also CRUISER® showed good growth in a number lower, with volumes in the first half affected of European markets despite limitations on 2014 663 by dry weather in ASEAN and some price its use for certain crops. Sales in Canada pressure from generics in North America. staged a strong recovery, led by the fungicide Demand was strong in Latin America, VIBRANCE®, which was more than offset by notably in Brazil and Mexico, as Fungicides lower treatment intensity and higher inventory favorable currency rates improved Sales1 $m in the USA. growers’ profitability in export markets. South Asia also performed well in crops 2016 3,157 such as cabbage, cauliflower and okra. 2015 3,357 Seeds Price increases were achieved in all regions, 2014 3,518 reflecting the ability to capture value from a high-quality portfolio of hybrids. Corn and soybean North America saw good growth as new Sales $m products ORONDIS™ and TRIVAPRO™ (based on SOLATENOL™) gained momentum. 2016 1,375 EAME registered growth for the full year 2015 1,564 despite a difficult first half, when wet weather resulted in missed sprays; the second half 2014 1,665 1 Includes sales of Crop Protection products to Seeds and excludes non-product line sales 46 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Financial information A summary of Syngenta’s consolidated financial statements and other financial information is provided on pages 46 to 52. For full details and analysis of the Group’s audited financial results, prepared in accordance with IFRS, please refer to our comprehensive Financial Report 2016, which is available on our website www.ar2016.syngenta.com. References to EBITDA in the following financial information excludes the impact of restructuring, impairment and discontinued operations.1 Summarized financial information 2016 and 2015 Excluding restructuring Restructuring As reported and impairment 1 and impairment under IFRS Year ended December 31 ($ m, except per share amounts) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales 12,790 13,411 – – 12,790 13,411 Gross profit 6,289 6,369 (6) – 6,283 6,369 Marketing and distribution (2,091) (2,210) (26) – (2,117) (2,210) Research and development (1,291) (1,362) (8) – (1,299) (1,362) General and administrative (783) (568) (437) (388) (1,220) (956) Operating income 2,124 2,229 (477) (388) 1,647 1,841 Income before taxes 1,838 1,980 (477) (388) 1,361 1,592 Income tax expense (267) (336) 87 88 (180) (248) Net income 1,571 1,644 (390) (300) 1,181 1,344 Attributable to non-controlling interests (3) (5) – – (3) (5) Attributable to Syngenta AG shareholders 1,568 1,639 (390) (300) 1,178 1,339 Earnings/(loss) per share ($) 2 Basic 17.04 17.83 (4.24) (3.26) 12.80 14.57 Diluted 17.03 17.78 (4.24) (3.26) 12.79 14.52 2016 2016 2015 CER3 Gross profit margin excluding restructuring and impairment 49.2% 47.5% 49.6% EBITDA4 2,659 2,777 EBITDA margin 20.8% 20.7% 21.5% Tax rate on results excluding restructuring and impairment 15% 17% Free cash flow 5 1,357 795 Trade working capital to sales6 40% 38% Debt/Equity gearing 7 29% 31% Net debt 7 2,281 2,586 Cash flow return on investment 8 12% 11% 1 For further discussion of restructuring and impairment charges, see page 52. Net income and earnings per share excluding restructuring and impairment are provided as additional information and not as an alternative to net income and earnings per share determined in accordance with IFRS. 2 The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to calculate earnings per share are as follows: For 2016 basic EPS 92,020,494 and diluted EPS 92,092,649; for 2015 basic EPS 91,908,128 and diluted EPS 92,206,535. 3 For a description of CER, see page 52 4 EBITDA is defined on page 52 5 For a description of free cash flow, see page 52 6 Period-end trade working capital as a percentage of twelve-month sales 7 For a description of net debt and the calculation of debt/equity gearing, see page 52 8 For a description of cash flow return on investment and the calculation, see page 52 Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 47 Full year sales 2016 2015 Actual CER Year ended December 31 ($ m) ($ m) % % Group sales Europe, Africa and Middle East 3,793 3,884 -2 +5 North America 3,202 3,410 -6 -6 Latin America 3,293 3,632 -9 -9 Asia Pacific 1,839 1,837 – +2 Total regional sales 12,127 12,763 -5 -2 Lawn and Garden 663 648 +2 +4 Group sales 12,790 13,411 -5 -2 Crop Protection by region Europe, Africa and Middle East 2,862 2,892 -1 +6 North America 2,306 2,326 -1 – Latin America 2,860 3,249 -12 -12 Asia Pacific 1,543 1,538 – +2 Total 9,571 10,005 -4 -2 Seeds by region Europe, Africa and Middle East 973 1,017 -4 +4 North America 933 1,116 -16 -16 Latin America 448 400 +12 +11 Asia Pacific 303 305 -1 +2 Total 2,657 2,838 -6 -3 Sales by business Crop Protection 9,571 10,005 -4 -2 Seeds 2,657 2,838 -6 -3 Elimination of Crop Protection sales to Seeds (101) (80) n/a n/a Total regional sales 12,127 12,763 -5 -2 Lawn and Garden 663 648 +2 +4 Group sales 12,790 13,411 -5 -2 Full year product line sales 2016 2015 Actual CER Year ended December 31 ($ m) ($ m) % % Selective herbicides 2,853 2,894 -1 +2 Non-selective herbicides 773 913 -15 -13 Fungicides 3,157 3,357 -6 -4 Insecticides 1,643 1,705 -4 -2 Seedcare 1,003 994 +1 +5 Other crop protection 142 142 Total Crop Protection 9,571 10,005 -4 -2 Corn and soybean 1,375 1,564 -12 -11 Diverse field crops 666 658 +1 +11 Vegetables 616 616 +3 Total Seeds 2,657 2,838 -6 -3 Elimination of Crop Protection sales to Seeds (101) (80) n/a n/a Lawn and Garden 663 648 +2 +4 Group sales 12,790 13,411 -5 -2 48 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Financial information Condensed consolidated income statement Year ended December 31 ($m, except share and per share amounts) 2016 2015 Sales 12,790 13,411 Cost of goods sold (6,507) (7,042) Gross profit 6,283 6,369 Marketing and distribution (2,117) (2,210) Research and development (1,299) (1,362) General and administrative: Restructuring (407) (388) Other general and administrative (813) (568) Operating income 1,647 1,841 Income from associates and joint ventures 5 7 Financial expense, net (291) (256) Income before taxes 1,361 1,592 Income tax expense (180) (248) Net income 1,181 1,344 Attributable to: Syngenta AG shareholders 1,178 1,339 Non-controlling interests 3 5 Net income 1,181 1,344 Earnings per share ($ ): Basic 12.80 14.57 Diluted 12.79 14.52 Weighted average number of shares: Basic 92,020,494 91,908,128 Diluted 92,092,649 92,206,535 All activities were in respect of continuing operations. Restructuring Year ended December 31 ($m) 2016 2015 Accelerating operational leverage programs: Cash costs 214 228 Non-cash costs 9 12 Integrated crop strategy programs: Cash costs 1 27 Acquisition, divestment and related costs: Cash costs Associated with industry consolidation, including ChemChina 50 62 Other acquisition and related integration costs 24 29 Non-cash items (12) 1 Other non-cash restructuring and impairment: Other non-current asset impairments 121 29 Total 407 388 Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 49 Condensed consolidated balance sheet At December 31 ($m) 2016 2015 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 1,284 1,141 Trade receivables 4,543 4,128 Other accounts receivable 570 721 Inventories 3,884 4,345 Derivative and other financial assets 500 401 Other current assets 386 338 Income taxes recoverable 189 124 Total current assets 11,356 11,198 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 3,298 3,383 Intangible assets 2,863 3,040 Deferred tax assets 941 783 Financial and other non-current assets 440 396 Investments in associates and joint ventures 170 177 Total non-current assets 7,712 7,779 Total assets 19,068 18,977 Liabilities and equity Current liabilities: Trade accounts payable (3,338) (3,311) Current financial debt and other financial liabilities (1,047) (730) Income taxes payable (526) (444) Other current liabilities (1,174) (983) Provisions (182) (193) Total current liabilities (6,267) (5,661) Non-current liabilities: Financial debt and other non-current liabilities (3,077) (3,501) Deferred tax liabilities (610) (668) Provisions (1,143) (727) Total non-current liabilities (4,830) (4,896) Total liabilities (11,097) (10,557) Shareholders’ equity: Total shareholders’ equity (7,950) (8,401) Non-controlling interests (21) (19) Total equity (7,971) (8,420) Total liabilities and equity (19,068) (18,977) 50 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Financial information Condensed consolidated cash flow statement Year ended December 31 ($m) 2016 2015 Income before taxes 1,361 1,592 Reversal of non-cash and other reconciling items 1,300 1,203 Cash (paid)/received in respect of: Interest and other financial receipts 363 472 Interest and other financial payments (684) (623) Income taxes (219) (482) Restructuring costs (73) (125) Contributions to pension plans, excluding restructuring costs (150) (156) Other provisions (55) (80) Operating cash flow before change in net working capital 1,843 1,801 Change in net working capital: Change in inventories 252 32 Change in trade and other working capital assets (374) (868) Change in trade and other working capital liabilities 86 225 Cash flow from operating activities 1,807 1,190 Additions to property, plant and equipment (425) (453) Purchases of intangible assets, investments in associates and other financial assets (203) (119) Proceeds from disposals of non-current assets 47 120 Acquisitions and divestments, net 60 (10) Cash flow used for investing activities (521) (462) Proceeds from increases in third party interest-bearing debt 400 1,098 Repayments of third party interest-bearing debt (586) (1,174) Sales/(purchases) of treasury shares and options over own shares, net 92 (34) Distributions paid to shareholders (1,040) (1,078) Cash flow used for financing activities (1,134) (1,188) Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents (9) (37) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 143 (497) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,141 1,638 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,284 1,141 Free cash flow Year ended December 31 ($m) 2016 2015 Cash flow from operating activities 1,807 1,190 Cash flow used for investing activities (521) (462) Cash flow used for marketable securities 53 – Cash flow (from)/used for foreign exchange movements and settlement of hedges of inter-company loans 18 67 Free cash flow 1,357 795 Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 51 Full year segmental results excluding restructuring and impairment Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia Total Lawn and 2016 ($m) Middle East America America Pacific Unallocated Regional Garden Group Sales 3,793 3,202 3,293 1,839 – 12,127 663 12,790 Cost of goods sold (1,801) (1,718) (1,765) (986) 51 (6,219) (282) (6,501) Gross profit 1,992 1,484 1,528 853 51 5,908 381 6,289 Marketing and distribution (545) (520) (488) (277) (100) (1,930) (161) (2,091) Research and development – – – – (1,239) (1,239) (52) (1,291) General and administrative (136) (103) (57) (41) (406) (743) (40) (783) Operating income/(loss) 1,311 861 983 535 (1,694) 1,996 128 2,124 Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia Total Lawn and 2015 ($m) Middle East America America Pacific Unallocated Regional Garden Group Sales 3,884 3,410 3,632 1,837 – 12,763 648 13,411 Cost of goods sold (1,889) (1,779) (2,118) (1,012) 54 (6,744) (298) (7,042) Gross profit 1,995 1,631 1,514 825 54 6,019 350 6,369 Marketing and distribution (586) (537) (557) (286) (83) (2,049) (161) (2,210) Research and development – – – – (1,310) (1,310) (52) (1,362) General and administrative (126) (84) (39) (35) (274) (558) (10) (568) Operating income/(loss) 1,283 1,010 918 504 (1,613) 2,102 127 2,229 Segmental operating income reconciled to segmental results excluding restructuring and impairment Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia Total Lawn and 2016 ($m) Middle East America America Pacific Unallocated Regional Garden Group Operating income/(loss) 1,204 793 933 508 (1,908) 1,530 117 1,647 Restructuring and impairment 107 68 50 27 214 466 11 477 Operating income/(loss) excluding restructuring and impairment 1,311 861 983 535 (1,694) 1,996 128 2,124 Operating margin (%) 34.6 26.9 29.9 29.1 n/a 16.5 19.3 16.6 Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia Total Lawn and 2015 ($m) Middle East America America Pacific Unallocated Regional Garden Group Operating income/(loss) 1,155 973 890 484 (1,781) 1,721 120 1,841 Restructuring and impairment 128 37 28 20 168 381 7 388 Operating income/(loss) excluding restructuring and impairment 1,283 1,010 918 504 (1,613) 2,102 127 2,229 Operating margin (%) 33.1 29.6 25.3 27.5 n/a 16.5 19.6 16.6 52 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Financial information Constant exchange rates (CER) Restructuring includes the incremental Free cash flow is not a measure of financial Results in this report from one period to costs of closing, restructuring or relocating performance under generally accepted another period are, where appropriate, existing operations, and gains or losses from accounting principles and the free cash compared using constant exchange related asset disposals. Restructuring also flow measure used by Syngenta may not rates (CER). To present that information, includes the costs of analyzing and be identical to similarly titled measures in current period results for entities reporting preparing for potential industry consolidation other companies. Free cash flow has been in currencies other than US dollars are transactions, including costs associated included as many investors consider it to converted into US dollars at the prior period’s with the ChemChina takeover offer, as well be a useful supplementary measure of exchange rates, rather than at the exchange as the effects of completing and integrating cash generation. rates for the current year. CER margin significant business combinations and divestments, including related transaction Net debt reconciliation percentages for gross profit and EBITDA are costs, gains and losses. Recurring costs Net debt comprises total debt net of cash calculated by the ratio of these measures to of normal business operations and and cash equivalents and marketable sales after restating the measures and sales routine asset disposal gains and losses securities. Net debt is not a measure of at prior period exchange rates. The CER are excluded. financial position under generally accepted presentation indicates the underlying accounting principles and the net debt business performance before taking into Impairment includes impairment losses measure used by Syngenta may not be account currency exchange fluctuations. associated with major restructuring as comparable to the similarly titled measure well as impairment losses and reversals EBITDA of other companies. Net debt has been of impairment losses resulting from major included as many investors consider it to be EBITDA is defined as earnings before changes in the markets in which a reported interest, tax, non-controlling interests, a useful measure of financial position and risk. segment operates. The following table presents the derivation of depreciation, amortization, restructuring and impairment. Information concerning The incidence of these business changes the debt/equity gearing ratio: EBITDA has been included as it is used may be periodic and the effect on reported At December 31 ($m) 2016 2015 by management and by investors as a performance of initiating them will vary Net debt 2,281 2,586 supplementary measure of operating from period to period. Because each such Shareholders’ equity 7,950 8,401 performance. Management excludes business change is different in nature and Debt/Equity restructuring and impairment from EBITDA scope, there will be little continuity in the gearing ratio (%) 29 31 in order to focus on results excluding items detailed composition and size of the reported affecting comparability from one period to amounts which affect performance in Cash flow return on investment the next. EBITDA is not a measure of cash successive periods. Separate disclosure of Cash flow return on investment is a measure liquidity or financial performance under these amounts facilitates the understanding used by Syngenta to compare cash returns generally accepted accounting principles and of performance including and excluding items to average invested capital. Gross cash the EBITDA measures used by Syngenta affecting comparability. Syngenta’s definition flow used in the calculation comprises may not be comparable to other similarly of restructuring and impairment may not be cash flow before change in net working titled measures of other companies. comparable to similarly titled line items in capital, excluding interest and other financial EBITDA should not be construed as an financial statements of other companies. receipts and payments. Invested capital alternative to operating income or cash flow comprises: total current assets, excluding Free cash flow as determined in accordance with generally cash and derivative and other financial accepted accounting principles. Free cash flow comprises cash flow assets; total non-current assets, excluding from operating and investing activities: non-current derivative and other financial Restructuring and excluding investments in and proceeds assets and defined benefit pension assets, impairment before taxes from marketable securities, which are and adjusted to reflect the gross book Restructuring represents the effect on included in investing activities; excluding values of property, plant and equipment reported performance of initiating and cash flows from and used for foreign and intangible assets; total current liabilities, enabling business changes that are exchange movements and settlement of excluding current financial debt and other considered major and that, in the opinion related hedges on inter-company loans, financial liabilities; and deferred tax liabilities. of management, will have a material effect which are included in operating activities; on the nature and focus of Syngenta’s and including cash flows from acquisitions operations, and therefore require separate of non-controlling interests, which are disclosure to provide a more thorough included in financing activities. understanding of business performance. Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 53 Non-financial information At Syngenta, non-financial information refers to quantitative and qualitative information on strategies, policies or activities pursued towards our business, environmental and social goals. Our non-financial performance is reported our social engagement, raising supply Materiality and stakeholder throughout this Annual Review and chain sustainability and doing business engagement quantified in the “Non-financial performance responsibly. Syngenta is guided by the We regularly assess stakeholder concerns summary” on pages 55 to 60. conviction that short-, mediumand and expectations, as well as the issues long‑term value creation depends on Corporate Responsibility that we believe present the greatest successfully integrating business, social risks and opportunities for our business. Corporate Responsibility (CR) is integral and environmental performance. We engage with and collect feedback to our business. Our ambition is to bring Corporate Responsibility from stakeholders in a variety of ways. greater food security to an increasingly governance We listen to the grower community populous world in an environmentally through satisfaction surveys and farmers’ sustainable way by creating a worldwide Our Board-level Corporate Responsibility direct contact with our sales teams on step change in farm productivity. The Good Committee, chaired by the Syngenta the ground. We also engage directly Growth Plan sets specific, ambitious Chairman, acts as custodian on all CR with our employees and locally with the and measurable targets focused on matters for Syngenta. At senior executive communities close to our operations. boosting resource efficiency, rejuvenating level, the Syngenta Executive Committee ecosystems and strengthening rural directs CR-related standards, strategy, communities. We are also committed objectives and partnerships. to developing our people, reducing our environmental footprint, enhancing Materiality matrix Focus areas Monitored activities Positions We share our views, we We share our views and We share our views on the Focus measure and evaluate we measure and evaluate issues that engage public Importance to stakeholders areas performance, and we have performance on these interest and have a bearing set or plan to set goals or issues to sustain the trust on our business. quantitative targets on the and confidence of our 3 Biofuels Monitored most important issues, in stakeholders, and for us to 3 Biotechnology activities particular our contribution be a responsible business. 3 Chemicals of concern to food security. 3 Animals in research 3 Climate change adaptation 3 Biodiversity 3 Community relations and 3 Consolidation in the industry 3 Employee wellbeing stakeholder engagement 3 Diminishing crop diversity and 3 Corporate conduct monoculture practices Positions 3 Energy, hazardous waste and water use 3 Corporate governance 3 Food availability, affordability Importance to Syngenta 3 Greenhouse gas emission 3 Economic value shared and waste management 3 Environmental compliance 3 Foreign investments in farmland 3 Health and safety and liabilities 3 Local investment, hiring 3 Human rights and 3 Other air emissions and sourcing We have three levels of disclosure fair labor practices 3 Marketing practices 3 Product compliance based on the importance of the 3 Land productivity 3 Security practices 3 Organic agriculture issues to our stakeholders and 3 Logistics optimization 3 Pollinators and pesticide use to Syngenta. 3 Safe and sustainable use 3 Product registration of our products 3 Public policy and advocacy 3 Science and intellectual property 3 Responsible practices for 3 Smallholder empowerment product development 3 Soil and water conservation 3 Rural development 3 Supply chain sustainability 3 Tax transparency 3 Talent attraction and retention 3 Trade 54 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Non-financial information Our interaction with industry associations, Approach to Approval of Non-financial non-governmental organizations, non-financial reporting performance summary governments and the investor community The Non-financial performance summary The information in the Non-financial enables us to gather feedback on our on the following pages presents data on performance summary on pages 55 to 60 activities and monitor issues important our progress towards four goals: of the Annual Review was approved by to stakeholders. We conduct research the Board of Directors on February 7, to better understand consumers’ 3 The Good Growth Plan 2017. Syngenta’s Board of Directors perceptions of topics associated with Help shape the future sustainability of and management are responsible for agriculture and our industry; and we aim agriculture, and deliver solutions that are establishing and maintaining adequate to be open and accessible – for example, better, more productive and more beneficial internal controls over non-financial reporting. answering their frequently asked questions to rural economies under “Questions about Syngenta” on Syngenta’s internal controls over nonour website. 3 People financial reporting were designed to Attract and retain talent while creating an provide assurance to Syngenta’s Board Our materiality matrix, developed in 2015 environment that stimulates innovation and of Directors and management regarding and revised in 2016, sets out the most personal performance and development the reliability of non-financial reporting and important issues for Syngenta and our the preparation and fair presentation of the stakeholders. This helps us identify where 3 Sustainable operations information published in the Non-financial we can provide the most value, drive our Manage our environmental footprint performance summary. strategy, allocate effort and resources, and direct our external communication and maintain the highest standards All internal controls, no matter how well and reporting. The most important issue in our operations designed, have inherent limitations and to our stakeholders is our contribution to therefore may not prevent or detect 3 Business integrity food security. In particular, they want to misstatements. In designing internal know how our technologies and products Maintain the highest standards across controls over non-financial reporting, will enable growers to deliver sustainably our entire business and go beyond Syngenta used the criteria established in the quality and quantity of food needed regulatory compliance, while benefiting Internal Control – Integrated Framework by a growing population. We contribute the communities and economies wherever (2013) issued by the Committee of to addressing this challenge through our we operate Sponsoring Organizations of the Good Growth Plan. Treadway Commission (COSO). Our non-financial reporting covers the PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Switzerland, operations of Syngenta Group, including an independent registered public material interactions with selected third accounting firm, has issued an opinion parties as reported in the Non-financial on Syngenta’s Non-financial performance performance summary. Our non-financial summary, which is included in the Annual reporting is guided by the Global Reporting Review on page 61. Initiative principles and is externally assured: see page 61. The non-financial reporting Read more on: www.cr.syngenta.com period is October 1 to September 30. www.questions.syngenta.com www.gri.syngenta.com Syngenta is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. Syngenta’s Annual Report serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) in implementing these principles. Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 55 Non-financial performance summary The Good Growth Plan Cumulative since baseline 2014 2016 2015 2014 Make crops more efficient1 Total number of reference farms 1,039 1,062 860 Total number of benchmark farms 2,694 2,586 2,738 Average increase on reference farms 2: Land productivity 1.2% 1.9% – Land productivity of smallholders 8.0% – – Nutrient efficiency 1.5% – – Pesticide field application efficiency -16.2% – – Average increase on benchmark farms 2: Land productivity -2.6% – – Land productivity of smallholders 1.6% – – Nutrient efficiency 5.3% – – Pesticide field application efficiency -19.3% – – Rescue more farmland Hectares of benefited farmland (m) 4.3 1.9 1.6 0.8 Help biodiversity flourish Hectares of benefited farmland (m) 4.9 3.3 0.9 0.7 Empower smallholders Smallholders reached (m) 3 16.6 17.2 13.8 Help people stay safe People trained on safe use (m) 17.2 6.8 5.7 4.7 Of which: % of smallholders 71% 68% 71% 74% Countries with established Syngenta product toxicovigilance programs 100 100 100 Crop Protection sales represented 94% 93% 93% Look after every worker Suppliers included in fair labor programs 4 82% – – Syngenta seed producing countries included in Syngenta Fair Labor Program 5 41% 33% 20% Seed supply farms included in Syngenta Fair Labor Program 82% 84% 53% Of which: farms in Fair Labor Association (FLA)’s audit scope 62% 69% 100% Of which: seed supply farms monitored 5 18% – – Chemical suppliers included in Supplier Sustainability Program 5, 6 67% – – HSE audits at chemical suppliers 7 67 84 72 HSE audits at formulation, fill and packaging suppliers and seed toll manufacturing 7 48 34 74 HSE audits at warehouse/logistics service providers 137 118 156 Commercial flowers farms with valid GlobalG.A.P. certification 5 73% – – Commercial flowers farms with valid G.R.A.S.P. assessment 5 24% – – 1 Reference farms were selected by Syngenta and are recommended to use Syngenta products and follow optimized protocols. Benchmark farms were randomly selected by a third-party research agency and represent grower practice. Reference and benchmark farms are grouped in clusters. A cluster presents homogeneous agro-climatic conditions and contains reference and/or benchmark farms with similar grower characteristics 2 Policy on land productivity reporting was revised in 2016. Starting 2016, instead of outlining the distribution of percentage increases in land productivity, nutrient efficiency and pesticide field application efficiency on a cluster basis, we are representing the corresponding percentage increases as global averages based on full-year harvest data. The change is to ensure consistent progress measurement while allowing better readability. Figures are compared to baseline 2014 3 Number of smallholders reached through sales per year 4 New KPI introduced in 2016 to capture overall participation of seed supply farms, chemical suppliers and commercial flowers farms in fair labor programs 5 New KPI introduced in 2016 6 Includes only chemical suppliers categorized as posing a high or medium sustainability risk 7 Policy on HSE audit reporting was revised in 2016. Starting 2016, HSE screening assessments are excluded Read more about how we are measuring The Good Growth Plan on www.data.syngenta.com 56 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Non-financial performance summary People 2016 2015 2014 Employment Employees1 27,810 28,704 29,340 Europe, Africa and Middle East 2 12,429 13,047 13,300 North America 4,176 4,335 4,636 Latin America 5,161 4,962 4,945 Asia Pacific 6,044 6,360 6,459 Part-time employees 919 984 948 Turnover rate 3 12.2% 12.5% 9.9% of which: <35 years 38% 41% 43% 35–50 years 44% 43% 41% >50 years 18% 16% 16% Attrition rate 4 6.0% 6.1% 5.5% Senior managers 334 332 359 Headquarters 42% 44% 42% Europe, Africa and Middle East 19% 16% 18% North America 18% 18% 18% Latin America 11% 12% 12% Asia Pacific 10% 10% 10% Diversity Nationalities in senior management 34 33 37 Female employees 30% 30% 29% Female employees in management roles 23% 22% 21% Female employees in senior management 16% 14% 13% Employee development Leadership and talent development investment ($m) 5 3.7 4.1 3.5 Reward and recognition Employees eligible to participate in Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP) 20,066 20,088 20,666 of which: employees participating 49% 44% 44% Employees participating in long-term equity incentive plans 1,453 1,370 1,304 1 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) 2 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 3 Includes voluntary and involuntary leavers and restructuring 4 Includes only voluntary leavers 5 New KPI introduced in 2016 to capture investment in leadership and talent development Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 57 People continued 2016 2015 2014 Health, safety and wellbeing Recordable injury and illness rate (IIR) per 200,000 hours1 0.39 0.38 0.37 Recordable injury rate per 200,000 hours1 0.33 0.35 0.33 Europe, Africa and Middle East 2 0.47 0.48 0.41 North America 0.72 0.69 0.54 Latin America 0.23 0.24 0.41 Asia Pacific 0.10 0.11 0.10 Recordable occupational illness rate per 200,000 hours1 0.06 0.03 0.04 Europe, Africa and Middle East 2 0.03 0.04 0.03 North America 0.16 0.04 0.02 Latin America 0.10 0.06 0.12 Asia Pacific 0.04 0.01 0.01 First aid cases 387 413 420 Recordable injuries 152 154 145 Bruise, strain, sprain and dislocation 39% 39% 52% Cut and abrasion 20% 31% 19% Bone fracture 20% 13% 11% Concussion and internal injury 4% 3% 4% Multiple injuries 1% 1% 3% Other 16% 13% 11% Cases of recordable occupational illness 28 14 17 Cases of work-related stress 9 26 35 1 According to US OSHA definition for injuries and illness 2 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 58 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Non-financial performance summary Sustainable operations 2016 2015 2014 Energy Energy intensity (MJ/$sales) 0.65 0.69 0.66 Energy (TJ) 8,341 9,222 9,930 Gas (TJ) 3,207 3,840 3,946 Electricity (TJ) 2,400 2,349 2,460 Steam (TJ) 1,503 1,547 1,633 Oil (TJ) 336 536 854 Other (TJ) 895 950 1,037 Greenhouse gases Total CO2e emissions intensity (g/$sales) 121 124 114 Total CO2e emissions (000s tonnes) 1,551 1,660 1,730 Within direct control: CO2e emissions from own operations (000s tonnes) 445 574 620 CO2 emissions from company vehicles (000s tonnes) 71 70 75 Within indirect control: CO2e emissions from purchased energy (000s tonnes) 381 400 419 CO2 emissions from business trips (000s tonnes) 43 36 43 CO2 emissions from distribution (000s tonnes) 611 580 573 Other air emissions Other air emissions intensity (g/$sales) 0.071 0.088 0.099 Other air emissions (tonnes) 914 1,176 1,500 NOx (tonnes) 402 462 523 Non-halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 354 384 435 Halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 17 26 32 Particulates (tonnes) 84 79 101 SO2 (tonnes) 42 210 386 NH3 (tonnes) 5 6 6 HCl (tonnes) 10 9 17 Water Water usage intensity (liters/$sales) 2.5 2.6 2.5 Water usage (million cubic meters) 32.6 35.0 37.8 Cooling (million cubic meters) 19.0 20.8 21.2 Irrigation (million cubic meters) 6.5 6.8 7.0 Processing and washing (million cubic meters) 5.2 5.3 7.3 Product ingredient (million cubic meters) 0.2 0.2 0.3 Sewage and sanitary (million cubic meters) 0.9 1.1 1.0 Other (million cubic meters) 0.8 0.8 1.0 Origin of water: Surface fresh water (million cubic meters) 22.6 24.4 26.7 Underground water (million cubic meters) 7.2 7.8 7.7 Drinking water from municipal network (million cubic meters) 2.7 2.7 2.9 Recovered rain water (million cubic meters) 0.1 0.1 0.1 Saline water (million cubic meters) 0.0 0.0 0.4 Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 59 Sustainable operations continued 2016 2015 2014 Wastewater effluents Industrial wastewater discharge intensity (liters/$sales) 0.79 0.70 0.66 Industrial wastewater discharge (million cubic meters) 10.1 9.4 10.0 Total organic carbon (TOC) (tonnes) 504 649 687 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) (tonnes) 1,556 1,953 2,059 Biological oxygen demand (BOD) (tonnes) 165 189 197 Total suspended solids (tonnes) 295 294 370 Soluble salts discharged (000s tonnes) 118 125 137 Direct discharge of uncontaminated cooling water (million cubic meters) 19.0 20.5 21.0 Waste Hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 15.2 14.4 15.6 Hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 195 193 236 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 88 95 114 Incinerated (000s tonnes) 83 83 106 Landfill (000s tonnes) 10 1 1 Other (000s tonnes) 14 14 15 Hazardous waste by type: Chemical 56% 55% 59% Solvents 36% 36% 33% Other 8% 9% 8% Non-hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 9.1 9.7 9.4 Non-hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 117 130 143 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 87 96 106 Incinerated (000s tonnes) 5 3 9 Landfill (000s tonnes) 17 21 20 Other (000s tonnes) 8 10 8 Non-hazardous waste by type: Plant and seed waste from seed sites 58% 58% 65% Inerts 9% 8% 4% Packaging materials 5% 6% 6% Household 5% 4% 5% Other 23% 24% 20% Environmental compliance Significant unplanned releases 1 0 3 0 1 Releases that escape beyond the site boundary and cause either environmental impact and/or concern from neighbors and regulators 60 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Non-financial performance summary Business integrity 2016 2015 2014 Corporate conduct Compliance cases reported1 214 196 96 Leaders engaged in Leader-Led Compliance Sessions 2 1,741 – – Completion rate 2 95% – – Security management Sites included in Syngenta Security 360° Program 122 117 105 Product Security cases 3 761 677 – Suspect counterfeit Crop Protection product seized by authorities (tonnes) 3 326 323 – Suspect counterfeit Seed product seized by authorities (tonnes) 3 615 91 – Animal testing compliance Management system audits performed in contract laboratories 14 13 17 Management system non-compliances found 0 0 0 Biotechnology and regulatory compliance Employees completing trial regulatory compliance training 1,378 1,627 1,711 Trial locations requiring a permit 4 166 155 411 Trial inspections performed by Syngenta 123 169 203 Economic value shared Economic value shared ($m) 12,350 13,440 14,982 Payments to suppliers 5 7,301 8,453 9,613 Employee wages and benefits 2,801 2,725 2,888 Payments to governments (taxes) 6 400 432 366 Payments to providers of capital 7 1,263 1,223 1,285 Capital expenditure 561 583 805 Corporate community investment 8 24 24 25 1 Policy on reporting of compliance cases was revised in 2015. Starting 2015, the number of cases reported includes all cases managed by Group Compliance: cases reported through the compliance helpline, line management, directly to Group Compliance or other channels. In previous years, the figure only included cases reported via the helpline 2 New KPI introduced in 2016 to capture compliance training 3 New KPI introduced in 2015 to capture counterfeiting of our products 4 In 2016, an additional 141 North American trial locations not requiring a permit were handled as regulated and managed in accordance with the North American Regulatory Compliance Program 5 Decrease in Payments to suppliers mainly reflects a continuing reduction in inventories 6 Consists of income and other taxes paid, excluding VAT (included in Payments to suppliers) and employment-related taxes (included in Employee wages and benefits) 7 Consists of expenditures for dividends, share repurchases (excluding those for employee share plans) and interest on debt 8 The PwC Independent Assurance Report includes in its scope only the Corporate community investment figure used in the calculation of Economic value shared Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2016 61 Independent Assurance Report on the Syngenta Non-financial Reporting 2016 To the Board of Directors of Syngenta AG, Board of Directors’ Responsibilities Summary of work performed Basel The Board of Directors of Syngenta Our assurance procedures included AG is responsible for both the subject the following work but are not limited to: We have been engaged to perform matter and the reporting criteria as well assurance procedures to provide assurance – Evaluation of the application of as for the entire reporting process of the group guidelines; on the Non-financial performance summary selected information in accordance with of Syngenta AG (‘Syngenta’) included in the the criteria. This responsibility includes the – Visits of different sites and offices for Annual Review 2016 (‘Report’). design, implementation and maintenance various areas in France, the Netherlands, of related internal control relevant to this Switzerland, and the USA selected based Scope and Subject matter on quantitative and qualitative criteria; Our assurance engagement and the related reporting process that is free from material levels of assurance focused on the data misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. – Testing the specified performance and information disclosed in the aggregated indicators on a sample basis for evidence Our Responsibility supporting the Non-financial performance non-financial reporting of Syngenta for the Our responsibility is to perform a limited financial year ended December 31, 2016. summary relative to completeness, or reasonable assurance engagement accuracy, adequacy and consistency; Reasonable Assurance to express an opinion on positions in the related Non-financial performance – Reviewing the documentation supporting The following subject matter contained relevant data on a sample basis, including in the Report is within the scope of the summary on pages 55 to 60. We planned and conducted our engagement in management and reporting structures reasonable assurance: and documentation; –T  he application of the Syngenta reporting accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) – Reviewing the management and reporting guidelines for the non-financial reporting processes. Assessing the consolidation published on The Good Growth Plan (revised) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial process of data at the group level. Progress Data website; and information’. That standard requires that –T  he internal reporting system and We believe that the evidence we have we comply with ethical requirements and procedures to collect and aggregate obtained is sufficient and appropriate to plan and perform our procedures to obtain the non-financial data for the six provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. reasonable or limited assurance whether the Good Growth Plan commitments on related Non-financial performance summary Reasonable assurance conclusion page 54; and was prepared, in all material aspects, in In our opinion, – The data and information in the Non-financial accordance with the reporting criteria. – The Good Growth Plan guidelines as performance summary, in all material published on The Good Growth Plan aspects, on page 55, of the Report. A limited assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 (revised) is substantially less in scope Progress Data website are applied, in Limited Assurance than a reasonable assurance engagement all material aspects; and The related Non-financial performance in relation to both the risk assessment – The internal reporting systems to collect summary disclosed, in all material aspects, procedures, including an understanding and aggregate The Good Growth Plan on pages 56 to 60 of the Report is within the of internal control, and the procedures data are functioning as designed and scope of the limited assurance. performed in response to the assessed provide an appropriate basis for the risks. Consequently, the nature, timing and reporting on page 55; and Our assurance procedures do not cover extent of procedures for gathering sufficient the indicators on payments to suppliers, – The data and information disclosed in the appropriate evidence are deliberately Non-financial performance summary in employee wages and benefits, payments to limited relative to a reasonable assurance governments and providers of capital, and the Report on page 55 give a fair picture engagement and therefore less assurance of Syngenta’s non-financial performance. capital expenditure presented in the related is obtained with a limited assurance Non-financial performance summary on engagement than for a reasonable Limited assurance conclusion page 60 of the Report. assurance engagement. The procedures Based on our work performed on the Criteria selected depend on the assurance related Non-financial performance summary The reporting criteria used by Syngenta practitioner’s judgment. nothing has come to our attention causing are described and disclosed on The Good us to believe that disclosed data and Our Independence and Quality Control information in the related Non-financial Growth Plan Progress Data website and We have complied with the independence in the internal non-financial reporting performance summary in the Report on and other ethical requirements of the Code pages 56 to 60 does not give a fair picture guidelines. These define those procedures of Ethics for Professional Accountants based on the related sections of the of Syngenta’s non-financial performance, issued by the International Ethics Standards in all material aspects, in accordance with ‘Standard Disclosure’ of the Sustainability Board for Accountants, which is founded on Reporting Guidelines G4 published in 2013 the reporting criteria. fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), professional competence and due care, by which the non-financial performance confidentiality and professional behavior. data are internally gathered, collated and aggregated. Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly Inherent Limitations maintains a comprehensive system of quality The accuracy and completeness of noncontrol including documented policies financial performance indicators are subject and procedures regarding compliance PricewaterhouseCoopers AG to inherent limitations given their nature with ethical requirements, professional Zurich, February 15, 2017 and methods for determining, calculating standards and applicable legal and Gerd Tritschler and estimating such data. Accordingly, our regulatory requirements. Bettina Buomberger assurance report should therefore be read together with the related reporting criteria. 62 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Corporate Governance and Compensation Corporate Governance and Compensation at Syngenta is designed to support the Company in its efforts to create and foster sustainable value for all stakeholders. The following pages give a summary of our approach. For full details, please refer to our comprehensive Corporate Governance Report and Compensation Report 2016, which is available on our website www.ar2016.syngenta.com Corporate Governance Board of Directors 3 preparation of the Business Report The term “Corporate Governance” Syngenta is led by a strong and experienced and the Compensation Report and of encompasses the entirety of all principles, Board. It currently includes representatives the General Meeting of Shareholders structures, processes and practices at with six nationalities, drawn from broad and the carrying out of the resolutions Syngenta aiming at safeguarding the international business and scientific adopted by the General Meeting of sustainable interests of the Company backgrounds. Its members bring diversity Shareholders and its stakeholders by guaranteeing in expertise and perspective to the 3 notification of the court if liabilities both transparency and a healthy balance leadership of a complex, highly regulated, exceed assets of management and control. global business. 3 adoption of resolutions concerning Since the foundation of the Company, The Board of Directors is the highest level the increase of the share capital to the its Board of Directors (the Board) has of management in the Company and extent that such power is vested in the given highest priority to the Corporate exercises general supervision over the Board (article 651 paragraph 4 CO), Governance framework by proactively objectives and the conduct of business. as well as resolutions concerning the and continuously implementing, In addition, the Board takes an active role confirmation of capital increases and improving and disclosing best corporate in reviewing and enhancing corporate respective amendments to the Articles governance standards. governance within Syngenta. The Board of Incorporation has the following non-transferable and Syngenta’s Corporate Governance is inalienable responsibilities: 3 examination of the professional aligned and fully compliant with international qualifications of the external auditor. standards and practice. In particular, the 3 ultimate direction of the business of Company meets: the Company and the giving of the The Board has delegated the authority necessary directives to manage the Company’s operations 3 the legal requirements as set forth in the Swiss Code of Obligations 3 determination of the organization to the Chief Executive Officer and of the Company the Executive Committee. 3 the SIX Exchange Regulation Directive on Information relating 3 administration of accounting, financial Executive Committee to Corporate Governance control and financial planning Under the leadership of the Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Committee is 3 the standards set out in the Swiss 3 appointment and removal of the persons responsible for the active leadership Code of Best Practice for Corporate entrusted with the management and and the operative management of the Governance, including its appendix representation of the Company Company. The duties of the Executive stipulating recommendations on 3 appointment of an Independent Proxy Committee comprise in particular: compensation for Boards of Directors in cases where the Independent Proxy and Executive Committees 3 formulation of the fundamentals elected by the General Meeting of of corporate policy 3 the Corporate Governance Standards of Shareholders is not capable of acting the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), 3 designing the Company’s strategy 3 ultimate supervision of the persons as applicable for foreign private issuers 1 and strategic plans for the approval entrusted with the management of the of the Board 3 the applicable requirements of the US Company, specifically in view of their Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including compliance with the law, the Articles of the certification of the Company’s Incorporation, regulations and directives Annual Report on Form 20-F 2 by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). 1 See section “Information policy” in the Corporate Governance Report and Compensation Report 2016 2 The Annual Report on Form 20-F is available on www.syngenta.com, in the section “Investors/ Financial Results” Corporate information Syngenta Annual Review 2016 63 3 implementation of the strategies, Compensation principles Compensation of the Executive strategic plans and the periodic Syngenta’s compensation system Committee and the Board of Directors assessment of the attainment of goals is based on the following principles: The Compensation Committee annually 3 submission of regular reports for the reviews the compensation and, periodically, 3 attract and retain highly qualified, attention of the Board or its Committees pension, insurance and other benefits of successful employees to deliver the members of the Executive Committee. 3 promotion of a modern and active the strategic plans and objectives The benchmarks used are a set of relevant, leadership culture of the Company comparable companies that are selected to 3 provision and optimal utilization 3 encourage and reward personal provide the best representation of the labor of resources (finances, contribution and individual and team markets and industries in which Syngenta management capacity) performance in accordance with the competes for top talent. The compensation Company’s values of members of the Board of Directors 3 establishment of an active of Syngenta is determined by reference communications policy within 3 align reward with sustainable to the Swiss peer group. and outside the Company performance and recognize superior results Compensation of employees 3 systematic selection, development and managers and promotion of new and potential 3 align the interests of employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. The compensation of all employees management personnel is reviewed on a regular basis and 3 examination and approval of significant Overall, the Company seeks to position is determined by reference to total agreements with third parties itself around the relevant market compensation levels for comparable and business activities involving median for base salary and benefits. jobs in relevant benchmark companies. extraordinary high risks Variable compensation, both shortand For example, an individual who achieves long-term, is designed to ensure high his or her performance goals is generally 3 establishment of guidelines for planning, performers may achieve around upper awarded compensation comparable to the organization, finance, reporting, quartile actual total compensation. median level of compensation provided information and other technology, etc. by benchmark companies. Each country Performance management regularly conducts market reviews and All employees, including senior executives, participates in salary surveys such as those Compensation are subject to a formal annual performance conducted by Korn Ferry Hay Group, Aon Compensation governance management process. This process aims Hewitt, Mercer and Willis Towers Watson The Compensation Committee of the to align individual, team and organizational plus any appropriate local surveys. Board of Directors is the supervisory objectives, stretch performance, and Compensation elements and governing body for the Syngenta support individual development. compensation policy and practices for Syngenta’s total compensation members of the Executive Committee and The process begins with goal setting at the package includes: members of the Board of Directors. It has start of the calendar year. Corporate goals are defined to set out the annual priorities 3 fixed compensation – base salary the responsibility to propose, determine and review compensation and benefits for the Company and to which all 3 variable compensation – short-term in accordance with the authorization employees’ individual goals are aligned. incentive plans and, for selected leaders, levels as set out in the Compensation The goals of the Executive Committee long-term incentive plans Report. The Committee consists of three members are reviewed and approved by the Compensation Committee. 3 benefits (including all insured benefits independent non-executive Directors. and retirement/pension plans). Performance is reviewed regularly throughout the year, culminating in a formal year-end performance review and an individual performance rating. The individual performance rating influences the variable compensation payments and thereby differentiates, recognizes and ultimately rewards individual performance. 64 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Board of Directors at December 31, 2016 Syngenta is led by a strong and experienced Board of Directors. The Board includes representatives with six nationalities, drawn from broad international business and scientific backgrounds. Its members bring diversity in expertise and perspective to the leadership of a complex, highly-regulated global business. 1 2 1 Michel Demaré Chairman of the Board, non-executive Director. Chairman of the Governance & Nomination Committee and of the Corporate Responsibility Committee He is also Chairman of the Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture Born: 1956 Nationality: Belgian/Swiss Initial appointment: 2012 Professional background 3 4 Michel Demaré was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of ABB from 2005 to February 2013, serving in addition, between late 2008 and March 2011, as the company’s President of Global Markets. Between February and September 2008, he was ABB’s acting Chief Executive Officer. Previously he had been Chief Financial Officer Europe for Baxter International Inc. He joined Baxter in 2002 after 18 years at the Dow Chemical Company, where he held various treasury and division CFO positions in Europe (including Switzerland) and the USA. Apart from his functions in Syngenta, Michel Demaré 5 6 is currently holding the following Board memberships: – Listed companies: Vice Chairman of UBS Group AG – Non-listed companies: Member of the Supervisory Board of Louis Dreyfus Company Holdings B.V. In addition, he is Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of IMD Business School in Lausanne and a member of the Advisory Board at the Institute of Banking and Finance at the University of Zurich. Michel Demaré holds a License in Applied Economics from the Université Catholique de Louvain 7 8 (UCL) and an MBA from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL) in Belgium. 2 Jürg Witmer Vice Chairman, non-executive Director. Chairman of the Compensation Committee and member of the Governance & Nomination Committee Born: 1948 Nationality: Swiss Initial appointment: 2006 Professional background Jürg Witmer joined Hoffmann-La Roche in Basel in 1978 and subsequently held a number of positions including Legal Counsel, Assistant to the CEO, General Manager and China Project Manager of Roche Far East based in Hong Kong, Head of Corporate Communications and Public Affairs at Roche headquarters in Basel, Switzerland, and General Manager of Roche Austria. From 1999 to 2005, he acted as Chief Executive Officer of the Givaudan Group in Vernier/Geneva. From 2008 to 2012, he was also Chairman of Clariant AG, Basel. Apart from his functions in Syngenta, Jürg Witmer is currently holding the following Board memberships: – Listed companies: Chairman of Givaudan Group – Non-listed companies: Non-executive Director of A. Menarini IFR Florence. Corporate information Syngenta Annual Review 2016 65 Jürg Witmer has a doctorate in Law from the other mandates in the supreme executive bodies 7 David Lawrence University of Zurich, as well as a degree in of listed or non-listed companies. Non-executive Director. International Studies from the Graduate Institute Stefan Borgas holds a degree in Business Member of the Audit Committee of the University of Geneva. Administration from the University of Saarbrücken He is also Chairman of the Science and and an MBA from the University of St. Gallen. Technology Advisory Board 3 Vinita Bali Born: 1949 Non-executive Director. 5 Gunnar Brock Nationality: British Member of the Corporate Responsibility Non-executive Director. Initial appointment: 2009 Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and Professional background Born: 1955 member of the Governance & David Lawrence was Head Research & Development Nationality: Indian Nomination Committee at Syngenta from 2002 to 2008. Prior to this role, Initial appointment: 2012 Born: 1950 David Lawrence was Head Research & Technology Professional background Nationality: Swedish Projects (2000–2002) for Syngenta. Prior to this, Vinita Bali started her career in India with the Initial appointment: 2012 he was Head International R&D Projects for Zeneca Tata Group, and then joined Cadbury India, Professional background Agrochemicals, having previously held several subsequently working for Cadbury in the UK, Gunnar Brock worked for the Tetra Pak Group for senior scientific roles. Apart from his functions Nigeria and South Africa. From 1994 onwards, she many years, with spells in Asia, Australia and Europe, in Syngenta, David Lawrence is currently holding held a number of senior positions in marketing and returning – after a period as President and Chief the following Board memberships: general management at The Coca-Cola Company Executive Officer of Alfa Laval – to become President – Non-listed companies: Chairman of the in the USA and Latin America, becoming Head of and Chief Executive Officer of the Tetra Pak Group, UK Knowledge Transfer Network Ltd. and of Corporate Strategy in 2001, and then joined the headquartered in Switzerland. From 2002 to 2009 Agrimetrics Ltd., and non-executive Director Zyman Group as Head of its Business Strategy he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Spectrum Ltd. practice in the USA in 2003. From 2005 to 2014 of the Atlas Copco Group. Apart from his functions He is also a non-executive Director of the John Vinita Bali was the Managing Director of Britannia in Syngenta, Gunnar Brock is currently holding the Innes Foundation (a charitable body), a member of Industries, India’s publicly listed premier food following Board memberships: the UK Industrial Biotechnology Leadership Forum, company. Apart from her functions in Syngenta, – Listed companies: Chairman of Stora Enso and the UK Agri-FoodTech Council, the Nottingham Vinta Bali is currently holding the following non-executive Director of Investor AB University Synbio Centre Advisory Board, and the Board memberships: – Non-listed companies: Chairman of Mölnlycke Nuffield Council on Bioethics. – Listed companies: Non-executive Director of Health Care and non-executive Director of Patricia Titan Industries, CRISIL and Smith & Nephew PLC Industries (both 100 percent affiliates of Investor AB), David Lawrence graduated in Chemistry from – Non-listed companies: Chairman of GAIN and non-executive Director of Stena AB. Oxford University with an MA and DPhil in (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition), Vice Chemical Pharmacology. Gunnar Brock holds an MBA from the Stockholm Chairman of CARE India Solutions for Sustainable School of Economics. Development, non-executive Director of 8 Eveline Saupper Katsuri & Sons Ltd., and Advisory Board member 6 Eleni Gabre-Madhin Non-executive Director. of PwC in India. Member of the Compensation Committee Non-executive Director. She also holds Advisory or Governing Board mandates Member of the Corporate Responsibility Born: 1958 in several institutions in the education sector. Committee Nationality: Swiss Vinita Bali holds an MBA from The Jamnalal Bajaj Initial appointment: 2013 Born: 1964 Institute of Management Studies, University of Nationality: Swiss Professional background Bombay and a Bachelor degree in Economics Initial appointment: 2013 Eveline Saupper was a partner at the commercial from the University of Delhi. law firm Homburger AG in Zurich until June 2014. Professional background Since then, she has been Of Counsel at this law 4 Stefan Borgas Eleni Gabre-Madhin is the co-founder and CEO of firm. Before joining Homburger in 1985, she worked eleni LLC, which supports the formation of commodity Non-executive Director. as a tax specialist with Peat Marwick Mitchell exchanges across Africa, helping to promote food Member of the Compensation Committee (today KPMG) in Zurich (1983–1985). Apart from her security. She also founded and was CEO of the and of the Audit Committee functions in Syngenta, Eveline Saupper is currently Ethiopia Commodity Exchange. Previously, she holding the following Board memberships: Born: 1964 was a Senior Program Leader for Strategy issues – Listed companies: Non-executive Director of Nationality: German at the International Food Policy Research Institute Flughafen Zürich AG, Georg Fischer AG and Initial appointment: 2009 in Addis Ababa and worked for several institutions, Clariant AG Professional background such as the World Bank in Washington (2003–2004). – Non-listed companies: Chairman of Mentex Stefan Borgas is President and Chief Executive Apart from her functions in Syngenta, she holds no Holding AG, non-executive Director of Officer of RHI AG in Austria since December 1, other mandates in the supreme executive bodies of hkp group AG, Stäubli Holding AG and 2016. Previously he served as CEO of Israel’s listed or non-listed companies. Hoval Group. ICL Group from September 2012 to 2016 and as Eleni Gabre-Madhin holds a BA in Economics from Eveline Saupper holds a degree and PhD in Law CEO of Lonza Group (Switzerland) from June 2004 Cornell University, a Master of Science in Agricultural from the University of St. Gallen. She is admitted to January 2012. Before this he spent 14 years Economics from Michigan State University and to the Bar of Zurich and is a certified tax expert. with BASF Group where he held various leadership a PhD in Applied Economics (Food Research positions in Fine Chemicals and Engineering Institute) from Stanford University. She received the Plastics in the USA, Germany, Ireland and China. Outstanding Dissertation Award from the American Apart from his functions in Syngenta, he holds no Agricultural Economics Association for her research on grain markets in Ethiopia. 66 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Executive Committee at December 31, 2016 Under the leadership of the Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Committee is responsible for the active leadership and the operative management of the Company. 1 2 1 J. Erik Fyrwald Chief Executive Officer Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Born: 1959 Nationality: American Appointment: 2016 Professional background J. Erik Fyrwald was previously President and Chief Executive Officer of Univar, a leading distributor of chemistry and related products and services 3 4 (2012–2016); President of Ecolab, a cleaning and sanitation, water treatment, and oil and gas products and services provider (2011–2012); and Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Nalco, a water treatment and oil and gas products and services company (2008–2011). He was Group Vice President of the Agriculture and Nutrition Division of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company – DuPont (2003–2008). Apart from his functions in Syngenta, J. Erik Fyrwald serves on the Board of Directors for Eli Lilly and Company (including their Science and Technology 5 6 Committee), CropLife International and the SwissAmerican Chamber of Commerce. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Delaware and completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School. 2 Christoph Mäder Head Legal & Taxes and Company Secretary Born: 1959 Nationality: Swiss 7 Appointment: 2000 Professional background Christoph Mäder was Head of Legal & Public Affairs for Novartis Crop Protection (1999–2000) and Senior Corporate Counsel for Novartis International AG (1992–1998). He is Vice Chairman of economiesuisse, the main umbrella organization representing Swiss economy. He is also a nonexecutive Director of Lonza AG (listed company), a member of the Board of scienceindustries, the association of Swiss chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech industries, and a member of the Board of the Basel Chamber of Commerce. He graduated from Basel University Law School, and is admitted to the Bar in Switzerland. Corporate information Syngenta Annual Review 2016 67 3 Patricia Malarkey 5 Mark Patrick 7 Jeff Rowe Head Research & Development Chief Financial Officer President Global Seeds and North America Born: 1965 Born: 1969 Born: 1973 Nationality: British/American Nationality: British Nationality: American Appointment: 2014 Appointment: 2016 Appointment: 2016 Professional background Professional background Professional background Prior to her current function as Head Research Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, Prior to his current function as President Seeds & Development, Patricia Malarkey was Head Mark Patrick was Head Commercial Finance and North America, Jeff Rowe was Vice President, Research & Development for Lawn & Garden at Syngenta (2011–2016). Prior to that, he was Strategic Services and Planning at DuPont Pioneer at Syngenta (2012−2013). Before that, she held Head Crop Protection Finance (2008–2011 (2015–2016) and also sat on the company’s a number of senior scientific functions in Crop and 2005–2006), Head Finance North America Leadership Team (DPLT). Before, he was Regional Protection, Seeds and Biotechnology at Syngenta Crop Protection (2006–2008), Head Business Director for DuPont Pioneer Europe (2011–2015), in Europe and the United States. Patricia Malarkey Reporting (2003–2005) and APAC Regional Supply Vice President Biotech Affairs and Regulatory holds no other mandates in the supreme executive Finance Head Syngenta in Hong Kong. He joined (2008–2011) and Corporate Counsel (2001–2008). bodies of listed or non-listed companies. AstraZeneca in 1993. Mark Patrick holds no other Jeff Rowe started his career with Pioneer in 1995 She graduated from the University of Glasgow in mandates in the supreme executive bodies of listed in Supply Management. Apart from his function Agricultural Chemistry and holds a master’s degree or non-listed companies. in Syngenta, he has been a member of the U.S.in Toxicology from the University of Surrey. He is a Chartered Management Accountant and Ukraine Business Council (USUBC) Executive also holds an honors degree in Quantity Surveying Committee since 2003. Jeff Rowe holds no other 4 Jonathan Parr and a Post Graduate degree in Economics. mandates in the supreme executive bodies of listed or non-listed companies. President Global Crop Protection and EAME, LATAM and APAC 6 Mark Peacock He has a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Head Global Operations Economics from the Iowa State University, a Juris Born: 1961 Doctorate from Drake Law School, and a Global Nationality: British Born: 1961 Executive MBA from the NYU Stern School of Appointment: 2015 Nationality: British Business and the London School of Economics. Professional background Appointment: 2007 Prior to his current function as President Global Professional background Crop Protection and EAME, LATAM and APAC, Mark Peacock was previously Head of Global Supply Jonathan Parr was Chief Operating Officer (COO) (2003–2006) and Regional Supply Manager for Asia EAME & Latin America (2015–2016). Before that, he Pacific (2000–2003) for Syngenta. Prior to this he was Head of Global Crops & Assets for Syngenta was a Product Manager in Zeneca Agrochemicals (2014), Regional Director for EAME (2009–2013), and General Manager of the Electrophotography Head of Syngenta Flowers (2007–2008), Head of Business in Zeneca Specialties. Mark Peacock Marketing and Strategy (2004–2007) and European holds no other mandates in the supreme executive Manufacturing Manager (2000–2003). Before joining bodies of listed or non-listed companies. Syngenta, he worked for AstraZeneca as a Factory He has a degree in Chemical Engineering from Manager (1998–2000), Global Product Manager Imperial College, London, and a Master in Fungicides (1996–1998) and Supply Chain Project International Management from McGill University Manager (1994–1996). From 1987 to 1994, he held in Montreal. Project and Engineering Management functions at Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI). Jonathan Parr holds no other mandates in the supreme executive bodies of listed or non-listed companies. Jonathan Parr is a Chartered Engineer and also holds an honors Bachelor degree in Civil Engineering from the University of Southampton as well as a Master in Management from the University of McGill, Canada, and a diploma in International Management from the INSEAD Institute. 68 Syngenta Annual Review 2016 Shareholder information Syngenta shares are listed on the Syngenta share price performance January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2016 SIX Swiss Exchange and on the (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2015) Dec 31, 2016 New York Stock Exchange, where the % CHF402.50 shares are traded as ADS (American 15 High: CHF432.70 * Depositary Shares).1 Low: CHF351.20 10 Trading symbols New York 5 SIX Swiss Stock Exchange Exchange 0 Shares SYNN SYT -5 Shares in issue At December 31, 2016 Number of shares -10 Total shares in issue 92,578,149 of which treasury shares 357,658 -15 -20 Share price and market capitalization 2 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec At December 31, 2016 Syngenta Eurotop 300 SMI * Closing high/low during the year Share price (CHF) 402.50 Share price ($) (ADS) 79.05 Syngenta ADS price performance January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2016 Market capitalization (CHF million) 37,119 (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2015) Dec 31, 2016 Market capitalization ($ million) 36,391 % $ 79.05 15 High: $88.95 * Low: $70.05 Dividend history 10 CHF 2012 9.50 5 2013 10.00 2014 11.00 0 2015 11.00 1 1 share = 5 ADS -5 2 For the purposes of calculating market capitalization the number of shares stood at 92.2 million -10 -15 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Syngenta ADS S&P 500 Dow Jones * Closing high/low during the year A full form 20-F is accessible at: www.investors.syngenta.com Investors can subscribe to media releases by email or via RSS at: www.investors.syngenta.com The full year results press release can be viewed at: www.media.syngenta.com Shareholder information Syngenta Annual Review 2016 69 Syngenta share price performance January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2016 (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2011) Dec 31, 2016 % CHF402.50 CHF366.60 CHF355.20 CHF320.00 CHF392.30 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 -20 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Syngenta Eurotop 300 SMI Syngenta ADS price performance January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2016 (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2011) Dec 31, 2016 % $80.80 $79.94 $64.24 $78.73 $79.05 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Syngenta ADS S&P 500 Dow Jones Syngenta share price performance since creation of the Company November 17, 2000 – December 31, 2016 (Indexed to zero at closing price on November 17, 2000) Dec 31, 2016 % $79.05 950 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 -50 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Syngenta Syngenta ADS Switzerland For the business year 2016, Syngenta has Syngenta supports the Investor Relations published three books: the Annual Review 2016 10 principles of the United T +41 61 323 5883 (including information about our non-financial Nations Global Compact F +41 61 323 5880 performance), the Financial Report 2016, through an established E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com and the Corporate Governance Report and commitment to Corporate Compensation Report 2016. Responsibility and ongoing Media Relations implementation of T +41 61 323 2323 All documents were originally published policies on human rights, F +41 61 323 2424 in English. The Annual Review 2016 and fair labor, environmental E media.relations@syngenta.com the Corporate Governance Report and protection and anti-corruption. Compensation Report 2016 are also Share Register available in German. T +41 41 798 4833 F +41 41 798 4849 These publications are available E syngenta@devigus.com on the Internet: www.syngenta.com Shareholder Services © 2017 Syngenta AG, Basel, Switzerland. T +41 61 323 2121 All rights reserved. F +41 61 323 5461 Editorial completion: February 2017 E shareholder.services@syngenta.com Copywriting: KainesLang, Corporate Responsibility Berwick-upon-Tweed, UK E csr@syngenta.com Design and production: Radley Yeldar, Syngenta switchboard London, UK T +41 61 323 1111 F +41 61 323 1212 ® Registered trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company USA ™ Trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company Investor Relations T +1 202 737 6521 The SYNGENTA Wordmark and BRINGING E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com PLANT POTENTIAL TO LIFE are registered trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company. Media Relations T +1 202 737 8913 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements: This document contains forwardContacts for ADS holders looking statements, which can be identified by T +1 866 253 7068 – from within the USA terminology such as “expect”, “would”, “will”, T +1 201 680 6825 – from outside the USA “potential”, “plans”, “prospects”, “estimated”, E shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com “aiming”, “on track” and similar expressions. Such statements may be subject to risks and Syngenta AG uncertainties that could cause the actual results Corporate Affairs to differ materially from these statements. P.O. Box CH-4002 Basel We refer you to Syngenta’s publicly available Switzerland filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for information about these www.syngenta.com and other risks and uncertainties. Syngenta assumes no obligation to update forwardlooking statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions or other factors. This document does not constitute, or form part of, any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer, to purchase or subscribe for any ordinary shares in Syngenta AG, or Syngenta ADSs, nor shall it form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract therefor.
