United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) Suez Cement Group of Companies (SCGC), comprised of Suez Cement, Tourah Cement and Helwan Cement, is a subsidiary of HeidelbergCement and is the largest cement producer in Egypt. SCGC is proud to say it has directly upheld the United Nations Global Compact since 2013. SCGC’s Communication on Progress (COP) update contains all consolidated and quantified references to the numerous initiatives launched by SCGC and its affiliates to further support the aims of the Global Compact Principles and Millennium Development Goals. This document details relevant local initiatives and achievements being implemented to reinforce SCGC’s regional commitment that demonstrate the effectiveness of corporate strategies in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment Protection and Anti-Corruption. The firm is dedicated to sustain economic profitability while investing in a better Egypt. Our biggest challenge is promoting industrial development and economic performance while adopting the highest standards of business integrity, social responsibility and environmental protection to improve the quality of life of wide Egyptian community through dedicated development initiatives in line with HeidelbergCement’s sustainable development strategies. BUSINESS INTEGRITY SCGC follows HeidelbergCement’s approach to integrity, currently based on four interrelated elements under the wider frame of ethics and sustainability: the Anti-bribery Compliance Program, the Antitrust Compliance Program, a Whistleblowing System and the Enterprise Risk Management Program, supported by the activities of Internal Audit Department. SCGC implemented its own Anti-bribery Compliance Program in 2013. The program is part of a wider initiative aimed at reducing risks in terms of Corporate Criminal Liability. Within the scope of this project, SCGC will also adopt Organization, Management and Control Model targeting to prevent corruption and bribery. In 2012, the company began developing the local Antitrust Compliance Program to provide a formal framework – guidelines, processes, monitoring and reporting activities – to ensure the business as a whole complies with all applicable antitrust laws. The scheme also identified and minimized risks as well as outlined remedial actions to deal with issues in this regard. SCGC is implementing its triennial Enterprise Risk and Compliance Programme (ERM) ensuring better risk management and audit systems. Risk Report, issued twice a year, gives the overview and follow up of main risks and opportunities. The Annual Risk Assessment, which launched in 2014, is based on three following metrics: risk and opportunity impacts, probability of occurrence or time horizon and level of control. Since 2012, an integrated Internal Audit Program has been put in place that also addresses health, safety and environmental protection in addition to antitrust, anti-corruption and antibribery issues over a period of three years. The objective is to better assess and improve risk management control and governance processes by applying systematic and disciplined approach. Risk levels and audit ratings are homogenously defined by five levels. Corrective action plans are discussed with all involved departments. In 2014, the Company outlined guidelines of the internal whistleblowing system to ensure employees, directors and third parties working with SCGC can report information or concerns about suspected mismanagement or misconduct. The guidelines clearly set out what types of activities should be reported and to whom and call for the formation of a Compliance Committee. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Individual rights to personal security and to a healthy, safe and inclusive workplace are seen as an ethical priority but also levers for success and profitability. SCGC considers safety and security fundamental values to be integrated in all its activities. With the aim of more ambitious results, the Zero Accidents project launched by Italcementi Group in 2000, evolved into a more comprehensive safety program in 2011 that presented safe conduct as a way of living in employees’ daily lives, whether at work or in the home. The Company’s goal is to create safer and healthier working environments by preventing accidents and injuries, in addition to developing communication initiatives that promote a safe and healthconscious work culture continuing to address technical/organizational projects and individual behavior. As part of the new equipment roadmap, SCGC requested five new parts/equipment elevators at the Helwan and Suez Plants. The elevators were successfully installed at the Suez Plant and Helwan Plant. The elevators are designed to reduce worker risk by eliminating the need to use cranes to maneuver heavy machinery and parts. The risk of falling from height was also mitigated at each plant through the construction of handrail protection at all our cement bag loading platforms. To become one of the safest companies in the cement industry, SCGC increased efforts to reduce the frequency of workplace accidents. In 2016, SCGC’s Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate for employees and temporary workers – the number of accidents that resulted in lost time per million hours worked – was 1.1. Additionally, the severity rate of recorded injuries was 0.06, while the number of days lost without commuting totaled 336 days. The Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) was 3.3 including Fatalities, Lost Time Injuries, Restricted Work Duty and Medical Treatment. Safety awareness programs, inspections and training hours have contributed largely in increasing the safety culture over the plants. In collaboration with the Safety Department, the Development and Training (D&T) Department hosted 3,417 training hours related to safety and security. Throughout 2016, the Company conducted 40,072 safety orientation and safety training hours for employees and contractors on topics such as SCGC safety procedures, emergency preparedness, risk assessment and safety inspections. SCGC’s ambition is to create relationships with employees and subcontractors based on trust, which will contribute to improve safety dynamics while on site. Every year, SCGC actively promotes the UN World Day for Safety and Health at Work as an occasion to increase safety awareness to all employees and build always more a culture of prevention and risks management. Road safety was a major priority in 2016. In this vein, SCGC hosted a safety campaign for the public on the Sokhna Road. Company representatives distributed “Mastering Safe Driving” flyers and analyzed unsafe behavior on the roads. They also gave drivers safety tips from the Egyptian Road Authority. Furthermore, SCGC initiated a program to visit schools near its plants to raise awareness of road safety for children ages nine and above. Company employees also played a game with the students called Safe Road, which was developed by SCGC. The game’s aim is to teach young people basic safety precautions. Finally, SCGC equipped the majority of Company vehicles and cement trucks with state-of-theart navigation systems and created mandatory programming to train staff members on how to safely operate their vehicles. The Safety Pre-Audit Program was another SCGC project that focused on occupational safety and health. The program was conducted by the Safety Team and plant representatives at all SCGC facilities and included technical and non-technical departments. Topics spanned preventing unsafe quarry till packing conditions, safety practices on the job and employees leading by example as safety team leaders. In addition, SCGC’s Safety Country Committee met every two months. The meetings are led by SCGC’s CEO and involve two hours of discussion about safety inspections, incident reports and action plans to correct unsafe behaviours/conditions. The Company is committed to protecting individuals through valuing diversity and cultural identity. The Human Rights Policy reinforces SCGC's commitment to this issue by explicitly supporting internationally proclaimed human rights as inalienable rights of all individuals. The policy also states that the firm will not support any human rights abuses. All incidents that potentially fall into this category are investigated, with appropriate actions taken to rectify the situation should action be deemed necessary. Since 2009, SCGC has implemented numerous projects to improve working conditions for employees and subcontractors. They include: first-aid facilities, separated sanitation facilities, dressing facilities, canteens and meal accommodation. Safety awareness sessions were also implemented that dealt with such topics as explaining the dangers of children or families accompanying customers or suppliers to the site and failing to wear appropriate PPE at all times. Moreover, all contracts and agreements signed by SCGC include strict human rights mandates covering working conditions, fair treatment and safety as per Egyptian law Company’s Procurement Handbook. All suppliers must provide supporting evidence that their employees are treated fairly and are trained properly so as to maintain a safe working environment under the Supplier Qualification Program, which began in 2012. This includes protection and rights mandated in labor contracts, access to social insurance, safe work facilities and the provision of meals and transportation. In addition, full industrial hygiene assessments are performed yearly in SCGC plants with the aim to improve working conditions based on corporate principles. Additionally, driven by the company’s ongoing commitment to corporate social responsibility, SCGC has continued to promote initiatives that focused on key needs of local community members. In 2016, SCGC again made education and health key priorities and spent more than LE 15 million on related programs across the country. These initiatives also aim to improve stakeholder relations through dialogue and co-operation. Only projects that contribute to the quality of life for community members as well as comply with local government policies and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights are chosen. SCGC hopes to build a better future for generations to come in co-operation with local NGOs, United Nations agencies, schools, hospitals and universities. In fact, the Company’s CSR program was recognized as one of the Top 10 in Egypt by the Federation of Egyptian Industries (FEI). In February 2016, SCGC unveiled the rehabilitated Emergency Room at Helwan Public Hospital. The project, in partnership with Misr El Kheir Foundation, aimed to improve health infrastructure in the governorate, provide the hospital with new equipment and boost staff morale. In 2016, SCGC continued to support the Omar Ibn El-Khattab Preparatory School for Boys in Kafr Selim, an impoverished district of Suez Governorate. In cooperation with the Takatof Association for Development, the Company financed training activities for 61 teachers, administrative staff and parents. In addition, SCGC financed a school program to put an end to classroom violence and improve education on top of hiring necessary cleaning and security staff. Helwan Cement Company (HCC) and the Association for the Development and Enhancement of Women (ADEW) also renovated two primary schools in Tourah and Kafr El Elw governorates. The program improves educational conditions through the development of school infrastructure to create healthy environments for youth. In 2016, the Company gave its annual contribution of LE 300,000 to the Don Bosco Technical Institute. The objective of the sponsorship program is to promote technical and vocational education for Egyptian youth, upgrade Don Bosco’s infrastructure/facilities and develop new programs. Graduates of Don Bosco are well known and in demand throughout the industrial sector for their excellent training and professional skills. SCGC has hired over 50 students to date and provided on-site training to more than 170 others as well as summer internship opportunities. As part of its comprehensive Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Program Suez Cement donated LE 10 million to the Long Live Egypt Fund. The contribution will go to Egypt’s national campaign to end Hepatitis C. Finally, the Company participated in charity activities during the holy month of Ramadan and Eid al Adha (Feast of Sacrifice) by distributing food and supplies to impoverished families living in Maasara, Kafr El Elw and El-Minya governorates. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SCGC dedicates a substantial part of its industrial investment in a company-wide, comprehensive environmental policy. Environmental protection, compliance with high standards, prevention of potential negative environmental impacts and continuous improvement of performance are some of the company’s main targets. The cement industry globally and Suez Cement in particular are aware of their responsibilities in the global contribution to climate protection. Cement operations are energy and carbon intensive but also provide efficient solutions to build public and private infrastructures and energy efficient housing, playing a key role in humanity's adaptation to unavoidable climate challenges. The cement industry is highly exposed to carbon risk, particularly in regions where CO2 emissions trading systems or carbon taxation are in place. The level of risk is directly related to the carbon footprint of individual companies but it is also significantly affected by external factors such as the international Kyoto and post-Kyoto scenarios, local regulations and carbon prices on international markets. Experience has shown the European Emission Trading Scheme (EU-ETS), even under free allocation, can significantly impact production margins, due to costs incurred making up shortages in emissions allowances. The cost of electricity plays a role as well. SCGC’s carbon intensity-based target for direct emissions is to contain its emission factor per ton of cementitious products. In 2016, SCGC moved forward with the implementation of its company-wide action plans to improve internal efficiencies and modify its energy mix, with two plants now fully converted to coal and alternative fuels from waste – Katameya and Suez. Both plants increased production and reduced overhead costs. Investments worth more than 750 million EGP are planned to support the future conversion of the Helwan and Tourah plants in the next few years. Carbon emission totaled 729 kg/ton CO2 per ton of cementitious products in 2016, which we intend to mitigate with increased usage of waste and the development of cement qualities with lower carbon intensity. In parallel, investments to reduce air emissions are implemented that leverage the best internationally available technologies, most notably bag house dust filters. In addition, indirect carbon emissions are also part of our concern and the Company is currently developing multi-annual plans to reduce its indirect carbon footprint. Efforts to minimize the carbon footprint of our activities were sustained with a particular focus on the clinker to cement ratio, energy efficiency and utilization of biomass waste. The switch from fuel oil and gas to coal is bringing an additional challenge which will be addressed over the next years. All plants regularly monitor and report their CO2 emissions using a data reporting system in line with the WBCSD/CSI protocol for CO2 inventorying. The data are used to track performance against KPIs and set internal reduction targets. The firm has been monitoring and reporting carbon dioxide emissions since 2006, following the adoption of the WBCSD/CSI CO2 Protocol Version 3 (the most advanced) for the cement industry. SCGC has been often recognized by the Ministry of State for Environmental Affairs for our comprehensive environmental management and performance programs. With the aim to improve its air emissions, the Company launched new state-of-the-art filtration systems at our plants, converting raw mill electrostatic precipitators to bag filters. The newly installed filtering units are designed to reduce dust emissions levels down to 20 mg/Nm3, which is well below Egyptian and European standards. In order to fully with international standards for air emissions (concerning dust), SCGC is set to convert the remaining electrostatic precipitators (bypass/cooler) to bag house filters. Performance monitoring, with a special focus on emissions, is a key tool for environmental management. To achieve this, the company monitors its emissions using Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems (CEMS) – automatic devices that measure real-time emissions 24 hours a day to be stored in an emission performance database. SCGC has eight operating kilns. Each are fully equipped with a CEMS to measure gas emissions according to Group standards, even beyond the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) recommendations. In any case, SCGC is committed to preventing or otherwise minimizing, mitigating and repairing any negative environmental impacts from its activities. The Environment Management Systems (EMS) program has further urged SCGC to adopt environmental procedures and operational instructions that reflects management’s commitment toward improving the environment where the company operates. The Environment Policy reinforces SCGC's approach in preserving the environment and society. SCGC strongly recommends the adoption of environmental management systems as an effective tool to prevent risk and prompt continuous improvement. All five plants are ISO 14001 and IS0 9001 certified, in compliance with requirements of the Environment Management System EMS-ISO 14001/2004. As part of the Company’s ongoing efforts to reduce and manage adverse environmental impacts, regular consultations and information sessions are held with local stakeholders. Responsible raw material sourcing and proper quarry management is a key element of environmental awareness. SCGC is currently implementing four rehabilitation projects. In 2007, SCGC began the first rehabilitation plan by refilling its clay quarry near the Tourah Plant, which is the oldest quarry in the country. The other two refilling projects are located in the Suez Plant's clay quarry, while the fourth involves planting palm trees around the Kattameya Clay Quarry to create a barrier between the site and highway. In addition, SCGC, in partnership with Ain Shams University’s Zoology Department in Cairo, has implemented a biodiversity plan (one of the first reports of its kind in Egypt), at the Helwan Limestone Quarry, the largest SCGC quarry. The program's aim is to analyze and monitor biodiversity levels at the quarry in comparison with surrounding areas. The partnership, renewed for another two years, gives the opportunity to better understand the ecosystems and environmental changes, as well as protecting and restoring the habitat and related living species, while taking into consideration the requirements of mineral and raw material extraction. It is the first time in Egypt that a cement company has implemented this type of project. Launched in 2013, the study measures biodiversity levels within the quarryaccording to a number of indices utilizing sampling methodologies accepted by the scientific community. The project team conducts measurements over a period of 2-3 years on a seasonal basis. The ultimate scope is to show that a cement plant quarry can host the same or higher levels of biodiversity compared to surrounding areas as long as proper rehabilitation practices are carried out using proven approaches like the ones SCGC has chosen to put in place. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) Human Rights UNGC SPHERE OF SOURCES OF ACTIONS GRI INDICATORS CONTRIBUTION PRINCIPLES BUSINESS CORPORATE LAUNCHED CORRESPONDENC TO THE INFLUENCE GOVERNANCE E MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS Principle 1 Employees, Corporate Sustainability HR1,HR2,HR3,HR4 Indirect: Goal 1-8 Businesses contractors, Governance Policy should subcontractors, Framework Human support and customers and Charter of Rights Policy respect the suppliers Values protection of Safety Policy International and Safety human rights Management within their Handbook sphere of Social influence Initiatives Policy Principle 2 Contractors, Corporate Human HR1,HR2,HR3,HR4 Indirect: Goal 1-8 make sure subcontractors, Governance Rights Policy they are not customers and Framework Safety Policy complicit in suppliers Charter of and Safety human rights Values Management abuse Handbook Social Initiatives Policy LABOUR Principle 3 Employees, Corporate Follow-up of HR5, LA9,LA4, LA5 Indirect: Goal contractors, Governance the 3,6,7,8 Businesses subcontractors, Collective should Charter of customers and Labour uphold the Values suppliers Agreements freedom of Collective with workers association Labour and union and the Agreements representativ effective es recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Employees, Corporate No existing HR2, HR7 Indirect: Goal 2,4 contractors, Governance situation of The subcontractors, forced or elimination of Charter of customers and compulsory all forms of Values suppliers labour within forced and Collective Suez compulsory Labour Cement and labour Agreements its affiliated companies Principle 5 Employees, Corporate Human HR1, HR3, HR6 Indirect: Goal 2,4 contractors, Governance Rights Policy The effective subcontractors, abolition of Charter of Implementati customers and child labour Values on of the suppliers Safety Best Collective Practice Labour “Waiting Agreements area for customers and suppliers” Principle 6 Employees, Corporate Sustainability LA2; LA14; EC5; Direct Goal 3 contractors, Governance Policy HR2; HR4; EC7 The subcontractors, elimination of Charter of customers and discriminatio Values suppliers n in respect Collective of Labour employment Agreements and occupation Environment Principle 7 Employees Corporate Environment EN11, EN18, EN21, Direct Goal 7 and Governance Policy EN30, Businesses communities should support Charter of Ongoing a precautionary Values implementati approach to on of environmental environment challenges al management systems Ongoing implementati on of energy management systems Air Emissions reduction Alternative fues Quarry and biodiversity management Principle 8 Employees Corporate Open door EN18, EN30 Direct Goal 7 and Governance events and Undertake communities stakeholder initiatives to Charter of engagement promote Values activities greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Employees Corporate Marketing EN2, EN5, EN7, Direct Goal 7 and Governance innovative EN18, EN26, EN30 Encourage the communities and development Charter of environment and diffusion of Values ally friendly environmentally products and friendly applications technologies (TX Active and i.light) Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Employees, Corporate Sustainability SO2, SO3,SO4,SO5 Indirect goal 1-8 contractors, Governance Policy Businesses subcontracto should work Charter of Implementati rs, against Values on and customers corruption in all training of and its forms, the Antisuppliers including Corruption extortion and Compliance bribery Programme
