COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016/2017 1 FIRSTLY LETTER WE ARE PROUD OF OUR H. E. António Guterres COMMITTMENT Secretary General United Nations Epsilon Publishers is proud of our New York, NY 10017 commitment in embodying the spirit of the USA United Nations Global Compact whose fundamental pillars are to their strategies Dear Sir and operations with universal principles on I am pleased to inform you that Epsilon Publishers reaﬃrms its human rights, labour, environment and support for the United Nations Global Compact and renews its anti-corruption. ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles on Human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Epsilon Publishers formally signed up to the It is against this backdrop that we have restructured and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) reprioritised our strategies, policies and operations to align in January 2016, as part of our broader them with the UN Global Compact (UNGC) principles. This year objective to drive the Pan-African agenda has seen us convert our goals from noble ideals into a set of through publishing. We believe that the meaningful realistic daily objectives. This Communication on values espoused by the UNGC are in tight Progress describes our efforts to implement the UNGC principles in each of its four issue areas. tandem with our own organisation’s values. We believe that we can do a lot more to address emerging To this end, Epsilon Publishers have pledged sustainability issues and, therefore, our intent remains to to align our efforts to operate responsibly ultimately operate responsibly, advance societal goals and embed sustainability deeper into our business. and to advance societal goals in tandem with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Yours sincerely This is our communication on progress on implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in supporting the R. Mumbi Gichuhi (Mrs.) broader UN goals. Managing Director Epsilon Publishers 2 3 CONTENT ABOUT US 07 OUR SEVICES IN A NUTSHELL 08 PROSE MAGAZINE 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 14 07 UNGC PRINCIPLES 15 HUMAN RIGHTS 16 22 LABOUR ENVIRONMENT 18 20 ANTI-CORRUPTION 22 2018 GOALS 24 08 16 18 20 24 10 4 5 WE DRIVE ABOUT US IMPACTFUL Our CONVERSATION WORK We are an established and trusted publishing firm in Nairobi, Kenya. We provide editorial, translation, We sieve through the clutter to publishing and printing services to help you to communicate your message succinctly with your unearth the kernel at the heart of your audience in an engaging manner. communication. Our APPROACH We nurture your publication and treat it like our own. We ensure that your message is communicated in a concise and consistent manner so it sends out a credible and compelling message that resonates and reinforces the core message of your text. Our PHILOSOPHY We work hard to bring your publication to life. Good publishing means work that attracts and retains attention because it has communicated congruently to its intended audience. Our team of editors and designers are drawn from diverse backgrounds including legal, communication, ICT and creative design. Our VALUES Our values lie at the core of what we do. We measure our work by our three non-negotiable values: We act with integrity; We take responsiblity for quality; We deliver excellence. 6 7 OUR SERVICES THE NITTY GRITTY IN A NUTSHELL What we do best We provide publishing services for both print and digital media. We go the extra mile in ensuring that your publication is both visually appealing, and easily digested by the end reader. Some of the items we publish include books, reports, diaries, newsletters, magazines, catalogues and policy briefs. IT’S WHAT WE ARE HERE FOR At Epsilon Publishers, we know that publishing is an art and a science. The overall design and appearance of a publication must appeal to the heart and its content must appeal to the head. Our detailed work-ﬂow ensures that your publication is planned in minute detail. Choosing our tools carefully, we ensure that all the three elements of editorial, design and print come together. Precision is our watch-word. ILLUSTRATIONS PHOTOGRAPHY Illustrations drive the point home with It is said that a picture is worth a thousand impact and are particularly useful for words. Which means that the pictures editorial purposes. Illustrations can also you use in your publication should evoke Editorial Translation Printing be used to tell a story in the form of a powerful imagery. We provide you with comic strip or book. We have partnered carefully selected and curated photography with a professional illustrator to to enhance your different publications. develop deliberate illustrations for your We work with a team of professional publications. Thus, empowering you to tell photographers as well as with stock Our editorial services To enable your We strive to ensure your stories more excitingly and with more imagery to deliver just the right images for include copywriting, publication reach a that our publications vroom. your publishing efforts. copyediting and wider audience, we meet international proofreading. We do provide translation print standards. INFOGRAPHICS CONTENT MANAGEMENT this for both print and services for English, online content. French and Swahili. We develop infographics to make your We create content that delivers your key publications more accessible to the message in a way that it is easily understood general reading public; and in the case by your target audience. Every person or of the technical report, to the intended entity has a story to tell. We help you tell recipients including policymakers and your story ﬂuently by curating content, other stakeholders. organising it and managing it effectively. 8 9 IN-HOUSE PUBLICATION PROSE MAGAZINE Prose Magazine is our inhouse online magazine. The magazine acts as a platform for commentary and discourse on public policy and the pan-African agenda. The magazine also features leaders worthy of emulation as well as showcasing and exposing talent. FOCUS ON LEADERSHIP TALENT The magazine picks on the brains of industry leaders Prose magazine acts as a platform for exposing their perceptions, intuitions, expertise, experience talent. Presently, our focus is on photography as a and champions them as role models. In this, we are medium for self-expression besides showcasing the PROSE aware that leadership extends beyond steering an A PUBLICATION OF EPSILON PUBLISHERS OCTOBER NOVEMBER 2017 richness of Africa. As a viable career, we interview organisation into increased profitability. That, at photographers from across the spectrum for their the core of leadership, the leaders should strive for insights on how to approach the whole space; thus, MAGAZINE sustainability both in terms of their organisational acting as mentors to upcoming photographers. DISRUPTION ISSUE growth as well as being prudent in their utilisation of natural resources so as to conserve the environment. PUBLIC POLICY PAN-AFRICAN AGENDA The face of leadership Peter Mugendi Reading culture A tribe called Sheng: When languages intermarry Photography Falk Kagelmacher Public policy is what guides governments in As a continent, Africa has resources aplenty; be Travel Road to Karen executing their mandate; namely, to better the it naturally resources, a skilled workforce, stories lives of their citizenry. Accordingly, from time to and latent potential waiting to be fully tapped. In time, we review various policy reports with a view our upcomign focus, we shall give the Pan-African to informing our readers the salient points of the agenda primary focus in the magazine, to give report. a platform to ventilate the issues that affect the continent and what can be done to overcome these challenges. 10 11 Ours is a collaborative effort where we incorporate your ideas as well as offer you insights from a publishing perspective to create a genius work of art. We never lose sight of the fact that a design has to communicate WE LOVE effectively on all fronts. We like to think of design as a visual language. Just like the spoken or written word, there THE VARIETY are certain things that we consider absolutely critical when working on your publication; that the outcome of your That’s why we handle various type of publications work is succinctly and eloquently expressed. 1 Books 2 Organisation Profiles 3 Newsletters Books are repositories Your organisation profile Newsletters are a great of invaluable knowledge tells the story of your way of sharing business, for human advancement. organisation, therefore organisational or industry’s As such, at every stage how it is told is very insights while serving as a towards the publication of important. We help you subtle marketing instrument. your book, we endeavour to develop and to publish We develop a house style to ensure that it appeals a compelling profile with for your newsletter for to the eyes as well as the which you can engage instant identification and mind. your target audience. consistency. 4 Policy briefs 5 Reports 6 Magazines We synthesise your Whether financial or study Magazines are periodic reports or journals into a reports, we strive to inject publications that cover a policy brief, basically, an life into your reports so certain subject or are aimed abridged version that can that they are engaging at a particular readership. be distributed to a wider to the reader. We work We enable you develop audience. These are ideal closely with you to magazines that caters for launches of publications highlight pertinent issues to the sector you are in and strategic plans. or points so that these can yet taking care to make be accessed at a glance. them readily accessible to different audiences. 12 13 UNGC PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective STEP BY STEP bargaining. COMMUNICATION ON PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should ensure the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PROGRESS PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Communication on Progress (COP) is an annual report that reaﬃrms our commitment to the United PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Through it, we are able to communicate our progress in implementing the PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility. UNGC principles as part of our corporate sustainability and responsibility to our stakeholders. These principles PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology. revolve around the sphere of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption and guide our PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its operations, policies and strategies throughout the year. forms, including extortion and bribery. 14 15 THE PROCESS 1 COMPANY CULTURE We strive to create an inclusive environment with particular attention 2 GENDER DIVERSITY Internally, we adhere to a nonwritten code of conduct that entails on gender diversity in order to support respecting every individual first as a HUMAN the development of all. human being and, most important, as RIGHTS part of our business family. Principle 1 3 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION Freedom of expression and opinion is 4 STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Externally, we commit to strong Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally highly respected. Epsilon Publishers’ and respectful relations with our communication policy stipulates proclaimed human rights. stakeholders. We believe it is essential that everyone in the organisation is to cultivate positive relations with accountable for the effectiveness of Principle 2 his or her own communication and our partners and clients. We strive Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. to maintain open communication HUMAN RIGHTS that communication should respect channels with all interested parties via individuals. 5 newsletters, email, mail, social media feeds and our website. 6 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY NO At Epsilon Publishers, we are in recognition of the As publishers, our core activities entail DISCRIMINATION inherent dignity and of the equal and inviolable rights generation of content or handling No distinction is drawn on any content from clients. We are, therefore of all human beings. We are committed to supporting committed to the protection of moral individual on the basis of gender, religion, race or other opinion. Our the promotion of human rights, that is, making a and material interests resulting from focus remains on respect and creating literary and artistic productions, that positive contribution to the realisation of human rights is, copyright on publications and equal opportunities. individually generated content. especially in ways that are relevant to our business. 7 We implement human rights standards in our values, SUPPLIER & CLIENT strategies, governance, policies, systems and processes. RELATIONS Epsilon Publishers works with reconised suppliers who uphold labour policies to ensure that we are not complicit to human rights abuses. Similarly, we do not undertake any work from clients that compromises the safety and integrity of our staff. 16 17 THE PROCESS 1 OUR TEAM 2 HIRING POLICY LABOUR The quality of Epsilon Publishers’ team is the greatest competitive advantage we have. Investing in a competent team is key to our success. Starting from equal employment opportunities, all employees are selected on basis of merit through a competitive process. Our team is 3 drawn from diverse backgrounds Principle 3 PROFESSIONAL including; legal, communication, ICT, Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective finance and creative design. DEVELOPMENT 4 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Every department provides training and skill LABOUR Businesses should ensure the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory development in job specific aspects as well POLICY labour. as generic skills. Such training enhances the competitiveness of the company as well as Principle 5 contributes to personnel development at No work or service is exacted on any the individual level. person under the menace of penalty The eﬀective abolition of child labour. or involuntarily. Self-management 5 Principle 6 is the code of practice, in that all The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. divisions and individuals are masters FAMILY of their own, guided by responsibility FIRST and integrity. 6 We put special emphasis on the The concept of labour is crucial to the organisation given importance of family. We underscore WORK the importance of our staff attending CONTRACTS that, human resource is pivotal to our operations. Our family events such as sporting events team spirit is the greatest asset that we have. Investing for their children. The level of compliance to employment contracts so far has in a competent team is key to our success. Starting from 7 been high and positive because all equal employment opportunities, all employees are STAFF terms are arrived at freely and in good faith. selected on basis of merit through a competitive process. RELATIONS We adhere to the provisions of the labour laws of the Productivity surveys confirm high productivity. This is supported by the fact Republic of Kenya. that all delegated tasks are completed as required and on time. We have not had any labour related cases (fraud, violence, discrimination, illegal activities, unethical conduct) filed since inception of the business. 18 19 THE PROCESS 1 DRIVING IMPACTFUL CONVERSATION We work closely with these key stakeholders to bring their work to an 2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT We focus on both traditional printing and we also place special emphasis ENVIRONMENT audience in the best way possible. The on electronic publishing. For instance, pride we take in our publication dictates our in-house publication Prose is an our commitment to sustainable business e-publication. practices. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8 3 WASTE MANAGEMENT We use wheat straw based copier 4 ASSOCIATIONS & PARTNERSHIPS Long term sustainability and value creation is only possible with strategic Businesses should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental papers from Nandyavart Kaagzi which alliances. At Epsilon Publishers we responsibility. is environmentally certified (ISO are quite fastidious about this and we 14001:2004). choose to partner with stakeholders Principle 9 We also advocate for the use of recycled who share in our values. Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally paper e.g. Keaykolour creative papers that are 100% recycled on the higher side friendly technology. 6 and 30% recycled on the minimum. 5 INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY Our environmental policy is part of our broader range COLLECTIVE of social responsibility. Although Epsilon Publishers’ RESPONSIBILITY Each member of staff is encouraged to take care of his/her environment, contribution to the environment may be incidental, Our view is that care for the even outside of the oﬃce. For the impact is relatively substantial as we partner with environment goes hand in hand with our example, in the past year, the work as publishers. We continually focus Managing Director has planted in stakeholders who directly focus on sustainable ecological on creating a workplace that supports excess of 400 trees on her farm. its workforce, allowing individuals to agriculture, agro fuels (sustainable energy), biodiversity take responsibility for both their working rights, policy, legislation and climate change. environment and wider social and environmental concerns. 20 21 THE PROCESS 1 2 ZERO ANTI-CORRUPTION TOLERANCE POLICY ANTI CORRUPTION Epsilon Publishers do not engage in any kind of corruption, whether by way of direct or indirect kickbacks, We have developed an anticorruption policy that describes what consitutes corruption and or gifts. unethical practises. 3 4 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion ENGAGEMENT WITH OPEN-DOOR and bribery. UNGC NAIROBI POLICY Our staff has been invited for Our staff is encouraged to ask several anti-corruption training at questions where they are unsure of the Kenyan chapter of the United any potential malpractise. The open Nations Global Compact. door policy encourages the airing of 5 issues around fraud and corruption. One of our core values is to act with integrity and 6 SUPPLIER this forms the bedrock of our stance on corruption. VETTING LEADERSHIP We have adopted a zero-tolerance on the vice. Our organisation culture is built on transparency and open We work with suppliers who embrace good corporate Anti-corruption is a top-down effort. To this end, the board of directors communication between all parties and departments. governance. It is important to us has been instrumental in supporting that our suppliers embrace similar Our communication policy stipulates that all ethos to us. us in this endeavour. communication must be truthful and ethical. 7 CHECKS & BALANCES Each department has clearly defined roles and responsibilities. This in turn creates a visible trail and encourages accountability and transperency. 22 23 THE PROCESS 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Align our magazine content to promote 2 #PayitForward LABOUR human rights Our present staff, by and large, have Our in-house publication, Prose benefited from on-the-job training and magazine, seeks to drive impactful mentorship opportunities. This has conversation about the pan-African increased their professional and personal agenda. This includes promoting ethical skills. In turn, they also get to train and leadership and human rights among mentor others in their respective roles. For others. We realise that our children 2018, we will offer internship to two youth, are the future leaders and we need to male and female, so that they can enhance 2018 protect them and instil in them values their employability as well as acquire vital that will drive Africa forward. We are life skills. GOALS aligning our editorial content to have a dedicated segment that will feature Develop an integrated human and advocate for child rights. resource manual 3 The integrated human resource manual will be developed in line with the ideals of the United Nations Global Compact which ENVIRONMENT we subscribe to. As part of our endeavours to fulﬁl our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, we will undertake speciﬁc activities in relation to labour, environment, Start process of registration for an eﬀective environmental management system (EMS) that is the ISO 14001 This will ensure that we improve 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION Facilitate training on anti-corruption anti-corruption and human rights. This will enhance resource eﬃciency geared towards for company’s staﬀ The company’s staff will undergo training our progress in these thematic areas. These activities environmental conservation. on anti-corruption. This is vital to the inform our goals for the year 2018. Growing trees company as integrity is a core value of the company’s daily operations. We take part in the protection and conservation of our environment. Attend UNGC training workshops This includes growing trees in our To deepen and enhance the continuity communities. Growing trees go beyond of our Communication on Progress, we their planting, to their nurturance to plan to attend continuous trainings and ensure that the trees reach maturity. workshops facilitated by the UNGC; which For 2018, our target is for each we will incorporate into our systems and member of staff to grow a minimum of processes. This sits in tandem with our five trees. core values. 24 25 AVAILABILITY 1 WEBSITE The Communication on Progress (COP) report will be available on our website. This will enhance its accessibility to all. Further, we will provide a downloadable PDF link. 2 EMAIL AVAILABILITY We will share our Communication on Progress (COP) directly with our stakeholders. The stakeholders include clients, suppliers and various other partners. 3 TO THE PUBLIC SOCIAL MEDIA We will share our Communication on Progress (COP) via the company’s Facebook and Twitter accounts. We will share our Communication on Progress (COP) report with all our stakeholders as well as the general public. Through this, we will be able to measure the impact of our COP among our various stakeholders. 26 27 Epsilon Publishers Gemina Court George Padmore Road P.O. Box 1175-00606 Nairobi Kenya Tel + 254 (0) 733 333 600 publish@epsilon.co.ke www.epsilon.co.ke 28
