UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2017 Short description of the company STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that AP Services reaffirms its support of the Ten Focusing on saving lives and preventing permanent physical disability. Since 2004 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, AP Services has developed customized solutions for exposed environments Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. and Hotspots, such as offshore industries, disaster areas and war zones. As a trusted advisor and partner AP Services has, developed solutions for UNHCR, This is our third Communication on Progress, in which we describe our UNICEF, EEAS, International Federation Red Cross & NATO. In cooperation with actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its ten suppliers and customers, we source solutions that can be used in precisely principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit those environments for which they are operating. Our experience ranges from the to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of training of MEDICS stationed in dangerous areas of the world, the miners of East communication. Greenland, to wind turbine engineers working at heights on offshore wind turbines. Allan Pedersen CEO, AP Services HUMAN RIGHTS Vision AP Services’ mission is to reduce the risk and increase the treatment options for We are fully committed to support and respect the protection of people whose lives or health is in danger. This is done by developing and internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure that it is not complicit in supplying pre-hospital emergency-medical equipment, solutions, advice, and human rights abuse. We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights training. Care for adherence to human rights constitutes a significant element and its conventions and the European Human Rights declaration written in the of corporate responsibility in AP Services. Through our training programs we wish EU charter and are pertinently aware of its implications and our obligations to promote general human rights and work to promote better health care therein. Our Human Rights Policy together with associated procedures with through utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipment and education violations remains under continual review. AP Services fully complies with Danish from highly-trained specialists. Saving lives is without doubt the very core of our legislation regarding Human Rights. business and in all simplicity what we aim to do every day. AP Services A/S is committed to conducting all of its business in a legal and ethical manner Progress underpinned by an ethos of transparency and our mission statement: We are highly aware of our responsibility to protect human rights. Much of our work is related to circumstances and events in dangerous places. Our aim is to save lives through hard work and our obligation to source the very best “Products to save life and limb” products. This was our motivation when establishing our company, and continues to be what drives us today. Results This is why we are a leading European distributor of the very best products We are proud that we have distributed and developed products and on the market, and not only are our products being used by the armed forces of solutions that save lives in the hotspots of the world. AP Services has more the Scandinavian countries, but also UN, EEAS & NATO. AP Services are than 13 years of practical experience and a thorough understanding of the specific determined to find products that work in remote areas with limited resources witch environments and requirements relevant to Relief Aid operations. Every year we canpreventor diminishfurther injuries and loss of life. gain new knowledge, experience and know-how and we use this to innovate and develop our solutions to save even more lives and minimize permanent damage We communicate and cooperate in a close relationship between our team and our even further – this is our deep-rooted passion and an ongoing process that will stakeholders. This allows for transparent reporting of any concerns that may never stop. In regards of training it is standard procedure to instruct and educate arise during any planned task. This provides a critical link between our own in Human Rights and local laws. Not only is this eminent in our material but also operations, personnel and our clients. This enables us to conduct any a requirement made by our customers. investigations or potential issues to be quickly identified and suitable resolutions found with direct involvement from our personnel and the company’s management. Our reason for doing so is that it is utmost important that AP Services’ is a leading example if the company detect any Human Rights violations and taking matters of special practical affairs to diminish the further wrong doing. LABOUR RIGHTS Vision Results Our mission is to increase the pre-hospital treatment possibilities in AP Services’ makes every effort to prevent accidents, injuries and physical dangerous and remote areas. This is primarily done through education of our disabilities in the workplace. Recognizing the risk, our clients and employees are employees to reduce risk for people whose lives or health is in danger. We exposed to when entering new and unfamiliar areas of operation, AP Services prepare them if anything should happen with pre-hospital emergency always meets all statutory health and safety obligations. In order to ensure a treatment options & medical equipment, solutions, advice, and most importantly, decrease in occupational accidents of our safety performance our standard training. measures varies from task to task in preventing accidents and injuries, thus various Progress risk potentials varies significantly from one another. We keep detailed track We encourage all our stakeholders to match our high standards in respect of records on work related accidents and will establish an accurate and verifiable personal well-being, safety, training practices and working conditions. With baseline for future monitoring and benchmarking purposes so that we can make regards to training courses all personnel deployed on operational duties have the necessary changes to bring it to a minimum. Further we have initiated a completed highly advanced theoretical and practical training and education. The yearly employee satisfaction survey to make sure we support our employees and to actual briefing and training sessions are carried out directly by AP services highlyimprove working conditions on a continual basis trained instructors who are educated to operate in exposed environments and High Risk Areas. In accordance with work regulations, we conduct preliminary and periodic medical healthchecks for our employees andinstructors. ENVIRONMENT Vision A core principle in AP Services which always should be our number one priority, is We have initiated different sustainable projects to reduce our footprint on the that people comes first. That does not mean that sustainable andresponsible environment. You can read more about this below. use of resources is not important to AP Services. Despite the relatively small size of AP Services, our company policy is to decrease our organizational footprint Results and have minimal impact on the environment. AP Services’ recognizes its Despite our own company office location and on-site locations, we are striving responsibility to do everything possible to make a positive contribution to the for the principle that “every little step helps”. Monthly energy readings are environment, and take steps, however small, to realize that aim. We have now being collected at our head quarter in Denmark in association with our guidelines to ensure responsible conduct within the company in regards to the newly established CO2 program. Furthermore our goal is to pursue a long-term environment. We do believe it is important to protect the environment for future goal of continuously reducing paper use by improving processes and thereby generations as well. sustainably contributing to resource conservation. All of our employees are encouraged to take part of actively engaging and Progress promoting the following steps, in particularly appropriate and suitable each time Our product catalogue consist of high-quality, multi-usage products. The products when operating at our client’s locations: are manufactured to be durable and achieve long lifetime cycles. Thereby we conserve resources. When we obtain new products, we focus specifically on durability. Recycling and shredding – no littering indoors or outdoors Switch to default black and white printing – no unnecessary use of color No unnecessary printing – more extensive use of electronic media Instead of printing Use of recycled products or office supplies whenever practical Switching off lights andother electrical equipment when not in use No unnecessary use of water AP Services continue to work towards more environmental friendlyand measurable initiatives for managing our environmental performance, which is proper to our environmental impact. In the future we will seek to identify new opportunities and evaluate past, present and future initiatives for our own improvement of performance. This will also serve to enhance our stakeholder’s perception of our environmental responsibility and understanding for why we believe this to be an important issue. PROJECTS WE SUPPORT SATS Århus SATS (Students anesthesia and traumatology union) is supported with instructors as well as products for education andtraining. Veteran foreningen (Veteran Association) The Veteran Association is supported with monetary funding in regards of construction of housing for returning veterans with Post-traumatic stress disorder or the like. Children Cancer Foundation (Børnecancerfonden) AP services support the Children Cancer Foundation as a GOLD sponsor. The foundation rises funding to support continuously research into new ways of treating and mitigating cancer in children. Municipality project for disabled citizens AP services support a municipality project in our neighborhood which focuses on helping citizens with mental handicaps into the working sphere as well. We work closely with this project when packing our kits for UNHCR, UNICEF, EEAS etc. Clinics in Syria & Libya An amountof medical products with limited life cycle are sentto NGO clinics in Syria and Libya. We do so because we know how vital the right equipment is to the treatment of wound. We believe that valuable medical equipment should never go to waste as there are many flashpoints where the use of the equipment can be the difference between life and death. Danmarks Veteraner Protektor H.K.H. Prins Joachim Team Rynkeby Team Rynkeby has existed for 13 years and every year they work to raise money for children with cancer and their families. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Progress AP Services has a zero tolerance policy in regards to bribery and corruption and If anyone should be in doubt, uncertain or apprehensive in a specific our policy will guide us to protect the company against risks in relation to fraud, situation it is our employee’s duty to address and approach the CEO. AP bribery, corruption and other forms of unethical business conduct. This policy Services will continuously support its employee’s knowledge and understanding of anti-corruption, the company’s policy and code of conduct and will continue applies for all of our employees and all of the company’s business relationships the effort to reinforce every step necessary to prevent corruption and bribery. and in all those countries where we conduct and operate our business. It is AP Services’ policy to comply and obey all laws, rules and regulations that Results concerns anti-corruption and antibribery, wherever AP Services’ may conduct its At no point have any areas of concern arisen regarding corruption and the ethical business and operates. The company is committed to take actions and affairs so as delivery of our services or products. The company has not been the subject of any to ensure that it does not engage in any form of corruption, including extortion investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other relevant actions related to and bribery. corruption or bribery.
