CSR Report 2016 Contents 2 Growing with our stakeholders 3 Safety and security ashore 5 Safety at sea 7 People 11 DFDS’ community involvement 13 Environment 15 Freight customers 17 Our passengers 19 Procurement 21 Stakeholder relations This CSR Report is an integral part of the management review of DFDS’ Annual Report 2016. Growing with our stakeholders Our business is to move and connect goods This is all part of our efforts to contribute to UN Global Compact and people. In December 2016 we had been the growth of businesses and people in the DFDS joined the UN Global Compact in 2015. doing so for 150 years. Part of the secret of societies in which we operate. The principles of the UN Global Compacts our company’s longevity is a deep-seated forms the foundation of DFDS’ CSR work. belief in taking good care of our customers In December 2016, we celebrated DFDS’ Regular updates of activities are reported and all other stakeholders, including the 150th anniversary. In recognition of the conto UNGC as required. environment. tribution made by DFDS’ employees in recent years to our growth and as part of the celeBoard of directors DFDS’ business model revolves around the bration of the anniversary, the Board of operation of ferry routes carrying freight and Directors awarded 30 shares to all employees. Executive management passengers and providing transport and The total number of employees eligible for logistics solutions to a diverse range of the award of shares exceeds 7,000. manufacturers. A large part of the solutions CR committee are carried out using the ferry route network. On the following pages, we report on activities related to CSR in 2016, including In relation to the reporting of activities that fit policies, processes and systems, actions Sustainability & Procurement public affairs into the umbrella of CSR, the key goals are to and results and how they contribute to limit the impact of activities on the environ­ our company. ment, keep people and goods safe, secure jobs Investor HR relations and good working conditions, support social initiatives and be a diverse company as Niels Smedegaard regards nationality, gender, race and age. President and CEO Marine standards Communications We also protect our company against fraud and seek to communicate and engage with Sales our stakeholders in a trustworthy manner at all times. The structure of our work on corporate responsibility DFDS’ work on corporate responsibility is coordinated and governed by a CR Committee that reports to executive management. The committee is headed by our sustainability and public affairs department. 2 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Safety and Overall difference in safety performance in 2016 from 2015 Enhanced safety training The accidents are, by and large, caused by Our approach security ashore Overall, safety performance has decreased individuals’ actions rather than by a failure Safety management is operated by to the benchmarking level, which started in of safety management systems, which is a the local management teams to 2012. A Group Accident Frequency Rate of continuing trend from 2013, 2014, 2015 and maintain flexibility and proportionality 5.07 missed the improvement target of 5.14. 2016. Therefore, the solution is to increase of response based on risk. Thus, more individuals’ personal awareness of safety as safety controls and formalised GROUP 2013 2014 2015 2016 part of the overall development of DFDS’ inspection regimes are operated for Highlights safety culture. In order to raise awareness higher risk activities (port terminals) • No fatalities recorded in 2015-16 LTAs* 48 45 40 61 and knowledge about safety among staff, than lower risk activities (offices). AFR* 7.10 6.22 5.07 8.38 • Accident frequency increased DFDS has introduced e-learning safety • Accident severity increased *AFR (Lost-Time Injury) Accident Frequency Rate modules so people can receive online safety The national and international safety • Most accidents caused by individual’s *LTA Lost-Time Injury Accident training. This has greatly improved the legislation applicable across the DFDS actions rather than failure of systems number of people who have received safety Group has a common basis in EU • E-learning tool enhances safety training Injury severity (represented by average lost training. In 2016, 1309 e-learning modules legislation. This allows for an internal and raises awareness of safety risks working-days per LTA in 2016) also signifiwere completed. That is approximately twice safety management standard for the cantly increased (24,5 days compared to as many as in 2015, largely due to significant DFDS group based on a UK model of Higher accident frequency and more 14 days in 2015). There are no particular reatake-up by seafarers on board ships. There is safety management. severe injuries sons for the decrease in safety performance a suite of six core safety modules with “Safety culture development is complementaapart from individuals’ actions as a host of common applicability across the Group (Risk Reporting ry to the overall culture of THE DFDS WAY, safety systems are in place. Raising awareAssessment, Fire, Manual Handling, Slip/Trip, • The reporting system is designed so and that is why we continuously increase the ness of safety issues and continued training Display Screen Equipment and Environment) as not to overburden small low-risk use of e-learning and behavioural safety,” of employees remain key to improving safety plus several site-specific modules such as units and still allow reporting of says Russell Challenor, Safety Manager in performance going forward. Food Safety for Belfast. Each module takes injury accident detail and generation Dover-Dunkerque. approximately 30 minutes to complete. of causal analysis. • Safety training, via the use of e-learning, has A module is only counted as complete • The network of ‘data responders’ DFDS is an organisation in continuous growth, been a success and is more or less double when an 80% pass mark is achieved. covers 57 operational sites. also in its land-based activities, port terminals, compared to last year’s take-up. It has pro• Causal analysis to inform managers warehouses, offices and transport operations. gressed, with 1,711 staff now enrolled on Future steps / commitments of trends and feed into their ‘safety Therefore, we have decided to measure our the system, and multiple language versions E-learning tools, including survey, will action plans’ to ensure proactive land-based safety performance by means of (Dutch and French) are available. continue to contribute to improved safety management of safety. an Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) rather than • ‘I-care’ behavioural safety initiative introby raising awareness of safety throughout • Figures for 2016 includes 11 months, by the number of accidents. In this way, we duced in Immingham Seaways by the local the organisation. Other language versions of January-November. will get a true picture of the safety performance management team, which has allowed certithe core safety modules have been prepared which reflects the actual risk to individual fication to the BSI OHSAS18001 international to make the material more user-friendly. employees and which can be compared from safety standard in 2016; this is a vanguard The use of French language modules was year to year. and an example of what is required to drive introduced in 2016. improvements in safety culture. 3 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Injury severity DFDS Group safety performance (Lost-Days) Jan-Nov. 2016 Actual Original Group 2013 2014 2015 2016 Actual Average 2015 Improvement LTAs 48 45 40 61 LTAs Lost-Days LDs per LTA Average LDs Target LDs YTD Y-T-D 2016 Comparison per LTA AFR 7.10 6.22 5.07 8,38 Logistics 21 401 19 20 10 Seaways 40 1099 27 10 11 Group 61 1500 25* 14 10 * increase arises from long-term absences from injuries in earlier months. Causal Analysis All Injury Accidents 2016 AFR moving annual AFR-MAT Underlying Trend 2016 Slip/TripOther 42 Combined Injuries 12 (31%) (27%) 10 8 6 4 2 LESS IS MORE ideal is zero 0 Manual Handling. Jun Jul Sep Oct Nov 36 Combined Injuries 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Struck by moving object (23%) 29 Combined Injuries (19%) S/WAYS div. DFDS Group Log. div. 2012 Bench Target 1 15% Target 2 +10% 4 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Safety Highlights hagen – Oslo route, as well as our passenger However, injury severity hasn’t increased. The • Improvement in safety performance ships in the Baltic, served as settings for the many injuries reported were, with one excepat sea • Major difference between regions in level authorities’ security crisis-handling drills. We tion, of minor severity. Most of the injuries of Lost Time Injuries believe that these drills are extremely vawere bruises, sore knees, back pains from • Ship collision in Ghent luable when it comes to improving the safety lifting, a bruised fingernail and other minor • Migrant situation causing operational issues and security of our passengers and crews, and injuries. to ensure that our processes to deal with Continuous improvement The goal of DFDS’ safety and security work is emergencies are continued tested and verified. Near-miss reports and focus on safety training to keep people and goods safe. However, Near misses are hazardous occurrences that, achieving this differs between sea and land. Lost Time Injuries frequency shows under different circumstances, could lead to and drills Legislation also applies differently. unsatisfactory regional variations an incident if corrective actions are not taThe Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate proken. DFDS’ policy is to support the reporting Training and drills save lives vides an overview of the number of workrelaof near-miss incidents in order to develop The DFDS Way is intended to enhance perforted injuries in the past year. DFDS measures best practices in avoiding and reacting effimance through continuous improvements, the LTI frequency rate in work-related inciciently to near misses. In 2016, 72,4 near misand we believe that the major tools in achiedents per million working hours that cause ses were reported on average per ship. This is ving continuous improvements in our health absence from work for more than 24 hours. a satisfactory level of reports a slight increaand safety standards are training and drills se compared to 2015 It is well above our taron board our ships. Incidents in preceding The development in 2016 showed a positive get, which is set to 48 per ship annually. years have clearly demonstrated that the trend with a general reduced Lost Time Injuritraining standards and frequent drills are ines frequency on board our ships. In 2016, the Group policy strumental in the crew’s ability to protect overall frequency fell to 7.16 from 8.23 in DFDS’ Health, Safety and Environment Policy, people, goods and the ship against the conse2015. However, the general level is still unsawhich is reviewed annually by Management, quences of incidents such as fire on board, tisfactory. This is mainly due to an unsatisis designed to deliver improvements through collisions and other major incidents. factory level on the vessels flying the French active demonstration of commitment and flag, which had an average LTI frequency of leadership. This means practicing what we In line with our strategy, DFDS also aims to 21.15, which is significantly improved compapreach, with all managers behaving in a way participate in drills in cooperation with variored to 2016 where the level was 32.64 that demonstrates safety and accountability. us rescue and emergency authorities. Such special safety and security drills include advanced training in crisis handling, cooperation Shipping incidents reported * 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 and communication between DFDS and the Near-miss reports (average per ship) 72,7 71.2 62.3 64.5 38.5 authorities and between the various emerLost time injury frequency (LTIF) 7,16 8.23 9.3 7.0 3.3 gency teams. In 2016, several such safety Fatalities 0 0 0 1 0 and security crisis drills were carried out in Dover. Furthermore, our ships on the Copen* Data excludes the subsidiaries AB DFDS SEAWAYS (Lithuania) and DFDS Logistics AS (Norway) 5 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Migrant situation Furthermore, it is important for DDFS to reduFuture steps / commitments in 2017 The migrant situation has impacted DFDS in ce the problem as it is a very difficult situati2016 because of stricter border controls and on for our crews on board ships when migrants In its marine safety and security work in 2017, demand for stricter control of passengers are found on board. For DFDS it causes extra DFDS will strive to: embarking on a journey towards the UK. Howcosts as the company will need to hire guards • Reduce the number of Lost Time Injuries ever, the major impact has been caused by to accompany illegal migrants back to the crew accidents on board French-flagged migrants trying to board the ships as blind Continent as they will not be granted access ships passengers in order to enter the UK illegally. to the UK. • Maintain progress towards zero lost time accidents across the rest of the fleet The problem has been particularly big in Major incidents in 2016 • Continue improvement in safety-related Calais where a migrant camp with up to On 14 December, Primula Seaways was hit by performance. 10,000 migrants has led to hundreds of daily the coaster Alsterdiep while the ship was ma­ • Work towards implementing the entire attempts to board the ferries hidden in trainoeuvring alongside Primula Seaways sailing group in the overall safety measurement lers. The problem has been dramatically rein the Ghent Terneuzen Canal, which connects and performance. duced after the French authorities closed the the Port of Ghent with the North Sea. The colcamp. However, for this reason there has belision caused minor damage to Alsterdiep’s en a growing pressure on our other routes to bow and a dent in the hull of Primula Seaways. the UK from France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Norway. DFDS’ policy is to cooperate closely with the Our approach an ongoing basis, and all ships must report UK border authorities and local authorities to All ships are surveyed and certified any incidents on board. This can be done minimise the problem. according to international, EU and national anonymously under a ‘no blame’ policy legislation. They are also subject to according to Company procedures and Our policy is also to use every experience we internal audits and inspections on safety, international safety guidelines. gain to improve security measures and survelabour conditions and security according illance and to inform the public openly about to statutory instruments and company Our Marine Standards experts, People the problem and the safety risk associated procedures. & Ships VPs and CEO meets regulary to with travelling as a blind passenger hidden in review formally the ships’ safety related a trailer and on board a ship at sea. Under the International Safety Manage— performance. Core to this process is a ment (ISM) code, the International Ship review of all safety and operational data We also inform our customers about the risk and Port Facility Security code (ISPS) and collected from ships in readiness for as the lorry company and the driver will be the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) , inspection by maritime authorities. Such fined if illegal migrants are found in the traiall maritime safety measures and security reviews are published to all ships and key ler when entering the UK. factors must be reported for all ships on shore-based managers. 6 DFDS CSR Report 2016 People Highlights DFDS’ HR policy • New internal talent programme: Horizon We will lead an international and competent The department has since been expanded • New competence development programmes workforce that consistently understands our with new staff and expertise. The training developed and implemented: Presentation customers’ needs. It is a workforce that conducted in 2014 falls into three main cateFocus on training and Skills and Negotiation Skills shows passion and thrives in an environment gories: leadership training, personal developdevelopment in 2016 • New senior management programme with inclusive behaviours. DFDS will at all ment and sales and service training. THE • Changes to staff because of route closures, times seek to ensure we have the right candiDFDS Way of Selling was our flagship training tonnage changes and changes to business date for a position regardless of gender, age, programme in 2014, 2015 and 2016. • No fines, lawsuits or breaches of rules were religion, nationality or ethnicity. A Training registered in the HR area in 2015 and Development department was established in 2013 to enhance our training and It is vital for DFDS’ continued development to development activities in a substantial way. be a preferred employer that attracts, develops and retains employees in all job types, in all the countries in which we have activities. Main leadership training conducted personal development: 60 employees • ZOOM is our general leadership training participated in 2016. The purpose of our HR activities is to support programme: 500+ managers have • Train-the-trainer: The course trains people and the business in making the right participated in the modular (2 x 3 the trainers for our passenger service decisions when it comes to recruitment, days) training course since it started. development programme YES WE employee and management development, It has been extended with training that WILL. 25 new trainers underwent talent spotting, performance management, focuses on Change Management & development training in 2016. remuneration and benefits, as well as Cultural Differences. • HORIZON talent programme: DFDS has organisational efficiency. * An Executive Management Programme initiated a group talent programme, was launched in 2016 to offer new Horizon, to identify and develop talents. In 2015, this was done with special focus on insights and training for the top 41% of the participants are female. leadership and personal development by management team. After one year, 50% of participants means of increased training and succession * To ensure continuous development of advanced into new positions in DFDS. planning for those next in line. There was also new managers at top level, a Succession focus on diversity and our trainee and Programme has been developed and Sales and customer service training apprenticeship programmes. In addition to implemented. 20-25 potential new top • As a continuous part of our Customer this, DFDS offers an extensive introduction managers enrolled in the Programme. Focus, sales training continued package to new employees. A new internal throughout 2016. Furthermore, a talent programme to identify and train the programme for call centre employees talents within DFDS was introduced and 22 Main personal development training was implemented to strive for improved participants completed the Horizon • FOCUS is our training programme for customer satisfaction. programme during 2015 and 2016. 7 Talent and capability development “We are committed to helping people perform at their best and achieve their full potential through ongoing training and development„ Henrik Holck, EVP, People & Ships DFDS CSR Report 2016 Diversity continues to be rate Governance. The Board continuously find the best way of getting the DFDS DNA We have taken the initial steps towards a at the top of our agenda assesses the composition of the Board with into everyone. The end goal is to create a unimore strategic approach to recruitment, Women make up 28% of DFDS’ workforce, regard to further increasing gender diversity. fied onboarding package to be used when we which also entails a preferred supplier list which is on a par with our industry. However, welcome new colleagues, both from recruitof external recruitment agencies. only 4% of all employees at senior manageOnboarding ment and from acquisitions. ment level are women. DFDS aims to increase We believe incredible performance starts Future steps / commitments in 2017: not only the total number of women in DFDS, with onboarding, structured and high quality Aiming higher within HR • Employer branding but we will continue to focus on increasing onboarding also affects retention. We have Part of our DFDS Way is performance culture • Recruitment strategy the number of women in senior management reviewed the DFDS Way of onboarding new and to do things a little better every day. In • Further development of internal training positions in the next couple of years. During colleagues, and have identified some areas 2016, we implemented an e-recruitment sy­stem programmes 2016 we identified some concrete actions for improvement. Onboarding is often consiacross the Group to ensure a more ef­ficient • Make progress on diversity policy and targets to be implemented during 2017. One area we dered as a checklist exercise, but we wish to handling of vacancies and applications. • Promote internal job rotation have decided to improve is our recruitment process. We have decided to change the process, so the shortlisted candidates will be interviewed by people of both genders Gender distribution Distribution of employees o  n land and sea Average number of employees per country during the process. On top of this we will also DFDS’ workforce 2016 (No. of employees) 2 016 review the communication style to ensure we communicate to both genders. 100% 8,000 7,000 Unconscious bias is where the true value lies 7,000 6,000 to improve diversity in general. Unconscious 80% bias is in our assumptions. We will introduce 6,000 5,000 a training package for all managers in DFDS to work with unconscious bias to create 5,000 4,000 60% awareness and unlock any obstacles that might hinder our work with diversity. 4,000 3,000 Thirdly, we will establish a Women’s Net40% work. The objective of this network will be 3,000 2,000 to accelerate women’s careers. 2,000 1,000 20% Diversity development 1,000 0 In our Board of Directors we have 33% female representation, excluding employee-elected Germany / France / Italy / Spain Holland / Belgium 0% 0 Baltic Countries / Poland Sweden / Norway members, in line with the recommended mini­ 2014 2015 2016 / Russia / Finland mum ratio of the Danish Committee on Corpo­ Women Men Land Sea UK / Ireland Denmark 9 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Risks related to social issues and potential of a diverse workforce is not only a employee relations social imperative, but also provides a comDFDS has taken steps to ensure strong relapetitive advantage. From a business perspections between the company and its employtive, to best serve the market we have to ees and to ensure social dialogue. “employ the market”. By increasing diversity in our organisation we also become more atTo ensure good cooperation, DFDS seeks an tractive as an employer. open and trustful dialogue with unions and works councils. This is in addition to its legal With 7,000 employees there is always a poobligations. It means that social issues can be tential risk of discrimination or harassment. discussed and resolved before they develop However, DFDS does not tolerate discriminainto a dispute. Many examples have been givtion or bullying of any kind. We continuously en to demonstrate that this transparent and work on this topic through policies and trustful cooperation is appreciated by the leadership. works councils. The strong relations between the company, DFDS is also taking steps to ensure that all unions, staff representatives and staff may staff have a common interest in the develophave contributed to the fact that DFDS saw no ment of the company, such as awarding all social disputes or industrial action in 2016. members of staff shares in the company in 2016. We currently do not foresee any imminent social disputes or risk with any other social In addition to this, DFDS has entered into an or employee-related matters. agreement with a Danish union to establish a social foundation, which supports employees who are members of the union in the event of severe illness. If a person is too sick to maintain a full-time job, he or she can apply for financial support to maintain a full-time salary, even though he or she is working reduced hours for a period of time. This is in addition to the support which DFDS grants persons suffering work-related injuries. DFDS has a continued high degree of focus on diversity and inclusion. Maximising the 10 DFDS CSR Report 2016 DFDS’ Each year, we transport millions of freight High: Five marked its 10th anniversary in families, and we think this is an area where units and passengers through communities early 2016 and it was celebrated in the DFDS we can help make the biggest difference with community close to port terminals and other facilities Terminal. Those present included High:Five’s a united effort,” says Rikke Gransøe Lange, operated by DFDS. patron, HRH Prince Joachim, Denmark’s MiniMarketing Director in Group Marketing. ster of Finance Claus Hjort Frederiksen and involvement In many communities, we are part of local life and take an active interest in community the Minister for Integration Inger Støjberg. Niels Smedegaard and Inge Grønvold from The pink trailer will be rolling throughout the DFDS network, and when our customers order issues, including job creation and supporting Lauritzen Fonden, which has shown great entroad transport, it might be our pink trailer DFDS supports people in need community initiatives. husiasm for High:Five and given huge support picking up their goods. For every 10 km our pink through targeted programmes to the work, were also there. trailer travels, DFDS will donate EUR 1 to breSome of the initiatives taken by DFDS in ast cancer research projects. The more goods 2016 were: “It is an honour to be part of High:Five and init carries, the more money we will donate. And fluence the young people – to see them grow if you spot it please do share it on social media Helping young people escape crime and develop in a new and better direction,” with the hashtag #PINKdfds to make others In Denmark, DFDS works closely with the says EVP Henrik Holck. support the fight against breast cancer. High:Five project, which is a community initiative to find jobs in private companies for Employee welfare young people with criminal records. The aim In partnership with the Danish union DMMA, is to offer a way back to a crime-free life via we established a joint foundation to provide a normal job. Since DFDS joined the High:Five financial support to employees covered by programme, 43 young former criminals have the agreements negotiated with the DMMA. been employed in our offices or on our ships – The scheme enables people to work part-time mainly on our ships on the Oslo – Copenhagen if they are unable to work full-time for health route. On board a ship, the working environreasons. In 2016, 11 people benefitted from ment is dedicated and supportive, and about the scheme. The agreement is unique in the Christmas lunch for the homeless 80% of the participants in the programme Danish labour market. DFDS offered a free Christmas lunch to hopermanently leave a life of crime. meless people on board our passenger ships in Joining the fight against breast cancer Copenhagen and Oslo before Christmas. The inDFDS has taken a leading role in this initiative: During October 2016, DFDS launched the first vitations were issued in cooperation with local Henrik Holck, EVP of DFDS’ People & Ships Divipart of a united charity event which covered charity initiatives: In Denmark with WeShelter sion, was appointed Chairman of High:Five. As a all countries and locations where DFDS is and in Norway with Church City Mission and result of these and other social initiatives, DFDS present. The event was to support the fight the Salvation Army. The lunch is partly based has been awarded a seat on the Danish Governagainst breast cancer. on voluntary work done by DFDS employees. ment’s advisory committee for corporate social About 600 homeless people enjoyed a free responsibility, where we share our experiences “Breast cancer is a serious disease which Christmas lunch at DFDS, and the food left over and contribute to developing social initiatives. also has widespread side-effects on whole from the event was donated to the shelters. 11 DFDS CSR Report 2016 DFDS’ 150th anniversary gift to its employees Ships on missions On 16 December 2016 at exactly 14:00 CET, Our vessels sometimes participate in everyone in DFDS celebrated the foundation spectacular missions, and this year ARK of DFDS 150 years ago with identical events FUTURA was engaged in the Danish-led on all vessels and in all locations within the international mission to bring the remains DFDS network. of Libya’s chemical weapons programme out of the country. And because the Danish In a video shown during the celebrations, armed forces have built up considerable CEO Niels Smedegaard revealed the big expertise in leading this type of mission, anniversary surprise: A gift of up to 30 shares including transporting chemicals out of valued at around DKK 9,000 (EUR 1,200) for Syria, the mission was a great success. every one of the more than 7,000 employees who, as at 1 December 2016 were in a job at It is not DFDS but exclusively the armed DFDS and not subject to notice or resignation. forces which are responsible for the mission and which can provide information about it. It means we all become shareholders in our own place of work. DFDS and our colleagues on shore and on board are all bound by a duty of confidentiality during the period when the ship is sailing on behalf of the armed forces. “Congratulations to everyone in DFDS: We are now all DFDS shareholders„ Niels Smedegaard, President and CEO 12 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Environment Highlights • Ballast Water Management gulation, according to which all vessels calling at EU ports must report their CO2 emisOn a related note, a global conference held in October 2016 agreed on a plan to phase out Convention ratified sions and the related transport work. The HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons), a product widely • Greenhouse gases – a global threat first reporting year is 2018 and DFDS is well used as a coolant in refrigerators and air­­­­Reducing our impact on the • DFDS 2016 CO2e footprint 1,542,931 ts prepared to meet the respective deadlines con­ditioning units. HFCs are also a green­environment • Energy Efficiency Directive work completed for this mandatory reporting. On a similar house gases. • Funding proposals not accepted note, IMO has agreed its “fuel oil data collec• Date agreed for global 0.5% CO2 cap tion” system which from January 2019 will Another development which affected us in • NECA in Baltics from 2021 also chart data on ships’ fuel consumption. 2016 was the new “Energy Audit Directive”. • HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) being phased out. Audits are now required to be submitted by DFDS continues to have a programme for its large companies. The required audits must be Greenhouse gas emissions are high on the own GHG reduction. Once again, in 2016 a submitted on a national level and DFDS, like global agenda as well as being on the DFDS number of initiatives on the vessels as well other multinationals, must therefore submit list of priorities. Global temperature is at a as ashore were implemented. one report for each relevant country. record level and GHG emissions are part of the reason for this. A number of initiatives are An example of such an initiative is the auto­ A Group report submitted to a central agency in the pipeline to combat the trend and commatic voyage result analysis now being genis not an option. Energy audits are processes bined they will hopefully reverse emission erated for a number of our vessels. It is done that must be repeated every four years. levels over the years to come. immediately after the completion of each voyage. The system calculates and visualises Risk assessment, climate and environment The European Union has agreed the MRV Rethe voyage performance and compares it New legislation, whether national, internaFigure 1. DFDS fleet performance on fuel. with the theoretical optimal performance. tional or regional, poses the greatest risk to DFDS with respect to climate and environFuel consumption (g/GT/Nm) In 2016, the Group’s total CO2 emissions amountment. On the international level, IMO and the 7,0 ed to 1,542,931 ts. Compared to 2015, this is EU are likely to continue promoting new legisan increase of 11%, which is due to increased lation and/or stricter limitations to existing 6,5 energy consumption in our fleet. The ships replegislation. Through trade organisations such 6,0 resent 95% of DFDS’ total CO2 emissions. as the Danish Shipowners’ Association and 5,5 Interferry and direct participation in relevant CO2 from our fleet of ships is by far the largIMO and EU fora, DFDS aims to keep abreast 5 est contributor to the total DFDS greenhouse of new developments. In this way, DFDS 4,5 gas footprint and therefore warrants extra will be able to take timely action to ensure 4,0 attention. Measurement of the vessels’ CO2 compliance. On a regional level, ports served emissions has been done for the past 10 years by DFDS may impose stricter environmenJan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt Jan Apr Jul Okt 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and the results are shown in the graph. 13 DFDS CSR Report 2016 tal limitations than national/international At MEPC 70 in October, a number of mileScrubbers proven more efficient Future steps / commitments in 2017 legislation prescribes. DFDS anticipates that stones were reached. The 0.5% global sulthan regulations require · Preparing for compliance with EU MRV such stricter limitations will be in the form phur cap will come in to force on 1 January As part of our validation of the scrubber retrolegislation with first reporting year is 2018 of either penalties or discounts on port dues. 2020. Considering the DFDS network predomfit programme and due to our obligations un· Planning for IMO Ballast Water We do not consider it likely that any of DFDS’ inantly within the existing emission control der the 2014 grant agreements with the EU, Management Convention coming into current activities will be banned by any local area (ECA) it will have limited direct effect we have had the actual functionality of a force in September 2017 environmental or climate policies. on our operation. It may, however, create number of our scrubber installations indepen· Preparing for IMO system – ‘Fuel oil data a change to the comparative pricing levels dently verified. collection’ for reporting likely in 2019 As in previous years, in 2016 we submitted between distilled and residual fuel products. · Incorporation of already agreed legislation project proposals under the EU CEF program­ The Baltic and North Sea areas will become The verification covered SOx emissions in the on Baltic and North Sea NECA and the EEDI me seeking co-financing for investments. Five NECA (NOx Emission Control Area) as of 1 exhaust gases and PAH, turbidity and pH vainto our newbuilding program projects were submitted, representing a total January 2021. As from that date all newlue of the wash water, and the effect on CO2. investment of almost EUR30 mill. None of buildings trading in this area must comply these however, made it to the “approved” list. with NOx Tier III levels. It was analysed covering a six-month operational period in 2016. The measured emission The final hurdle for the coming into force of DFDS Environmental Policy levels were well within current allowable the Ballast Water Management Convention It is our policy to consider the environmental limits for all parameters. In fact the study was cleared on 8 September 2016 when Finimpact of everything we do, with resulting showed that for SOx emissions, our vessels land’s ratification ensured the required share actions from further reduction in ships’ and operating with scrubbers emit only about of global tonnage was met for implementalorries’ fuel consumption to lowering noise 10% of what they would have emitted had tion. The Convention will thus come into force levels at terminals and minimizing our electhey been sailing on compliant MGO. on 8 September 2017. tricity consumption. Figure 2. A utomatic voyage result analysis is generated for a number of our vessels after the completion of each voyage. The system calculates and visualises the voyage performance and compares it with the theoretical optimal performance. Vejle Malmø 0% 100% Gdynia 14 Skupsk DFDS CSR Report 2016 Freight Highlights 2016 At those meetings, customer companies are Environment-friendly solutions • All-time high customer satisfaction is invited to join DFDS staff meetings to present In addition to our general environmental efforts, customers continuously given high strategic priority their companies, their products, developDFDS strives to provide environmental-friendly • Group-wide re-evaluation of The Guiding Star ments and needs as well as the challenges transport solutions via rail and new ships. for Customer Focus they face. • Group-wide Customer Focus with increasing Apart from using larger units, DFDS seeks to Improving customer local ownership The close customer contact has also led to increase the use of railways in our supply satisfaction in 2016 • Continuous monitoring of customer many enhancements, such as improved comchains, which means that we are moving goods satisfaction via customer surveys munication with customers if there are delays from road to rail. This is, among other things, • Based on feedback from the surveys conor disruption to services. There is still an inan environmental decision. In line with the ducted across all business units, individual creasing desire from customers for DFDS to DFDS Way of operating, we are continuously and local improvement plans were put in focus on being an active partner and contributimproving the daily operations of our logistics place to secure continuous improvements ­ ing to delivering new and optimised solutions. services through better planning tools and for our customers. pooling of equipment in order to increase serImproved website to improve digital vices and reduce empty driving. This reduces All-time high customer satisfaction in 2016 customer journey costs and is our contribution to easing congesCustomer surveys are an important measBased on customer research, DFDS has imtion on the roads, not to mention emissions. urement tool and in 2016, DFDS achieved a proved the communication on www.dfds.com record high Net Promotor Score (NPS), Cusin order to make it easier for customers to find DFDS participates in the SELIS project tomer Satisfaction (CSAT) as well as an imrelevant information. A customer journey (http://www.selisproject.eu/), which aims to pressive increase in the number of responses mapping has been conducted in logistics to embrace a wide spectrum of logistics perin our Customer Focus survey. gain additional knowledge on how to improve spectives and create a unifying operational the customer experience when cooperating and strategic business innovation agenda for In 2016, DFDS continued to focus keenly on with DFDS. pan-European Green Logistics. This participacustomer service by means of Customer Fotion is to optimise the transport industry and cus, which contains of elements of both The My Logistics Portal through that decrease CO2 emissions. DFDS Way of Selling and the previous CusIn the logistics business, DFDS has developed tomer Focus Initiative. tracking tools to help customers track their shipments online. To meet customer deA successful tool was once again the many mands, more tracking, online booking and local staff and customer meetings, which we status updates are now slowly being see helping both our customers and us in arlaunched via the My Logistics Portal. riving at an improved understanding of the mutual business and challenges. The meetings are held at DFDS locations and at our customers’ premises. 15 DFDS CSR Report 2016 DFDS’ code of conduct DFDS has developed a code of conduct which Our approach is available on the DFDS website. It is, among other things, a tool to enable customers to DFDS’ aim is to be recognised as the preferred supplier in its dealings with DFDS feel confident about DFDS’ way of operating, including compliance with laws, regulations customers. Guiding Star and ethical standards. To continuously achieve this goal our actions are guided by the five principles Acknowledgement of DFDS’ guiding star for customer DFDS won The Irish Export & Freight Transfocus. Superior reliability port & Logistics Award and the Export & and schedule Freight International Logistics specialist The principles are continuously award in 2015 and 2016. re-evaluated. At the yearly Renault-Nissan supplier conferThese five principles are enshrined ence in Paris, the Nissan – DFDS corporation in the daily working life of all DFDS We bring Easy to was presented as one of the big achieveoffices and set measureable targets to: you solutions work with ments of 2016. • Deliver superior reliability and Future steps / commitments in 2017: schedules • Expand cooperation with major customers on health and safety. • Constantly provide new • Introduction of the new planning tool of our solutions to customers operations system Velocity to enhance our ability to operate more efficiently and re• Be easy to work with duce empty driving and fuel consumption. The roll-out is expected to be finalised in the • Deliver customer service second quarter of 2017. by empowered people with • Finalise the roll-out of our mobile tracking can-do attitudes tool Truckcom across the Logistics Division. • The My Logistics platform to be implement• Ensure we provide fast Empowered people Fast communication ed with further cargo transparency, status communication when it matters. with “can-do” attitude when it matters updates and booking options. • The My Freight platform will be launched and implemented as a new and optimised replacement of the existing Info Bridge system. 16 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Our In our passenger services, the highest priority addressing customers’ needs through proportion of information is being transferred is on offering our passengers a safe and secure analysis of customer information. DFDS before and after the journey via mail, internet passengers journey. More information on safety is availaconsistently respects data privacy and and social media. For overnight routes, DFDS ble on pages 3 and 5. complies with the European Data Protection will seek to inform passengers directly via Directive (95/46/ EC) as well as with the texts, mail or telephone calls in case of major A further key goal is to offer our customers national data protection acts in the countries disruption of services. Our approach to social Our passenger travel services throughout Europe an experience that meets where we operate. Marketing communication media is decentralised and country-specific include short ferry route or exceeds their expectations. is sent only to individuals who have explicitly and is supported by an overarching DFDS agreed to receive it. DFDS further follows social media guideline that ensures consistservices as well as overnight To meet that goal, a special Passenger the mandates of the proposed European ency across markets. To meet the demands travel on dedicated passenger Competence Centre (PCC) was established in General Data Protection Regulation to ensure from our customers and to make it easier ships or combined passenger 2010 to ensure a customer-centric approach compliance with new regulations. to find information or book a journey on our to our passenger business. The aim is to websites, DFDS implemented new websites and cargo ships. align passenger service standards between Passenger rights in the passenger markets in 2015. The design markets, making sure that all activities and DFDS follows the European Maritime Pasis responsive, meaning that the websites services, including marketing and communisenger Rights Regulations (1177/2010) that can easily be accessed via smartphones and cations, meet DFDS standards and ensure a were put in place in December 2012. In actablets. good passenger experience before, during cordance with the regulation, DFDS ensures and after travelling with DFDS. that assistance is offered to disabled passenApp gers and to those with reduced mobility. During 2016, DFDS developed and impleCustomer surveys and customer service projects mented an app for the Copenhagen – Oslo Over the years, strong insights into our cusFrom booking to port facilities and, ultimately, route. It helps guests find personalised infortomers’ expectations have been developed their voyage on board a DFDS ship, passengers mation such as table reservations via their through ongoing and comprehensive with special needs are supported and inbooking number. Relevant on-board activities formed every step of the way. Other sections and offers will be suggested via the app Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSS), and of the regulations require that DFDS provide according to the segment, which will improve the more recent addition of our customer transparency in pricing across countries and the customer experience. The app will be furfocus. Through surveys, we ask approximatethe entitlement of passengers to certain rights ther developed for the Channel during 2017. ly 80,000 passengers each year for their in the event of delays or cancellations. opinions to gain a deep understanding of our MUDA customers’ needs. The insight serves as a baCommunication with passengers To improve the experience and journey for our sis for continuous improvement of day-today DFDS places a high priority on keeping passengers, DFDS initiated MUDA, a process operations and services on board. passengers informed throughout their in which colleagues have been following journey. Much of this communication takes some of our customers (with their agreeData protection place directly at check-in and on board the ment) to detect challenges in connection Our customer improvement projects require ships. However, a significant and increasing with check-in, the terminal, on board etc. It 17 DFDS CSR Report 2016 is an easy way to find the little things that This will reduce unnecessary queuing and Future steps/commitments in 2017 can easily improve the flow for the customer. improve the overall customer experience. • Our customer focus will be continued. SevDuring 2016, two MUDA Challenge Pilots LS Retail has been implemented in the Baltic eral workgroups are running pilot projects were conducted, which identified more than routes and on the Channel and implementaand those results will be used to make both 150 areas where our customers are chaltion will continue on other passenger routes shortand long-term improvements lenged. More than 200 initiatives were found in 2017. • We will use new marketing tools that will to address these challenges and thereby allow us, based on the information that the increase our customer satisfaction. Recognition customer has allowed us to store, to tailor The DFDS approach towards meeting and offers to those who find it relevant. This will New IT systems to enhance exceeding customer expectations has been also limit the amount of information sent to the customer journey recognized with several awards. those for whom it is not relevant • DFDS will continue the implementation of a Seabook Awards new booking system in 2017. With a large The IT Department in DFDS has developed • World Travel Awards Winner, ‘World’s Leadin-house IT department the implementation and tailored the new passenger booking ing Ferry Operator’ in 2011, 2012, 2013, and the system requirements will be closely system, Seabook. It is a key enabler for the 2014, 2015 and 2016 monitored. passenger business and, together with our • World Travel Awards Winner, ‘Europe’s Leading • Continue implementation of the point of new point of sale, CRM and content publishFerry Operator’ in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, sales system, LS Retail, in the passenger ing systems, it will allow us to deliver the 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 routes highly connected value-enhancing customer • Danish Travel Award as the best passenger experiences that we believe are crucial to our shipping company operating between Dencontinued success. The new passenger bookmark and foreign countries for the 16th time ing system was implemented during Summer • Norwegian Customer Service Prize: DFDS 2016 for bookings in 2017, and it will go live won the ‘journey by boat’ category of the during Q1 and Q2 2017. Norwegian Customer Service Prize in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2016 LS Retail The IT Department in DFDS has developed LS Retail, the new sales system for shops, restaurants and bars on all passenger ships. It allows us to serve customers in any of our sales outlets, with the ability to order and pay on the spot. 18 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Procurement Highlights Risks related to corruption and bribery • Annual sourcing of goods and services for As for corruption and anti-bribery, DFDS has in DKK 9 billion and 5,000 purchase orders its internal Code of Conduct made it clear that per month neither offering nor receiving bribes is accepted, DFDS introduces IMPA ACT • All supply contracts include our Supplier including the use of so-called facilitation payself-assessment Code of Conduct ments. The general principle is that gifts and • IMPA ACT self-assessment introduced entertainment in the normal course of business for first supplier is acceptable. Any gift or entertainment must • Makers Management and supplier conform to the reasonable practices of the marrelationship management introduced. ket-place. They should not create actual conflicts of interest or divided loyalty, such as Based on our Code of Conduct, all purchasing placing the interests of the person above the of goods and services is done on an objective interests of DFDS. We may, on the same basis, basis such as selecting suppliers and products offer corporate hospitality to our customers, most suited for the purpose, price and quality, suppliers and other relevant stakeholders. The including delivery and payment terms. same principles are carried through in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which reflects the IMPA As an objective way of choosing a supplier, ACT policy (explained in more detail under the whilst still getting the best conditions in section on Procurement). As a signatory to the favour of DFDS, we started to embrace UN Global Compact, DFDS is committed to comprocurement tools such as e-RFx and batting corruption in accordance with Principle e-auctions in 2013. In 2015, new suppliers 10 of the UN Global Compact. of major items such as IT services, bunkers, not complicit in human rights abuses. These fruit and vegetables, dry docking and many Risks are mainly related to bribery in relation principles are also reflected in the DFDS Supplimore were chosen by means of these tools. to customer sales and contracts, although the er Code of Conduct, which requires suppliers of number of incidents in a year rarely exceeds a DFDS to respect basic human rights. The preparation process for e-RFx and single incident. e-auctions includes exploring new ways of Risks are mainly related to the rights of people enhancing cooperation on procurement with Risks related to human rights employed by suppliers of goods for on board the business units in line with our procurement DFDS is committed to compliance with applicasales and by suppliers of transport and logisstrategy, which was developed in 2013. In ble laws, including the protection of human tics services. No incidents have been recorded 2016, new categories such as tyres, sludge, rights in all areas where DFDS is established. in recent years. laundry and telecommunications were Through UN Global Compact Principles 1 and 2, tendered via our e-sourcing tool. DFDS is committed to supporting and respectDFDS will continue to use e-sourcing and e-aucing the protection of internationally-proclaimed tions as efficient tools for purchasing products human rights as well as ensuring that DFDS is and services that are suited to this method. 19 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Going forward, we will continue to embrace The IMPA ACT builds on the UN Guiding Procurement new technology and digitisation in the Principles and expectations are fully aligned development of efficient procurement tools. with the newest and strongest development within the field of CSR. In 2016 DFDS Next steps / commitment for 2016-17 In 2015, DFDS joined the IMPA ACT, which is a introduced IMPA ACT self-assessment with the first supplier. This way of evaluation will Policy complete responsible supply chain managecontinue with key suppliers in 2017. ment programme. The programme was developed by Danish shipowners J Lauritzen and Makers management and owner’s benefits Code of conduct DS Norden, the leading consultancy company During 2016, DFDS signed a new contract with Our suppliers must agree to conform to For procurement related to shipping, our GLOBAL CSR and the International Marine Jinling shipyard in China to build minimum two the DFDS Supplier Code of Conduct and all internal audit programme validates that a Purchasing Association (IMPA). ro-ro vessels. In close cooperation with the applicable international conventions and supplier is on the relevant maritime authoriTechnical Organization, we have entered into a national legislation in the country where ty database, as required under the EU MaThe IMPA ACT allows members to access a new procedure for selecting Makers for critical production or services are performed. rine Equipment Directive 1996. common database containing information on categories and agreed on a governance mechsuppliers that have already been through a anism for Maker selection with the shipyard. Specifically, our suppliers must DFDS follows the Global Ship Management vetting process and are therefore considered This programme ensures that DFDS has a high respect the following: System approach to validating that a supplito comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. degree of influence and can control the Maker er meets safety and environmental requireAs many shipping companies share the same selection for key equipment. • Laws relating to child labour, ments. suppliers, a standardised common system coercion or involuntary labour ensuring compliance throughout the industry The programme also includes negotiating • Rules regarding safety and DFDS has incorporated the IMPA ACT in is expected to decrease bureaucracy. This is owner’s benefits from key Makers for being the workplace our Code of Conduct. both for suppliers, who will not have to spend selected in our newbuilding programme. • ILO Declaration on Fundamental time adhering to various codes of conduct, and These owner’s benefits range from commisPrinciples and Rights at Work for shipping companies who will benefit from sion fees, credit vouchers, extended warranty • Rules relating to employee their peers’ assessment of joint suppliers. to free training, spares and services. These discrimination on grounds of race, owner’s benefits are a direct value addition religion, age, nationality, This is a cost-effective approach that will mitito DFDS from the competitive supplier marsexual orientation or gender gate the resources needed for monitoring and ket for being part of a newbuilding project. • Regulations on anti-corruption audits and provide leverage for ensuring that and anti-bribery, including all sub­ suppliers actually do make improvements in contractors and business partners human rights, labour rights, protection of the • Environmental regulations that environment and anti-corruption issues. apply in the country where a product is manufactured or service performed. 20 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Stakeholder relations I The table shows our stakeholders, how we cooperate, and tracks progress on CR related activities Stakeholder Who they are? How do we work together? What is expected of us? Progress during 2016 Plans for 2017/2018 Freight customers • Forwarding, haulage and transport • Structured reviews • Reliability, frequency and capacity • Continued roll-out of Customer • Increased investment in digital Passengers companies • KPIs • Continuous Improvement initiatives Focus Initiative • Further improvement of web site • Manufacturers of industrial goods • Contracts • Safety record • Recurring customer satisfaction surveys • New CRM system • Retailers and food producers • Customer surveys • Easily accessible travel/booking • Enhanced customer web experience • Continued sales training • Individuals, families and groups • Ongoing relationships/account information • Training of sales staff • Customer feedback surveys • Coach operators management • Staff customer service, including • Roll out of Velocity • Completion of Velocity roll-out • Feedback forms on ferries claims management • App for drivers • Completion of Seabook roll-out • Via freight and passenger booking • Onboard passenger experience • New CRM system intermediaries • Improved efficiencies, less • New passenger booking system • Social media, e.g. Facebook, Twitter, environmental impact LinkedIn • Response to emerging CR requirements Employees • 7,065 employees across 21 countries • Ongoing daily management • Healthy and safe working environment • All employees awarded 30 shares • Promoting safety culture through Unions • Unions • Employee annual appraisal • Fair employment conditions • Whistleblower model in place continuous training • Seafarer Associations • Weekly employee newsletter • Career development and fair reward • Diversity policy development and • Our Bearing engagement survey findings • International Labour Organization (ILO) • Bi-annual employee survey • Training provision creation of awareness used to improve employees satisfaction • Regular meetings and training courses • Ethically consistent ways of working • Training programme for senior • Diversity initiatives, continuation of • Training programme aimed at leaders, • Diversity managers continued Talent Programme and Succession specialists, talents and senior • Horizon talent programme Planning management implemented and rolled out • Continued training of managers to • On-line safety training programme enable good leadership for shore-based staff rolled out • Implementation of Spot Award Policy Public-sector and • IMO • Meetings via industry groups • Compliance and risk reduction • Transition to more environmentally • LNG studies government agencies • Marine Accident and Fire Investigation • Compliance related communications • Security and immigration control friendly fuel carried out successfully • Analysis of lengthening of ships (land & sea) Organisations • Policy advocacy work information • Implementing the EU MRV regulations • Health & Safety Agencies • Investigations relating to incidents arising • Accessibility (reporting CO2 emissions for all • Maritime & Coastguard Agencies • National government meetings and • High quality of Health and Safety vessels and transport work) • Environment Agencies ministerial receptions practices • Local Authorities • Promote attractions of regions/countries • Ongoing reduction of environmental • Customs & Excise, Immigration Dept. to tourists impact, including emission reductions, • Various Port Authorities introduction of low sulphur fuels, • Highways agencies improvements to anti-foul paints, • National tourism bodies responsible ship scrapping, waste management 21 DFDS CSR Report 2016 Stakeholder relations II The table shows our stakeholders, how we cooperate, and tracks progress on CR related activities Stakeholder Who they are? How do we work together? What is expected of us? Progress during 2016 Plans for 2017/2018 Finance • Shareholders, including anchor • Quarterly financial reporting & • Transparent, consistent and accurate • Investor meetings held in Europe • Greater frequency of international shareholder Lauritzen Foundation public conference calls reporting and USA road shows • Investors • Company announcements • Access to management • DKK 1.26bn distributed to shareholders • Continue and further develop targeted • Financial institutions • Investor meetings • Responsibility and reliability in accordance with policy loss prevention initiatives, as required • Insurers and brokers • International road shows • Focus on security, safety, operational • Dialogue with analysts performance and pro-active risk • Updates posted online management/loss prevention • Continuous dialogue (meetings and business/insurance presentations) with broker/insurers, incumbent and prospective Industry organisations • PSS – Ports Skills & Safety • PSS meetings and involvement in • Emission reductions • Preparation of transition to more • Meetings, conferences and involvement • European Community Shipowners’ management • Continuous improvement of health environmentally friendly fuel with among others ECSA, Interferry Association (ECSA) • Informal and formal meetings with and safety practices • DFDS’ CEO Niels Smedegaard elected • Interferry peers and industry associations president of ECSA • Local Shipowner Associations • Lobbying/advocacy • Classification Associations Suppliers • Catering suppliers • Ongoing dialogue • Accessibility and accountability • DFDS joined the IMPA ACT to ensure • Continue working with IMPA ACT • Bunker suppliers • Audit of major road haulage contractors • Safety management systems responsible procurement • Hauliers • Mentoring of smaller road haulage • Risk assessments • Part suppliers for ship maintenance contractors • Emission reductions • Dockyards • In-house safety training spaces offered • Best value, including non-financial factors • Transport equipment manufacturers to business partners • Suppliers of goods for sales in the shops on board. Local communities in • Communities by our ports, terminals • Through employees • Employment opportunities • High:Five programme • Improved engagement with communities which we operate and routes, our warehouses, offices • Site offices and local contact numbers • Responsible operations • Christmas lunch for homeless people where we operate and other facilities • Newsletters (e.g Rotterdam) • Management of neighbour relations in Copenhagen and Oslo • Charitable initiatives • Noise reduction initiatives Media, NGO’s and others • Media • Memberships of organisations • Accessibility • Media dialogue • Further develop social media strategy DFDS Connect, social • NGO’s (national/ International) • Work with specialist organisations like • Transparent, consistent and • Environmental initiatives as part of digitization programme media website • International organisations the Carbon Trust accurate information • (see above) • Lauritzen Foundation • Press Office • Environmental management and • Range of publications and engagements performance, incl. emissions and responsible scrapping of ships 22 DFDS A/S Sundkrogsgade 11 DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø Tel. +45 3342 3342 Fax. +45 3342 3311 www.dfds.com CVR 14 19 47 11 Addresses of DFDS’ subsidiaries, locations and offices are available from www.dfds.com
