CSR REPORT 2016/2017 Cover Fishing nets account for one tenth of the waste in the ocean. Abandoned fishing nets can drift for months or years and be a threat to sea life. At ege we use Aquafil’s ECONYL® yarns produced from used fishing nets and other waste materials. Once the fishing nets are collected and cleaned, they are physically and chemically broken down and reborn as strong and hardwearing yarns for textile floorings. TABLE OF CONTENTS 5 Growth in a changing world 6 Profile 7 egetæpper's business model 8 Risk analysis 10 Management excellence 12 Human rights 14 Fair operating practices 17 Labour practices 18 Environmental conditions and climate impact 20 Consumer conditions 22 Developing and involving the local community Data 24 KPIs for responsibility 26 EMAS reporting 27 Significant environmental impacts and effects 28 Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 30 Environmental objectives and goals 32 Consumption figures Appendix 33 Appendix 1: EMAS Declaration 34 Appendix 2: Index of EMAS Content 35 Appendix 3: Calculation basis for data sources and CO2 calculation ABOUT THE REPORT Welcome to egetæpper's Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report for the financial year from 1 May 2016 to 30 April 2017.1 The report presents our statutory social responsibility report, cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report also serves as our Communication on Progress report for the UN Global Compact. By tradition, the CSR report covers the business activities that take place at the factories in Herning and Gram. At these factories, we have worked with data collection for more than 20 years, and our CSR policy is fully implemented here. In accordance with Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act, the CSR report must cover the entire Group. We have therefore commenced the implementation of the CSR policy and the establishment of data collection systems at the other four factories in which egetæpper acquired the majority interest after 2010. We expect that next year's report will include data from the overall Group. This year's report covers the factories in Herning and Gram.2 Data for CO2 emissions include our factories in Herning and Gram, as well as Bentzon Carpets, Hammer Tæpper and Litspin, and our subsidiaries. Carpet Concept, which has been owned by egetæpper for less than a year, will be included as from next year. Bureau Veritas has verified all of the environmental data concerning EMAS in Herning and Gram. Firm of auditors EY has ensured compliance with Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The rest of the CSR report has not been verified by any third party. Questions concerning the CSR report can be addressed to: CSR Manager Henrik Schmidt Hansen, hsh@ege.dk, Tel. no.: (+45) 97 11 88 11 CSR Project Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup, dak@ege.dk, Tel. no.: (+45) 97 11 88 11 1 The previous CSR Report was published on 1 July 2016. The next report will be published and submitted to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in July 2018. 2 These factories are registered in accordance with the EU's environmental regulation, EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme), under registration number DK000012. The EMAS verification is undertaken by Bureau Veritas Certification. 4 GROWTH IN A CHANGING WORLD Recent years have seen major changes on the global stage, in the ege Group and under CSR auspices. The UK's planned exit from the EU has impacts which affect egetæpper's business activities, which has compelled us to hold back on a number of investments and strategic plans. We are working to strengthen the business, however, so that future challenges continue to lead to positive results and sustainable solutions. In November, we were very pleased to announce the acquisition sustainability at product level and in the value chain. In the of Carpet Concept of Germany, which is a market leader for the years to come, partnerships with suppliers will therefore be production and sale of woven carpets to the contract market strengthened. in Germany. Without any doubt, this has strengthened egetæpper's position in this key market. Employees' welfare is still on the agenda, and during the year a large number of initiatives took place at department level, in In Denmark, new sections of the Financial Statements Act, which order to ensure greater job satisfaction. At the end, satisfied emaffect egetæpper, have entered into force, which has caused us ployees are vital to a company's success, and we are therefore to study risk management within CSR. This has opened our eyes pleased to note that we continue to celebrate many employees' to new opportunities and put focus on the relation between 30th, 40th and 50th anniversaries at egetæpper. egetæpper's business model and our CSR work. We have therefore commenced the implementation of our CSR policy and In overall terms, CSR work during the year has focused on rele­vant CSR initiatives at all factories in the Group. Among other strengthening and developing the existing initiatives at egetæpthings, from now on we will collect data from our factories both per. It gives us great pleasure to see how the good initiatives in Denmark and abroad, and base our CSR report on this data. are spreading like ripples on the water in the Group, and in our This will give us a better overview and open up new opportunivalue chain. Based on the good results achieved, we still expect ties to create a sustainable future. to achieve our goal to be the carpet manufacturer in the world that is best at CSR. Our benchmarking measurements show that Supply chain management is one of the areas in which we have we are already well on the way to achieving this. maintained a strong focus during the year. We have decided to further expand our CSR activities concerning a number of We hope that you enjoy reading the CSR report, in which we strategically important suppliers. The aim is to develop partpresent the results for the year and describe how egetæpper nerships and optimise product development towards greater will tackle the CSR challenges in the coming years. Herning, Denmark, 30 June 2017 CEO Svend Aage Færch Nielsen CFO John Vestergaard 5 PROFILE egetæpper is one of Europe's leading manufacturers of unique carpets of high quality, with a strong focus on the environment. The company, which was founded in 1938, has moved with the times and possesses the carpet industry's most modern technology. egetæpper can supply carpets with any imaginable design and within the industry's shortest lead time. The Group comprises six factories and 13 subsidiaries that The carpets are sold primarily to five business segments handle sale and production, as well as agents and distributors • Hotels in 57 countries. Worldwide, egetæpper has 691 employees. • Offices • Healthcare • Institutions • Transport • And to homes Development, production and sale Production of tufted and flat-woven Production and sale of flat-woven of tufted and flat-woven carpets carpets carpets Herning – 45.500 m2 Gram – 24.000 m2 Bentzon Carpets – 10.000 m2 Development, production and sale Production of wool yarns Production and sale of flat-woven of woollen and synthetic carpets carpets Hammer Carpets – 14.000 m2 Litspin – 8.500 m2 Carpet Concept – 17.000 m2 6 EGETÆPPER'S BUSINESS MODEL egetæpper develops, produces and sells carpets on the global market. We work persistently to maximise sustainability in all internal and external processes in the value chain, in order to create maximum value for customers, employees and shareholders, as well as the environment and society in both a global and local perspective egetæpper's business foundation is implemented via nine strasupporting the business strategy and ensuring that egetæpper tegic action areas, which include CSR. CSR initiatives are divided creates good financial results and achieves its business objecinto further seven CSR focus areas, which together contribute to tives. The CSR report is built on these seven focus areas. egetæpper's business Strategic initiatives CSR focus areas CSR efforts support the Financial results foundation strategy 2016/2017 Consumer conditions Expansion of ege's position Responsibility to users within carpet tiles Environmental conditions Mission Balanced and focused concept Responsibility to the environWe design high-quality and collection development ment carpets with respect for people and the Selective strengthening of Sustainable products, Human rights environment market coverage with focus on processes and solutions Responsibility to people in the Net revenue value-creating sub-segments strengthen egetæpper's value chain 1.016.105 t.DKK Vision brand and expansion opWe wish to be the trendsetCSR development for selected portunities by creating value Labour practices ting supplier to the most markets and sub-segments in egetæpper's markets and Responsibility to employees demanding sectors of the sub-segments Profit before financial market Optimisation of carpet Local social development items and tax (EBIT) structures Ensure compliance and risk Responsibility for the societies 73.663 t.DKK Values management in which we operate Design Strengthening of ege's position Quality as a design company Management excellence Respect Transparency Utilisation of Group synergies Fair operating practices Competence development Responsible business conduct Reduction of net working capital When the business model is implemented in practice, our value are performed with the aim of giving our product the greatest chain is created. The value chain is the series of activities that possible value for the customer and society. Value chain Value creation Supplier Carpets of high quality Waste Transport Dividend to shareholders Sustainable development Development of the local community User Production Job creation and productivity Employee well-being Tax contributions Installation Design and development Capacity and competence building Transport Sales/Customer 7 RISK ANALYSIS As a socially responsible company, we consider it important to initiatives and actions in place that can reduce risk. These e.g. work with risks and prevention. Based on the value chain, we concern electricity consumption and CO2 emissions. have undertaken an extensive survey of CSR risks in egetæpper's business activities. This survey made it clear that we are on There are areas, however, that require review in more detail, in the right track. The risks on which we have focused for a numorder to investigate the need for further action to be taken. ber of years no longer present a significant risk, since we have Value chain Identified risks Current action Supplier The ultimate stages of the supply chain often lie All of egetæpper's direct suppliers have signed outside the company's control. Furthermore, serious our Code of Conduct, which sets requirements to problems may arise in the ultimate stages. ensure that their subsuppliers also comply with our requirements. Transport The transport sector may face such problems as All of egetæpper's transport providers have signed underpayment, poor working conditions and failure to egetæpper's Code of Conduct, which requires them to comply with legislation. fulfil our requirements and also current legislation. Production Production work can sometimes be physically For many years we have worked to create a good demanding and be monotonous and repetitive, with physical working environment, using e.g. protective dust, heat, noise and tight deadlines. and auxiliary equipment, surveys of employee's psychosocial welfare, and workplace assessments. Design and The relation between quality and the environment can We have strong focus on using dyes and auxiliary development sometimes come under pressure. For example, some chemicals that do not have a negative environmental of the dyes which yield the right quality can have a impact, among other things through our Cradle to negative environmental impact. Cradle work. Installation The flooring industry is challenged by physically We hold installation courses and sell tools to flooring demanding work and attrition among flooring fitters. fitters in order to equip them for this work in the best possible way. We also focus on developing products that are much less arduous to handle, such as lightweight carpet tiles. Users Factors such as trends, fashion and price influence the We place a lot of emphasis on highlighting the demand for carpets. This increases the risk that users advantages of carpets from egetæpper. pick other, less sustainable, suppliers. Waste Waste consumes resources and has a negative We have strong focus on reusing materials and environmental impact. resources. For instance, our Cradle to Cradle initiative focuses on the circular economy. In future, we will perform an annual survey and assessment of veloped continuously, and that new goals are set each year. CSR risks in our business activities, in order to ensure that we The management system is based on the Plan – Do – Check can stay abreast of the situation and take action in the right – Act model. In practice, this means that egetæpper works places. constantly with due diligence3 processes internally within the organisation, e.g. as objectives, action plans, follow-up and Due diligence and risk management adjustments. This is a fixed element of our day-to-day operaegetæpper's management system is based on recognised tions. standards to ensure that initiatives are evaluated and de­ 3 Due diligence is an accounting expression which means taking due care, at the right time. 8 Social and Environmental and Anti-corruption Due diligence model employee conditions climate conditions Human rights and bribery Due diligence DS/OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 DS 49001 DS 49001 tool EMAS Overall due Internal audit diligence Plan External audit processes Management evaluation Objectives Act Do Action plans Examples Occupational Environmental Supply chain Anti-corruption Check accidents accidents management Whistleblower Occupational injuries scheme Welfare Supply chain management Example of due diligence which are subject to greater risk than the rest. This e.g. concerns Individual due diligence processes are particularly important supply chain management. We use due diligence to ensure risk elements of our social responsibility, since they concern areas minimisation. Replacement of supplier initiated For one supplier 6 findings Risk assessment 98 suppliers risk have not yet been resolved of supplier assessed Follow-up on­ Code of Conduct ­improvements sent for acceptance Requirement of reso87 suppliers* have accepted lution of 26 findings the Code of Conduct Evaluation of Action plans for response from ­improvements ­supplier 26 findings 95 suppliers' ­ On-site audit of ­identified response approved ­high-risk suppliers 5 high-risk suppliers audited on-site * C ertain suppliers do not wish to sign egetæpper's Code of Conduct, e.g. because they have their own code, which they refer to. In these cases, egetæpper assesses whether the supplier's own Code of Conduct matches egetæpper's, and whether the supplier has other documentation showing that they fulfil our requirements. In this case, the supplier is approved without a signature being required. CSR: From business model to practice egetæpper's Executive Management Board holds the overall responsibility for the CSR policy and strategy. A CSR steering group, comprising the Executive Management Board, management group and selected employees, meets several times a year to follow up on the CSR work and clarify complex issues. The CSR department develops and implements CSR goals and activities. This constellation ensures the broad support of all relevant players in the organisation. 9 MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE We have called egetæpper's business strategy Sustainable Carpet Design 2022, and sustainability is considered to be a guiding light for the entire Group. Nonetheless, many of our CSR initiatives have been concentrated primarily on the factories in Herning and Gram, which have been the company's core business for many years. In future, relevant initiatives will be implemented at all of the Group's factories. We will also collect data for the CSR report from all factories, so as to create a full overview of negative impacts and positive initiatives throughout the Group. We welcome development, and the openness in relation to our stakeholders which Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR this ensures. We consider our stakeholders to be an important channel for information policy concerning which CSR initiatives we should work with. At suitable intervals we thereThe fundamental basis for our fore conduct major questionnaire surveys of the seven CSR focus areas. CSR policy is that we comply with all of the legislative requireJoint management system is paving the way ments, regulations and standards The process of expanding the CSR work is based on Section 99a of the Danish Finanto which we are subject […] cial Statements Act, as well as the wish to create a joint management system for all 1.7 Organisation management factories in the Group. As part of egetæpper's management philosophy, we wish to Our management system is based on a number of certifications under various different have an open dialogue with our management standards. stakeholders. We will therefore engage actively in dialogue with ISO 9001 Quality. We have just upgraded to the 2015 version, which has sharper focus employees, customers, archion management, risk management and dialogue with stakeholders. tects/designers, municipalities, ISO 14001 Environment. We will upgrade to the 2015 version next year. suppliers and our owners on topDS 49001 CSR. The system achieved new certification this year. ics and activities that fall within DS/OHSAS 18001 Occupational health and safety management. and which are of significance to CSR. We will also ensure that our Herning and Gram hold certification in accordance with all of these management CSR work is made available to the standards, while Bentzon Carpets is ISO 9001-certified, Litspin in Lithuania is ISO general public and to everyone ­ 14001-certified, and in 2017 Hammer Tæpper will follow suit with ISO 14001. In time, who works for or on behalf of all factories will be a fully-integrated element of egetæpper's management system, egetæpper. and will hold certification in accordance with relevant management standards. It is an important priority to ensure a common standpoint. Risks can be minimised by understanding each other across factories and departments, and by sharing a common starting point for the business of which we are part. Increasing the number of female managers Since 2015, egetæpper has had the goal of increasing the number of female managers in the Group. The Board of Directors now has equal numbers of male and female members, and at Group level, we have 30.5% female managers.4 We have thus achieved the goal of 30% female managers. As a new goal, by 2022 at the latest the ratio of female 4 Carpet Concept is not included in these statistics, because they have been owned by egetæpper for less than a year. From next year they will be included. 10 Svend Aage Færch Nielsen & John Vestergaard managers must reflect the general gender breakdown of employees in the Group. This year, women account for 40% of the Group's workforce. Tax policy in a business-driven perspective egetæpper considers it important to have a transparent tax policy. To achieve our longterm financial objective of growth in revenue and earnings before income tax (EBIT), we have a strategic objective to selectively increase our market coverage, with focus on value-creating sub-segments. We primarily consider business opportunities in the individual market, and give less weight to the amount of tax paid. We adhere to the international transfer pricing rules, which entail that tax is paid in the country in which the revenue is generated.5 We wish to ensure that the Group's tax planning takes place on the basis of responsible commercial transactions and activities. This includes that: • We will handle all matters concerning taxation in accordance with current legislation. • We will pay tax on a correct basis in the countries in which we operate. egetæpper's Executive Management Board and Board of Directors approve overall strategies and policies, and monitor compliance. Procedures are amended as required on the basis of amended statutory requirements. WALK THE TALK • By 2022 at the latest the ratio of female managers must reflect the ­general gender breakdown of employees in the Group. This will also be in focus in conjunction with new appointments and promotions at all management ­levels. • ISO 14001 certification of Hammer Tæpper in 2017. • Ensure data collection for the CSR report from all factories and subsidiaries in the Group before 2017/2018. 5 egetæpper is represented in a number of European countries, as well as Singapore and the USA, with subsidiaries. We trade with subsidiaries on the basis of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. The set-up for trading with subsidiaries has been prepared in collaboration with the firms of auditors KPMG and EY. This ensures that we operate in accordance with both Danish and local foreign legislation. 11 HUMAN RIGHTS egetæpper's products are, traditionally, produced in Denmark, and we have always adhered closely to Danish legislation and collective agreements. Historically, we have not engaged very closely with the theme of human rights. This has changed since 2010, however. UN Guiding Principles launched Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR A company that works seriously with CSR cannot avoid taking a position on human policy rights. This is why we endorsed the UN Global Compact in 2010; and in 2015 we set 1.1 Human rights the goal of implementing the UN Guiding Principles before 2020. This year, Phase 1 We will ensure non-discrimination has been completed with a risk analysis of human rights at egetæpper in Herning and and equal opportunities. This apGram. plies internally in relation to our employees, and externally in our All of the articles of the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights from 1948 have value chain. been reviewed carefully and cases of doubt have been discussed with managers, We will respect and support ­union representatives and the HR department. The analysis showed that in most cases human rights: civil and political we have good and extensive procedures to ensure that we avoid human rights infringerights, as well as economic, social ments. However, individual problems were identified which require specific clarificaand cultural rights. In countries tion, including the question of equal pay for equal work for salaried employees who newhere there is a risk of human gotiate their own pay. The starting gun has been fired on the issues to be clarified, and rights infringements, we will seek we expect to take a decision on the practice going forward in the coming financial year. to take steps to avoid any infringements of human rights that affect Human rights in the supply chain coming up the people with whom we coopWe already have focus on human rights among all suppliers by requesting them to erate and work in a business relasign our Code of Conduct. The next step, which is also Phase 2 in the implementation tionship. of the UN Guiding Principles, will be to engage in closer cooperation with strategically important suppliers in order to encourage them to consider human rights more closely in their own business, with the aim of due diligence. The third and final phase is for our suppliers in the first instance, to pass on the process to their subsuppliers. There is no doubt that when the UN Guiding Principles are rolled out throughout the value chain this will strengthen both egetæpper's and the suppliers' own business and reduce the risk of infringement of human rights. We are also aware that this will be a difficult task. We are working on a plan with such tools as self-evaluation and closer dialogue. WALK THE TALK • Implementation of the UN Guiding Principles before 2020. During 2017/2018, in the first instance strategic suppliers will be urged to perform an internal risk analysis and due diligence process. After this the aim is for suppliers themselves to pass on the process to their subsuppliers. 12 Epoca Compact · 0685350 13 FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES egetæpper attaches very great weight to responsibility. This also applies for collaborating relations in the value chain. We make high demands to our cooperation partners and expect them to live up to the same stringent requirements as ourselves. Strengthened cooperation with strategic suppliers Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR After considering all suppliers as equally important for a number of years, we have policy realised that there is variation in the effort we can and should devote to individual sup1.4 Fair operating practices pliers. Some are less important, or we are so small a customer that we do not have any We will operate on an honest and influence. On the other hand, others are so important that we will make a greater effort ethical basis in every respect. We to push them towards sustainability. will prevent and combat corruption and bribery, and are comWe have therefore added a new dimension to the risk assessment of all suppliers. In mitted to a zero-tolerance apfuture, they will be assessed on the basis of international country indexes for anti-corproach to corruption and bribery. ruption, human rights and environmental conditions, and also according to a categoWe will suppress illegal conduct risation of whether the items we buy are readily available products, volume products, and irregularities within and in bottleneck products, or strategic products. The measures towards the supplier are relation to our activities, inclugraduated by risk assessment and the resources available to us, so that e.g. strategic ding non-compliance with this suppliers will experience greater involvement by egetæpper than suppliers of items CSR policy. We give employees that are readily available. and other stakeholders the opportunity to submit anonymous We also wish to add additional layers to the assessment of suppliers, so that they are reports via our whistleblower not automatically subject to auditing simply because they are located in a country in scheme. which e.g. extensive corruption takes place. Instead, the assessment must be based on We will promote social responsithe experienced need, self-evaluation by the supplier, and conversations concerning bility throughout our value chain. risk management. On any suspicion of irregularities, e.g. in the event of concrete risks, based on our assessment we will initiate relevant measures. Code of Conduct sets the standard We are continuing the work of spreading awareness of egetæpper's Code of Conduct in the value chain. We are pleased that 97% of all suppliers to the factories in Her­ ning and Gram have either signed our Supplier Code of Conduct or delivered sufficient documentation to be approved without requiring a signature. In order to minimise risks, the rest of the Group's suppliers must be involved in the work on the Code of Conduct in the coming years. We have a separate Code of Conduct for suppliers of cleaning teams, craftsmen and other external employees. All suppliers have signed this Code of Conduct. We also have a Code of Conduct for distributors and agents, which they have all signed, apart from four partners who only recently received the Code of Conduct. 14 Training in anti-corruption Anti-corruption is high on egetæpper's agenda. All employees are informed of our guidelines in this area, and all key persons and employees with external contacts have taken an eLearning programme, to train their ability to distinguish between right and wrong in the many grey zones concerning corruption and bribery. The programme is fully integrated at the factories in Herning, Gram and Litspin, and in all sales sub­sidiaries. Bentzon Carpets and Hammer Tæpper have implemented the first step comprising information to employees concerning the guidelines. This has not yet been introduced at Carpet Concept. In time, all entities throughout the Group will have implemented the full anti-corruption programme. A well-informed staff of employees is important, and we therefore give weight to keeping all employees continuously updated on CSR objectives and initiatives. This takes place through such channels as newsletters and information meetings. All new employees also attend a three-day introduction course, with CSR as one of the key agenda topics. Whistleblower put to use Since 2012 we have had a whistleblower scheme that makes it possible to file anonymous reports concerning experienced and suspected problematic issues in the Group. This year, the first report was filed in the system. Unfortunately, the whistleblower in question did not use the opportunity to follow the progress of the case anonymously after filing the report, to enable us to ask further questions. After an internal investigation, the case was closed, since there was no documentation of any unlawful activities. We encourage any future whistleblowers to create a log-in in the system, so that we can obtain further details concerning the information reported. There is access to egetæpper's whistleblower scheme via our website: www.egecarpets.com WALK THE TALK • Establishment of a centralised supply chain management system for the entire Group and the development of a fixed procedure for the inclusion of the Code of Conduct in new cooperation agreements. The goal is to be achieved by 2017/2018, although the acquisition of more new factories during the last years make the process more extensive. The deadline has therefore been deferred to 2020. 15 16 LABOUR PRACTICES Good labour practices are a precondition for satisfied employees who make a worthwhile contribution. egetæpper has worked on a structured basis with the working environment and safety since 2006, when we implemented DS/ OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management certification. The physical working environment As our risk analysis showed, production work can sometimes be physically demanding, Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR monotonous and repetitive, with dust, heat, noise and tight deadlines. For many years, policy we have therefore focused on the physical working environment. Measures are in place 1.2 Employees and labour practo increase safety and reduce the risk of all of the known significant problems in the tices physical working environment. We also cooperate on an ongoing basis with phys­io­ We will ensure good employment therapists and chiropodists, and subsidise employees who require this treatment. conditions for our employees, and we adhere to the current colOn a daily basis we work systematically with e.g. workplace assessments, safety inspeclective agreements for our area. tion rounds, protective equipment and auxiliary equipment. Nonetheless, sometimes We will promote diversity in the accidents and adverse incidents occur at the workplace. On this basis, in 2015 we upworkplace and work to increase held our goal of zero adverse incidents and accidents leading to absence by 2020 at the the number of women in mana­latest. The plan is to take a number of measures to change the safety culture at egetæpgerial positions […] per. After a prolonged start-up phase, there is now a basis for decision that is ready for We will ensure that our emploclarification and implementation in the coming years. We expect this process to yield yees can use their competences positive results, since even though we have few accidents leading to absence, occupain the best possible way, regardtional accidents can have major consequences for employees and the company. less of gender, ethnicity, religion, political views, age, disability, As an extra option for employees, they can voluntarily take out health insurance and ­sexual orientation, etc. […] dental insurance through egetæpper, ensuring them rapid and inexpensive treatment, We will ensure a healthy and if necessary. The voluntary schemes are very popular, with 63% signing up for dental positive working environment for insurance, and 84% for health insurance. our employees and we will constantly seek to improve working conditions. […]. We will work for Focus on appreciation and well-being inclusion and health-promoting We should not focus solely on the physical working environment. We have therefore activities. also paid attention to the psychosocial working environment. A major welfare survey We will ensure that our emploin 2016 showed that egetæpper's employees had a great wish for us to be better at yees have opportunities to de­showing appreciation. The traditional Jutlandic mentality of no news is good news velop in their work, e.g. via further must be replaced with a more appreciative approach. On this basis, in 2017 we held education and training. a number of lectures by an external expert in happiness and well-being, under the title of Work enjoyment and enthusiasm , with a humorous approach to shaking up ­employees' attitudes to life, their colleagues and work tasks. We e.g. learned that we ourselves must be ready to take responsibility for creating the good life and the good workplace. The welfare survey will be a recurring phenomenon going forward, to ensure that we stay on course and develop in the right direction. Work enjoyment can also be the result of getting involved at the workplace. We are therefore very pleased that many employees are showing great commitment by getting involved on a voluntary basis in everything from environmental and occupational health and safety committees to emergency response services at egetæpper during working hours, and as ambassadors for internal physical exercise groups in their leisure time. WALK THE TALK • 0 adverse incidents and accidents with absence at Herning and Gram before 2020. 17 ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS AND CLIMATE IMPACT For more than 20 years, we have worked with environmental management through the ISO 14001 standard. This is clearly apparent from the risk analysis. We have good initiatives underway to reduce many of the factors that often present a risk for manufacturing companies, and with good results. We are approaching the goal of 100% renewable energy Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR In 2011, we entered into a Climate Partnership with DONG Energy, which helps us spot policy and investigate profitable energy saving projects, to reduce energy consumption and 1.3 Environment and climate CO2 emissions. This has e.g. led to the objective of 100% renewable energy before 2020. change Every year, we have purchased an increasing number of GO certificates6 from DONG EnVia focused activities and by setergy's offshore wind farm at Horns Rev II. In 2016/2017, GO certificates were purchased ting environmental objectives, we for 7,800 MWh, which is equivalent to 88% of the electricity consumption in Herning and will work to prevent and reduce Gram. Next year – i.e. two years earlier than planned – we will already achieve the goal the environmental impacts of our of 100%. production activities and the use and disposal of our products, and The Climate Partnership is also the main operator behind a heat recovery project of continue to improve our efforts in which we are very proud. the environmental area. This applies to the external enSurplus heat to heat up municipal households vironment around us, the working Carpet production in Herning and Gram generates a lot of surplus heat. This year we have environment at our factories, and commissioned plants at both factories to recover this surplus heat. In Gram, the surplus the indoor climate in the environheat from production is used to heat our own buildings and the rest is sent out into the ments in which our carpets are district heating network to the municipality's households. In Herning, we decide on an fitted […] ongoing basis whether heat is to be sent out into the district heating plant, or used to We will reduce our company's heat our own buildings. On an annual basis, the recovery plants produce enough heating CO2 emissions and thereby reto heat 380 detached homes. This reduces both energy consumption and CO2 emisduce our climate impacts. We sions from egetæpper and the municipal plants that benefit from the initiative. will support the development of renewable energy by redeeming Climate on the agenda GO certificates via our climate Individual employees are also relevant to the overall climate accounts. By making just partnership with DONG Energy. a few changes in our everyday lives we can all reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions, e.g. by switching off the lights when we leave a room and adapting heating consumption to our daily routines. In the spring, we held two well-attended employee events together with DONG Energy, at which employees could hear more about egetæpper's efforts in the climate area, and get some good advice about simple ways to save money and energy at home. These events help create local climate ambassadors since the employees gain a better understanding of how they can make a difference for the world's climate. Recycling of carpets Recycling is not only relevant with regard to saving energy. Since 2013, we have worked to achieve recycling of used carpets in Denmark. In 2014, we launched an Outlet website, where we can e.g. sell used carpet tiles. The main project concerns being able to recycle the carpet materials directly, as components in new carpets. We have also commenced some new initiatives in the USA. We are now a member of Carpet America Recovery Effort (CARE); an NGO that works to find solutions for the recycling 6 Guarantees of Origin 18 of carpets, so that carpet waste is not dumped at landfills in the USA. Membership of CARE is strategically important in relation to our American market, but we also see this as an opportunity to be part of the solution internationally and not just in Denmark. We ­prioritise this membership and look forward to seeing the results that will come in the future. Good intentions drowned in changed production conditions Water is one of the areas in which it is difficult for us to achieve our goals. Water is a relatively heavy cost item for egetæpper, since we use many litres of water to flush through our dyeing system between each change of carpet collection and dyes. In 2015, we set the goal of reducing the dyeing works' total water consumption per m2 by 50% in relation to the 2007 base year, before 2020. We have invested considerably in purification plants in both Herning and Gram, so that we can now use the rinsing water several times. Nonetheless, so far we have only achieved a reduction of 13% per m2 in the dyeing works. The reason e.g. lies in an increasing number of carpet collections and special orders, requiring more dye changes on the machine. Since we produce to order, it is difficult to use planning to eliminate these factors. We therefore have to acknowledge that we will not achieve the goal of 50%. The changed production conditions are compelling us to change focus and in future we will concentrate on ensuring the highest possible recovery ratio for water in the dyeing works. In Gram, we reuse all of the wastewater that is purified in the dyeing works. This year, we have reused 9,931 m3, which is equivalent to 40% of the dyeing works' total volume of wastewater. Towards 2020, the goal will be to increase the ratio of purified and reused wastewater to 50%. In Herning, this year we reused 11,867 m3 of water, equivalent to around 70% of the total water consumption for the washing process in the dyeing works. This is the plant's assumed maximum capacity. The aim is to retain this figure up to 2022, irrespective of the number of dye changes at the plant. WALK THE TALK • Before 2020, 100% of electricity consumption in Herning and Gram must be covered by renewable energy sources. • Before 2020, CO2 emissions must be reduced by 50% compared to emissions in 2007.* • Before 2020, a system for reuse and recycling of used carpets must be implemented in Herning. • Before 2020, the ratio of wastewater purified and reused in Gram's dyeing works must constitute 50%. • Up to 2022, on an annual basis at least 70% of the water consumption at the washing facility in the dyeing works in Herning must be reused. * Reference is made to CO2 emissions associated with natural gas, fuel oil, F-gas, passenger transport in owned cars, electricity and district heating 19 CONSUMER CONDITIONS Consumers are becoming more and more aware of the concept of sustainability and are increasingly demanding sustainable products and production processes. The same applies to our business customers, who purchase for major projects worldwide. We are fortunately ready to meet these requirements at egetæpper. Still a leader for Cradle to Cradle Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR With 40 Cradle to Cradle-certified7 products, we are well on the way to achieving our policy goal of implementing the Cradle to Cradle principles throughout the company. Cradle 1.5 Consumer conditions to Cradle certification makes requirements of the entire company's sustainability perWe will promote a safe and healthy formance. indoor climate in the buildings in which our carpets are fitted, The aim of Cradle to Cradle is to manufacture products that fulfil the requirements in thereby protecting the health and five categories. safety of our end-users. We will promote sustainable Material Health: Products which exclusively comprise materials that can be use of our products by means of part of a healthy life cycle, without being to the detriment of people and the labelling schemes and certificaenvironment. tion, and via product information and product declarations deMaterial Reutilisation: The products are designed to be part of a biological scribing our products' impact on or technical life cycle, without generating any waste. the environment in connection with the fitting, use, maintenance and disposal of these products. Renewable Energy: CO2 neutrality and 100% renewable energy. Furthermore, we will promote sustainable consumption via the development of cradle to ­cradle products which, rather than Water Stewardship: Process wastewater must be so clean that in principle it becoming waste, can be transcould be drinking water. formed into nutrients or reused. Social Fairness: The company is assessed for compliance with inter­ nationally recognised social responsibility standards. The product is awarded a score in each category, according to how sustainable it is. egetæpper has 16 products with Cradle to Cradle Bronze certification and 24 products with Cradle to Cradle Silver certification. 7 Cradle to Cradle certifiedTM is a certificate licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. 20 Rawline Scala · Velvet Bloom RF52952545 · Quilt RF52952555 Long-term vision to put us at the top In cooperation with Vugge til Vugge Denmark, we are developing a cradle to cradle strategy up to 2022. The long-term vision is to achieve 100% fulfilment of the goals in the five cradle to cradle categories. We are already close to achieving some of the goals, such as 100% renewable energy, while others require a dedicated and comprehensive effort to develop our performance. A roadmap and concrete action plans set our future course, and we look forward to the challenges and, hopefully, major ­advances we will achieve in the future. Well-informed consumers can exert the right pressure Well-informed consumers can make more qualified choices. Awareness of sustain­ ability can reduce the risk of consumers choosing products produced by suppliers that do not fulfil their social responsibility. In the commercial market it is already customary for suppliers to e.g. public buildings and major brands to fulfil a number of requirements, especially concerning environmental conditions, in order to bid for a project. This has not yet reached the residential market, but we expect this to be the case soon. This year we have therefore focused on equipping our Danish sales team to support the sales process with arguments from the entire CSR palette. Sales staff can thus serve as ambassadors for our CSR work. This supports the growing consumer awareness and can help exert a positive influence on the general development in society towards higher demand for sustainable products. We have also launched a short information film about egetæpper's CSR efforts to support this aim. WALK THE TALK • Implement the Cradle to Cradle principles throughout the company, including the opportunity to recirculate all materials in a closed cycle, reuse of carpet waste in new ways, and ownership of the concept among relevant employees. This goal should preferably be achieved before 2020, but due to the work on the new Cradle to Cradle strategy and vision to fully achieve the goals for all Cradle to Cradle categories, the deadline is postponed until 2022. 21 DEVELOPING AND INVOLVING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY We have always considered supporting the local community to be an important aspect of egetæpper's identity. Over the years, we have cooperated with and promoted artists and culture institutions, the business community, educational institutions, charitable causes and associations. This helps ensure a well-functioning local community and satisfied employees. These Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR are both important parameters that reduce the risk of a shortage of employees and policy lack of support from the local community. This also helps us develop as an organisation 1.6 Developing and involving and ensure that we stay abreast of the general development in the local community. the local community We will engage in the local comMore apprentices and trainees needed munities in which our production The young people who will develop the world in the future often find it difficult to gain is based. We will seek to work apprenticeships and trainee positions as part of their education programmes. The with relevant organisations, edulabour market is also under pressure, and in future there may be a shortage of well-­ cational institutions and public qualified manpower. In 2015 we therefore decided to increase the focus on the numauthorities concerning local busiber of apprentices and trainees at egetæpper. At that time, we had ten apprentices/ ness development, job creation trainees, and the aim was a 70% increase up to 2020. We currently have 12 apprenand skills development, as well tices/trainees, equivalent to an increase of 17%. as the development of modern technologies. Sustainable energy for life In cooperation with Cesso8 and Herning Municipality, this year egetæpper has taken part in the Sustainable energy for life project, in which we and a number of other business entities have developed exciting project assignments based on the company's work with sustainability. This initiative is targeted at primary school grades, intermediate grades and school-leaving grades in lower secondary school, as well as upper secondary education programmes. During the school year, the pupils worked on the theme of sustainability and carpets in different ways, and also visited egetæpper in order to learn more about the company and also to present their project assignments to us. It was fun and exciting to create connections between our business and children right down to the age of eight. Everyone involved showed a strong commitment to this initiative, which created valuable relations with educational institutions and their pupils. Great interest in hearing about our work We can note a strong interest in hearing about our business and social responsibility work. We are often invited to give presentations at higher educational institutions such as Via University College and Business Academy Aarhus. Major organisations such as Local Government Denmark visit us to learn more about carpet production and su­ stainability. When possible, we take part in these events, since we consider this to be a 8 Centre for entrepreneurial cooperation between schools and society at large. 22 vital aspect of engaging with society. This also helps promote egetæpper, and gives us the opportunity to share our good stories and thereby boost our image. This is a winwin situation for all parties. Several charitable causes egetæpper works with several different charitable causes. Via Egefonden (the ege Foundation) this year we have donated DKK 5.2 million to various non-profit organisations, such as Den Jyske Sangskole (The Jutland School of Singing), Museum Midtjylland and Skovsnogen – Deep Forest Artland. In October 2016, egetæpper was involved in the national TV campaign to raise money for Knæk Cancer (Breaking Cancer). An employee campaign raised DKK 14,050 from the employees in Herning, and egetæpper rounded up the amount to DKK 32,800. We have also e.g. supported KidsAid and DIFFA9. Again this year, we donated carpets to Hjælp Østeuropa, which distributes carpets to institutions and underprivileged families in Eastern Europe. WALK THE TALK • By 2020 at the latest there must be 17 apprentices/trainees at egetæpper in Herning and Gram. This will be an increase of 70% from 2015, when the goal was set. 9 Design Industries Foundation Fighting Aids. 23 KPIs FOR RESPONSIBILITY We use various KPIs to measure egetæpper's sustainable and responsible business development. The KPIs are inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative (G4) and show the result for the year. Recycling raw materials 11% Recycled materials We attach great importance to using recycled materials in our products. In Herning, we use selected types of recycled yarn, felt and backing. In Gram, we use felt and backing. This year, recycled raw materials amounted to 1,896,600 kg, equivalent to 11% of the total consumption of materials. 89% Raw materials Energy savings This year we undertook a number of energy savings projects. The calculated energy saving in 2016/2017 is 28,043 GJ, equi­ • Heat recovery in Gram via heat ex­changers valent to DKK 1,938,000. Since most projects are not directly on two furnaces, and in Herning on the Milmeasurable, these are theoretical calculations performed by litron plant, so that hot exhaust air is conDONG Energy, subject to the condition that the projects yield verted to hot water, used for district heating. maximum capacity on an annual basis. The heat recovery plants • Replacement of windowpanes with energyare being commissioned and did not run for the full year. Theresaving glass on north-facing windows in Gram. fore, we do not have a total number of the yearly saving. • Replacement of lighting with LED sources in Herning. • Establishment of heat recovery from laser cutter in Herning. • Establishment of air curtain in front of a gate, to conserve heating in Herning. Greenhouse Gas Account10 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Flights, train, bus and ferry Tonnes Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG Electricity Goods transportation of CO2 Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) District heating Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) 12.000 10.000 9,630.2 30% 8.000 6,647.2 56% 6.000 5,548.9 5,482.0 80% 4.000 3,468.3 2.000 1,120.1 286.8 272.3 246.7 349.7 26.7 2.7 73.1 66.1 0 Base year 2016/2017 Base year 2016/2017 Base year 2016/2017 10 Details of the Greenhouse Gas Account in Appendix 3. 24 The overall CO2 reduction for Scope 1 and 2 is 48%. We are thus our entry into the American and South American market, which already very close to achieving the 2020 goal of a 50% reduchas intensified our business activities in global terms. In addition in 2016/2017. The positive result is e.g. due to major investtion, customers at remote destinations often have the products ment in GO certificates for renewable energy from the offshore flown out to the destination, which carries a lot of weight in the wind farm Horns Rev II. On the other hand, we can see a large CO2 accounts. increase in CO2 emissions in Scope 3. This is especially due to Workforce* Men Women New employees Leaving employees 224 110 58 46 * Note that these statistics are compiled per person and not according to the ATP method. Temporary employees, part-time employees and young people employed are counted on an equal footing with permanent full-time employees.. Breakdown of employees by gender and function Men Women Total Managers* 36 11 47 Salaried employees 56 79 135 Hourly-paid employees 168 31 199 *Note that managers are included twice in these statistics, since they are also included in the salaried employee or hourly-paid employee groups. Absence due to illness 4.6% 2.8% 2.9% 3.7% Women Men Salaried employees Hourly-paid employees Occupational injuries and accidents Mænd Women Notified occupational injuries and accidents leading to absence 8 1 Lost working hours due to notified occupational injuries and accidents 777.5 359 Deaths as a consequence of occupational injuries and accidents 0 0 Other KPIs KPIs Results Sanctions Non-compliance with legislation 1 issue* Non-compliance with environmental legislation 4 deviations** Non-compliance with product health and safety legislation 0 Non-compliance with labelling scheme legislation 0 Non-compliance with marketing legislation 0 Grievances Grievances due to failure to respect human rights 0 Grievances due to non-compliance with environmental legislation 0 Incidents Documented incidents of corruption and bribery 0 Documented incidents of discrimination 0 Documented incidents of child labour 0 Documented incidents of forced labour 0 Documented incidents of lack of respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 0 * Issue related to work accident in Gram ** None of these deviations have had consequences for the outside environment or given rise to comments or tightening of terms from authorities. Pages 28-29 present an overview of the other KPIs that we measure annually. 25 EMAS REPORTING EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) is a voluntary The scope of egetæpper's environmental system covers all of EU scheme which aims to encourage environmental activithe Group's activities in connection with the development, proties in every type of company. This is an extensive regulation duction and sale of tufted carpets in Herning and Gram. Both which obliges the company to achieve annual environmental factories were subject to inspection during the financial year. improvements and communicate with society at large conWe did not have any environmental accidents during the past cerning its environmental performance. egetæpper has been year. There have been a few environmental deviations. In Gram EMAS-registered since 1996. The following pages solely prethere has been an exceeding of the temperature demand of dissent EMAS data. charged waste water and within 24 hours we have, in one case, discharged 110 m3 waste water where we only have permission EMAS comprises the factories in Herning11 and Gram12, which to discharge 100 m3. In Herning analyses have shown that the both hold certification under the ISO 14001 environmental pH-value for waste water is not always within the limit value. Also management system. Both factories hold environmental apthere is an exceeding of the limit value for the contents of nonprovals from their respective municipalities. In Herning, we also 13 ionic tensides in the waste water. None of the exceedings have hold environmental approval of a CHP station and a Twistset syshad a consequence on the external environment or given rise to tem for post-treatment of woollen yarns. comments or tightening of terms from the authorities. Flow in tufting production Manufacturing Wall-to-wall Distribution Most finished carpets are distributed directly to the customer after the backing has been Back added. The ground tissue is pre-coated with a latex compound, after which the adhesive and backing are attached. Stockpiling Items are stocked and sold on a continuous basis. Pile consists of Tufting Tip shearing Dyeing Pre-dyed or The pile is sewn The fine tissue is The natural white ground natural white yarn, into the carpet base tip-sheared to even tissue is either dyed via an auxiliary chemicals, in witdths of 4 or 5 out the surface advanced computer-controlled and dyes and acid metres. This is called (only for cut pile dye system called the Millitron, Distribution for pH adjustment. ground tissue. carpets). or by continuous dyeing. Carpet tiles produced to order are distributed directly to the customer Tiling machine after processing in the The backing of the finished tiling machine. carpet material is impregnated using a patented system, after which the machine automatically cuts out or laser cuts the tiles. Stockpiling Carpet tiles are stocked and sold on an ongoing basis. Manufacturing Carpet tiles 11 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej Nord 25, DK-7400 Herning, Denmark. This facility is located in an industrial park under District Plan no. 6.14.1 and within the limits of the Section 15 area. The facility site comprises Title nos. 3e, 4bf and 5a Birk By. The site area is approximately 36 hectares, of which approximately 45,500 m2 have been developed. 12 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej 3, DK-6510 Gram, Denmark. This facility is located in an industrial park under Title nos. 1153 and 1505 Gram Ejerlav. The site area is approximately 7.2 hectares, of which approximately 24,000 m2 have been developed. 13 On 11 December 2013, Herning Municipality issued a new connection permit for the entire factory, and on 24 March 2014, a new environmental permit was also issued. In both cases, additional self-monitoring requirements as well as additional reporting requirements have been set by Herning Municipality. These have been incorporated into environmental procedures/instructions. Environmental approval, Gram: 29 June 1998 Discharge permit, Haderslev Municipality, permission to discharge surface water: 9 January 2009. Connection permit, Haderslev Municipality: September 2006 with addendum from 14 January 2015. 26 SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND EFFECTS The EMAS regulation requires us to describe all significant direct and indirect environmental conditions which lead to significant environmental impacts, as well as the nature of the impacts. These can range from the extraction of raw materials to the use of the final product, and other impacts such as noise from egetæpper's production. From development to final carpet is affected by greenhouse gases and acidification, because CO2, In conjunction with procurement and development, the raw maNOx and SOx are given off during the incineration process. Howterials used in carpet production are evaluated. Strict requireever, we choose to incinerate waste at large incineration plants, ments are made, which extend far beyond the statutory requirewhere the incineration process is most efficient and therefore ments, and we undertake thorough market investigations in has the least possible impact on the environment. order to select raw materials with low environmental impacts. As yarns, carpet bases, backing materials and packaging priThe packaging we use is cardboard or plastic. Plastic packaging marily consist of synthetic materials, they are considered to have is made from polyethylene and polypropylene, which are cona significant environmental impact. The same applies for dyes sidered to have a significant impact because they are produced and chemicals, which are subject to the hazard definition, cf. the from oil, which is not a renewable resource. Danish Working Environment Authority. We are working continuously to influence our suppliers to be more sustainable. Product information, installation and use egetæpper's management system ensures that our carpet As a production company, our resource consumption of elecproducts are subject to extensive testing, and on this basis de­ tricity, gas and water is considerable. Production affects the clarations of their quality and environmental characteristics are atmosphere with CO2 and NOx emissions, and also the groundprepared. water table. We focus on reducing consumption by optimising our use and reuse of resources. Before purchase, new producThe transport of the products affects the environment, with e.g. tion equipment is assessed to ensure that, as far as possible, the CO2. most environmentally-sound technology is used. For glueing of carpets, it is recommended to solely use floor The production processes discharge dust, odours and emisadhesive with the lowest possible emissions: EC 1 PLUS classisions to the surrounding environment. These impacts primarily fied floor adhesive. Other types of floor adhesive are deemed to affect neighbours to the factories. Emissions from process plant have a greater environmental impact. where processing temperatures are equivalent to or exceed 75°C, or if such emissions are subject to current statutory proviOther environmental impacts sions, are considered to be significant. Emissions from dyeing, In cooperation with the local public authorities, it has been asglueing, carpet tile machines and fixation plant at egetæpper sessed that the external noise from egetæpper in Herning and are considered to be significant. Gram does not exceed the requirement in the environmental permits from Herning Municipality and Haderslev Municipality, Wastewater and waste are also environmental impacts that are respectively. subject to statutory requirements and which are evaluated annually with a view to improving and/or minimising them. The values for organic and inorganic substances in egetæpper's emissions comply with all of the limit values in the Danish EnviWe continuously optimise our recovery of waste for reuse. ronmental Protection Agency's guide no. 2/2001. Where thermal recovery is concerned, the external environment 27 TOTAL INPUTS/OUTPUTS FOR CARPET PRODUCTION Input 2016/2017 2015/2016 Note nr. Energy consumption MWh kWh/m² MWh kWh/m² Energy 37,866 6.45 39,817 7.02 Note 1 Natural gas used to produce electricity 51 1,012 Note 1 Renewable energy 7,800 1.33 7,250 1.28 Note 2 Water consumption m³ Litres/m² m³ Litres/m² 81,887 13.95 92,863 16.37 Note 3 Water recovery m3 % m3 % 23,615 29% 29,111 31.3% Note 4 Consumption of materials Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Total consumption of materials 18,416 3.14 17,502 3.08 Note 5 For carpet production 17,505 2.98 16,671 2.94 Note 5 Renewable materials 605 0.10 573 Note 5 Non-renewable materials 16,900 2.88 16,098 Note 5 Packaging in total 770 0.13 718 0.13 Note 5 Renewable packaging 340 0.06 289 Note 5 Non-renewable packaging 430 0.07 429 Note 5 Operation and maintenance in total 140 0.02 113 0.02 Note 5 Waste Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Recycling 348 0.06 329 0.06 Note 6 Thermal recovery 1,814 0.31 1,972 0.35 Note 6 Land fill 2 0.00 0.4 0.00 Note 6 Destruction, hazardous waste 22 0.004 30 0.01 Note 6 Discharge m³ Litres/m² m³ Litres/m² Wastewater 64,770 11.04 65,695 11.58 Note 7 Emissions Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² CO2-e (greenhouse gases) from natural gas and truck 5,974 1.02 6,569 1.16 Note 8 gas NOX (air emissions) 3.07 4.6 Note 9 SO2, PM, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 (air emissions) Note 10 Biodiversity m² m²/prod,m² m² m²/prod,m² Developed area 69,500 0.01 69,500 0.01 Output m2 m2 Carpet products 5,869,475 5,674,278 28 Explanation of the table All input/output data apply for Herning and Gram, except for energy used to produce electricity, which solely applies to Herning. In Herning, consumption of electricity, gas and water is compiled on the basis of suppliers' invoices. In Gram, consumption is read from the meters. The quantities of goods purchased via purchase orders are registered in the warehouse management system and the other manual compilations. Quantities and volumes of other goods and waste are based on invoiced quantities and volumes. In Herning, the consumption of oil and chemicals for operation and maintenance is equivalent to the purchased quantities. In Gram, however, this is equivalent to purchased goods less stocks. Note 1: Total energy consumption is the total consumption of electricity, truck gas and natural gas. Natural gas is used primarily to produce heating and steam for industrial processes, and to heat buildings. Natural gas for electricity production is calculated separately. Since 1996, the CHP plant in Herning has generated electricity that is sold to the local power station. In 2016/2017, the CHP plant's consumption totalled 4,665 m3 of natural gas, resulting in electricity generation of 21,669 kWh. Note 2: Purchased renewable energy is a share of the total energy consumption. The rest is non-renewable energy. Note 3: Water comes from the municipal waterworks. There is no shortage of water in these areas. Water consumption comprises both production and buildings. In Herning, the dyeing works account for 83% of the total water consumption. In Gram this amounts to 85%. Note 4: Water recovery shows the proportion of the water discharge we have reused. The percentage stated is the percentage of the overall water discharge. Note 5:  The consumption of materials for carpet production includes mate­ rials for pile, dyeing, backing and twistset. The consumption of mate­ rials for operation and maintenance includes oil and various chemicals. Renewable materials are materials that the world is not expected to be depleted of (cardboard and wool). Non-renewable materials are everything else. Note 6: Recovery: Waste that can be recovered, either for new production or as a component in another product, e.g. yarns or packaging. Thermal recovery: All waste that can be incinerated, such as yarn residues, carpet residue, sludge from the glueing and dyeing works, and packaging and cardboard bobbins that are not recyclable. Deposit as land fill: Non-flammable waste and the waste that cannot be handled in the incineration plant. Destruction: Includes waste oil, chemical and raw material residues, batte­ ries and fluorescent tubes. Note 7: Process water is piped to the local water purification plant, while sanitary water is discharged via the sewers. Process water is cleaned and neutralised internally before discharge. The wastewater volumes in Herning and Gram are measured directly. Note 8: In order to calculate greenhouse gases, CO2-e, from scope 1, we use the CEMAsys system, and thereby apply the same conversion factor as in the greenhouse gas accounts. In accordance with new statutory requirements, egetæpper is no longer required to register UHC. Note 9: Emissions from motor systems and boilers are based on measurements at the plants. Note 10: SO2, PM, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6: Not relevant for egetæpper's production. 29 ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES AND GOALS As an element of egetæpper's CSR work, each year we set small and large goals as preparation for our work within all seven CSR focus areas. EMAS has a special interest in our objectives in the environmental area. COMPLETED ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES IN 2016/2017 Reuse of surplus heat in Gram (2016/2017). According to calculations from DONG Energy, the reuse of surplus heat from the furnace can reduce energy consumption by 10%. On optimum use, 2,500 MWh is expected to be utilised annually. The plant was inaugurated on 10 August 2016, and since then 538 MWh has been utilised, equivalent to 7% of natural gas consumption during the period the plant has been operating, or annual heating consumption of approx. 28 detached homes14. Next year we expect the plant to be fully utilised. Reuse of surplus heat in Herning (2016/2017). According to calculations from DONG ­Energy, the reuse of surplus heat from the furnace can generate 4,900 MWh annually, which via the municipality's district heating plant can supply heat to 250 households. The plant was inaugurated on 25 November 2016, and since then 797.3 MWh has been sold for district ­heating, equivalent to the annual heating consumption of approx. 41 detached homes. Next year we expect the plant to be fully utilised. 50% reduction of water consumption (2020). In the dyeing works in Herning and Gram, by 2020 at the latest the total water consumption per m2 of carpet must be reduced by 50% in relation to 2007, which is the base year. It has unfortunately proved too difficult to achieve this goal, since the assumptions have changed. The action plan is closed without achieving the goal, and a new goal for water is set. Read more about this on page 19. Online moisture measurement in Dyeing and Adhesion in Gram (2016). To reduce ­energy consumption and avoid excessive drying in Dyeing and Adhesion, an online moisture ­measurement system is implemented. The project has been closed, as it was not possible to find a suitable meter to make the project financially viable. More valid water and energy data (2016/2017). A data collection programme for water, electricity and gas was implemented in the 2016/2017 financial year. The programme has been implemented, but due to running-in problems the system is still being tested. Due to the Brexit situation and egetæpper's presence in the British market, it was decided to postpone a number of projects, while other projects have a longer processing time before the green light can be given. Therefore a number of goals were not achieved in 2016/2017 in terms of planned completion. ONGOING ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES 100% renewable energy (2020). By 2020 at the latest, 100% of electricity consumption in Herning and Gram must be from renewable energy sources. We are adhering to plan. This year the renewable energy ratio is 88%. 50% reduction of CO2 emissions (2020). By 2020 at the latest, energy savings projects will CO2 reduce CO2 emissions in scope 1 and scope 2 by 50% from 2007, which is the base year. We are adhering to plan and have now reduced emissions by 48%. 14 Households' heat consumption is based on DONG’s calculations from 2010/2011, when the action plan was drawn up. 30 Improve wastewater purification in Gram (2019/2020). Based on the wish to reduce the COD content of wastewater, there is cooperation with the University of Southern Denmark and two chemical suppliers to bring the COD content down to 6,000 mg/l via precipitation, flocculation, electrochemistry, evaporation and pure chemistry. We currently have permission to discharge 9,000 mg/l COD, with permitted overstepping of 50% for individual values. Ongoing trials are taking place to achieve the goal of 6,000 mg/l. However, the increasing reuse of water has proved to challenge this goal. We discharge less water, and this increases the concentration of the COD content in the water over time. Recovery of dye bath residue for thermal recovery in Gram (2019/2020). Recovery using flocculation chemicals is not possible and trials based on biological purification have been postponed indefinitely. In cooperation with the University of Southern Denmark, we are working on developing improved purification methods within precipitation, flocculation, electrochemistry, evaporation and pure chemistry. Ongoing trials are taking place to achieve the goal. Recycling and reuse of used carpets (2020). After establishing a return system whereby used carpet tiles are collected, cleaned and resold, or used as an alternative fuel for the cement industry, we are now working on shredding carpet residues for reuse in other ways. The second generation of shredded carpet residues is currently being tested in the production of alternative backing for carpets. Phasing out of LPG truck in Gram (2016). To improve the working environment and the environment in general, and eliminate the risk presented by a gas tank facility, the last LPG truck is being replaced by an electrical truck. The gas tank facility has been removed, but the LPG truck is still being used. Final replacement will take place during 2017. Replacement of all lighting in Herning with LED sources (2020). Before 2020, all lighting in Herning must be replaced with LED lighting. We are adhering to plan and have switched to LED sources in 38% of the factory. NEW ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES The current objectives will be continued in 2017/2018. We have also set new goals for the coming years. Reuse of water in the dyeing works in Herning (2022). Up to 2022 we will ensure that on an annual basis at least 70% of the water at the washing facility in the dyeing works in Herning is reused, no matter how many dye changes are required. Reuse of water in the dyeing works in Gram (2020). Before 2020, the ratio of wastewater purified and reused in Gram's dyeing works must constitute 50%. Replacement of all lighting in Gram with LED sources (2020). Before 2020, all lighting in Gram must be replaced with LED lighting. The plan has already been launched. 31 CONSUMPTION FIGURES Energy consumption Energy consumption in Herning Energy consumption in Gram Natural gas in Herning Natural gas in Gram kWh pr. m2 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 Water consumption Water consumption in Herning Water consumption in Gram Litres per m2 24 20 16 12 8 4 0 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 32 APPENDIX 1: EMAS DECLARATION 33 APPENDIX 2: INDEX OF EMAS CONTENT Topic Section Page Reporting period About the CSR Report, note 1 4 EMAS registration About the CSR Report, note 2 4 Environmental verifier and validation date Appendix 1: EMAS Declaration 33 Communication Management excellence/Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR policy 10 Next verification About the CSR Report, note 1 4 Declaration Appendix 1: EMAS Declaration 33 The ege Group/company profile Profile 6 Significant changes Growth in a changing world 5 Management Statement Growth in a changing world 5 Product description Profile 6 Company location EMAS reporting, notes 11 and 12 26 Employee involvement Labour practices/Focus on appreciation and wellbeing 17 Process description EMAS reporting/Flow in tufting production 26 The organisation's environmental and climate policy Management excellence/Excerpt from egetæpper’s CSR policy 10 Environmental conditions and climate impact/ 18 Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR policy Environmental conditions and climate impact Environmental conditions and climate impact 18-19 Energy saving projects KPIs for responsibility / Energy savings 24 Scope EMAS reporting 26 Environmental approvals EMAS reporting 26 Reference to applicable statutory environmental Management excellence/Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR policy 10 requirements EMAS reporting, note 13 26 Current environmental cases EMAS reporting 26 Non-conformances EMAS reporting 26 Notifications KPIs for responsibility/Other KPIs/ Non-compliance with 25 environmental legislation and Grievances due to ­­ non-compliance with environmental legislation Environmental objectives and goals Environmental objectives and goals 30-31 Description of the environmental management system EMAS reporting 26 and EMAS Significant environmental impacts and effects Significant environmental impacts and effects 27 Consumption statements/Statement period and form About the report 4 Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 Energy consumption Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 Energy production Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 Renewable energy Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 Water consumption Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 Waste Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 Wastewater Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 Emissions Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 Noise Significant environmental impacts and effects 27 Total input/output Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 28 34 APPENDIX 3: CALCULATION BASIS FOR DATA SOURCES AND CO2 CALCULATION Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions picture in relation to the base year. egetæpper's base year is an Direct emissions of greenhouse gases from sources owned or average of the 2006/2007 and 2007/2008 financial years. This controlled by egetæpper. These calculations also include fuel year the base year has not been changed. extraction. The greenhouse gas accounts are based on a number of data Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions sources that make it possible to convert our energy consumpIndirect emissions are defined as the emissions related to purtion to CO2 emissions. The CEMAsys calculation programme chased electricity, heat and steam. These calculations also inis generally applied. CEMAsys complies with international clude fuel extraction. standards and meets the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For electricity, the Energinet.dk declaration and Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions the 125% method are used to calculate Danish emissions. The Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions comprise a wide district heating plants' own emissions are used to calculate range of activities that can be included. At egetæpper we have egetæpper's district heating emissions. Where possible, facdecided to include transport in leased vehicles, travel and tors for the individual countries are applied. Transport by air goods transport. and rail is divided into national and international transport. Via Egencia supplies egetæpper with environmental accounts The result for the year in the greenhouse gas accounts is always for CO2 emissions from air travel ordered via the head office compared with a base year, to show the development over time. in Herning and by Hammer Tæpper. To calculate goods transIf there is extraordinary activity during the financial year, e.g. due port for Herning and Gram, we have applied the Climate Comto the expansion of production, the emissions related to the expass, which is an Internet-based calculation model developed traordinary activities are accounted for separately and added by the Confederation of Danish Industry, the Danish Business to or deducted from the base year's greenhouse gas accounts. ­Authority and FORCE. This means that the greenhouse gas accounts still give a real Produced 100 % biodegradable by KLS PurePrint A/S, binding excluded 35 ege inhouse 0717 – 8054022 – 1st edition EG E TÆPPER A /S · I N D U STRIVE J N O R D 25 · D K-740 0 H ERN I N G · TEL : +4 5 97 11 88 11 · E-MAI L : EG E@ EG E. D K · W W W. EG ECAR PE TS .C O M
