www.it-profiler.com Profiler GmbH – Communication on Progress – 2017 This is Profiler’s third Communication on Progress and covers all of the company’s activities and improvements with regard to the Global Compact during 2016. We stand committed to our declaration and continue to adapt our business structures to reflect the principles of a responsible and sustainable business. Throughout 2016, as in 2015, we have tried our best to reach our goals set and to incorporate the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact into our day to day business. This report demonstrates our commitment to the UN Global Compact in a transparent way and outlines the actions and changes we have implemented, maintained and enhanced in our company. Profiler also manages a range of social media accounts which assist in maintaining dialogue and transparency. Profiler has been a participant of the United Nations Global Compact for 3 years now – corporate social responsibility is and has always been an important part of our company. We are convinced that even small / medium sized companies can make a strong and positive statement by taking responsibility and action to become sustainable role model companies promoting better business culture. We are pleased to confirm that Profiler reaffirms its support of the UNGC and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. We look forward to continue supporting these and are proud of being part of an organisation which promotes sustainability and demands social responsibility from its members. Fathima Khan, Founder & Director of Profiler GmbH www.it-profiler.com What we have achieved in 2016… Human Rights Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of We honour and support the International Human Rights, internationally proclaimed human stated in the Universal Declaration of the rights; and Human Rights. Profiler is strongly against any form of Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. discrimination and places great value on tolerance, fairness, transparency and open-mindedness. We have Labour continued supporting anti-discrimination programmes Principle 3: Businesses should uphold as described in our last COP. the freedom of association and the There have not been any violations of this principle or effective recognition of the right to indications of discrimination. collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms Relocation Management of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Profiler offers a comprehensive package for Relocation Principle 6: the elimination of Management as part of it’s HR-Services business line. discrimination in respect of Through recruiting of consultants worldwide and with employment and occupation. employees from over 16 different nationalities, being confronted with relocation issues has been part of Environment Profiler’s daily business. Principle 7: Businesses should support With this service, we support newcomers with every a precautionary approach to issue related to relocation to the Rhine-Main Area and environmental challenges; help them quickly integrate to their new living Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environment. We also provide an online knowledge responsibility; and base filled with informaton on living and working in Principle 9: encourage the Germany. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Seminars Anti-Corruption We hold regular seminars for our employees regarding Principle 10: Businesses should work social media and networking. In doing so, we not only against corruption in all its forms, ensure an outstanding Profiler-company branding and including extortion and bribery. online presence, but also provide our employees with the necessary coaching and tools so that they are able to strenghthen their personal online business profiles highlighting their individual skills and qualifications. Company Pension Scheme Keeping in line with employee well-being we have introduced a company-based complementary pension scheme. Through this scheme employees have the opportunity to put aside some money for the old-age. Every employee contribution made is met with a company contribution. Participation in this scheme is voluntary. All employees are offered a counselling session to ensure they have all necessary information and are sufficiently prepared for retirement. www.it-profiler.com What we have achieved in 2016… Human Rights Profiler Stammtisch Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of In order to create a sense of belonging and togetherness internationally proclaimed human for all employees new and old at Profiler, we have rights; and initiated an after work get-together, the Profiler Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Stammtisch. At this monthly social event, employees have the opportunity to meet and exchange ideas in a Labour casual atmosphere. It is great opportunity, especially for Principle 3: Businesses should uphold new employees or employees who do not work onsite at the freedom of association and the Profiler, to get to know each other and meet people effective recognition of the right to they usually communicate with via e-mail and phone. collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms Workshops of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and In our last Communication of Progress one of our goals Principle 6: the elimination of for 2016 had been establishing workshops for refugees discrimination in respect of where they would be coached in CV and application employment and occupation. writing as well as helped with translating their CVs. We are working on establishing the resources to Environment commence the training sessions in the near future. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Employee Referral Program environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental We are currently in the process of establishing an responsibility; and Employee Referral Program. Experience shows, that Principle 9: encourage the recommendations of highly qualified employees are development and diffusion of often very well suited for specialised positions, as environmentally friendly technologies. employees working on a project know the environment and requirements of the client. Another advantage of Anti-Corruption this program is that it promotes company culture and Principle 10: Businesses should work motivates employee engagement – the person who has against corruption in all its forms, referred the new employee will help them fit into the including extortion and bribery. existing company culture faster. It also, in a sense, allows employees to have a say in building and shaping the manpower of the company. Digitalisation One very important goal for us was the implementation of a digital document management system . This year we have been able to complete the digitalisation of our entire core business as well as the financial accounting records through DATEV. All correspondence with our accounting firm is conducted paperless. Additionally 90% of our communication with clients and employees is digitalised as well. Our recruiters and account managers keep only digital files. The next step will be to digitalise all payrolls and files of backoffice staff in early 2017. www.it-profiler.com What we have achieved in 2016… Human Rights Public Transportation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Our office’s excellent location allows and encourages internationally proclaimed human employees to use public transportation instead of cars. rights; and We provide every employee with a „Job Ticket“ so that Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. their public transportation costs are covered. Labour Glass Bottles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the We have switched all water bottles to reusable glass effective recognition of the right to bottles. collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms Office Relocation of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and We are planning to move our office to provide more open Principle 6: the elimination of and larger spaces for the employees. This will lead to a discrimination in respect of better working atmosphere, which will improve the employment and occupation. employees‘ ability to concentrate, their productivity and wellness. Of course it is important for us, that the new Environment office spaces have an excellent location, in close proximity Principle 7: Businesses should support to both our clients and public transportation. a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Anti-Corruption responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the Every employee is instructed to report any form of development and diffusion of corruption or suspicion of corruption. environmentally friendly technologies. There have not been any indications of corruption, extortion or bribery. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. www.it-profiler.com Facts & Figures Human Rights Due to our multilingualism we are able to communicate and work with Principle 1: Businesses should support people from different countries around the world – we speak more than 20 and respect the protection of languages! internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Since we have joined the United Nations Global Compact, our paper consumption has halved, as we have implented a rule of printing only if Environment absolutely necessary. Principle 7: Businesses should support Additionally, copy paper is used only for important documents like a precautionary approach to contracts. environmental challenges; For all other printing purposes, we have replaced copy paper with Principle 8: undertake initiatives to ecofriendly recycled paper, which consists of 100% scrap paper. promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 14000 12000 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work 10000 against corruption in all its forms, 8000 including extortion and bribery. 6000 4000 2000 0 2014 2016 Recycled paper Copy paper www.it-profiler.com Goals for 2017 Human Rights For this year we have set out following goals: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of 1. Continue to improve working conditions and internationally proclaimed human employee satisfaction. rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Extend the implementation of our digitalisation. Labour 3. Continue supporting projects and charities outside of Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Profiler. the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 4. Encourage Profiler employees to work with the UNGC collective bargaining; Human Rights & Business Learning Tool. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. www.it-profiler.com
