Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Sustainability Report 2015 16 Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem e live in a dynamic world where change is the only constant and the Oil & Gas industry is no exception. This year, the sector was profoundly impacted by low oil prices, struggling assets and projects facing tepid consumer demand. The year also saw a shift towards greener technologies at competitive prices which may prove disruptive for the survival of traditional fuels. These have been accompanied by growing global concerns on the environmental impact of development evident at COP 21 in Paris. Thus, there arises a need to develop a Nurturing environment for all its stakeholders to thrive in these complexities. Resilience is the ability to rebound from the untoward effects of adversity. Successful organizations are effective in adapting to changing markets. This year GAIL’s principle shareowner, the Government of India, renegotiated gas price from Qatar-based RasGas to match the slump in global gas rates, thereby increasing profitability of gas marketing. Natural gas is one of the most benign fossil fuels available today. GAIL as a Public Sector enterprise has a major role to play. Even while facing financial adversities, GAIL has facilitated the reinvigoration of stranded power plants and is playing a crucial role to infuse these projects and in fuelling the nation. With our infrastructure, we are collaborating with key stakeholders to revive and create an Ecosystem across the value chain where gas can become the preferred fuel. The key is to not only survive the changes whether economic, social or environmental, but to prosper during such upheavals. Our SR for FY 15-16, aptly titled as ‘Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem’ communicates our efforts to adapt while fostering a resilient ecosystem to prosper even in testing times. About the Report ‘Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem’, has been the mantra behind GAIL’s robust response to the volatility in oil and gas sector. Our Sustainability Report (SR) for FY 2015-2016 focuses on how GAIL has analysed its challenges and financial stresses and remained agile in responding to these. Our sixth edition of the SR FY 2015-2016G4-28 notes the integration of innovation and flexibility in implementing operational excellence, cost savings and renegotiations in the market place and fostering responsible growth through the organization. Through our robust response to the dual challenges of maintaining financial sustainability while developing excellence in social and environmental trajectories we demonstrate our leadership as a resilient organization. s a responsible corporate PP Oil and Gas industry guidance on citizen, we remain deeply voluntary sustainability reporting committed to providing (2010) developed by IPIECA, natural gas to ensure energy security the global oil and gas industry of the Nation. Natural Gas is a cleaner association for environmental and alternative to traditional fossil fuels social issues and the American such as coal and oil. It plays an integral Petroleum Institute (API). part in fuelling India’s development and ensuring the success of its growth PP Principles and disclosure story. These values are reflected in our requirements under United mission to accelerate and optimize the Nations Global Compact (UNGC). 4 effective and economic use of Natural PP ISO 26000:2010 guidance Gas and its fractions for the benefit of on organizational social the economy. responsibility. This year’s SR ‘Nurturing Resilient Material issues were identified Ecosystem’ is our second GRI G4 through a materiality assessment and report in line with the ‘in-accordance’ stakeholder engagement exercise option coreG4-32. The GRI content index that was undertaken at 10 GAIL on pages 108-115 gives a detailed locations (including project sites and reference to the GRI performance offices) in consultation with different indicators and standard disclosures. stakeholders and are referred in the Along with GRI G4 it also adheres to relevant sections of this report. Each the following reporting formats: material aspect is mapped against the PP Nine principles of National GRI G4 guidelines. In order to highlight Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) the specific challenges faced by GAIL on Social, Environmental and and our initiatives towards addressing Economic responsibilities of these we have further examined in business, published by the the chapter on ‘Business Growth and Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Profitability’. Government of India. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Data Management PP Regional pipeline offices at Agartala, Baroda, Mumbai, on AA1000AS (2008) standard. The assurance process includes data Approach Puducherry and Rajahmundry; verification at different sites of GAIL that will continue to help GAIL improve Each section of the report elaborates PP GAIL Training Institute (GTI) at its processes and data management our performance through systems, Jaipur and Noida; mechanisms. processes and infrastructure in reference to the various stakeholders PP Corporate Office at New Delhi and An abridged and online version of and material aspects relevant to the Info Hub at Noida; this report will be made available at chapter. In addition, we also reported http://www.gailonline.com/final_site/ PP Zonal Marketing Offices at Delhi, on initiatives undertaken during the Sustainability.html Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, reporting year. Information has also Bhopal , Chandigarh, Jaipur, There is a dedicated website for GAIL been presented on new projects, Hyderabad , Lucknow, Mumbai , Sustainability Report intentions and future plans. As these Ahmedabad. activities are under development www.gailsustainabilityreport.com and dependent on fluctuating market There have been no significant conditions, changes in regulatory changes from the previous reporting decisions and geopolitical situation periods in terms of scope and there is a degree of uncertainty as to boundary other than the inclusion their completion. The data presented in of newly built plants at Pata and this report has been calculated through Vijaipur. G4-23, G4-13 The E&P operations, the use of assumptions, standard joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased guidelines and methodologies. facilities, outsourced operations, Disclosures on these have been made and other entities are out of the wherever used. Data is further verified scope and boundary of this report. by the concerned department heads. As per this reporting boundary, all 5 aspects are reported for India region Report Scope and (unless otherwise mentioned). The principles of stakeholder inclusiveness, Boundary G4-18 materiality, sustainability context and completeness have been consistently The report includes the following followed to define the report content. operations: PP Gas Processing Units (GPUs) at AssuranceG4-33 Gandhar, Pata, Usar, Vaghodia and Vijaipur; All sustainability reports of GAIL have been assured by external third PP Petrochemical unit at Pata; party. Continuing the practice, this year’s Sustainability Report has been PP Newly built PC II plants at Pata and assured by DNVGL. This is a Type 2 Vijaipur were also added this year; Moderate level assured report based PP Natural Gas compressor stations at Dibiyapur, Hazira, Jhabua, Khera, Vaghodia and Vijaipur; PP LPG pumping / receiving stations at Abu Road, Cherlappali, G Konduru, Jamnagar, Kandla, Loni, Mansarampura, Nasirabad, Samakhiali and Vizag; Sustainability Report 2015-16 CMD MessageG4-1, G4-2 Dear Stakeholder, weakness in the global economy targeted share of natural gas in the and Chinese industrialization slowly energy mix. We must follow the steps am happy to present the subsiding. As a result, global primary of advanced economies in reducing our sixth edition of GAIL’s energy consumption increased by reliance on coal and shifting towards Sustainability Report for FY just 1.0% in 2015. Natural gas prices renewable technologies integrated 2015-16, titled ‘Nurturing Resilient declined across the world. The Henry with natural gas for providing base load Ecosystem’. Sustainability, lies at the Hub fell by 40% relative to its 2014 and peak power ramp-up. Further, GAIL heart of GAIL’s ethos which is reflected average. In addition to these factors, continues to explore opportunities through our vision and mission shifting consumer patterns in this in aligning with National priorities to statements. This report is our second era of low oil prices, new greener augment renewable energy capacities, GRI G4 report that highlights our technologies at competitive rates and catering to energy needs of smarter endeavors in the realms of economic, growing public awareness of harmful cities among other areas. social and environmental aspects while emissions will continue to force addressing the challenges faced by In the wake of growing concerns on traditional fuel based companies to the organization in this era of changing greater climate action, the Paris examine their future strategies. market dynamics. We believe that Agreement at COP 21 highlights the even in testing times, GAIL being the The energy sector acts as the engine global political intention to shift to a part of the ecosystem will continue to of economic growth of the country. low carbon future sending a clear and emerge as a persistent and resilient With India’s emergence as one of the unequivocal signal to the corporate organization while being responsible fastest growing major economies, its sector. GAIL, being in the business towards its stakeholders. energy needs are bound to increase. As of Natural gasa cleaner fossil fuel, per BP Statistics 2016, India became has a crucial role to play as a voice This year, energy markets faced the third-largest energy consumer in for Natural gas advocacy in achieving transitioning demand and abundant the world. GAIL is taking a proactive India’s Intended National Determined supply, accompanied with decline approach towards the Government of Contributions (INDCs) objectives and 6 in prices. The world is witnessing India’s efforts in charting an integrated making this transition a reality while a gradual deceleration in energy energy security policy with focus protecting the sustainability of our consumption with continuing up to 2047 and has recommended a ecosystems. We have also proactively taken voluntary targets through our Sustainability Aspirations 2020 in the area of GHG emissions, energy, GAIL is taking water consumption and recycling and a proactive building sustainability awareness. Our approach towards performance on these aspects has the Government of been disclosed in the Sustainability India’s efforts in charting Strategy section of the report. an integrated energy In our efforts to build a resilient security policy with organization, GAIL, in 2015, focus up to 2047 and has continued to meet the challenges of the drop in global crude oil prices. We recommended a targeted renegotiated contracts with Qatarshare of natural gas in based RasGas to match the slump in the energy mix. global gas rates to cater to the needs of our customers. Further, we set out to focus on the challenge of increasing the utilization rate of our pipeline assets and stabilizing production at new facilities. With over 11,000 km pipeline network, GAIL with its upcoming projects aims to complete the national gas grid to spread our presence across the country and reach our customers. We are also investing in enhancing our retail and trading abilities in order to provide better Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem and more comprehensive services and diversifying to new products and For the 2nd time in a row, GAIL has been geographies. The recent launch of acknowledged among the CDP’s India Leaders Brahmaputra Cracker and Polymer 2015 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Ltd. (BCPL) project in Assam has and ranked first amongst PSUs in the Utilities Category. resulted in the first petrochemical complex in the North East, a challenge entrusted to GAIL that demonstrates also to maximize process efficiency workflow cohesiveness for maintaining our competence in handling complex and improve the bottom-line. Key to market leadership. projects in the natural gas value this scenario is the development of chain. In addition, the capacity of Pata customer centric solutions through As a responsible corporate citizen, Petrochemical Plant has been doubled intra-group collaboration to expand we ensure positive value creation to 810 KTA. market share. In addition, GAIL for our stakeholders including aims to increase the ease of doing communities through our CSR Navigating through the current business by revisiting commercial philosophy of ‘Hriday’. This year the dynamics of petrochemicals market, terms and processes and engaging CSR Expenditure incurred was INR our focus remains on enhancing with customers and channel partners 160.56 Crores which is 6.98 % of PAT. customer delight and remaining to expand initiatives and remain the Our CSR initiatives such as Unnati the preferred supplier of world supplier of choice. (progress) for rural development, class polymer products in India. In Arogya (wellness) focusing on addition, GAIL also continues to As internal revenue generation has nutrition, health and drinking water focus on its bottom line under project declined due to reduction in product and sanitation, Kaushal (skill) for skill ‘Sanchay’ (Profit Maximization) to price, reduction in transportation development and livelihood generation optimize existing resources, improve tariff, under-utilisation of pipeline and Ujjwal (towards a bright future) for operational and process efficiencies, capacity and foreign exchange education centric initiatives are a few reduce costs and maximize fluctuation, it has become imperative examples towards ensuring a nurturing 7 profitability. for GAIL to continue to interact with environment for our stakeholders. the most important stakeholderthe For the 2nd time in a row, GAIL has While being proactive to the changes government, to increase liquidity been acknowledged among the CDP’s in the dynamic external environment is and improve its cash flows. Further, India Leaders 2015 Climate Disclosure important, we also need to strengthen consistently engaging with the Leadership Index (CDLI) and ranked our internal systems and processes regulator helps us to anticipate, first amongst PSUs in the Utilities thereby improving efficiency at all minimize business risks and better Category. As a signatory to the United levels, i.e. People, Process and Plant. adapt to any sudden or unforeseen Nations Global Compact (UNGC), The safety in operations and processes changes in regulations. GAIL is committed to aligning with the is of utmost importance. Learning from ten universally accepted principles the past, we are ensuring that SOPs are We believe that with robust systems of UNGC in aspects of Human rights, followed proactively and compliance and consistent endeavor and Labour standards, Environment & Antito these remains non-negotiable. unrelenting spirit of GAIL employees, Corruption. GAIL’s commitment to safety is being we shall emerge as a resilient translated into a culture and behaviour organization in these testing times. Our It remains our aim to include our at individual level. Further, we are in individual spirit needs to be aimed for stakeholders in our path towards process of drafting a Sustainability creating a collective and collaborative progress and to provide the very best Charter outlining major areas of action workflow in making GAIL’s products of our services in order to ensure and depicting the way forward to and services relevant and preferred their trust. I would like to take this mainstream sustainability within GAIL. under an ever dynamic environment. opportunity to thank our Stakeholders The charter broadly covers key actions In order to enable and engage for their support which will be critical in to enhance management systems, employees in a more focused manner ensuring our continued growth. Sustainability Roadmap for various towards business objectives, skill work functions and suggested course enhancement and succession planning of action for effective implementation. of deployed personnel in the current business scenario is imperative. GAIL continues to strengthen its Further, immediate dissolution of operational standards and SOPs in operational & communication barriers tune with international practices across business verticals shall B. C. Tripathi through various studies and projects ensure seamless decision making and Chairman & Managing Director not just for improvements in safety but GAIL (India) Limited Sustainability Report 2015-16 Vision Be the leading company in Natural Gas and Beyond, with Global Focus, Committed to Customer Care, Value Creation for all Stakeholders and Environmental Responsibility. 8 Mission To accelerate and optimize the effective and economic use of Natural Gas and its fractions for the benefit of the national economy. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem About GAIL Operating more than 2/3rd CNG Stations through alliances Contributes to > 2/3rd of the Natural Gas Sold Produces LPG for every 13th LPG Cylinder About GAIL Exploration and Production (E&P) PP A part of vertical integration PP Participation in 13 blocks (operator-2 blocks) PP Presence in Myanmar & USA Natural Gas PP Over 11,000 Km of network PP Sophisticated Gas Management System PP Participation in RGPPL (5 MMTPA LNG Regasification Facility) PP Long-term Import Portfolio: 24 MMTPA Liquid Hydrocarbons PP 6 Gas Processing Plants producing LPG, Propane, Pentane, 10 Naphtha, etc. PP LPG Transport Capacity 3.8 MMTPA (2038 Km) City Gas Distribution PP Serving over 10 lakh vehicles & 10 lakh households through Subsidiary & Joint Ventures PP GAIL Gas Limited, 100% subsidiary, has set-up CGD Network in Dewas, Sonepat, Kota, Meerut & Taj Trapezium zone Petrochemicals PP Domestic market share ~15% PP Petrochemical Plant in Pata (UP) with capacity of 0.81 MMTPA PP Participation in BCPL & OPAL Power and Renewables PP 118 MW Wind Power Plant and 5 MW Solar Power Plant PP Participation in RGPPL (Capacity 1967 MW) Nurturing Nurturing a Resilient ResilientEco-system Ecosystem Our Presence, Subsidiaries and JVs Domestic Subsidiaries PP GAIL Gas Ltd. – GAIL’s wholly City Gas Distribution (CGD) JVs owned subsidiary (100%), PP Mahanagar Gas Limited MGL (32.5%, post MGL IPO) PP Brahmaputra Crackers & Polymers Ltd. (BCPL) (70%) PP Indraprastha Gas Limited IGL (22.50%) PP Bhagyanagar Gas Limited BGL (22.50%) PP Green Gas Limited GGL (22.50%) PP Central U.P. Gas Limited -CUGL (25%) PP Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited – MNGL (22.50%), PP Aavantika Gas Limited AGL (22.50%) PP Tripura Natural Gas Company Limited -TNGL Overseas Subsidiaries (29%) 11 PP Vadodara Gas Limited VGL PP GAIL (Global) Singapore Pte. Ltd. (50% Incl Stake of GAIL Gas Ltd.) (wholly owned subsidiary) PP GAIL (Global) USA Inc. (wholly owned subsidiary) PP GAIL Global (USA) LNG, LLC (100% subsidiary of GAIL (Global) USA Inc.) Joint Ventures PP Petronet LNG Ltd. PLL (12.5%) PP ONGC Petro additions LimitedOPaL (15.5%) Associates PP Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private PP Gujarat State Energy LimitedRGPPL (25.5%) Generation Ltd. (5.96%), PP GAIL China Gas Global Energy PP Fayum Gas (19%), Holding (50%) PP China Gas Holdings Ltd. (3%), PP TAPI Pipeline Company Limited PP Natural Gas Company (5%) “NATGAS” (15%) PP Talcher Fertilizers Limited PP South East Asia Gas (29.67%) Pipeline (SEAGP) (4.17%) Sustainability Report 2015-16 About GAIL GAIL’s Pan-India Presence 12 Overseas Presence in US, Singapore, Myanmar & China Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Corporate Governance & Risk Management Ratio of the Annual Total Compensation GAIL Customer Service 24 x 7 online through GAIL’s webpage Corporate Governance & Risk Management Corporate governance is a cardinal component of the way we work at GAIL. It forms the credo for the Company’s culture and practices. GAIL’s Governance structure is a reflection of its commitment to good governance principles such as accountability, transparency, honesty and integrity in our operations. A vigorous governance structure builds a company’s resilience to unilateral decisions that may cause setbacks affecting the Company’s reputation and integrity. Such risks can be curtailed by an effective and transparent Corporate Governance mechanism that creates value for the organization and its stakeholders. To maintain good governance practices at GAIL, we use best in-class technology, providing emphasis to all aspects in our Natural Gas value chain such as operational safety, employee health, desirable returns to shareholders, and a healthy environment. G4-DMA Good governance at GAIL is ensured through deployment of strategy and oversight by the Board of Directors. GAIL has a robust governance structure that lays and implements transparent policies, establishes systems and processes for internal control and strengthens risk management framework thereby ensuring compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. G4-42, G4-43 Our Governance Open and transparent governance structureG4-34, G4-35, G4-36, PP Resilient Governance system driven by our core values G4-39, G4-40, G4-44 Structure PP Transparent policies Ethical practices GAIL, being a Central Public Sector PP Robust internal 14 Enterprise (CPSE), appointment/ control system nomination of all the Directors is done Concern for people at work PP Risk management by the President of India, through framework the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Customer Delight PP Compliance with Gas (MoPNG). The Executive and applicable laws Non-Executive directors guide GAIL’s Wealth creation for stakeholders strategic approach. Various subCommittees of the Board have been constituted by the Board as required under statutory regulations and guidelines and also to facilitate the The Sustainable Development Requirements) Regulations 2015 smooth and efficient flow of decision Committee (SDC) of the Board and the DPE guidelines on corporate making process. oversees the sustainable development governance that are applicable except agenda and performance. The SDC relating to composition of Board also reviews the emergency response of Directors as to the requirement plan and the HSE performance. The of independent Directors and Board of Directors has approved consequential impact on composition the Delegation of Powers to CMD of Audit Committee and Nomination and Functional Directors. CMD has & Remuneration Committee. The been empowered by the Articles Company is continuously pursuing of Association to delegate to with the Government of India for the executives below Board level. A Code appointment of requisite number of Conduct for Board Members and of Independent Directors, including Senior Management Personnel has appointment of woman Director as per been formulated to ensure ethical Companies Act, 2013. The Government business conduct. Further, we have of India is in process of selecting also developed and implemented requisite number of Independent systems and processes for proper Directors. More details about the operation of internal controls for the composition of the Board and its organization. GAIL complies with SEBI committees is available in the Annual (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Report for FY 2015-16. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Remuneration & The remuneration of Directors is determined by the MoPNG. Conflict of InterestG4-41 IncentivesG4-51, G4-52, G4Identification, resolution and striving The Ratio of the annual total 53, G4-54, G4-55 for avoidance of any situations giving compensation for the organization’s rise to conflict of interest is crucial to highest-paid individual to the median The targets for physical, financial, good governance and maintaining trust annual total compensation for all non-financial parameters are in public institutions. At GAIL, conflicts employees (excluding the highest prescribed in GAIL’s MoU with the of interest at Board level are avoided paid individual) is 2.2:1. The Median MoPNG. The Company’s performance and managed as described in the info percentage increase (from FY 14-15 to is evaluated against these targets graphic given below. FY 15-16) in annual total compensation and hence a composite score of for all employees (excluding the Further, a policy has been formulated individual parameters are defined. highest-paid individual) is 7.83%. The for dealing with Related Party The composite score is one of the total annual compensation from FY Transactions as mandated under SEBI key variables in deciding the MoU 14-15 to FY 15-16 for the organization’s (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and is also rating which determines the quantum highest-paid individual decreased by hosted on the website of the Company of variable pay for the year in the 20.25% (http://www.gailonline.com/final_site/ form of Performance Related Pay. policy-1.html). PP Each Director gives the disclosure of his interest in any company(ies) or bodies corporate firms, or other association of individuals by giving a notice in writing and the same is put up to the Board. 15 PP In case a Director is directly or indirectly interested in a particular agenda / matter, he abstains himself from participation in discussion of such agenda item. PP Related party disclosure(s) is made as per applicable Accounting Standards and the Companies Act, 2013. As per this Act and clause 49 of the Listing Agreement approval of the Audit Committee and /or Board and/or Shareholders as required is taken for Related Party Transactions. Sustainability GovernanceG4-42, G4-43, G4-48 GAIL’s top-down Sustainability Governance is spread across various critical functions. The Sustainable Development committee is chaired by an Independent Director with all functional directors as members to the committee. This committee has been active in promoting the sustainability program in GAIL which includes implementing and monitoring sustainability parameters spanning across operations. Launch of GAIL’s Sustainability Report FY 2014-15 by GAIL Board Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance & Risk Management SDC Independent Sustainable Director disciplinary committee is present at various sites, which comprises Development of senior executives including site coordinators and aspect owners that Committee (SDC) verify sustainability data to improve During the reporting year, the Director reliability and authenticity. Committee met three times and (HR) The various Committee Members took some key decisions.The SDC receive trainings in their respective formally reviews and approves the functions and it is ensured that organization’s sustainability report.G4-48 they are regularly apprised of Director various developments in the field Apart from the Board level committee, (Projects) of sustainability. The Corporate GAIL also has a Sustainable Development Steering Committee, Sustainability Team is also a part of which is chaired by the Director (HR) the Corporate Planning Department so and includes all aspect owners at HoD that sustainability can be integrated in Director Corporate Strategy. 16 level. Apart from the HoDs, a multi(Finance) Sustainable Development Steering Committee Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Risk managementG4-DMA, G4-2, G4-14, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47 Risk management is one of the key aspects of corporate governance. Most prominent of these being Organisation of Economic Co-operation & Development (OECD) principles of corporate governance and SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015 which integrates risk management to corporate governance. The Companies Act, 2013 requires its Board of Directors to develop and implement a risk management policy and identify risks which may threaten the existence of the Company. Every year, GAIL’s risk management framework is persistently updated for new and emerging risks coming from expansion of operations and interests. Reviews Risk Annually GAIL Board of Reviews Risk Directors Annually Risk Management Audit Meets Bi-Annually & Committee (RMC) Committee reports to the Board Director Meets Bi-Annually (BD) & reports to Audit Committee Corporate Level Risk Chief Risk Steering Committee Officer 17 Meets Quarterly & reports Bi-Annually to RMC Risk Owner (OIC)/ Quarterly reports to Site Level Risk Steering Committee Chief Risk Officer Risk Unit Officer Risk Management Framework Scope All assets, plants and offices Management responsibility PP Short-medium term risk review by Chief Risk Officer & Risk Management Committee (RMC) PP Risk Management (RM) Dept. apprises corporate level Committee of Executive Directors, RMC of functional Directors, Audit Committee & Board of Directors who also review the policy and procedures periodically. PP The implementation of RM policy and procedures is overseen by Corporate Level Risk Steering Committee and reviewed quarterly for sites and units. It is further reviewed bi-annually by the RMC and annually by the Audit Committee. PP The unit level steering committee maps, monitors and formulates mitigation measures on a quarterly basis including social and environmental risks. PP Risks associated with specific groups are managed by respective dept. & management is updated on the same. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance & Risk Management Objectives of Risk Management Policy PP Establish risk intelligence framework, ownership and embed risk and Procedure management in the business. PP Aid decision makers to take account of uncertainty and find solutions. PP Qualitatively and quantitatively analyse, evaluate and manage current and expected risk exposure. PP Compliance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and international norms PP Demonstrate achievement of objectives and improvement of financial stability Top Corporate Business Risks PP Top business risks identified are sharing of under-recoveries, regulatory compliance and reporting, natural gas pricing, price variations in polymer, LPG and other LHCs, fluctuations in foreign exchange and natural or manmade calamity risk. Risks identified and deliberated in PP Risk associated with non-development of critical infrastructure to support the Corporate Level Risk Steering supply chain management of long term business decision of importing LNG. Committee PP Risk associated with ageing and exposure of Pipeline. PP Operational risks emanating out of post petrochemical expansion. PP Risk associated with non-sync of HR with the upcoming GAIL’s Business portfolios. 18 PP Risk emanating from Third Party Damage in Pipeline. Measures taken to mitigate exposure PP Specialized Corporate Level Risk Steering Committee to deal with risks to risk PP Risk management policy PP Risk Officers at units institutionalize risk management professionals throughout GAIL at all levels Many social, environmental and procedures. We have defined the IT domains. The Internal Audit economic risks have a long gestation organisational structure, manuals and department functionally reports to the period and it is difficult to bind them operating procedures for business Audit Committee and administratively in terms of financial years. GAIL units and service entities to ensure reports to CMD. This reporting is realizes the environmental impact of orderly and efficient conduct of our considered a global best practice. our operations and consistent efforts business. GAIL’s Internal Control Internal Audit function reviews the are made to minimize or neutralize System (including Internal Financial business processes and controls the impact. We take all possible Controls with reference to Financial through risk focused audits. Audit precautionary steps to ensure that our Statements) ensures efficiency, committee of the Board regularly operations perform within permitted reliability, completeness of accounting reviews significant findings of the limits minimizing the effect on records and timely preparation of Internal audit department. community and society. G4-EC2 financial and management information. In addition, it also ensures compliances Internal Financial Control is an ongoing process to identify, Internal Control of all applicable laws and regulations, assess effectiveness and monitor optimum utilisation and protection of Systems and their the Company’s assets. performance for continuous improvement. Our Company has Adequacy GAIL has an in-house Internal developed Internal Financial Control Audit department, consisting of System in its various business GAIL has a well-established and professionally qualified persons processes/segments, commensurate efficient internal control system and from accounting, engineering and with the size and nature of business for Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem ensuring the efficient operations of its business, safeguarding of its assets, prevention and detection of frauds and errors, accuracy and completeness of accounting records and timely preparation of reliable financial information. We are undertaking an exercise through an external consultant to reassure the existence and effectiveness of internal controls including operational activities and to update the existing framework for further improvements. Further, GAIL has also put in place an adequate internal financial control system and the same is operating effectively. Ethics & IntegrityG4-56, Launch of GAIL’s Jagrook Annual Vigilance Publication by GAIL Management G4-57, G4-58 GAIL formulated a Code of Fair Disclosure and ConductPractices Party Transaction Policy, which is PP Constitution of Estimate Review and Procedures for Fair Disclosure framed as per Regulation 23 of the Committee for tenders to improve of Unpublished Price Sensitive SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015 and the estimation process. Information and Code of Conduct to Companies Act, 2013. 19 PP Roll out of On-line Price bidding Regulate, Monitor and Report Trading for service requisitions in Supplier by Insiders Insider Trading Code in line Anti-corruption and Relationship Management (SRM) with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. A Code BriberyG4-DMA, G4-SO3, G4e-tendering system. of Conduct has also been formulated SO4, G4-SO5 The Vigilance Department takes care for the Board Members and Senior of the bribery and corruption related Management Personnel in line with In order to confront and counter issues based on the Central Vigilance SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015. The instances of corrupt practice during Commission (CVC) guidelines and Audit Committee reviews the details the course of its business, GAIL related circular. These have a mandate of Related Party Transactions (RPT) has been pro-actively developing extending to wholly owned subsidiaries entered into by the Company, on its vigilance mechanism. Various and Joint Ventures of GAIL where the quarterly basis as per the requirement initiatives such as Bill Watch System, equity of GAIL is more than 50%. All stated under SEBI LODR 2015 and the e-tendering, e-payments, etc. have GAIL employees are obliged to adhere Companies Act, 2013. Approval of the already been implemented in the to the GAIL Code of Conduct; Conduct, Audit Committee and/or Board and/or past for the benefit of vendors Discipline and Appeal (CDA) Rules / Shareholders as required is taken for and suppliers in order to bring Standing Orders, Fraud Prevention RPTs. transparency in the company’s systems Policy and Whistle Blower Policy. and processes. A number of system This includes employees who are on In a bid to enable investors to make improvements were implemented secondment or deputation to the Joint well-informed investment decisions during the year to enable effective Venture Companies, Subsidiaries, and facilitate timely, adequate and utilization of its resources, which in Government Bodies including accurate disclosure of information on turn would also help in preventing autonomous institutions, Regulatory an ongoing basis, GAIL has adopted the corruption and ensuring all round Authorities etc. The Integrity Pact and Policy for Determination of Materiality good governance. Some of these Fraud Prevention Policy extends to and Disclosure. The defining criteria improvements are: suppliers, contractors among others. for determining materiality of events and information are as per Regulation PP Test check measurement by senior 30 of SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015. To officers during bill payment. regulate transactions with its Related Parties, GAIL adheres to a Related Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance & Risk Management Vigilance Awareness Week is observed every year at the Corporate Office Grievance RedressalG4Customers can register Service Request / Complaint / Indents 24 x 7 DMA, G4-37, G4-49, G4-50 and at all the work centers. In order online through GAIL’s webpage. GAIL to spread awareness among GAIL also follows a system of uploading employees and related work force, GAIL is committed to provide services all the written complaints received at various competitions involving to its stakeholders to their satisfaction various work centres for centralized essay writing, slogan writing, poster in a transparent manner by upholding monitoring and redressal. paintings, online quiz and debates are the highest values of corporate held during the week. Other events governance and ethics. However, if The Centralized Public Grievance including banners/ posters/ painting stakeholders find unprecedented Redress and Monitoring System displays, marches and rallies with areas of concern; they are encouraged (CPGRAMS) portal operated by NGOs are also organized at various to report the same. Further, the option GAIL is a Government of India Portal work centers as per guidelines to lodge complaints is available on (Department of Administrative received from the CVC. A magazine our website (http://www.gailonline. Reforms and Public Grievances). titled ‘JAGROOK’ containing CVC com/final_site/online_complaints. The CPGRAMS portal is available to circulars, articles and case studies html). Vigilance complaints regarding citizens for lodging their grievances related to vigilance is also published vigilance and corruption, forgery, and complaints online which are and hosted on GAIL Intranet. cheating, misappropriation, favours, received by the MoPNG. Grievances willful negligence, reckless decision received, redressed and responded Various other initiatives have been making, blatant violation of systems through this portal during the year taken in this connection to make the and procedures, irregularities and 2015-16 are classified belowG4-EN34, G4-LA16, vigilance system and procedures exercise of delegated powers can also G4-HR12, G4-SO11 robust including Whistle Blower Policy, lodge. Fraud Prevention Policy and Integrity Pact maintained earlier along with The Online Grievance Redressal 20 Online Complaint Monitoring System System for employees is monitored which has been developed to upload by Corporate HR. The grievances any corruption related issue for all registered by employees should be business areas. During the reporting redressed by the HR in-charge within year, total 147 number of CTE type a stipulated time frame, failing which inspections of various works were also the matter is auto escalated to General carried out to assess business units for Manager (GM) HR at Corporate Office corruption related vulnerability. and finally to Director (HR). In case of dissatisfaction with the response, During the period under review, 104 the employee can appeal to the complaints were received, out of which next level. Technical or commercial 79 (i.e. 75.96%) have been resolved. complaints regarding product quality G4-SO5 can be lodged by Customers. GAIL Environment Labour Practices Human Rights Society Total Complaints received 3 2 35 189 229 Complaints resolved 3 2 34 184 223 Complaints under review 0 0 1 5 6 Cumulative complaints pending 0 0 1 5 6 Besides this, GAIL also has a Complaint Handling System whereby written complaints received at various work centers are uploaded in the system, for redressal and centralized monitoring. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Sustainability StrategyG4-DMA, G4-EN5, G4-EN18 GHG Emissions Sustainability Aspirations 2020 Energy Consumption Water Consumption Awareness on Sustainability Sustainability StrategyG4-DMA, G4-EN5, G4-EN18 Energy is considered a catalyst for economic growth. With a growing economy and a population of 1.26 billion aspiring for a better quality of life, increase in India’s energy demand is inevitable. Thus GAIL’s strategy for the period of 2011-2020 has been formulated to provide direction, build resilience and guide the Company’s growth. The top management plays a crucial role in achieving strategic objectives to make the organization an integrated hydrocarbon major with significant upstream, midstream and downstream interests. Further details of our strategic investments are available in the section on Adapting to new eco-system : Innovating for profitability. Our Strategy GAIL, as India’s youngest Maharatna public enterprise is committed to creating a better tomorrow that extends beyond our cleaner energy business. We have been rigorously working to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment and society. This involves taking strategic initiatives and making investments in clean energy such as wind and solar. 22 Signing of MoU between GAIL and Bloom Energy for Natural Gas based Fuel Cell in India By integrating our commitment towards the economic, environmental and social concerns into the core of our business, GAIL strives to ensure a sustainable growth trajectory for itself. GAIL continues to work towards achieving voluntary targets as set under the Sustainability Aspirations 2020. Over a short span of our sustainability journey we have been able to make our mark at the national and international stage. We acknowledge the recognition we received for our initiatives and plan to continue to work hard towards actualizing our sustainability aspirations. – Director (HR)* * for BD related activities Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem GAIL is among the first Oil & Gas Companies in India to take voluntary targets to improve its sustainability performance in the form of Sustainability Aspirations 2020. Key Focus Area Aspirations 2020 (Base Year 2010-11) GHG Emissions (Scope I and II) PP 33 % reduction of GHG emission intensity. PP 5% reduction of Specific GHG emission. (Additional Corporate Level Target). Specific Energy Consumption PP 5% reduction of specific energy in LHC & PC products PP 5% reduction of Specific Energy Consumption. (Additional Corporate Level Target) Water Consumption PP 45% reduction water consumption intensity. PP 15% reduction of specific fresh water consumption. (Additional Corporate Level Target) Waste Water Recycling PP 5% increase in waste water recycling PP Zero Discharge at Pata and Vijaipur (Additional Corporate Level Target) Training/Awareness on Sustainability PP 100 % of our employees and all new joinees to be made aware within one year of their joining 23 Our progress on sustainability aspirations Till FY 15-16, 2612 (61%) number of employees of GAIL have been trained on Sustainable Development GHG intensity Specific Energy Consumption (tCO2 eq./INR Cr.)* GJ/MT of LHC & PC product* Target 50.8 tCO2e/INR Target 13.30 GJ/MT 80 75.81 25 20.8 64.18 20 60 54.97 57.47 14.2 14.5 14.3 14.5 14.7 43.85 44.33 15 40 10 20 5 0 0 11 12 -13 20 20 20 11 12 -13 20 20 20 020 20 13-14 14-15 15-16 020 20 13-14 14-15 15-16 20 1 1112 20 1 1112 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Sustainability StrategyG4-DMA, G4-EN5, G4-EN18 Water consumption intensity Waste Water (WW) Recycled (cu.m/INR Cr)* (% of Waste Water generated) Target 230.86 m3/Crore Target 45% 500 50 45.30 419.7 45.7 400 40 38.5 33.9 34.07 344.8 329.5 30 39.3 300 288.8 250.2 222.4 20 200 10 100 0 0 -11 12 -13 20 -15 20 10 1112 13-14 14 15-16 20 20 20 20 -11 12 -13 20 -15 20 10 1112 13-14 14 15-16 20 20 20 20 24 *During the reporting year there has new plants at Pata and Vijaipur led PP Due to the statutory requirement, been an increase in GHG intensity, to additional flaring and venting. inspection of LPG storage hortan Water Consumption intensity, Specific Further, the natural gas vented had spheres at GAIL Gandhar was energy Consumption and water high percentage of methane. carried out. Even after optimizing consumption, in comparison to the last recovery through vapour recovery FY. The major reasons are as followsPP Decrease in Revenues by over 8% compressors, the remaining from 2015 to 2016, led to distortion bottom LPG had to be flared. This PP Mega expansion of our in turnover related ratios. led to additional increase of GHG two largest plants i.e. Pata emissions. Petrochemical Plant (capacity PP Change of Global Warming doubled after expansion) and Potential of methane from existing Vijaipur Gas Processing Unit. The 21 to 25 as per IPCC guidelines. commissioning and stabilisation of Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Respondents Rated HIGH MEDIUM LOW Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Stakeholders are individuals, groups of individuals or organizations who either affect or are affected by our operations. Regularly engaging with our stakeholders is imperative for attaining a holistic perspective of areas of concern, and identifying opportunities for improving our business processes and performance. Stakeholder engagement enables development of a trust-based and transparent relationship with our stakeholders. Through this process, GAIL informs and educates its stakeholders to promote inclusive decision making and actions that, in turn, will have positive impact on the ecosystem. Our ApproachG4-DMA, G424, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Through consultation, GAIL aims to identify key issues / aspects that are relevant to its stakeholders so as to complement the materiality process. The management has proactively worked towards integrating stakeholder engagement into our governance, organizational and management strategy. A structured and phased approach is taken by the management for stakeholder 26 engagement and materiality, which is summarized as follows: World Energy Day Celebrations Identifying key issues Identifying PP Identification of an exhaustive list of issues that may be Key Issues relevant to GAIL and its stakeholders PP Interaction with stakeholders (such as Head of Departments) to shortlist key issues relevant to GAIL and its stakeholders Stakeholder PP Mapping key issues across stakeholders and prioritizing Mapping them. PP Selecting key stakeholders with whom to interact. Stakeholder PP Formulating stakeholder-wise questionnaires, deploying Response them through relevant departments and facilitating stakeholder engagement at various sites PP Understanding Stakeholder perception of the company’s sustainability and their key concerns Collating & PP Summarizing responses from stakeholder interviews or Analyzing surveys and recording them in pre-designed format Response PP Analysis of emerging patterns with respect to stakeholder groups and development of materiality matrix with respect to the results obtained from the stakeholder analysis. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem We initiated the process of materiality & Gas sector etc. were also reviewed. Exploration & Production, Business assessment by identifying key issues Based on this research, an exhaustive Information Systems, GAIL Training that are material to GAIL and its list of 46 issues were identified and Institute, Company Secretariat and stakeholders. We reviewed our primary deliberated upon. Various departments Parliamentary Affairs took part in sources such as risk management including Corporate Communications, these deliberations. Based on the approach, business performance Human Resources, Business internal deliberations, the list was and strategy and other internal Development, Project Development, reduced to 18 issues which were to be documents. Secondary resources Operation & Maintenance, Finance & taken to the stakeholder groups for such as media reports, press releases, Accounts, Legal, Marketing, Regulatory assessment. issues highlighted by peers in the Oil Affairs, HSE, R&D, TQM, Security, Stakeholder were developed based upon shortlisted issues identified. As a sites and through the online survey. Approximately 1600 respondents Engagement Process part of this engagement exercise rated the issues as being of high, customers, NGOs, Contractors/ medium or low significance. These A mapping of stakeholders was Vendors, representatives of local interactions assisted in developing conducted including primary and communities, were consulted. Apart a rich repository of qualitative and secondary stakeholders. Primary from this, employees took part in quantitative data which was used to stakeholders were identified as those the exercise through interactions at infer the most material issues. which have interests that are directly linked to the fortunes of the company including shareholders and investors, 27 employees, customers, suppliers, and residents of the communities Media & Trade where the company operates whilst Academia Associations secondary stakeholders were identified as those which have indirect Competitors Employees influences on the organization or are less directly affected by its activities. They include the media and pressure groups, and others that inhabit the business and social networks of the Stakeholders Suppliers Investors organization. For this sustainability reporting process, a dedicated stakeholder engagement exercise was conducted with the 6 prioritized stakeholder Customers Communities groups across 10 locations. Stakeholder responses were sought for a list of 18 issues across economic, environmental, social and Government governance dimensions. The medium & of engagement included focused group Regulators discussions, questionnaire surveys, and face to face interactions with the Contractors stakeholders. Both qualitative and NGOs quantitative techniques were used for data collection. Questionnaires Sustainability Report 2015-16 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Collating & Analysing Responses The inputs received from various stakeholders both online and offline were collated and analysed. The top material issues that emerged from interaction with the prioritized stakeholders are depicted below: Employees Customers PP Health and Safety PP Communication & Relationship with PP Transparency and ethics stakeholders PP Business Growth & PP Operational Excellence Profitability PP Business Growth & PP Operational Excellence Profitability PP Human Capital PP Transparency and ethics Community Suppliers 28 PP Transparency and ethics PP Health and Safety PP Regulatory issues PP Operational excellence PP Operational Excellence PP Business Growth & PP Business Growth & Profitability Profitability PP Supply Chain Management PP Human Capital NGOs Contract Employees PP Communication & PP Health and Safety Relationship with PP Transparency and ethics stakeholders PP Communication & PP Operational excellence Relationship with PP Transparency and ethics stakeholders PP Human Capital PP Operational excellence We engage with our stakeholders to share values and co-create growth with them. Further, their concerns were identified through various channels and engagement mechanisms which have been provided in detail in the section Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships of this report. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Materiality Matrix The results of the stakeholder engagement process were discussed with the senior management of GAIL whose response was also taken into account for developing the final materiality matrix. The material issues identified through this exercise are i) Operational Excellence ii) Human Capital iii) Health and Safety iv) Business Growth and Profitability v) Supply Chain Management vi) Communication and relationship with stakeholders and vii) Regulatory Issues. The materiality matrix determined is presented below: Importance to Stakeholders 29 Impact on GAIL In this report, we have highlighted our approach towards the identified issues and company specific aspects in detail. Further, the related GRI aspects have been mapped with the identified material issues and their performance has been reported in the subsequent sections of the report. The mapping of the final high materiality issues with stakeholders is given in the table belowG4-19, G4-20, G4-21 Sub aspects considered by management and Material aspects Boundary Major Stakeholders stakeholders Operational Environmental Investments PP Shareholders and Excellence Investors Material PP Employees Energy Water PP Communities Emissions Emissions management Within GAIL Effluent & Waste Overall Environmental Grievance Mechanism Grievance Mechanism for impacts on society Asset Productivity* Transport Sustainability Report 2015-16 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Sub aspects considered by management and Material aspects Boundary Major Stakeholders stakeholders Human Capital Employment PP Employees Labour/Management Relations PP Contract Workers Training & Education Diversity Employment and labour practices Human Rights Investment Non-discrimination Within GAIL Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Forced or compulsory labour Child Labour Equal Pay for men & women Labour Practices Grievance Mechanism Security Practices Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety PP Employees Customer Health and Safety Within GAIL PP Communities Asset integrity and process safety* Business Growth and Economic Performance PP Shareholders and 30 Profitability Investors Market Presence Indirect Economic impacts Within GAIL PP Customers New diversification and seeking new opportunities* Supply Chain Procurement Practices PP Suppliers Management Supplier Environmental Assessment PP Customers Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Within & Beyond GAIL Supplier Human Rights Assessment Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices Indigenous Rights Communication and Marketing & Communication PP Government & Relationship with Product & Service Labeling Regulators Stakeholders Human Rights Grievance Mechanism PP Customers Local Community Within & Beyond GAIL PP Employees Adequacy of transparent communication across GAIL* PP Suppliers PP Communities Regulatory Issues Anti-competitive behavior PP Regulators Anti-corruption Within & Beyond GAIL Public Policy Compliance * These aspects are not included under the GRI G4 aspects but have been included in the report to provide completeness to the material issues identified. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Ensuring Robust Systems and Processes through Operational Excellence Monitoring Natural Gas & LPG pipelines in phased manner 106 quality Savings of ` circle projects 3.49 Crores FY 2015-2016 GAIL Spent INR 76.5 Crores on R&D >1% of PAT FY 2015-16 Ensuring Robust Systems and Processes through Operational Excellence GAIL places great value on the health and safety of our workforce, protection of our assets, value to stakeholders and the environment. Through our robust management systems, GAIL is able to translate these values into systems and processes that drive performance excellence and deliver results. The implementations of management systems and processes that incorporate standards, procedures and change management have been proved to deliver a culture of excellence at every level. At GAIL these systems help in identifying new areas of improvement, implementation of new projects and policies, continual improvement and management of risk. In the prevailing economic conditions, and growing global political concerns over climate change and the SDG 2030, it is increasingly imperative for GAIL to focus on delivering operational excellence, reducing waste and energy consumption and increasing efficiencies across all business segments. As a provider of cleaner forms of energy, GAIL will continue to endeavor to meet the nation’s demand. Our ApproachG4-DMA Our approach towards achieving excellence in all aspects of our business and operations is guided by our Vision to “be the leading company in natural gas and beyond with global focus, committed to customer care, value creation for all stakeholders 32 and environment responsibility”. In order to proliferate this throughout the organization GAIL leverages best in class practices, highest standards of quality, safety and integrity, high efficiency, adoption of latest technology, imparts best in class training and development of 3rd All India Global Methane Initiative Oil & Gas Sector Meet employees in all operational assets to constantly create value for all stakeholders. We believe in raising the bars for ourselves, every day. The philosophy of kaizen, to follow a long-term approach to systematically improve efficiency and quality, is embedded in the way we operate. Operational Excellence at GAIL rests on the trinity of People, Performance and Process. By focusing on continuous improvement of processes and increased efficiency across project sites, GAIL has focused on overcoming the challenges posed by both the regulatory and economic environment. The global fall in crude oil prices has impacted GAIL’s profitability and at this juncture the organization looks towards improvements in energy management, energy efficiencies, and cost savings. Further, with greater thrust on global climate change negotiation with COP 21, SDGs, GAIL must now rise to the challenges of providing energy security and cleaner alternatives to India’s burgeoning population while also acting on opportunities to control emissions, improve efficiencies and protect the sustainability of our operations. Consistent improvement helps in better capacity and asset utilization, reliability and forecasting without compromising on safety. We believe our endeavors will be the enablers for bringing a change and we strive to build excellence in our systems, procedure, practices, policies and strategies. – Director (Projects) Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Asset ProductivityG4-DMA GAIL’s Operations and Maintenance (O&M) policy outlines the company’s philosophy and determines its objectives, targets and activities for maintenance, replacement of assets and their review. It further delineates monitoring, controlling, reporting and audit system as well as roles and responsibilities towards the same. O&M Objectives: GAIL’s approach for achieving our vision for world-class performance are outlined in O&M objectives which focus in the following areas: Top-quartile Safety of People Best-in-class Standards and Talent Performance and Assets Systems across the Value Chain Management PP Delivery of PP Safety PP Leverage technology and address PP Develop uninterrupted, of public, technological obsolescence to promote employees’ reliable and employees and efficient and environment friendly O&M competency, best quality properties, activities. skills and products and assets enhance services to belonging PP Keep “Safety Management”, “Quality employee customers. to the Management” and “Integrity Management” motivation. organization. of all assets, in entire value chain of O&M. 33 Culture of Excellence Sustainable Business Operations Responsibility and and Customer Delight and Compliance Accountability PP Have efficient PP Operate our business in a manner that is PP Deploy best practices stakeholders’ sustainable in the long term, serving the best having defined roles, management at all levels interests of GAIL and its stakeholders. responsibilities and and deliver reliable, accountability at all quality products and PP Comply with all requirements of statutory, levels with proactive services to the delight of legal and regulatory and Govt. guidelines and and value based the customer. go beyond in setting internal targets. approach. Leadership against these. Our culture encourages employees to take responsibility to on investment. These systems ensure product quality and smooth operation Responsibility ensure that systems and procedures of over 11,070 km of pipeline and 206 are fully and effectively complied with. MMSCMD of capacity and 6 gas Leadership is one of the defining processing plants in our network. The factors in the successful implementation of operational Integrated functions of the management systems are integrated and these are reviewed excellence. At GAIL we believe Management Systems and analysed for gaps in performance in leading from the front and and evaluations of threats and risks. empowering our employees to At GAIL the implementation of Some key management systems in inculcate and implement our management systems for operational GAIL are the Integrated Management philosophy of excellence throughout excellence is driven by our aim to System; Pipeline Integrity the organization. Thus, Department integrate best in class technologies, Management Systems; Energy Heads lead the systems and processes, optimize processes, conserve Management Systems and Waste set priorities, develop performance resources , reduce waste while Management System and Emission measures and monitor achievements increasing efficiencies to maximize Management Systems. asset performance and increase return Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring Robust Systems and Processes through Operational Excellence In terms of management in the continuous and sustainable mitigate this risk GAIL has developed infrastructure, GAIL has a National Gas improvement of products, processes the National Gas Management Management Centre which manages and services. This commitment Centre (NGMC) and Pipeline Integrity GAIL’s trading, transportation and LPG delivers improved productivity, Management System (PIMS). In transmission business throughout enhanced quality, increased customer addition to these GAIL has developed India. Further, all our major project satisfaction, reduced costs and centres of technical excellence across sites are compliant with ISO 9001, ISO increased competitive advantage. To its value chain through the Network 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications enhance its implementation GAIL has Management Centre (NMC), GAIL and these are reviewed through adopted the TQM approach of data Polymer Technology Centre (GPTC) and timely internal audits, surveillance based decision making, through the GIGALINK (IT & ERP Data Centre). audits, certifications and also their use of statistical tools, integrated recertification through external management systems and their review. Certification Body. Compliance Management GAIL complies with all relevant legislation, laws, standards, codes and internal policies by raising awareness of its compliance obligations through education, training and legal advice. It also ensures compliance with legal and regulatory obligations including 34 internal and external audits. Internal audits review sample transactions to ensure compliance with policies and procedures of the organisation. In the case of special projects, the Audit Committee reviews and assesses compliance with established standards Award ceremony of Best Quality Circle Projects of business ethics and procedures for reporting violations of Company policies. The responsibility of creating To encourage innovative solutions in The National Gas Management systems and processes to ensure TQM, GAIL employees are encouraged Centre manages GAILs trading, compliance lies with Department to devise and implement quality circle transportation and LPG transmission Heads at the level of Executive projects that result in financial savings, business throughout India. It provides Director. quality improvements, customer live data pertaining to pipeline satisfaction etc. In FY 2015-2016, 106 installations, coordination of gas Total Quality quality circle projects were taken up transmission and delivery conditions Management (TQM) with savings of INR 3.49 Crores made. This is further promoted through an of all major customer terminals; information on LPG transportation TQM is an integrative management award scheme delivered by the CMD. and Liquid Hydrocarbon production; philosophy aimed at continuously gas reconciliation and accounting for improving the quality of products Infrastructure, gas vertical. It also provides data for and processes to achieve customer continuous monitoring and control of satisfaction. Commitment from Top systems and gas transmission and supply, quality Management drives this ethos through all levels and functions throughout processes for of gas and pipeline integrity and safety. The RGMCs provide access the organization. At GAIL the excellence to consumer terminals and also have adoption of TQM integrates customer the ability to control and monitor focus, leadership commitment, The Gas Management System : The flow rate and gas quantities for local continual improvement, employee transmission and supply of natural customers. To provide back up support empowerment and supplier support gas involves high risk activities and to to the NGMC a similar centre is being Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem planned in Jaipur as a failsafe that would maintain the integrity of supply chain and pipeline. In addition to coordinating operational maintenance and safety data, the NGMC also provides real time data of GAILs LPG transmission pipelines which allows for better coordination with oil marketing companies regarding LPG take off rates. The NGMC is further integrated with a Gas Management System which is a web enabled platform that provides integrated real time data regarding gas nominations, delivery and reconciliation for shippers, suppliers, Operations Management through sophisticated state-of-the-art customers and transporters of gas to facility increase transparency and improve coordination of gas supply. Management System that ensures systems and processes for managing Asset integrity and efficient asset performance through the integrity of all the pipelines owned data gathering and review, risk and operated by GAIL. Regional service reliability G4assessment and prioritization of Integrity Management Groups (RIMG) DMA identified risks. Data emanating from have also been formulated for the the system is examined to determine integrity management at regional 35 GAIL ensures the safety of its pipelines the course of action whether diagnosis level. The core function of the group from initiation by undertaking of threats, FFP assessment and is the identification and effective design in accordance to national corrosion growth. Measures to rectify management of all the threats and international standards such as these through preventative measures, that have the potential to impact the ASME, OISD and PNGRB. It also enhancement of repair schedule or pipeline integrity and to strategize observes guidelines used by the API, inspections are put in place through identify, monitor, control, audit and BS, Canadian Standards, DIN, NACE the Integrity Management Plan. The demonstrate improvement on each and NFPA. pipeline is thus rehabilitated and hazard. Internationally reputed and continual data gathering and review certified Subject Matter Experts GAIL maintains the integrity of its vast ensures its maintenance and increased (SMEs) have also been empanelled network of gas pipelines through the lifeline. by GAIL for expert opinion on critical Central Pipeline Integrity Management issues and root cause analysis with System (CPIMS). The CPIMS shows GAIL has started implementing respect to health and integrity the status of pipeline integrity by Application Software (APPS) for management of pipelines. A system noting threats, risks, probability of monitoring NG & LPG pipelines in has been developed for carrying failure and compliance to statutory a phased manner. APPS provide out root cause analysis of incidents regulations through a combination of operation and planning tools for through three tier investigation GIS and temporal data. Pipeline design safe, reliable, optimum and economic mechanism i.e. internal committee and standardized integrity assessment operation of pipeline networks. The at first level, External Technical processes are also stored on the system offers various functionalities Consultant such as Engineers India system and made available to relevant and modules, such as Real Time Limited (EIL) at second level and users across operations. Through the Modelling, Leak Detection System, through an internationally reputed CPIMS, GAIL is able to reduce the risk Inventory Analysis / Line pack independent agency at third level. of failure of the pipeline, insurance Calculations, Predictive Modelling for The recommendations of all these costs and downtime. Additionally, it all pipelines in a common database. committees will be integrated, is expected to increases the lifeline comprehensive corrective measures of the pipeline through data led Further, GAIL has constituted a will be identified and implemented to maintenance. Central Integrity Management prevent recurrence of similar incidents. Group within the Corporate O&M GAIL has evolved a Pipeline Integrity Department at Noida to create Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring Robust Systems and Processes through Operational Excellence Business Information systems GAIL’s technology vision is to acknowledge technology as the key to the future success of the organization and advocate best in class technologies. Under this initiative several IT systems have been developed and implemented for relevant stakeholders in the organization, some of which are captured below: E-governance @ GAIL Administrative Customers Employees Suppliers Government Community Agencies GPS Based e-Sustaintracking Ebanking Ebanking Ebanking Ebanking ability module of pipeline 36 patrolling e-Business Mobile App Employee ETender Responsbility Emergency E-Ledger self service and reserve Reporting response portal auction Module plan Enterprise Business Gas Application Customer running on portal ERP (SAP) Gas Management Customer System running satisfaction on ERP (SAP) surveys EDigitization system Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Electronic Data Management System GAIL implemented an enterprise wide Electronic Document Management System (EDMS) in 2012 to move towards a “paper-light” office, providing an opportunity to reduce use of paper 1,50,000 40% 40% which not only cuts down cost & Electronic & Electronic 1,30,000 Physical Only 1,33,839 time, but also reduces distribution / handling efforts and increases business productivity. Dedicated teams have 1,10,000 been deployed across various locations 90,000 20% of GAIL to support the users at the Physical grass-root level. Trainings are being Only imparted in batches at GAIL Training 70,000 Institute, Noida; individually on need 59,439 basis and through remote desktops 50,000 as assistance. As on 31st March 2016 we have over 1.3 Lakh records in the 30,000 EDMS, of which 40% are Electronic 25,548 Only Records; 40% have been 10,000 7,302 digitised and balance 20% have been stored as Physical Only. The decision of digitisation is taken based on the 12 13 14 15 16 ar ar ar ar ar sensitivity of the record, how often it is M M M M M referred and how widely it is referred. 37 Sustainability in our sustainability of our operations. This is driven and monitored by the GAIL (Management & Handling) Rules, 2011. The rules regarding handling Operations Sustainable Development Committee. of E-waste have become more stringent and encompass a greater At GAIL excellence in operations includes the implementation Waste ManagementG4level of equipment such as Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFL) and other of sustainable practices and DMA mercury containing lamps. The rules environmentally friendly operations. also put the onus of collection and Our Sustainable Development policy As part of our sustainable business exchange of e-waste on the producers focuses on improvements in energy practices, waste management has and specify these under Extended efficiency, water conservation, emerged as a critical issue posing long Producer Responsibility (EPR) with biodiversity and waste management term impacts on the environment. targets. As a bulk consumer of E-waste and aims to achieve these through While GAIL is not involved in any GAIL is committed to collecting and optimisation of natural resources, activities related to transporting, handing items over to authorized material substitution, recycling and importing, exporting or treatment recyclers. reuse and the adoption of eco-friendly of waste deemed hazardous under and cleaner technologies. The policy Basel ConventionG4-EN25, the company’s To encourage awareness regarding further encourages GAIL to actively petrochemical unit generates tar, the new rules an E-waste a training engage in the mitigation of GHG wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) programme was also undertaken emissions and instil a preference for sludge, molecular sieves, tar ash and through the Centre of Science and eco-friendly products and services. slope oil as hazardous solid waste Environment for GAIL officials in which is devoid of heavy metals February 2016. The programme Through our Sustainability Aspirations content. imparted training on e-waste and its 2020 we have set voluntary targets management, disposal techniques towards GHG emissions, specific energy, water consumption, waste E-waste Management and collection mechanisms. GAIL has already implemented systems water recycling, and sustainability In 2016 the MoEFCC updated the and processes to manage e-waste awareness to improve waste E-Waste Management Rules, 2016 and integrated these with safety/ management and the environmental in supersession of the e-waste environmental audits. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring Robust Systems and Processes through Operational Excellence Solid Waste Disposed by Disposal Method (MT) Liquid waste disposed by disposal method (Litres) As per Schedule-I of The Hazardous plant which is at advance stage. purpose at all installations. Used and Other Wastes (Management and Meanwhile accumulated Tar is being oil, spent oil & waste oil are being Transboundary Movement) Rules, disposed off through approved TSDF collected in drums which are kept at 38 2016, oily sludge emulsion and slop facility. Other waste materials such demarcated location in yard area and oil which are being generated from as used batteries are returned to the the same is being disposed through Petrochemical operations have been respective vendors at the time of CPCB/MOEF/ SPCB authorized reidentified as hazardous waste. Those supply of new batteries for recycling processors as per guidelines. wastes are being generated during the manufacturing of Petrochemicals and are being separated in a dedicated Waste Water Treatment Plant of GAIL Miscellaneous Waste disposed by disposal Pata. The oily sludge is regularly being method (Numbers) disposed of through UP Pollution Control Board approved Treatment Storage & Disposal Facility (TSDF). The other organic sludge from WWTP is taken for land filling and green belt development purposes. Molecular sieves and tar ash is landfilled in a secured landfill and slop oil is sold to statutory approved parties for its effective recycle and reuse. GAIL Petrochemical Plant also has a dedicated incinerator facility for incineration of Tar being generated in the manufacturing process. Presently incinerator shifting job from existing location to new location is being done due to expansion of Petrochemical Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Energy ManagementG4-DMA Our Energy Consumption (Million GJ) 40.19 40.67 39.32 40.89 39.92 39.83 45 39.01 38.51 37.90 37.36 37.07 37.41 40 35.86 35.09 36.42 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 1.23 1.85 1.17 1.12 1.13 0 12 -13 -14 -15 20 20 1112 13 14 15-16 20 20 20 39 Total direct energy Total indirect energy Total energy consumption Total energy consumption consumption consumption (including flaring and venting) (excluding flaring and venting) In order to decrease the energy energy audits and implementation of ISO 50001:2011 certification in 2013intensity of our operations GAIL also corrective actions and energy saving 2014 and GAIL Vaghodia unit was focusses on reductions in energy use measures. GAIL advocates the use of recommended for second stage and increases in energy efficiency. advanced technologies and utilisation certification audit in 2014-2015. We aim to reduce specific energy of renewable energy resources as consumption in LHC & PC production energy saving measures. Increases in energy efficiency and by 5%. Further reductions are reductions in consumption have a targeted through an organization Thus, GAIL has undertaken the direct impact on cost saving. Thus GAIL wide plan for integrated energy steady implementation of energy has undertaken a number of energy management systems, monitoring of management systems (ISO 50001:2011) saving initiatives in the following areas: energy consumption, undertaking of at our project sites. Under this initiative GAIL Gandhar received Area Initiative Procurement PP Replacement with the latest energy efficient lighting systems. PP Procurement of energy efficient and sustainable products in tenders PP Procurement specification of electrical equipment to require minimum 3 Star rating of product. PP ACs more than 10 years old to be replaced after doing a cost benefit analysis PP Implementation of LED based lighting systems. PP BEE Star rating air conditioners & Installation of solar lights at GAIL sites. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring Robust Systems and Processes through Operational Excellence Area Initiative Equipment PP Installation of Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) for Raw Water Pumps at GAIL Gandhar. and process PP Recovery of waste heat from exhaust of Gas Turbine Compressor (GTC) at GAIL Vaghodia has been carried out by setting up of Waste Heat Recovery Steam Generation system (WHRSG) thereby reducing thermal pollution as well as saving energy required for steam generation. PP Online Efficiency monitoring of Gas Turbine Compressors (GTCs) at Vaghodia has resulted in fuel saving to the tune of Rs. 1.17 Crores during FY 2015-16 PP Incorporation of temperature control logic in lube oil cooling system of GTCs at Vaghodia resulting in energy savings through optimal operation of cooling fans. Facilities PP The replacement of Conventional Lighting systems with more efficient T5/LED lighting systems. PP Switching over from TEG power to Grid power at SV Stations of VSPL PP Introduction of Green building concept in all new building projects. PP LEED Platinum certification for GAIL Jubilee Tower by IGBC. PP 4 Star GRIHA rating for green building at Chhainsa Unit. Renewable PP Online solar panel of 5kW installed at IPS Mansarampura of JLPL which is generating approx. 20 kWh EnergyOG3 daily. Similarly, 1kW solar system has been installed at SV-46 of JLPL which has increased power reliability at Remote SV Station. PP Solar system with Battery backup has been installed at 34 SV/IP stations all along DBPL Network 40 generating approx. 14.8 Lakhs units of electricity to meet 84% energy requirement of the total network. PP 3 Solar Power Plants under NCR region and 4 solar plants of capacity 7.5 KWp, 15 KWp and 2X7.5 KWp under Jamnagar Loni P/L region have been installed. PP Solar based street lights installed at all SVs & IPS under Nasirabad Region of JLPL. Similarly, solar power for lighting purpose of building and yard lighting of process area at Dispatch terminal, Ramnad in Cauvery Basin under implementation. Climate Change and Emission ManagementG4-DMA, G4-EN7, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN19, G4-EC2 As part of our sustainability policy making it a partner in the Natural Seal Gas Recovery Project that and aspirations GAIL has also made a Gas STAR Program to carry out will recover the fugitive gas commitment to reduce GHG emission studies regarding fugitive and emission and cycle it back to the intensity by 33% and specific GHG vented methane emissions. suction of the compressor thereby emission by 5% through improvements The study has been taken up eliminating its discharge into in our processes as stated in our O&M for Vijaipur, Hazira & Jhabua atmosphere. philosophy. The company intently facilities by US EPA and as a monitors climate change risks and result GAIL Vijaipur has been able PP At GAIL Vijaipur, the company has opportunities and undertakes a to reduce 2.89 MMSCM (million Piped Natural Gas (PNG) supply number of research and development m3)/ year methane emission over from Recovered Flare/ Waste projects as well as mitigation its baseline of 2010-11 which is Gas for GAIL Township. This has initiatives to manage these: equivalent to reducing 41,225 resulted in significant reduction of tonnes of CO2e. The recurring GHG emissions as well as energy PP GAIL signed an MoU with the fugitive emissions due to savings. Further, the initiative also United States Environment compressor wet seal degassing saves LPG which can be made Protection Agency (US EPA) vents are being addressed by a available to rural areas. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem PP GAIL had taken up a Pilot Project GHG Emission (Million CO2e) that is registered with the 3.50 UNFCCC for availing carbon credits, to capture Landfill Gas 3.00 2.97 (LFG) from Ghazipur landfill. 20 2.62 2.64 2.54 2.53 2.55 LFG wells were constructed for 2.50 the collection and extraction 2.36 2.38 of LFG. At present, part of the 2.29 2.25 recovered LFG is being safely 2.00 destroyed in an enclosed flare system and part of it is also being 1.50 used to generate electricity through a Micro-Turbine. In 1.00 FY 2015-16, over 3000 MT CO2 equivalent fugitive Methane 0.50 emissions have been destroyed in 0.42 the Pilot plant. 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.28 0.00 PP Conversion of CO2 into value 12 -13 -14 -15 20 added chemicals is an option for 15 1112 13 14 20 20 20 20 -16 mitigation of GHG. Since CO2 is a very stable chemical, our efforts Total Scope 1 emissions Total Scope 2 emissions Total GHG emissions at GAIL in this area are focused towards the development of various types of catalysts for its conversion safe points to avoid direct venting as CDM project. to Syn gas through bi/tri and dry of unburnt gases 41 For FY 2015-16, our Scope I CO2 reforming. GAIL is also carrying PP At GAIL Gandhar 30 MT per bullet emissions is 2.55 MT CO2 and our out a R&D project for fixing of LPG vapour were recovered during Scope II CO2 emission is 0.42 MT CO2 using microbial algae for the SMPV statutory inspection of CO2. We have estimated our Scope production of Bio-fuels. LPG Bullets. 3 CO2 emissions for business travel PP All safety valves, pressure which came out to highly insignificant PP A 5 MW Solar Power Plant Project as compared to Scope 1 & 2 CO2 controlled valves etc. discharging was installed by GAIL at Jaisalmer emissions. To further reduce our Scope hazardous substances are and this has achieved 8.59 Million 3 emissions, a total of 437 hours of connected to a highly reliable flare Units Net Export to the grid. This video conferencing was conducted in system where the relieved gases project was registered by UNFCCC FY 2015-16. G4-DMA, G4-EN4, G4-EN30 and liquids are burnt at controlled Water Management The water withdrawal by source is depicted through infographic on the a WWTP that treats industrial waste water produced from all the units and G4-DMA next pageG4-EN8 maintains specifications prescribed by the pollution control board in order GAIL’s sustainability aspirations No water sources have been to allow discharge of effluent into the 2020 target a 45% reduction in water significantly affected by water Sengar river. Treated effluent water consumption intensity compared to withdrawal for GAIL locations.G4-EN9 is recycled and used for horticulture. the baseline of 2010-2011. Thus water This enables saving of fresh water that consumption is closely monitored, No effluent water is discharged outside would otherwise have been consumed controlled and managed at GAIL. GAIL’s the plant premises (conforming to by green belts developed in and around operations do not generate difficult zero discharge at our units in Vijaipur, GAIL sites. to treat wastewater and most water Gandhar, NG compressor stations effluent is generated by floor wash, and LPG pumping stations) and all Availability of water is often cooling water blow down and sewage discharge is compliant to respective challenging at GAIL project sites water. Technologies have been adopted state pollution control boards. and thus ground water recharge to reduce wastewater generation There is no significant impact of our through the introduction of rainwater and Effluent Treatment Plants have wastewater discharges and run-offs to harvesting facility has been been put in place to treat whatever is water bodies located in the vicinity of undertaken in Vijaipur (two projects) generated. our operations. GAIL’s Pata plant has Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring Robust Systems and Processes through Operational Excellence Total Water Consumption (Million m3) Waste Water Performance 18.00 17.01 FY 15-16 (Million m3) 16.00 14.08 14.3 13.86 12.90 14.00 12.00 Water recycled/ 10.00 reused 0.55 8.00 6.00 1.01 Total Water discharged (outside plant 4.00 boundary) 2.00 1.60 Total waste water 0.00 generated 11-13 -14 -15 20 12 12 13 14 15 20 20 20 20 -16 and GAIL Jhabua (projects location and trigger type water spray systems well GAIL has been able to make an in Kasarbadi, Mohankot, Dudhmal in horticulture. 10,000 litres of water additional make 400 Kl / month of and Devgarhbaria). GAIL Vijaipur has per day that was previously drained water available. We have also reduced also introduced rooftop rainwater from the RO plant has now been water wastage by attending to water harvesting for two substations. made available for this through the leakages from taps and joints and construction of an above ground through close monitoring and repairing GAIL Jhabua also continues to optimise tank with a 25,000 litre capacity. of faulty sensors that resulted in an water preservation though project ‘Jal By revamping the scrap yard boreoverflow of water storage areas. Sanchya’ by using portable sprinklers 42 Water Consumption by source 94% Surface Water (river, sea, lake, stream) 2% Groundwater <1% Rainwater 4% Municipal Water Supply <1% Water Tankers and Utilities Research & storing of natural gas at low pressure, Development of materials for low cost Our total spending on R&D Development sensors for Methane detection, Pilot (in INR crore) testing of Wireless Sensor Network GAIL is pursing various R&D Projects (WSN) for Pipeline Data transfer, 100 in its identified Thrust Areas in its Satellite monitoring of Pipeline ROU, 76.50 Business Areas. In this regard, GAIL Robot based smart sensor embedded 80 is actively pursuing collaborative rotating probes for Pipeline Health 50.70 53.88 50.90 research works with various monitoring, Micro-turbine based power 60 Engineering Institutes and CSIR plant at Ghazipur landfill site to utilize labs. The current research portfolio 40 the low quality LFG. comprises of Basic, Application and 20 Pilot scale R&D projects. Some of The DPE has mandated PSUs to spend the Major R&D initiatives taken in over 1% of previous year’s Profit after 0 FY 2015-16 include scale-up study Tax (PAT) on R&D activities. In FY-201513 14 15 16 of dry and tri reforming of Methane 16 GAIL has spent an all-time high of FY FY FY FY , development of Covalent Organic Rs. 76.5 crores on R&D which is more Framework (COF) materials for than the mandated 1% of PAT. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Human Capital: Nurturing Capacities for Growth Safety & Skill Training in FY 2015-16 for Child & Forced Labour Human Capital: Nurturing Capacities for Growth GAIL’s success mantra relies heavily on building a strong company culture, led by a high quality workforce that leads, collaborates and innovates. From a broader perspective, considering the importance of Oil & Gas (O&G) sector to India’s economic development, an energetic and motivated O&G workforce is crucial in the context of India’s growth story. In this scenario, attracting and retaining a competent workforce across all of GAIL’s activities becomes imperative. The local O&G sector faces multiple challenges in this regard, some of which are in line with the global trends. An ageing workforce is expected to lead to a high number of retirements, especially in the upstream sector over the next few years. Our business expansion and diversification plans, especially in the downstream petrochemicals sector would further generate a strong requirement of capable professionals. Further, the focus on expanding our gas transmission through the National Gas Grid and impetus on CGDs will generate additional manpower requirements. Developing a robust pipeline for talent attraction, retention, development and motivation assumes critical proportions and necessitates careful planning and execution. Our approachG4-DMA GAIL has continued to exercise both its recruitment options i.e. to hire and train fresh graduates and to hire experienced people with required skill sets for instant capability utilization. With the boom of unconventional 44 methods in exploration and production especially in our overseas businesses, requirement of fresh and unconventional competencies has arisen. In lieu of its increased focus on diversification, GAIL has continued to regularly assess its manpower requirements across various functions Participation of GAIL Employees during Oil & Gas Conservation requiring specialised skill-sets Fortnight 2016 including Sourcing, Trading, Power, Shipping, M&As etc., while taking further actions to strengthen existing capabilities in Contract, Project, Regulatory and Risk Management etc. Cross-functional teams have been developed to tackle areas which Our aim is to achieve harmonious synergy amongst our internal capabilities require multiple competencies, and considering the market dynamics of the sector in the present scenario. With the necessary recruitments are being an objective to surge towards our identified business goals and objectives, carried out in non-core areas such we at GAIL, believe in continuously improving ourselves both, individually and as finance, international law, tax organizationally, to adapt to the transformation in the industry, be it in terms of management etc. owing to greater the emerging regulatory environment or new demands of the business segments. diversification and international Thus, GAIL lays a lot of importance on human capital training and development expansion. To ensure capacity building with the objective to address both, challenges of the present day as well as the and facilitate high performance, future. focused training programs are planned – Director (HR) for concerned teams, and advance training programs are organized for a select group of senior executives in strategic business areas. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Leadership executive development programs, job rotation and higher responsibilities. Appraisal and Development System. The system allows for self-appraisal Development & GAIL organizes Individual Development and development, which is then Programs (IDPs) for senior level reviewed with the respective Succession Planning executives through IIM Bangalore supervisor, basis which a plan for We constantly endeavor to develop & Kolkata. These training programs further development and progression in-house leadership through careful are based on outcome of Senior is charted for each employee. training and succession planning Management Development Centre Promotion system in GAIL is based initiatives. Our senior level executives (SMDC). on a system which is a combination of undergo development assessments both meritocracy and seniority. 100% To facilitate career progression of our regular employees receive and their skills are evaluated. Any and leadership development in a development gaps identified in regular performance and career systematic manner, GAIL has instituted development reviews. G4-LA11 the process is addressed through a robust and fair Performance 3600 Feedback @ GAIL To ensure a more holistic methodology for career progression, GAIL launched the 360 degree feedback instrument. Here, feedback for each appraise is sought from respondents belonging to 3 broad categories Superiors, Peers/Colleagues and Subordinates, on observable behaviors exhibited by the appraisee in day-to-day working. The feedback is sought from the 3 categories of respondents on behavioral competencies through a structured questionnaire. Another important aspect of this feedback process is maintaining confidentiality and anonymity of the feedback/responses. In this regard, it is assured that the feedback given by each individual in any of the above respondent category is completely anonymous and in no case, any response given can be traced back to any particular individual. The collective feedback given by the respondents would be calculated as average response. The multi rater feedback received from this instrument would be 45 utilized for career progression as well for designing Individual Development Plan for the appraisee. Attracting the right talent Considering the highly specialized nature of the Oil & Gas sector, attracting competent talent is a huge challenge for the HR department. GAIL has a robust recruitment policy which pays special emphasis on transparency and merit based selections. The objectives of the policy are threefold – Plan, Facilitate, Place. Plan Facilitate Place PP Plan the manpower PP Regulate and PP Proper placement requirements and facilitate of employees in budget the requirement recruitment and jobs to which they of requisite human selection of suitable are best suite resources with human resources in taking into account necessary qualifications, the Company. their qualification/ skills, aptitude and experience, experience. aptitude, etc. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Our Human Resources Planning (HRP) is carried out at the corporate as well as the unit level. The below infographic shows the positions which are recruited at both levels and the methods followed for recruitment. Corporate Level: Executive Level Posts Human Resource Planning Unit Level: Non-managerial/Non-supervisory posts Open Lateral Engaging experts/ Secondments/ Recruitment Hiring advisors Deputations The following table provides information on our new hires for 2015-16 G4-LA1 46 Male Female Total New hires in 2015-16 134 2 136 New hires in 2014-15 300 14 314 New hires in 2013-14 121 11 132 Retaining and encouraged to voice their opinions through open communication channels motivating talentG4-10 such as CMD Open house, Online Grievance Redressal Mechanism and Multiple studies have shown a direct Suggestion Schemes. Due recognitions correlation between employee are given for long service and a healthy motivation and business profits. work life balance is encouraged. Motivation plays a fundamental We actively promote diversity and role in enhancing the employee inclusivity throughout the workproductivity and performance, thus force, as evidenced from recently eventually leading to greater overall established Women Employee Awards. business performance. At GAIL, we We provide competitive compensation strongly believe in investing in our and benefits, which have been culture and employees to keep them further enunciated in the chapter on motivated. The HR Department Stakeholders. The overall success of takes several initiatives to engage our HR policies is evidenced from the 0-5 yrs 5-10 yrs with the employees through various high percentage of current employees formal and informal mediums to who have had a long tenure has been 11-20 yrs >20 yrs boost employee morale and improve depicted in through the pie-chart. employee retention. Employees are Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem As part of our employee retention strategy, we have taken up the following initiatives: Attractive Compensation Superannuation Rewards and and Benefit Package: Benefits: Recognition: PP House building and PP Provision for 30% PP Suggestion scheme conveyance advance of Basic pay and that encourages our PP Two year paid child care Dearness allowance employees to be leave for female employees as Superannuation creative and innovate in benefits which includes economy, efficiency and PP Other benefits include Contributory Provident effectiveness. The best Gratuity, Post-Retirement Fund (CPF), Gratuity, suggestion is awarded the Medical Benefits, Earned Pension and Post CMD Trophy. Leave Benefits, Terminal Superannuation medical Benefits, Half Pay Leave and 47 benefits. recognitions to Long Service Employee’s turnover in FY 2015-16 In addition to formal and structured training, we offer on the job training to our workforce that Male 75 motivates them to perform better and in turn Female 6 contribute to their success and our growth. This is a major factor in retaining our talented professionals for a long duration. Total 81 Employees separated Employees returned to work after parental leave (FY 2015-16) G4-LA3 Gender Nos. Male 4070 Number of employees entitled to parental leave Female 251 Male 125 Number of employees that took parental leave Female 19 Male 125 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended Female 19 Employees returned to work after parental leave ended who were still employed 12 Male 117 months after their return Female 14 Male 100 Retention rates of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended Female 100 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Employee TrainingG4platforms and animations to keep the module interesting. At the end of the Employees. Accordingly, 4.69 man days per employee (average) was achieved. DMA, G4-LA9, G4-LA10 module an assessment exercise is Training Expenditure for the FY 2015presented to the participant. 16 was Rs.10.25 Cr. Training and development forms a core area of Corporate Governance and is crucial for employee capacity building. % of Employees who received The company invests considerable safety and skill up-gradation training in FY 2015-16 time and resources for effective training programs. At GAIL, the training modules are designed to strengthen 100 the skill sets of employees in existing 95.28 96.10 95.40 and new business functions such as E&P activities, Hedging, Shipping 94.53 among other areas. Employees are provided with the opportunity to learn basics of other functional areas in the cross-functional training programs. The company has a structured process for training and development for the employees to ensure a workforce that is suitably equipped with knowledge, Permanent Permanent Permanent Casual/ Disabled skills, attitude and practical exposure Employees Employees Employees Temporary/ Employees to highly specialized jobs. (Total) (Male) (Female) Contract Employees 48 Our GAIL Training Institute (GTI) set up in the year 1997 at Noida is an ISO It is ensured that fresh recruits, who Various programmes are organized 9001 certified facility that provides are accorded the status of Executive for the superannuating employees resources and facilities for all kinds Trainees, are undergone a rigorous with an aim to prepare the employees of training to our employees. Another Induction cum Orientation Training for their life ahead. These programs GTI was set-up in Jaipur in 2005 to Programme. Further, an Online focus on ways to cope with old age cater to more employees. The total Monitoring & Assessment System challenges and to manage their time training man-hours imparted to male is used to monitor the progress of in a fruitful pursuit. The programs employees was 162550 and female Executive Trainees. Other trainings provide awareness with respect to employees was 41480 in FY 2015-16. carried out at GAIL include trainings several financial investment schemes Employees are also regularly given on soft skills, motivation, functional and other legal obligations such as inputs on Safety & Skill upgradation aspects, health, safety, environment, writing of will. GAIL also has a special in functional and behavioural human rights, etc. Training on health portal for superannuated employees, aspects through e-knowledge and safety policies and procedures of participants are informed about sharing programs, online Quizzes the organization has been one of the important activities and facilities that and Competitive events organized parameters of Internal MoU of GTI are being provided by the company. on various occasions. One of GAIL’s and 580 man-days were devoted for most innovative training programs imparting training on Health, Safety & Employment and is e-Gyan Prawah, an e-learning Environment related Training Programs platform developed in association organized at GTI and external training Labour PracticesG4-LA13, with Harvard Business Publishing with programs within India. 2612 (61%) G4-DMA a customization of Harvard Manage employees of GAIL have been trained Mentor, which is based on key areas of in Sustainable Development. An As mentioned elaborately in the developments identified during Senior expenditure of approximately Rs. 1.08 chapter on health & safety, we at Management Development Centre lakh was incurred for trainings with GAIL lay great emphasis on the exercise. Employees are encouraged respect to environmental education. health and safety our employees. to utilize the e-learning module on Their safety and security is of utmost GAIL conducted total 278 Training CNG Business Overview to understand importance to us. We have taken Programs in the areas of Technical, the bigger picture. The module is of preventive and protective measures Behavioral, Business Strategy, Safety 1-hour duration and uses interactive to ensure safety of our employees & Environment, etc. for its Full Time Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem and other stakeholders. GAIL has 100% representation of its workforce A Committee consisting of senior level executives nominated from various Human RightsG4-DMA, G4-HR1, G4-HR2, G4-HR3, G4-HR5, in formal joint management worker groups, functions and work centres health and safety committees that help looks after various ongoing issues G4-HR6, G4-HR7, G4-HR9 monitor and advise on occupational with Association at the corporate health and safety programs. level while at the Work Centre level, GAIL adheres strictly the laws of the the Committee consists of an Officer land (such as laws relating to labour GAIL is an equal opportunity employer In-charge, Heads of HR and other and does not discriminate on the basis practices, child labour, forced labour, Departments. 100 % of permanent working conditions etc.). We extend of gender, caste, religion etc. and NonExecutives are members of the strongly believes in and implements our commitment to other voluntary GAIL Employees Association (GEA) agreements under International equal pay for equal work. As mentioned and GAIL Karamchari Sangh (GKS) earlier, we have a completely merit bills and treaties as well. We are which are covered under the collective a signatory to the United Nations based approach towards recruiting our bargaining agreements. In all, there employees. GAIL complies with Equal Global Compact (UNGC) which are 21.6 % of total employees who has specific focus towards human Remuneration Act, 1976 and there is are members of these recognized no discrimination in wages based on rights. We are also committed to unionsG4-11. UN Guiding Principles on Business gender. The Company also ensures that no discrimination is practiced during Discussions with employee collectives and Human Rights http://www. the recruitment / career development/ are held through Monthly / Bi-Monthly/ ohchr.org/Documents/Publications/ appraisal process processes and for Quarterly Meetings, both at Work GuidingPrinciplesBusinessHR_EN.pdf compensation in any work centre. Centre and Corporate levels. The Our commitment towards Human No incident of discrimination was record notes of discussions held at Rights can be gauged from the reported during FY 15-16, however, various Work Centres are collated at fact that we are one of the few one case of sexual harassment was the Corporate Office on a monthly Indian players in the energy sector reported. To actively promote diversity, basis for effective monitoring by to have implemented SA8000, an 49 GAIL Management has instituted three the Director (HR). We adhere to internationally recognized auditable awards for GAIL women employees Section 9A of Industrial Dispute social certification standards for for their commendable services and Act 1947 & Schedule 4 for providing decent workplaces. SA8000 was contribution to the overall growth notice period regarding significant implemented at GAIL Hazira, and is of the organization. The awards aim operational changesG4-LA4. There is no based on the UN Declaration of Human at recognizing and encouraging the Rights (UNHR), conventions of the ILO, operation which ran with risk related outstanding women employees of UN and national law. These policies to violation of right to exercise GAIL for their services in the fields of and voluntary commitments of GAIL freedom of association and collective Functional Management, Corporate towards human rights are upheld and bargaining during FY 15-16. The formal Social Initiatives and Corporate implemented with the right intentions. agreements with trade unions cover all Cultural Initiatives. We believe that the issue of human the health and safety topics relevant to rights is central to good corporate contract employeesG4-LA8. citizenship leading upto a healthy Freedom of Association & Collective Total hours of employee training on human rights (in Man-hours) BargainingG4-DMA, G4-HR4 GAIL recognizes the unions representing the interests of their respective workmen / staff. GAIL Employees Association (GEA) is a representative body of non-executives 352 432 544 posted at various Field Offices / Plants/ Installations across the 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Country except Corporate Office. Nonexecutives posted at Corporate Office are represented by GAIL Karamchari Sangh (GKS). Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Capital: Nurturing Capacities for Growth bottom line. All employees during GAIL has created a Women Cell in a pro-active manner to eradicate induction are trained on GAIL’s CDA which is responsible for reviewing child labour by actively contributing rules to develop their understanding the planned schemes and other to the improvement of children’s on these aspects. Training Programs on programmes centred on Women social situation. To promote this, we labour laws and outsourcing conducted development. GAIL Women Cell also encourage our suppliers also to work by GAIL Training Institute cover almost liaises with National Commission for towards a no child-labour policy. majority of aspects of Human Rights. Women; SCOPE and Women in Public Such programs are conducted as a part Sector (WIPS) forums for the cause Though there has not been a of annual training plan and In-Charges of Women’s development. Further, formal/ specific initiative to identify of outsourcing contracts are imparted GAIL has a well-defined policy for operations which face the threat of training on the subject aspect every prevention of sexual harassment at the child labour or forced and compulsory year. This year, a 2-day training program work place. labour, no incident of engagement of was conducted and 34 (544 man-hours) child or forced or compulsory labour executives were imparted training on GAIL follows a zero-tolerance policy has been reported in FY 2015-16. The Labour Laws and Outsourcing with for Child & forced labour and ensures concerned executive at every location elements of Human Rights. We support that no such employment occurs at any ensures relevant statutes are complied Guiding Principles for Business and of our operations. In order to guarantee with. 100% of our security personnel Human Rights: Implementing the this, every new recruit is required have been trained on specific United Nations “Protect, Respect and to submit a proof of age. Further, procedures on human rights applicable Remedy” Framework. the Company is committed to work to security services. 50 Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Ensuring Safety of Our People and Environment HSE score for GAIL 93.35 FY 2015-16 Transport Emergency cards provide Safety Training to Drivers for transportation of hydrocarbons Ensuring Safety of Our people and Environment The operational conditions of the oil and gas industry call for robust health and safety management systems. Many industry surveys report the risk of health and safety hazards as one of the top most risk for the oil and gas industry. Considering the large scale projects, we undertake across the nation, there are inherent hazards associated with our business operations. Hence, observing all safety guidelines and regulations is of prime importance to us. We realize that even the most minor negligence in our social and environmental activities, especially those related to health and safety of employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and local communities, could lead to irreparable damage to our reputation. Our approachG4-DMA At GAIL, we are driven by the motto of ‘Safety First’. Directed by our Corporate HSE Policy, our aim focuses on achieving an organizational culture of superior Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) systems. The implementation of the policy is regularly monitored and audited 52 to ensure that health and safety of workers is properly taken care of. As a responsible entity, GAIL’s management places a huge amount of thrust on continuously improving management systems and in taking Participation of GAIL’s O&M Locations through Video Conference the necessary protective and during HSE Workshop preventive measures to reduce incidences of injury and sickness at workplace. GAIL’s aspiration for ‘Zero reportable accidents’ every year is reinforced by the Board’s commitment comprehensive and elaborate health, preparedness is also reviewed by towards occupational health, safety safety and environment management the Sub-Committee of Board. Our & environment aspects. The SDC of system (HSEMS), which is based on Oil HSEM system comprises of following Board reviews HSE performance of Industry Safety Directorate’s (OISD) 18 elements encompassing entire GAIL. The Committee is chaired by the Guidelines on Safety Management business operations and risk profiles. Independent Director and consists of System in Petroleum Industry. GAIL also follows the directives of the The performance of the system is all functional Directors as members. A Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory regularly reviewed and audited by Monthly Safety Review is conducted Board (PNGRB). GAIL’s corporate accredited national and international by Director (HR) & Director (Projects). HSE Policy is the cornerstone of agencies, and the gaps identified are The safety policies and measures are HSEMS and is signed by our Chairman reviewed, prioritized and appropriate implemented at all GAIL locations & Managing Director. Apart from corrective actions are taken within the throughout the country through a monitoring performance, emergency stipulated timeframes to eliminate these gaps. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Personnel Safety Risk Analysis Process Safety & Information Management HSE Leadership & Facility Design, Third Party Construction Commitment Services & Pre-start up Review Operation & Employee Maintenance Participation Procedure Management of Change HSEMS Work Permit System Control of Occupational Defeat & 53 Health Reliability of Critical System Inspection & Maintenance Training Environment Management Emergency Compliance Planning & Audit Response Incident Investigation & Analysis Safety Leadership GAIL has been a frontrunner in adopting latest technological developments enabling a continuous improvement in its HSE systems and processes. Several systemic and procedural initiatives have been taken up to maintain and add to the robust Health & Safety initiatives across operations on a pan-India basis, thus ensuring we preserve our position as a safety leader in Oil & Gas sector. Some of the initiatives are mentioned on next page: Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring safety of our people and environment Disaster and crisis management PP Review of existing Disaster Management System, & Emergency Response and Disaster management Plan (ERDMP) PP Review and periodic revamping of crisis management systems to ensure faster and precise communication to all concerned groups during emergency. Centralized Pipeline Integrity Management System (CIMG) PP Centralized monitoring of integrity of pan-India pipelines by CIMG PP Development of Centralized Pipeline Integrity Management System (CPIMS) an enterprise wide IT enabled, risk-based analytic software application has been rolled out for 9100 Km pipeline Satellite pipeline surveillance PP ‘Bhuvan-GAIL’-surveillance geo-portal launched for remote monitoring of pipeline RoU Toll-free number PP Provision of a 5-digit toll free number (15101) for incident reporting 54 Participation of GAIL’s O&M Locations through VC during HSE Workshop Apart from these initiatives, we the 10th of each month as Safety Day a revised incident reporting system have also simplified the process to be observed by all site OICs at their where various communications of of safety performance monitoring respective installation. All safety the ministry have been incorporated. through HSE score. All the sites send related issues are comprehensively Apart from implementing an incident/ monthly reports which are analysed by reviewed on these days, which includes accident log in our SAP system, we Corporate HSE Department and HSE pending audit points such as those regularly conduct events throughout score is given out of 100. The average of OISD, PNGRB T4S, and others and the year to sensitize employees HSE score for GAIL in FY 2015-16 was initiation of suitable action to ensure specifically posted at NGMC / RGMCs 93.35, which is well above the MoU the gaps are expedited in a time-bound on incident reporting. The flow for the target of 90. We have also declared manner. Further, we are implementing incident reporting system is illustrated on next page: Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Incidents occurred during the year The number of incidents occurred during each of the last five years is given in the table below: Operations and Maintenance Description of incident 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Accidents (other than fire/leakage) 0 0 0 0 1 Fire / Leakage 0 0 3 2 1 No. of fatal incidents (not covered above) 0 0 0 1 0 No. of fatalities 0 0 0 22 3 Injured (all above incidents) 0 0 8 18 4 Incidents Reported as per PNGRB: OG13 Total Nos. of Level 1 Incident 09 Total Nos. of Level 2 Incident 02 Total Nos. of Level 3 Incident Nil. Emergency Planning Honourable Minister PP ED (O&M-CO)/(PC-CO) MoPNG PP HOD (HSE) 55 PP ED (HR) PP All Functional Directors Secretary MoPNG – PP CMD [Inform AS in absence] PP Independent Director of SD SubCommittee JS (GP) [Inform JS (R&A) PP MoPNG Control Room link officers in absence] PP MHA Control Room PP Joint Secretary (GP), MoPNG PP Additional Secretary, MoPNG PP Secretary, MoPNG PP ED(OISD) District Controlling SMS & Voice Telephone and Then Telephone Magistrate Officer –GM/ED (1st on Cell Phone, if not reached then on Landline) • Chief Secretary • Concerned of State Directorate TELEPHONE TO • Chief Incident Controller MAJOR Incident (OIC/WIC) Decide Severity Re-Confirm Severity of Emergency of Emergency (Major or Non“Major” OR “Non-Major (Minor)“ Major/Minor) NGMC TELEPHONE TO Terminals Base RGMC / Control Room (PCAll local Coordinators – Stations SV/IP Concerned Control Room / GPU/ As per Local Emergency Stations Field / Site NG Compressor Station / LPG Action Plan Pumping Station) Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring safety of our people and environment As a responsible corporate, and considering the high safety risks Employee Safety G4-DMA is inculcated and reinforced through regular thrust on following of Standard associated with the oil and gas At GAIL, safety for permanent and Operating Procedures (SOPs). SOPs sector, we consider it imperative to contractual employees is driven by have been made available to concerned have the necessary procedures in the same philosophy. All employees area operators for better safety place to ensure it is prepared for any are encouraged to follow protocols during execution of jobs. Task briefings emergency that may arise out of its and be mindful of safety practices about the job are carried out by the facilities across India. The Sustainable for the effective implementation of Engineer-In-charge before assigning Development Committee of the Board all our safety efforts. Any conduct the maintenance jobs. Material is responsible for the review and of employees of workman category Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) boards proper execution of the Emergency within the premises that will endanger are displayed near by the processing/ Response & Disaster Management the life or safety of the person is handling/storage area as well as at Plan (ERDMP), which adheres strictly treated as a misconduct. The company strategic locations in local language. to Petroleum & Natural Gas Regulatory has issued standing orders with such Do’s, Don’ts & safety instructions have Board’s (PNGRB) protocols. Quarterly provisions. The company shall arrange been displayed in process, storage and Mock Drills are conducted to ensure for the treatment and compensation chemical handling areas. To ensure preparedness and availability of wherever the workman is entitled all safety procedures are followed, resources in all emergency situations. for treatment and benefits under the the HSE Department conducts safety A set of guidelines have been prepared Employees States Insurance Act, 1948 audits periodically. Plant safety and shared with our workers so that or the Workman’s Compensation Act, committee consists of representative they are alert and well-equipped to 1923. from contract employee to discuss the handle emergency situations. As safety and health related issue with mentioned earlier in the chapter, we Training forms an integral part of top management on quarterly basis have improved our crisis management our health and safety management system for faster communication system and safety training is included Controlling workers’ risk exposure 56 in the internal MoU with GAIL Training in Health & Safety aspects is GAIL’s to the top management in case of emergency through the Institute (GTI). 580 man-days of HSE mission. In this regard all units implementation of group SMS and training were imparted on health, are encouraged to strengthen HSE Voice Message Services. safety and environment related management systems by continuously programs. For contract workers, tool taking preventive and protective We have put in necessary systems and box training comprising of an induction measures to ensure the safety of procedures at various points in our training and a monthly refresher fire employees and contractors. Some operations to ensure preparedness safety & hazards awareness training of the initiatives taken for ensuring for relevant emergency situations. is provided by GAIL executives prior employee health are mentioned below: Automated fire protection system to first entry and commencement of like gas suppression system for Initiatives as Preventive Measures at the job. Additionally, they are made control rooms, water spray system for GAIL aware of the Safety training calendar pumps & piping area etc. are provided schedule and regular safety awareness As a part of our efforts in providing a for immediate dousing of fire at its programs are conducted accordingly healthy environment for our employees incipient stage. Visitors are provided by the management for contract we have taken the following measures: safety induction training on nature employees. of hazards with instructions to be PP Sensitization of employees: Health followed in case of any emergency Prior to deploying workers on job, awareness is given to employees situation. During LPG transportation, a medical check-up is carried out in through lectures, posters and all tankers are loaded only after accordance with the Factory Act. emails in various offices and work ensuring that they are carrying the It is ensured that all workers are centres of GAIL. LPG emergency response kits. All the provided with safety kits and liveries. drivers of tankers are also provided A Work Permit System is followed, PP Health camps: For the prevention with Transport Emergency (TREM) as per which all jobs are carried out and early diagnosis of diseases. card having details of actions to be as per OISD-105 and are supervised Health camps are organised for all taken in case of any emergency. by GAIL employee to ensure the safe employees and contract workers. execution of job. A culture of discipline Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem PP Counselling sessions: These sessions are conducted for employees with high risk. This includes monthly check-ups Employee Health Check-up at GAIL in medical OPD once a month for monitoring of weight / BMI, blood pressure, Blood Sugar and counselling for life style modification. PP Healthy snacks: We provide healthy snacks at our office and plant canteens. PP Health training: We organise several health training programmes for our employees such as yoga sessions, ergonomic training etc. Medical Infrastructure at GAIL At GAIL, health check-up is conducted for every employee at We have ensured presence of suitable three levels: medical infrastructure at all our important operational locations for PP Pre-employment health check-up before joining timely expediting of medical issues for employees and contract workers. At PP Occupational health check-up on an annual basis 57 Pata, we have the Dhanwantri hospital, PP Executive health check-up once in two years for everyone a dispensary and a first-aid centre who is above 35 years of age with doctors and paramedical staff. At Vijaipur, we have the GAIL Hospital These health-checkup practice helps us in the early detection with 15 beds, 3 regular doctors and of cases and employee health issues. In the past, we have paramedical staff. At other locations, identified new cases of high blood pressure, diabetes we have first-aid centres with a doctor mellitus, breast cancer, stomach cancer, prostate cancer, and and 4 nursing staff at each centre. adenocarcinoma of gall bladder in employees and their families. At the corporate office, we have the corporate medical Centre with a doctor and a paramedical staff. Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) At GAIL, we believe behaviour management of employees is key to drive and enhance our health and safety practices. BBS creates a safety partnership between the top management and employees that continually focuses the employees’ attentions on theirs and others daily safety behaviour. We realize that merely having the best policies, systems, processes and procedures are not enough, inculcating and imbibing them in our daily lives is imperative in driving towards a ‘zero incidence’ environment. Embedding a strong BBS culture across all stages of the project including planning, designing, construction, commissioning, operations and maintenance shall enable us to improve the efficiency of all the existing health and safety processes. With this in mind, the management conceived the BBS program in 2013. A Steering Committee and task force were developed at corporate level to oversee the BBS implementation. To implement BBS at plant levels, site steering & functional committees were set-up. Lead trainers were instated in each of the sites to enable employees get trained on the methods and nuances of BBS. After a few pilot programmes, the initiative was rolled out across all the GAIL facilities in March 2015. We observed a multitude of benefits of BBS in these past 3 years which are illustrated on next page: Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring Safety of Our People and Environment Pipeline Safety Safe transportation of Natural Increased Gas and LPG is the prime objective productivity for GAIL. The Centralized Pipeline due to reduced Integrity Management System injuries (CPIMS) has been rolled out for 9100 Reducing injuries, at-risk behaviour km pipelines to facilitate integrated and allowing and detailed health status and employees to Reduce costs analysis of the pipelines. The CPIMS assume principal related to injuries responsibility and incidents comprises various modules which for safety include Data Base Module, Threat & Risk Assessment Module, Corrosion Analyst, Cathodic Protection Analyst, Geospatial Analyst, Pressure Testing Module, Task Manager, Reporting Develop Benefits of Module, and Management Dashboard. communications observational, BBS Communicate The CPIMS has an internationally accepted data base system i.e. and management’s leadership commitment Pipeline Open Database (PODS) for skills. to safety management of all pipeline related data. 58 Raise overall safety awareness and In the aftermath of the Suryapet, develop a safety Telangana incident, several measures culture across the were taken to improve on pipeline organization safety. Apart from intelligent pigging, we decided to install advanced Tunable Laser diode based On-Line Analyzers at all places where flow of gas is To incentivize our plants to effectively is given to all suppliers & customers more than 1 MMSCMD in case of Dry integrate BBS in their daily functioning, visiting the plant. Gas and more than 0.2 MMSCMD we have instituted suitable awards We design our plant and pipeline in case of wet gas. 14 H2S Analysers which are handed out during the annual infrastructure as per the best Indian have been installed/ commissioned HSE workshop. and International Standards. The at different gas source points. For process plants and cross country other source points, fortnightly Supply Chain Safety pipelines are designed as per the best analysis is being carried out through Indian & International Standards. Portable Analyzers and the presence We realise that incorporating health HAZOP study and Risk Analysis is of moisture / corrosive components and safety within our operations alone carried out during design stage to beyond acceptable limits is being taken is insufficient to immunize us for safety identify hazard risk mitigation. Further up continuously with suppliers for related hazards. Building resilience HAZOP study and Risk Analysis is corrective measures. across the supply chain in this regard is as important. We incorporate stringent also carried out at regular intervals Magnetic Tomography Method HSE requirements in all our tender and suitable risk mitigation measures (MTM) & Contactless Magnetometric documents for procuring of goods and are taken. Permit to Work system Diagnostic Method (CMDM) have services. All the necessary procedures is followed in all our installations to been tried for the first time in India for pertaining to Safety Permits, Work ensure safety during maintenance assessing the integrity of the nonPermits and Visitor Entry Systems works. Precise emergency planning Piggable Pipelines. These technologies are strictly adhered to for all activities is done for all our infrastructure as help in locating defects in metal & weld undertaken by suppliers and customers per the information presented in the joints, assess the state of corrosion & inside plant premises. Safety briefing section on Emergency Planning. monitor the development of corrosion. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Further, encroachment over pipeline used. The instrument helps to quickly the pipeline is carried out at regular areas has been a constant issue GAIL and efficiently detect leaks up to one intervals to safeguard pipeline has been dealing with. Apart from hundred feet away allowing remote integrity. All tankers are loaded only implementing several measures to detection of hard-to-reach areas and after ensuring that they are carrying survey the pipeline areas, GAIL has difficult terrains. the LPG emergency response kits. rolled out a Public Awareness Policy Transportation of Natural Gas to for defining key safety messages. Transportation process plants at Gandhar, Vaghodia GAIL engages frequently with the local villagesG4-SO2. Regular awareness SafetyG4-DMA & Vijaipur, where it is used as a raw programmes are carried out in the material, is done through underground surrounding villages along the pipeline Besides pipeline safety measures gas pipelines. These pipelines are route about the importance of pipeline as enunciated in the earlier section, operated & maintained by a separate integrity. Printed leaflets in the local GAIL also focuses on safety of road O&M team. Cathodic Protection language on safety Do’s and Don’ts are transportation. We dedicatedly follow Monitoring (which helps in reducing distributed to the villagers through a checklist of activities for safety corrosion of the pipelines) and the local public bodies. Nukkad check of tankers and wagons before intelligent pigging is done as per Nataks (stage performances) in the loading of hydrocarbons. Along with standard frequency to maintain regional language are frequently Transport Emergency (TREM) cards integrity of pipeline. Close Interval conducted to make people aware which detail out an emergency action Potential Logging (CIPL) / Direct about the meaning of these Do’s & plan, the drivers and their assistants Current Voltage Gradient (DCVG) Don’ts. Additionally, villagers are hired are also provided safety training surveys are regularly carried out to to report on pipeline safety and any including the do’s and don’ts during ascertain the integrity of external unauthorized work with RoU so as to transportation of hydrocarbons. coating of the Pipeline. Similar to other ensure that the local population also pipelines, patrolling is done to monitor GAIL also transports products any exposure/third party activity near feels included in pipeline safety. As a such as LPG, Propane, Pentane, and pipeline. 59 motivating factor, the local villagers Naphtha via road. Checking of these are also suitably awarded on GAIL road tankers is carried out as per the Day function for their alertness guidelines of Central Motor Vehicle and reporting of any abnormality/ Rules (CMVR) 1989, and Static and pipeline exposure. For action taken Mobile Pressure Vessels rules by on removal of encroachments in GAIL’s designated Fire & Safety RoU, monthly follow-ups are held employee. After physical checking of with the district authorities. GAIL the road tankers, data on tanker safety Sahyogi scheme for engagement of checking is saved in the SAP system. public living around the pipeline ROU For product filling, well established protection and emergency reporting loading automation / control system is under implementation on trial and Terminal Automation System (TAS) basis. For the effective monitoring of are made available for safe operations RoU in the harsh locations, Remote & relevant SOPs are followed for safe Methane Leak Detectors are being loading activities. Foot patrolling of Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ensuring Safety of Our People and Environment Bhuvan-GAIL portal GAIL gets Right of Usage (RoU) for laying of its underground Pipelines. This RoU needs to be monitored regularly to safeguard it from any encroachment to ensure the safety of the Pipeline. Presently GAIL has been carrying out Arial surveillance by helicopter on a monthly basis and also carrying out foot patrolling on an annual basis. With increasing length of Pipelines, it was desired to provide a more robust method of Pipeline RoU monitoring. An R&D Pilot Project was initiated with National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC) Hyderabad to utilize Satellite imagery for the purpose of RoU monitoring. This involved mapping of GIS coordinates and development of a change detection software. The Pilot Project is being carried out over 610 Km of Dahej-Vijaipur Pipeline. A “Bhuvan-GAIL” portal (Bhuvan means “Earth” in Sanskrit) was launched in October 2015 for carrying out the RoU Surveillance. Some important features of the portal are illustrated below : Options for Change Visual view of creating Auto Bird-Eye analysis– Right of Use different RoU Viewing Auto & buffers Manual Change 60 Pictorial analysis within Exception Generating representation and outside marking Exception through mobile RoU up to 1 km facilities reports application (Risk Zone) The success of this Pilot Project shall pave the way for extending the Technology for the entire Pipeline network. Other uses of this Technology viz. Project progress monitoring, land survey etc. are also being explored. Launch of Bhuvan-GAIL Portal R&D Project on Satellite monitoring of Pipeline RoU Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Adapting to New Ecosystem: Innovating for Profitability Turnover (net of excise duty) INR 51,614 crores PAT (in 2015-16) INR 2,299 61 crore GAIL is planning to set up 14.42 MW & 5 MW grid connected Solar PV captive power plant GAIL imported 55 spot/mid-term LNG Cargoes Sustainability Report 2015-16 Adapting to New Ecosystem: Innovating for Profitability G4-DMA India earned the coveted distinction of becoming the world’s fastest growing economy in the FY 201516. India’s economic growth has followed a positive trend, despite the overall gloomy outlook, primarily on the strength of domestic consumption. Through economic reforms, India’s growth momentum is expected to continue and higher growth targets can be targeted in the coming years. In the present scenario of import dependency, growing population and expanding economy, the country continues to face energy security challenges. India’s energy consumption growth is the fastest in the world and it remains import dependent. It is here that natural gas can assume a vital role in shaping the country’s future energy landscape as a cleaner alternative to fossil fuels and during the transition to renewable energy. Currently, the per-capita natural gas consumption of India is amongst the lowest in the world. Additionally, a substantial percentage of the Indian population, particularly in the more remote areas is still unable to access affordable and clean energy. Thus by leveraging Natural Gas, India could optimize its primary energy mix for long-term sustainability as well as reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is expected that by 2035, the demand for natural gas will expand by 155% followed by coal (121%) and oil (118%). GAIL’s Economic PerformanceG4-9 GAIL is a premier flagship integrated Energy Company of India. With over 11,000 Kms of Natural gas network, 62 GAIL powers sectors including Power, Fertilizer, Steel, Refinery and even Household consumers. Apart from natural gas transmission, distribution and processing, the Company has diversified business interests in Petrochemicals, LPG transmission, City gas distribution and Exploration and Production activities. Investors’ and Analysts’ Meet 2016 The year 2015 saw the global Oil and Gas industry re-orient itself in many ways in the backdrop of declining crude oil prices. Slow paced global GDP growth along with tepid consumer demand put pressure on the existing assets and projects. In India, new developments in the In financial year 2015-16, GAIL (India) against INR 4,284 crore in the previous personal transportation segment as Limited registered a turnover (net of year. The Profit After Tax in 2015-16 well as the growing public outcry for excise duty) of INR 51,614 crore against was INR 2,299 crore as against INR control of Green House Gas emission INR 56,569 crore in the previous fiscal. 3,039 crore in the previous year. The have been influencing a change in the The Gross Margin during 2015-16 stood final dividend for FY 2015-16 was consumption pattern. The challenges at INR 5,126 crore as against INR 5,620 INR 5.5 per share (subject to approval of of maintaining profitability in these crore last year. The Profit Before Tax Final Dividend by shareholders in AGM prevailing circumstances is also driving during the year was INR 3,173 crore as in Sept’ 16). GAIL towards re-orientation of its own business strategies. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Financial PerformanceG4-9 Sales (net of ED, in INR Cr.) Gross Margin (PBDIT, in INR Cr.) 47333 7234 57245 40281 7945 6247 51614 5126 56569 5620 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 63 PBT (in INR Cr.) PAT (in INR Cr.) 4022 6058 5340 3654 6402 4375 3173 2299 4284 3039 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Adapting to New Ecosystem: Innovating for Profitability Economic Value GeneratedG4-EC1 Parameter (INR Million) FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Revenues 4,11,745 4,83,572 5,88,153 5,78,555 5,29, 258 Economic Value Distributed Parameter (INR Million) FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Operating Cost 3,54,441 4,10,649 5,17,214 5,18,284 4, 74, 894 Employee wages and benefits 7,208 10,674 9,082 10,608 10, 240 Payments to providers of capital 14,352 17,240 20,368 14,983 13, 800 Payment to Government 18,652 22,386 22,513 13,988 10, 159 No financial assistance received from Government of India in FY 15-16. GAIL did not make any financial or in-kind contribution to political parties, politicians or related institutions. G4-EC4, G4-SO6 “The changes in external Oil and Gas market dynamics, both globally and domestically, have resulted in significant profitability challenges for GAIL. Lower price realization of Petrochemicals and Liquid Hydrocarbons, higher interest and depreciation cost due to capitalization of major assets, underutilization and downward trend of pipeline tariff has stressed the profitability in FY 16. Progressive policies and reformative actions by the Government of India during the year as well as GAIL’s pro-active initiatives implemented under project Sanchay towards improving profitability 64 across all business segments helped in mitigating the impact to a large extent.” – Director (Finance) Our MoU Being a Central Public Sector Enterprise, GAIL signed an External Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) document with the government. The MoU specifies the objectives of the agreement and obligations of both parties. It has mutually agreed targets on both financial (50%) and nonfinancial parameters (50%). Some of the Sustainability related parameters of the MoU in FY 2015-16 are shown as under: Few Sustainability related parameters in MoU 2015-16 Performance Targets Criteria Unit Excellent Target Achievement PAT per employee INR Lakhs 63.28 53.21 Gas Marketing MMSCMD 76 73.67 Gas Transmission MMSCMD 97 92.09 LHC Production TMT 1251 1089 Polymer Production TMT 580 344 Production from Cambay Onland Blocks Barrels 120000 145813 Development of improved conversion efficiency Milestones Six milestones Six milestones of Hydrogen utilization in Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell coupled solid-state hydrogen storage device Power generation from Low Quality Land Fill Gas Milestones Nine milestones Nine milestones (LFG) using Micro-turbine Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Criteria Unit Excellent Target Achievement Execution of consumer connectivities under Last Kms 130 120.47 Mile Connectivity in various trunk pipelines in FY 2015-16 Overall physical progress for Revamping of KG Percentage >=90% 90.7 Basin Phase-I Pipeline Project (24” x 94 kms) Uninterrupted availability of HVJ/DVPL Natural Hrs 8784 8784 Gas Pipeline System Uninterrupted availability of non-HVJ Natural Gas Hrs 8784 8784 Pipeline System Uninterrupted availability of Jamnagar-Loni LPG Hrs 8696 8784 Pipeline System Uninterrupted availability of Vizag-Secunderabad Hrs 8696 8784 LPG Pipeline System Initiatives towards HSE system improvement No. of initiatives Five Five Over the last few years GAIL has invested heavily in creation of gas infrastructure and expansion of polymer capabilities. Although GAIL’s investment plans were ambitious, less availability of indigenous gas than envisaged during investment decisions, difficulty in tying up of domestic customers for LNG due its comparatively high prices and RoU related problems have resulted in GAIL moving towards a conservative approach in its capital expenditure plans from the financial year 2015-16 . There is growing consensus to shift focus towards consolidation of the businesses and increase capacity utilization of its gas infrastructure, with specific emphasis being placed on last mile connectivity and unlocking demand across new segments. Major reasons for reduction in profitability are illustrated below : 65 Under-utilization of Natural Gas Pipelines PP The pipeline network has been operating at low utilization levels mainly because of gas availability and price affordability issues PP Additionally, the pipeline projects have not materialized due to lack of anchor customer demand, which has caused viability and financing concerns. Decrease in domestic gas availability PP Non-availability of cheaper domestic gas for PC production on account of low production and a change in Government’s Gas Prioritization Rules has affected the profitability of the Petrochemicals segment. PP Leveraging imported gas was unaffordable as GAIL was tied into long term contracts that made this a more expensive option as compared to domestic gas. Rapid fall in crude oil prices PP With low crude oil prices, there was significant fall in price realization from sale of Liquid Hydrocarbons Unprecendented fall in prices of polymers & LPG PP Low commodity prices will continue to affect the profitability of the Petrochemicals segment in the medium-term despite the petrochemical capacity expansion achieved by GAIL in FY 2015. High prices of imported LNG PP GAIL has long term contracts with providers of imported LNG. The price was indexed a 60-month average of Japanese Custom Cleared (JCC) oil prices. With the collapse in global oil and gas prices, these long-term supplies had become unviable with the contracted price at USD 12-13 per MMBTU vis-à-vis the spot LNG prices at USD 7-8 per MMBTU. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Adapting to new eco-system: Innovating for profitability Natural Gas & LPG Natural Gas & RenewablesOG2 Transmission Petrochemicals Since 2010, GAIL is progressively Lower re-negotiated LNG price in the Marketing creating a portfolio of renewable businesses (solar, wind, etc.). Currently long-term LNG contract with Qatar’s GAIL has a vast pipeline network of GAIL has a renewable portfolio of 118 RasGas Co. Ltd. and the government’s over 11,000 kms and a lion’s share in MW wind and 5 MW solar with total policy for power and fertilizer pooling the Natural Gas Marketing sector in gross block of INR 823 crore as on sector has supported growth in gas the country. In 2015, the Gas marketing 31.03.2016. GAIL is planning to set up transmission volume. In 2015-16, gas segment marketed 74 MMSCMD by 14.42 MW & 5 MW grid connected Solar transmission volume achieved was volume and registered an increase PV Captive Power Plants at Pata, Uttar 92 MMSCMD. In addition, increase of INR 782 Crore in profitability. Pradesh and Vijaipur, Madhya Pradesh. in number of LNG cargoes at Dahej On account of gas pooling alone, Power, that will be generated through and Dabhol has also contributed to an GAIL marketed 5.87 MMSCMD in the proposed project, will help to increase in gas transmission volumes the financial year 2015-16. In the offset the captive consumption. for the company. Petrochemicals segment, due to GAIL also forayed into the business of GAIL is the pioneer of LPG lower production the sales volume trading Renewable Energy Certificates Transmission business in India. GAIL showed a decline of 24%. On the other (RECs) for Tamil Nadu based Wind owns and operates exclusive LPG hand, GAIL made significant strides Energy Generation projects where Pipeline network spanning 2038 Kms. in 2015 with respect to increasing its we successfully sold 52512 number to transport LPG for third-party usage. Petrochemical production capacity by of RECs in FY 15-16 with net revenue Out of this, 1415 km of the network setting up new plants. generation of INR 7.87 Cr. Further, 5910 transports LPG from western to number of non-solar certificates worth northern parts of India (Jamnagar – LPG & Other LHCs INR 88 Lakh have been self-retained 66 Loni Pipeline) and the balance 623 and the rest have been utilised to kms of the network transports LPG Declining crude oil prices posed a purchase renewable power obligations in the country’s southern part (Vizag significant threat to GAIL’s profitability for 4 of its locations. Secunderabad Pipeline). The LPG in this segment. In view of lower transmission system has a capacity under-recovery on Petroleum products, to transport up to 3.8 MMTPA of GAIL did not have to bear any subsidy GAIL’s Response LPG. In 2015-16, the LPG transmission for FY15-16. In other LHCs segment, As a response to the prevailing market throughput achieved was about 2.82 decrease in average LHC price impacted scenario and in an effort to stem the Million MT. the LHC business substantially. The LHC decline in profits, GAIL has undertaken sales volume declined by 15% which led a number of initiatives for product to an overall impact of INR 900 Crore in and process efficiencies and cost the turnover. saving. In addition to this, GAIL has also undertaken initiatives to renegotiate imported RLNG contracts in light of the drop in gas prices and increasing the gas transmission network (while forgoing some profitability) through gas pooling. The following sections describe these initiatives in detail: Packaging of GAIL Polymer G-Lene Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Project Sanchay time on tools and aligning contract manpower to demand to reduce across all the business segments of GAIL by CMD on 25th Feb 2015. Twenty In an effort to stem the decline maintenance speed. A Single Point of initiatives were put forth to the Task in profits, GAIL has introduced Accountability has been nominated Force, out of which 11 were agreed upon ‘Project Sanchay’ to instill cost to drive the implementation of each Task Force and were implemented optimization and profit maximization initiative and these are reviewed with under Project ‘Sanchay’ and 6 no. of throughout the organization. The the CMD and all Directors, Taskforce hypothesis from the remaining 9 are recommendations received from this and GAIL ‘Sanchay’ team. A Task Force being implemented internally by GAIL. exercise are being converted into comprising of Executive Directors Further, new hypothesis are under tangible financial benefits in plant and and General Managers was formed development/consideration. pipeline operations through activities to monitor and execute the project. Further, a Steering Committee Some of the initiatives which are such as, improving efficiency of comprising of Director (Projects) and being developed for implementation cooling towers to increase ethylene Director (Finance) was constituted to in Projects department under Sanchay throughput; switching to energy supervise the project. Project ‘Sanchay’ are mentioned below : efficient compressors to reduce operating costs and addressing low was rolled out on Company wide basis Few of the Prominent Initiatives taken under SANCHAY 67 Solar Energy Waste Heat Recovery (HRSG) at Hazira Installation of a solar farm in Pata and Vijaipur with Power generation by converting a solar developer may turbines into closed cycle and reduce energy costs. The selling the power to nearby same is proposed to be customers through ESCO developed through Energy model. Capex involved will also Service Company (ESCO). be invested by ESCO. Rich Gas Bypass Electricity Generation Waste Heat Recovery Bypassing rich gas at Installing gas expanders on spur (HRSG) at Vijaipur Vaghodia may increase C2lines to generate electricity C3 production at Vijaipur. through ESCO model may Installation of HRSG for Further, the possibility of increase margin. Potential Steam generation to reduce running LPG Vaghodia plant of electricity generation energy cost for C2-C3 plant. with RLNG as feed stock is identified at NTPC, Dadri and Proposal has been further also being evaluated. further analysis is in progress forwarded to EIL for detailed feasibility study. considering temperature drop due to gas expansion. In addition to above, other areas such as procurement effectiveness, inventory management, etc., are also being explored. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Adapting to New Ecosystem: Innovating for Profitability Gas Pooling for Power It is through the process of reverse e-bidding process, that assistance Gas Pooling for Sector is provided to gas-based power Fertilizer Sector plants. The mechanism led to Non-availability of domestic gas and concession made collectively by all The Government of India approved a low price affordability of imported stakeholders, including the Central and major policy intervention, to supply gas led to gas-based power plants State Governments, importers and gas at uniform delivered price to all remaining unutilized over the past transporters. The policy helped GAIL’s fertilizer plants on the gas grid for couple of years. With a view to revive business as GAIL reported an increase production of urea through a pooling the stranded gas based power plants, in Gas Transmission Income by INR 124 mechanism. It has led to increase in an innovative gas pooling policy was Crore on account of power pooling, at production of urea by about 20 lakh announced by the Government of the end of the financial year. tonnes in FY 15-16 vis-a-vis FY 14-15. India, to make R-LNG based power The increase in urea manufacturing generation commercially viable for Through Power pooling, GAIL also capacity will also contribute to the stranded gas based power stations. came forward to revive the 1967 Make in India initiative. This reform To improve this situation, for the MW Dabhol power plant, owned by measure will help in revival of the first time in India, large scale gas Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Gorakhpur, Barauni and Sindri urea pooling was introduced where GAIL is Limited (RGPPL), which had been plants. These three urea plants will acting as a pool operator to manage non-functional for over two years on serve as the anchor load customers procurement and supply of R-LNG to account of shortage of domestic gas. for Jagdishpur-Haldia Pipeline. As a stranded gas based power plants in The plant again started its operations result, work on this pipeline which was India. in the FY 2015-16 and is currently approved in 2007 is expected to start producing 290 MW power which is in this financial year. being sold to Indian Railways. 68 Urja Ganga Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Hon’ble Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Petroleum and Natural Gas inaugurated the project office of Jagdishpur-Haldia Pipeline in Patna Jagdishpur-Haldia Pipeline has been heralded onto the national agenda as part of Government of India’s vision of doubling the Natural Gas Pipeline network to over 30,000 km in next 5 years. Aptly termed, “Urja Ganga” for Eastern India, this pipeline paves way for maiden entry of natural gas supplies into Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Jagdishpur – Haldia natural gas pipeline also known as the “Energy Highway” (“Urja Ganga”) of Eastern India is set to play an important role in fulfilling the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s commitment towards overall development of the Eastern region and meeting its energy requirements. While supplying gas to anchor load customers like Gorakhpur & Barauni Fertilizer Plants and Barauni Refinery, the first phase of the Pipeline will also cater to domestic needs through CGD development in cities like Varanasi and Patna when the authorizations for the same are accorded by Petroleum & Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Natural Gas Marketing Gas sourcing & supply R-LNG Regasification terminals & Shipping GAIL is pursuing business opportunities all across the globe Globalization has meant that the Indian landscape with a twin aim of securing energy is continuously being altered by the global energy security related needs of the country supply dynamics. The collapse in global crude oil along with mitigation of the risks prices impacted the natural gas markets across the globe and capitalization of profitable and India was no exception. In some markets, gas prices opportunities as associated with the are contractually tied to oil prices and since India relies uncertainties of the international substantially on its imports to satisfy its domestic demand, market. there were other related consequences too faced by India. GAIL’s upstream portfolio includes 15 Petronet LNG had been importing 7.5 MMTPA LNG on a E&P blocks in India (2 operating blocks) long-term basis from Qatar, out of which 60% off-take was and 2 overseas producing blocks. GAIL GAIL’s responsibility. The price was indexed to oil, linked to the started drilling the first Exploratory 60-month average of Japanese Custom Cleared (JCC) oil prices. Well as Operator in its NELP-IX Block in With the collapse in global oil and gas prices, these long-term Cambay Basin, Anand District, Gujarat, supplies had become unviable with the contracted price at earlier this year. GAIL (India) Limited USD 12-13 per MMBTU vis-à-vis the spot LNG prices at USD is the lead operator of the block with 7-8 per MMBTU. RLNG customers signalled distress leading 25 per cent participating interest in it. to timely intervention by the highest decision makers with the Other partners in this block are Bharat support of governments in working out newer pricing formula Petro Resources Limited, Engineers under long-term LNG contract with the global major-Rasgas. 69 India Limited, Monnet Ispat Energy According to the new renegotiated contract, Petronet LNG will Ltd. and Bharat Forge Infrastructure now import 8.5 MMTPA of LNG from Qatar with price linked to Limited. Drilling has also been initiated the 3-month average of Brent crude oil prices. With the renewed in 3 other NELP-IX Blocks. contract terms, GAIL has been able to import gas at half the price at $ 7-8 MMBTU, as compared to $ 13 per MMBTU since GAIL also has significant overseas the 1st of January, 2016. presence including offices in USA and Singapore. GAIL was the first Indian PSU to acquire working interest in shale assets in Texas from Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. GAIL has signed a 20 year Sales and Purchase Agreement with Sabine Pass Liquefaction LLC, mid-Atlantic region. Some of the signed in the last FY 2015-16, GAIL a unit of Cheniere Energy Partners, open exposurs identified with the secured 5% equity in the project. At USA for supply of 3.5 million tonnes Dominion Cove Project are use of present, pre-project feasibility studies per year of LNG. GAIL also signed gas surplus, North America’s price are being carried out. The security a Terminal Service agreement index, Henry Hub for LNG pricing and related aspect of this pipeline is for 2.3 million tonnes per year of the associated increased shipping particularly highlighted because of the LNG liquefaction capacity with costs of LNG produced. At present, glaring security and geopolitical risks Dominion Cove Point LNG LP, USA. GAIL is actively exploring options confronting the host countries through The Dominion Cove Point terminal is to market the LNG obtained under which the pipeline passes. currently under construction and the this Agreement globally. GAIL Global expected date for commencement Singapore, has been tasked with LNG With 11,000 Kms of natural gas pipeline of supplies is January 2018. In order trading in the international markets. network, GAIL essentially forms the to tie up gas for liquefaction at the TAPI (Turkmenistan-Afghanistanbackbone of natural gas transmission terminal, the company got into an Pakistan-India) pipeline will bring in India. The pipeline infrastructure has agreement in November’ 14 with WGL 38 MMSCMD of natural gas from increased by about 5000 km during the Midstream Inc (WGLM). WGLM is a Turkmenistan to India via 1814 Km TAPI last seven fiscal years. Going ahead, part of a group having a rich history pipeline, once it is commissioned. The the company is committed to expand in natural gas supply business in the Shareholder Agreement (SHA) and its current network to 15,000 km within Investor Agreement (IA) of TAPI was 5 years. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Adapting to New Ecosystem: Innovating for Profitability Given the enormous size of the last few years such as the Viability Zone and Bengaluru. For reaching country’s population and geographical Gap Funding (VGF) scheme for the gas more charge areas for domestic extent, the existing gas pipeline pipeline projects, “Energy Highway” of connections, the steel grid network infrastructure of the country is Eastern India, Gas Pooling Scheme for and MDPE pipeline network have been still found lacking. The gas pipeline the Power & Fertilizer sectors, etc. extended to 388.93 kms and 806.41 infrastructure of the country is still kms respectively in 2015-16 in the cities under-developed, inequitable and is GAIL is a pioneer in City Gas of Sonepat, Meerut, Dewas, Kota, Taj operating at low utilization levels. Distribution business in India with Trapezium Zone and Bengaluru. The infrastructure so far has been 8 JVs, notably IGL Delhi and MGL dominant in the Northern and Western Mumbai and a subsidiary GAIL Gas In another positive development, a parts of the country whereas the Ltd. During 2015-16, GAIL successfully consortium of GAIL Gas and BCPL got Eastern part of the country has very completed expansion of CGD network authorization for CGD in Haridwar and low pipeline density. In view of these in Bangalore city. GAIL Gas has North Goa. The growing CGD network pressing concerns, the government commissioned the steel networks in has the potential to act as one of the came forward with a string of favorable the geographical area (GA) of Sonepat, positive triggers for the company. policy-based interventions over the Dewas, Kota, Meerut, Taj Trapezium Major Projects (On-going & Upcoming) Vijaipur Auraiya P/L** (VAPPL) Phulpur-Dhamra-Haldia-Pipeline** Length : 672 km Length : 2539 km Cost : Over ` 4500 Cr. Cost : Over ` 12190 Cr. 70 Cap : 8.9 MMSCMD Cap : 16 MMSCMD Jagdishpur Dahej & Gandhar Gaya Haldia Phenol-Acetone-Project* Cost : Over ` 2000 Cr. Cap : 108 KTPA (Phenol) & 67 KTA (Acetone) Bengaluru Manglore Kanjikkod KKMBPL (Ph.-II) Kochi Length : 879 Km, Cost : Over ` 2900 Cr. Cap : 16 MMSCMD *Map Not to Scale *Phenol-Acetone-Project **To be commissioned in synchronization with anchor load customers Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem R-LNG Regasification Gas Sourcing Percentage share of sectors Terminals & Shipping Domestic India is one of the largest importer Fertilizers of LNG. Currently, India has the 66% 34% infrastructure to annually import and regassify 25 MMTPA of LNG through Power the four terminals (Dahej, 10 MMTPA; 33% Hazira, 5 MMTPA; Dabhol, 5 MMTPA; Others and Kochi, 5 MMTPA) established on 16% the west coast. However, the actual R-LNG import capacity is less due to lower 34% CGD for CNG & PNG utilization of the Kochi and Dabhol 17% terminals on account of pipeline connectivity issues and incomplete marine facilities. GAIL has developed a long-term portfolio of 24 MMTPA. Last year also saw GAIL import 55 spot/ Gas Sector Wise Supply mid-term LNG cargoes as compared to 75 cargoes being imported in the four-year period of 2011-15. GAIL also participated in the RGPPL 5 MMTPA Regasification Facility, Ratnagiri, Maharashtra. 7 11 71 GAIL is also making investments in gas assets, liquefaction facilities and LNG shipping. Given the backdrop of India’s 2 18 growing LNG import dependence, 15 6 owning gas equity assets will help GAIL 11 in dealing with price risks in a superior 6 manner. As the lead company in natural gas, GAIL has contracted gas supplies CGD for CNG to put in place a diversified long-term Fertilizers Power Others & PNG import portfolio from Qatar, Australia, USA, Russia and Turkmenistan through (*Others include sectors like Steel, Refinery, sponge iron etc.) multiple LNG and transnational Domestic RLNG pipeline deals to meet the ever increasing demand for natural gas in India. These deals signify company’s commitment towards developing the Indian Gas market. Gas Transmission Mix (%) Gas Marketing Mix (%) Sustainability Report 2015-16 Adapting to New Ecosystem: Innovating for Profitability LNG Shipping Petrochemicals upside for GAIL’s business. With an aim to be amongst the major players GAIL planned to hire/own long-term Marketing in Petrochemical industry, GAIL has charter ships for which the due commissioned massive production The per capita plastic consumption procedure was initiated. However, capacity and wide product portfolio of India is 11 kgs compared to 38 the LNG shipping plans of GAIL through various endeavors. kgs in China. This, coupled with the were delayed because of difficulty nature of the growing economy and in manufacturing companies being a population count of more than a able to comply with the Make in India billion, it is estimated that the growth Project directives. Presently, GAIL is in polymer demand is going to be exploring options of short-term and 8-9% per annum, which is a huge spot hiring of ships. The unprecedented fall in commodity prices coupled with the changes in the policy regime, adversely affected the profitability of the Petrochemicals segment to a great extent. However, on a positive note, the previous year saw GAIL make significant strides in Petrochemicals capacity expansion. GAIL has doubled its Petrochemicals capacity and now by focusing on strengthening our marketing network, we expect to make the most out of this milestone achievement. – Director (Finance)* * for marketing related activities 72 The capacity of Pata Petrochemical Other challenges being faced by GAIL’s response in line with becoming more Plant has been doubled to 810 KTA. Petrochemicals segment include high customer-centric in its approach. Further, Brahmaputra Cracker and feedstock prices, unprecedented GAIL also plans to increase the Polymer Ltd. (BCPL), a JV between fall in commodity prices, change in strength of its consignment stockists GAIL, Numaligarh Refinery Limited government’s domestic gas allocation & establish feeder warehouses in (NRL), Oil India Limited (OIL) and policy, lower richness of gas obtained, the major consumption centers to Government of Assam, has set up ban on plastic-use in states, etc. strengthen distribution network. a plant in Lepetkata, Assam which Augmentation of manpower including Cheap spot LNG imports were secured will produce a 220 KTA PE as well as technical expertise, etc. for export by GAIL to bring down the input costs 60 KTA of PP. The main challenge is also undertaken. Further, GAIL is at its Petrochemical Plants, in the being foreseen for the Assam Plant also analysing product and logistics backdrop of low crude oil prices. is product marketing and sales in the optimization for existing capacities. North-East region. GAIL also has equity GAIL’s marketing approach in the GAIL is committed towards producing in OPaL’s greenfield petrochemical Petrochemicals segment is focused on a quality product by creating, project at Dahej to produce 1060 channeling new partners for expanding maintaining and ensuring a safe and KTA of HDPE & LLDPE and 340 KTA its marketing network and making clean environment. GAIL’s polymer of PP. Costs in the petrochemical GAIL’s marketing approach more products are environment friendly business also rose due to on-going customer-centric. GAIL’s marketing and fully recyclable. GAIL provides a Plant stabilization process for the new network consists of Petrochemical wide choice of grades with consistent Petrochemical plants. The expansion Marketing Group (PMG) Noida, and reliable quality to its customers. in capacity is however, expected to Marketing Services Group (MSG), Its manufacturing processes and yield favourable outcomes for this Pata, 11 Zonal offices, GAIL Polymer quality systems ensure that the segment in the medium to long-term Technology Centre (GPTC) Noida, SAP products conform to the technical perspective. Centre, Noida and strategically located specifications, backed by high quality network of 38 consignment stockists services to provide complete solution (CS). GAIL is planning to implement to the customers. suitable measures to empower the Zonal offices for immediate Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain GAIL Signed 25 Master Sales Purchase Agreements with all reputed LNG suppliers MAKE IN INDIA GAIL promoting the indigenization of products & Suppli oods es fG fro to m en Total Pr INR 2466 Loca ocu Crore l Su re m ppliers Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Our Supply ChainG4-DMA, G4-12 GAIL was incorporated with the objective of creating natural gas infrastructure and ensuring energy security of the country. GAIL is India’s largest natural gas company and is amongst the top gas utility companies in Asia. Our supply chain activities range from aspects of the natural gas value chain including exploration and production, processing, transmission, distribution and marketing and related services. GAIL has dedicated business segment of production and marketing of Petrochemicals like HDPE and LLDPE. We have extended our presence in LNG regasification, City Gas Distribution and E&P through equity and joint venture participations. Of late we have also diversified into solar and wind power regeneration. GAIL’s Supply Chain is of critical importance to its business because of depleting domestic gas fields and high import dependency of our most crucial raw material i.e., Natural Gas. GAIL’s business incorporates both local and global suppliers that are integral to our operations and the delivery of best in class products and services. GAIL maintains a close relationship with suppliers in an effort to ensure availability of raw materials, increase efficiency, reduce risk, maintain the safety of our operations and nurture resilience throughout the value chain. This relationship is maintained by an open communication channel where engagement is undertaken through a variety of modes and learnings are shared by both parties for improvements in services to customers. This assists in our ability to improve the quality, planning and timeliness of projects. Natural Gas Sourcing & Marketing Major sources for domestic gas include ONGC Administered Pricing 74 Mechanism (APM) & Non-APM, PMT at APM & Production Sharing Contract prices, Ravva and Ravva Satellite, etc. GAIL has also taken a series of measures for securing long term gas availability for the country. GAIL imports gas which primarily consists of Long-term RLNG, Mid-term RLNG and Spot. We have signed long term LNG supply contracts for 3.5 MMTPA with Sabine Pass Liquefaction LLC, GAIL’s Polymer USA, 2.3 MMTPA with Dominion Cove Point LNG, USA and for 2.5 MMTPA from Gazprom Shtokman LNG project, the supplies from which are expected to commence from 2018-2020. In view of changing market conditions and sudden fall of oil prices, we have successfully re-negotiated prices for Petrochemicals and also recently acquired equity stake in OPaL, Dahej, Gujarat. Within less RasGas supply contract. GAIL has also signed 25 Master Sales Purchase LHCs Supply Chain than two decades of operating in the petrochemical sector, GAIL has Agreements with all reputed LNG The Petrochemicals and LHCs established itself as a significant suppliers including BG, Shell, Total, etc. business is a core focus area of GAIL. market player. under which we have been importing GAIL has set up a state of the art spot LNG cargoes from time to time. Gas Cracker based polymer plant at As part of value added services GAIL has also signed short term, Pata in Uttar Pradesh which produces to our leading customers, GAIL mid-term and long term contracts for polymers under the brand names – conducts Productivity Enhancement LNG with suppliers like Marubeni, GDF G-Lex and G-Lene. Other major GAIL Programs at customer premises. In Suez and Gas Natural Fenosa (GNF) Petrochemical plants include Vijaipur this program, GAIL showcases its and the same is being marketed to Plant, M.P. and Brahmaputra Cracker present and upcoming polymers’ downstream consumers. and Polymer Limited (BCPL). GAIL grades/ technology and also provides Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Turk(TAPI) 75 information to customers on various sections of the society. With respect In the Liquid Hydrocarbons segment, technical issues related to processing to Petrochemicals marketing, GAIL GAIL obtains and markets a variety and mould design. This program helps operates in line with the sales of products from its GPUs namely GAIL in building a positive rapport with policy which forms the bedrock LPG, Propane, Pentane, Naphtha and the customers and also helped the for transacting business. It’s CS & by-products of polymer plant namely company in promoting Pata-II customers were the dominant theme MFO, Propylene and Hydrogenated C4 and BCPL grades with them. In the while reviewing the sales policy. In mix. GAIL is also marketing the LHC FY 2015-16 our productivity FY 15-16, sales policy revision was products available from BCPL and the enhancement programs covered major undertaken at the beginning of the year expansion at Pata. Out of these, LPG is sectors like blow moulding, injection with the objective of simplification sold exclusively to PSU Oil Marketing moulding, monofilament, raffia and & use of digital resources (i.e. online Companies and others are sold directly pipe sector. databases). Further, a sales policy to customers in Retail segment. for CS was released for the first Additionally, the Indian petrochemical time. Further, activities such as CS GAIL continues to play an important industry is facing a tremendous Appointment Policy, CS Appraisal role as an LHC products supplier. shortage of skilled manpower in plastic Policy, Star Customer Policy and In order to operate in a fair and processing. In order to bridge this gap Changes in the CS Agreement were transparent manner we have and develop a robust supply of skilled also initiated. developed an ‘LHC Products Pricing manpower, GAIL has collaborated Policy’ to formalize the pricing with CIPET centres across India. In FY GAIL is committed towards procedures for LHC products and 2015-16, skill development programs on producing a quality product while improve the governance of pricing “Plastic Product Manufacturing” were creating, maintaining and ensuring mechanisms at GAIL. conducted at 5 CIPET Centres namely a clean and safe environment. GAIL Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, provides a wide choice of grades with Hyderabad and Lucknow. The program consistent and reliable quality which provided skill based training to are environment-friendly and fully 240 youths from underprivileged recyclable. Sustainability Report 2015-16 GAIL’s Supply Chain Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Relationship with Expenditure on Procurement from MSEs SuppliersG4-DMA 180 GAIL endeavors to work with contractors and suppliers who contribute to sustainable development 200 81.5 and are economically, environmentally and socially responsible. GAIL has implemented SAP, SRM and MRP which are resourceful packages 75.5 and provide complete solution of the supply chain. GAIL has also developed an online customer suggestion system for its customers to provide feedback on the products and services provided by GAIL. We continue to strengthen relationships with contractors and suppliers who 435 are committed to these principles through frequent engagement and supplier development programmes. FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 The company aims to source more products and services from local Procurement from MSEs (in INR Crore) suppliers through the implementation 78 of the Public Procurement Policy for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises by scheduled caste or scheduled tender process by hosting tenders (MSMEs) which offers benefits such tribe entrepreneurs. GAIL also on our website, allowing anyone to as waiver from tendering fee and encourages local production by participate in the tendering process EMD. As a result of this policy, GAIL providing preference to Domestically without discriminating on basis of sources 20% of its supplies from Manufactured Electronic Products caste, gender, religion or region. MSMEs and 4% from MSMEs owned (DMEP). We ensure fairness in the Break up of total value of procurement with respect to type of suppliers. (e.g. Purchase of Goods, Services, Manpower etc.) for FY 2015-16 is given below: S.No. Description No. of Orders Value of Orders (in INR crores) 1 Services 1901 1875.26 2 Purchase of Goods* 2706 865.35 *This does not include value of procurement of natural gas. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Total number of orders for domestic and international procurement of goods and supplies during FY 2015-16: Activities in the supply chain 79 Supplier ScreeningG4As a responsible business leader it is imperative for us to ensure that been integrated into contracts with all suppliers to ensure their validity DMA, G4-LA15, G4-HR1, G4-HR9, our philosophy is inculcated across across the supply chain. Vendors G4-HR11, G4-SO10 suppliers in the value chain. To ensure must also confirm that they perform this, GAIL has developed the General their services in full accordance with GAIL’s sourcing of external services Conditions of Contract (GCC) which applicable government statutory and contracts determines our acts as a standard and transparent policies which denote aspects such procurement across a range of prequalification that ensures our as the provision of separate toilets, products and services including, suppliers confirm compliance to legal washing places for men and women, upstream, mid-stream and requirements relating to impacts compulsory canteen facilities and downstream sectors of our business. on the environment, labour, human medical services for all employees. rights and society. The GCC have Sustainability Report 2015-16 Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain GAIL is a staunch advocate of human rights and no grievances Supplier Impact who consistently meet or exceed expectations and requirements. The related to human rights were noted Assessment brief overview of the process for in the reporting period. Further, the supplier evaluation is described by the organizaton does not allow child GAIL’s contracts include a procedure below graphic. However, variations labour and prescribes a minimum for evaluation of vendors/ suppliers/ between projects, operations and age limit of 18 years for employment contractors and consultants. The maintenance and consultancy tenders and contract labour. As per the GCC objective of this evaluation is to exist and these are detailed in tender our vendors must confirm that they monitor the performance of suppliers, documents. Further, the tender do not undertake child labour. In ensure quality and timely completion documents also state the action to order to protect our suppliers all our of works and services. In addition, be initiated based on performance contracts include a ‘Health, Safety & evaluation of performance gives rating for operations and maintenance Environment Policy’ approved by GAIL. GAIL an opportunity to recognize, projects. and develop reliable vendors Supply Chain Practices In order to ensure transparency in the handling of activities and complaints in the tendering process GAIL has signed an MoU with Transparency International. As part of this MoU an Integrity Pact has been incorporated in tenders with value above INR 1 crore and made available online. During the last financial year three complaints 80 were received under the Integrity Pact and were resolved satisfactorily. In an effort to prevent fraudulent activities from impacting the company’s supply chain GAIL has integrated a procedure for corrupt/ fraudulent/collusive/coercive practices in its tender documents. In addition to this, we also have a Fraud Prevention Policy that all bidders must accept and certify adherence to. Bidders must not indulge in fraudulent activities, allow GAIL staff to engage in these and must immediately apprise GAIL of the suspected fraud. As part of our efforts to deliver value to our stakeholders GAIL introduced the Reverse Auction tool which allows online negotiation amongst short listed bidders for projects above INR 50 Crore. The system allows shortlisted bidders to know their price Vis-aVis other suppliers and offers them the opportunity to reduce the same. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Training Program for Consignment Stockists 81 Vendor Development have been developed in GAIL as these, similar strategies for improvement must be passed along substitutes for various chemicals. In addition to our sourcing 20% of In addition, indigenized options the value chain to our vendors and our supplies from MSMEs, GAIL have been developed for the “Meter suppliers. Thus, GAIL improves the supports smaller vendors through Prover Facility” at Hazira (Gujarat) capacities of our vendors through the introduction of e-procurement to for proving meters of GAIL and other Vendor Development Programmes reduce paper work and to speed up the Pipeline companies in India. In order where detailed discussions regarding tendering process. In addition to this, a to assist in the development of a wide range of issues, methodologies pre-tender meeting is conducted with indigenous sources, suppliers without and procedures pertaining to the vendors to ensure wider participation a “Proven Track Record” (a necessary awarding and execution of contracts and to educate vendors on the qualification of making bids) are are undertaken. During the reporting tendering process. GAIL also interacts able to undertake the “demo route” period, Vendor Development Programs with the small and local vendors at to demonstrate the quality of their for MSMEs have been conducted at vendors’ meets, MSME meetings products. Through the implementation GAIL Pata, Vijaipur, Jaipur, Corporate and industry conclaves to share our of this, domestic bidders for line pipe Office, Mumbai, Jhabua, Rajahmundry requirements and to encourage them manufacturing have increased from and Vadodara. to bid for these. zero in 1985 to 19 in 2016. As a result, In order to increase resilience of in the last six years GAIL has placed Green ProcurementG4INR 3010 Crore of line pipe orders EN33 the supply chain and reduce the (equivalent to 93% of total orders) on Company’s reliance on imports, domestic suppliers. As part of our efforts to increase GAIL has constituted Indigenization energy efficiency and sustainability Development Groups that promote GAIL strives towards continuous of operations, GAIL has introduced the indigenization of products. As improvements in systems, processes a number of initiatives to integrate a result of this, indigenous sources and operations. In order to achieve Sustainability Report 2015-16 Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain green procurement within the rating to ensure efficiency of products building concepts in all new buildings. business. These include the insertion purchased. Further, cost benefit This entails the reorientation of of loading criteria with specified time analysis of existing Air Conditioners procurement and contracts in line with periods in tenders for procurement of which are more than 10 years old specific green standards, sustainable more energy efficient compressors, is being undertaken to determine practices and solutions to reduce turbines and generators. As decided by replacement with greener versions. environmental impact. As a result of the Sustainable Development Steering this initiative, GAIL Jubilee Tower has Committee, the specifications for In addition to the procurement of been awarded a LEED Platinum rating procurement of electrical equipment greener products, GAIL has also by the Indian Green Building Council. will necessitate a minimum 3-star focused on the introduction of Green Total Procurement of Goods & Supplies (INR) G4-EC9 2794 Crore Total Procurement of Goods & Supplies From Local Suppliers (INR) 2466 Crore % of new suppliers that have been screened through Environmental Criteria 100 % of new suppliers that have been screened through Labour Practice Criteria G4-LA14 100 % of new suppliers that have been screened through Human Rights Criteria G4-HR10 100 % of new suppliers that have been screened through Criteria for impacts on Society G4-SO9 100 82 % of suppliers identified having significant actual & potential negative impacts on society. 0 % of suppliers identified having significant actual & potential negative impacts on society with which 0 relationship has been terminated Glimpses of Vendor Meet for MSEs 2016 Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Communicating for Effective Synergies and Partnerships Communicating for Effective Synergies and Partnerships In the fast-changing environment of the Oil and Gas sector GAIL is taking proactive measures to communicate effectively with its stakeholders and maintain optimal visibility as well as brand recall in the mind-space of investors and the public base at large. One of our key focus areas is to have effective and focused communication of GAIL’s initiatives and achievements to stakeholders in order to create a shared common vision. Further, with the advent of new technologies and increasing momentum of renewable energy, positioning Natural Gas as a bridge fuel is becoming more critical. This requires the importance of nurturing a long term relationship with all stakeholders and society at large. Our ApproachG4-DMA relationship and ensuring trust in order to maintain our leadership position. internal and external stakeholders. GAIL also engages its stakeholders For GAIL, the communication approach through a dedicated blog GAILVoice. GAIL publishes a number of reports, com and maintains a social media is to build relations with desired brochures, booklets, presentations presence on Twitter, Facebook and stakeholders and ensure that these such as Annual Report, Sustainability LinkedIn. Details of our stakeholder are managed properly. Communication Report, Corporate Brochure, Annual engagement mechanisms is covered in all its forms is a key contributor Planner, Investor Presentations, in the Stakeholder Engagement and towards the success of a company, Safety Calendars and Posters in local Materiality chapter. thus it has been accorded due language etc. These publications focus in GAIL. We, at GAIL, regularly highlight various business areas GAIL undertakes a number of mediums engage with our stakeholders to of the company and its operations of engagement with stakeholders strengthen our relationship with and maintenance activities. GAIL including focused group discussions, them as well as to create a positive actively promotes the use of official questionnaire surveys, and face to environment and a market for Natural language i.e., Hindi. The latest news face interactions. We engage with 84 Gas business. Elements of our Vision about the company is updated on the our stakeholders to identify material statement focus on providing value GAIL Intranet, Corporate Website for aspects, key risks and opportunities. to stakeholders, building a positive Gail conferred with ‘Company of the Year’ PetroFed Award in the category of Environment Sustainability Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Key initiatives taken Importance of the Engagement Frequency of Mode of to address concerns, Stakeholder Stakeholder Group Teams Engagement Engagement perceptions, advice & suggestionsG4-27 Employees Our employees Human Annual, Satisfaction PP Communication on GAIL’s as our greatest Resource Quarterly, surveys, business goals, values and asset and engage Department, Monthly, Grievance principles with them on a Human Daily. Redressal, continuous basis. Resource – Suggestion PP Action planning on major Employee Schemes, projects Relations CMD Open PP Implementation of best & Policy, House, practices Corporate Sustainability Operations & Survey, PP Facilitating learning and Maintenance, Various development Health Safety committees, & Environment Emails, PP Track key performance Department, Journals, indicators and action Corporate Meetings with plans Sustainability employee PP Understand and address Team. associations concerns and unions; Various Events PP Idea generation, sharing including and learning GAIL Day 85 celebration, Sports Meet, Health Campaigns, etc. Suppliers GAIL’s primary Contracts & Annual, Supplier PP Integrity Pact Mechanism business is of Procurement Quarterly, Meet, Emails, gas transmission Department, Monthly, Meetings. PP Pre-tender & Pre-Bid which makes it very Projects Daily. Meeting important for the Department PP Conciliation through Company to engage Settlement Advisory with the suppliers Committee on a continual basis. Transparent PP Reverse Auction relationship with suppliers helps the PP Bill Watch System Company to reduce PP File Movement System risks and discover new opportunities. PP e-Tendering Also, this helps us to improve our supply chain and planning. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Communicating for Effective Synergies and Partnerships Key initiatives taken Importance of the Engagement Frequency of Mode of to address concerns, Stakeholder Stakeholder Group Teams Engagement Engagement perceptions, advice & suggestionsG4-27 Customers Customers are Marketing Annual, Customer PP Customer Suggestion an important ally Department, Quarterly. Interactive Box: To understand in our endeavour Total Quality Meets, customer requirements, towards excellence. Management Customer address operational We continuously Department feedback concerns & to get work with them to feedback on new product improve product and development service quality. PP Customer Satisfaction Index: To understand their satisfaction levels PP Customer Ledger: For transparent transactions Communities Local communities Corporate Annual, Community PP Executing Social provide us the Social Quarterly, Meetings, Responsibility initiatives / social license to Responsibility Monthly, Project projects. operate, and hence Department. Daily, NeedMeetings, are central to our based. Annual PP Understanding and growth. We have also Review. addressing their developed a CSR concerns. 86 policy for effective development of the community. Government & Government and Regulatory Annual, MoUs, QPR, PP Relationship building Regulators other regulatory Affairs Quarterly Open-House bodies play a very Department, Sessions, PP Performance appraisal important role in Law Hearings through MoUs influencing how Department, and other PP Submission of progress businesses operate Corporate Meetings, reports throughout the Planning Written world. This is in Department, Views/ PP Discussions on major form of taxes, Liaison & Comments investment plans regulatory and other Parliamentary to PNGRB policies, creating a Affairs on various level playing field Department, regulatory for businesses, Company matters, as providing access to Secretariat. required by capital and other PNGRB. related functions. GAIL regards compliance to all laws and regulations as a high priority. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Key initiatives taken Importance of the Engagement Frequency of Mode of to address concerns, Stakeholder Stakeholder Group Teams Engagement Engagement perceptions, advice & suggestionsG4-27 NGOs GAIL interacts Corporate Annual, Community PP Executing Social with the local Social Quarterly, Meetings, Responsibility initiatives / communities and Responsibility Monthly, Project projects. also interfaces Department. Daily, NeedMeetings, through NGOs. based. Annual Hence, NGOs are Reviews. critical in forging strong relationships with communities in GAIL’s operational areas Contract Our contractors Human Annual, Plant-level PP Proper training and Employees are as important Resource Quarterly, committees, communication on health to us as our regular Department, Monthly, Meetings with & safety issues employees, and at Corporate Daily, Needemployee GAIL we ensure that Operations & based. associations PP Facilitating on the job their voice is heard. Maintenance, and unions; trainings We comply with Health Safety Various Events PP Community engagement all the laws of the & Environment including programmes land applicable to Department, GAIL Day Corporate celebration, 87 contract employees in terms of wages, Sustainability Sports working conditions, Team. Meet, Health health & safety, etc. Campaigns, etc. Media Media essentially Corporate Need-based Press PP Relationship building plays the role of an Communication Conferences, opinion-maker in the Department Formal and PP Appraising on society, it helps in informal performance highlights communicating with media and lowlights other stakeholders interactions, PP Point-of-view on major through various Exclusive sectoral developments channels. interviews with print, Wire and Electronic media, Press Releases, Sponsorships of events, Participation in industry exhibitions, etc. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Communicating for Effective Synergies and Partnerships The stakeholders and mediums of interaction with each are described below: Government and Regulatory Agencies Government of India is the key stakeholder for GAIL holding over 56% share. As a strategy of risk management and mitigation, GAIL engages extensively with Government and regulatory agencies. GAIL also holds discussions with the MoPNG and other regulatory authorities at regular intervals over topics crucial to GAIL such as financial performance, gas allocation and utilization, gas pricing, gas pooling and swapping mechanism, energy security, project planning, vigilance issues, safety and security, expansion and diversification plans so as to safeguard its interests and future growth. GAIL maintains close coordination with MoPNG in connection with Parliamentary 88 questions, Parliamentary references and Parliamentary Committee As per GAIL’s ideology, fostering long-term cooperative relationships Shareholders/ meetings. GAIL also maintains close with the regulators on broader Investors coordination with officials of Lok socio-political concerns, apart from Sabha Secretariat / Rajya Sabha individual concerns, can go a long GAIL has also constituted a Secretariat in connection with various way in bringing strategic and tactical shareholders/ Investors Grievance communications and meetings of gains to the company. In a regulatory Redressal Committee for looking into Parliamentary Committees. As can environment based on trust between investor’s grievances and matters be seen in the folliwing infographic, the regulator and the regulated, relating to Registrar & Share Transfer the President of India is the highest regulation can become a mechanism Agent. During the year 2015-16, 22 shareholder in GAIL. It is important for securing industry wide cooperation complaints were received from the for GAIL to keep the Government and on issues ranging from financial shareholders/investors through SEBI/ other investors up-to-date about the prudence to technical innovation and Stock Exchanges and other statutory Company’s performance and related climate change. bodies and all the 22 complaints were events. Transparency and information resolved. sharing regarding our business, governance, financial and non-financial performance and prospects is maintained and regularly updated for them. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Employee Relations and WelfareG4-EC3, G4-LA2 It is important for us to keep our employees constantly motivated and provid them with an opportune working environment. We have dedicated residential and commercial areas, sports facilities, clubs, schools and medical facilities for employees in remote areas. We also organize events during festivals and special occasions for employees and their families. Innovation being a significant aspect Second from right Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak, Director (Projects) GAIL during National Consultation Seminar on Climate Change of GAIL’s culture, we continuously encourage our employees to be a part of it. Customer meets For instance, a polymer customer meet was organized in Hyderabad in GAIL’s employees can voice their October 2015 for polymer customers At GAIL, we believe in close concerns through the online grievance of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana engagement with our customers and redressal system that is monitored by States. A turnout of over 80 customers carry out multiple meetings across the Corporate HR. In the incident that culminated in an interactive session business segments throughout the HR-in-charge does not redress the with GAIL, CIPET officials and students the year. During FY 2015-16, a 89 grievance within the stipulated time present in the conference room. total 115 visits were undertaken Similarly, a technical cum customer frame, the issue is auto-escalated to for CVM purpose in Natural Gas, meet was conducted under the Oil & GM (HR), Corporate office and finally Petrochemicals and LHC business Gas Conservation Fortnight (OGCF) at to the Director (HR). The aggrieved segments. In this, 75 customer visits Bhopal in January 2016. The objective employee can also appeal to the next were undertaken by consultant of the meet was to inform customers level if they are not satisfied by the engaged by TQM department and 40 about the significance of using cleaner replies/relief provided. More details customer visits by GAIL executives. fuels efficiently and using it as against on grievance addressal is given in the Zonal offices of GAIL conduct regular conventional fossil fuels. chapter on corporate governance. customer meets in 34 months for their respective customers. During the Customer Satisfaction Customers customer meet issues were discussed and resolved. Around 30 customer Index (CSI) G4-PR5 GAIL’s communication with customers meets were conducted across India We value customer feedback as it helps takes place at various levels. These during the year. us in the continuous improvement of communications take place either at our products and services. Customer regular intervals or are need based Further, GAIL also educates its satisfaction surveys are conducted through direct meetings, visits to customers regarding the future on a bi-annual basis to understand the customer premises, online suggestion scenario of gas supply and the policies level of satisfaction our customers box, Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) of MoPNG/regulatory authorities. have on several parameters of campaigns, online customer complaint Further, one to one meetings with engagement such as product quality, portal, stakeholder engagement concerned customers were also held usability of product, technical support, by zonal offices to resolve specific delivery of material, packaging, service process, and third party Customer issues. Some of the key issues which quality, concerns and suggestions for Value Management (CVM) visits. were discussed include decrease in improvement. Customer feedback is These communications take place captured through an online feedback with the objective of understanding domestic gas availability, imbalance system on half yearly basis. The overall charges/overrun charges and ship or and addressing customer concerns, CSI for FY 2015-16 was 90.31%, as pay charges (especially for customers building our relationship with against an excellent target of 89%. No drawing smaller volumes), and issues customers, technical troubleshooting customer complaints were received in pertaining to pressure, quality, etc. and redressal of customer grievances. FY 2015-16. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Communicating for Effective Synergies and Partnerships Display of product on educating and building awareness of consumers on the benefits of plastic implemented in phases. information and products and the need to create a There has been a global movement secure plastic waste management amongst industries to slowly graduate product labelingG4-DMA, system and maximize recycling of towards products and services that G4-PR3, G4-PR4 plastic waste back into the system. minimize impacts on environment and societal resources and we have Apart from the product information There have been no incidents of been a part of this journey. Being in and labelling compliance with local non-compliance with respect to the business of Natural Gas which is laws, product specification is provided regulations and voluntary codes a cleaner alternative to other fossil before commencement of supply. Also, concerning marketing communications, fuels, we have developed adequate test certificates are provided with including advertising, promotion and systems to ensure that the benefits each PC and LHC dispatch. Polymers sponsorship by type of outcomes. All of this essential fuel reach the society are packaged in standardized 25 kg the major installations of GAIL are without compromising on safe bags complete with product detail, accredited with OHSAS 18001 and use. Over the last 10 years we have company logo and weight information. committed towards assessment of established a firm footing in CGD to All marketing communications health and safety impacts of products ensure energy access even to the codes and standards including ISO for improvement. marginalized section of consumers. 9001:2008, solvent control order, Through our Gas Management System PNGRB codes, applicable BIS (GMS) we are able to handle multiple Partnerships for standards, OISD guidelines, PESO standards and regulations, Weights sources of supply and delivery of Climate ChangeG4-EC2 gas in a co-mingled form and provide and Measurements Code are applied a seamless interface between Partnership with TERI for Climate across the organization. Customers shippers, customers, transporters Change Vision – In 2015, GAIL can lodge complaints related to 90 and suppliers. Under the GMS, the in partnership with The Energy product quality, technical and entire order-to-cash cycle has been and Resources Institute (TERI) commercial in nature. GAIL Customers automated and is available on real time had taken a lead in developing an can register Service Request / basis from upstream gas supply, gas Indian corporate vision on tackling Complaint / Incidents 24 x 7 online transportation to billing, payment and climate change which also aligned through GAIL’s webpage. There have final receipt of payments. Information it with Government schemes in this been no incidents of non-compliance is made available to customers directly direction. The document titled ‘Delhi with regulations and voluntary codes through the GMS portal facility, thus to Paris: Corporate Vision on Climate concerning product and service empowering them to plan better and Change’ was launched at the India information and labelling. utilize the gas supply. Through SCADA Pavilion of COP 21 held in Paris. As a seamless integration of GMS with responsible corporate citizen, GAIL Product field measurement devices is being acted as Chapter Lead for ‘Improving StewardshipG4-DMA, G4Efficiency of Energy Use’ and provided PR1, G4-PR2 At GAIL, we are also committed towards developing safe and environment friendly products. Our approach embeds a comprehensive look into the life cycle impacts of our products in terms of safety and environmental impacts and seeks technologically and commercially viable solutions to mitigate them. While plastics have been traditionally considered as environmental pollutants, we perceive them as ecofriendly due to their high recyclability. We have partnered with Indian Centre Representation of GAIL at COP21, Paris for Plastic in the Environment (ICPE) Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem inputs towards preparation and participated in meetings, webinars and consultations. GAIL propagated that natural gas, an environmentally benign alternative fuel, can act as a bridge fuel for the transition to a low carbon economy. GAIL and CDP GAIL scored 98 and was ranked 3rd in CDP India’s “Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI)” which was released in November 2015 at the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). GAIL showed remarkable increase of 12 points from last year’s score. CDP Climate Change disclosure workshop hosted by GAIL Climate Change AwarenessFor tackling challenges emerging due with suppliers has been covered in the GAIL are aimed at holistic development to Climate Change and preparing chapter on Supply Chain Management. of disadvantaged, vulnerable and GAIL to convert these into business marginalized stakeholders and the opportunity, GAIL observed “Climate We regularly conduct suppliers’ sustainable development of the Change Awareness Week 2015” during meet at various locations for training community at large. In line with the new 25th October 2015 to 1st November purposes. The C&P meets with MSEs policy, 75% of all our CSR initiatives 2015. During this week there was for vendor development to guide will be implemented in and around an address by an eminent speaker them on GAIL’s tendering process, the ‘local areas’ within 100 Km radius from Climate Reality Project of India; reducing the processing time and mostly in the remote areas. These local 91 Climate Change quiz was conducted increasing their participation in GAIL’s communities also include indigenous and a dedicated intranet page was procurement practices. A vendor meet people located around our operations. developed for all employees which for MSEs was organized at the GAIL Indigenous people are present at contained publications and multimedia Training Institute, Noida in February our Jhabua location in the state of information. Site level initiatives were 2016 to enhance compliance of MSEs Madhya Pradesh but no incidents of also taken up. to the Public Procurement Policy. any conflict have appeared during the GAIL and COP21GAIL presented reporting period.G4-HR8 its contribution to tackle climate CommunitiesG4-DMA, G4GAIL undertakes CSR projects in change at COP21, Paris as part of a EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO1, G4-SO2 areas defined in Schedule VII of the delegation of MoPNG. Further, GAIL’s Companies Act 2013, with focused activities have been published as part GAIL’s interaction with its surrounding interventions in seven areas identified of the COP21 publication of MoPNG, communities is driven by its CSR Policy. in the CSR policy of GAIL, which is Government of India . The CSR activities are carried out in alignment with the Section 135 of through registered trusts, societies, Companies Act 2013 and CSR Rules, Vendors & Suppliers autonomous bodies, Government thereof. The total CSR Expenditure departments, NGOs, and Section 8 Our supply chain forms a vital companies. incurred in FY 15-16 was INR 160.56 component of our everyday business Crore which is 6.98 % of PAT of INR which includes a mix of global and GAIL identifies stakeholders and 2299 crore. Out of INR 160.56 Crore, local suppliers. In our endeavor to beneficiaries in terms of the provisions an expenditure of INR 118.64 Crore provide a corruption free and ethical of Section 135 of the Companies was incurred exclusively on CSR environment for our suppliers, we deal Act, 2013 and CSR Rules, thereof. projects approved for FY 15-16. This is with their complaints in a just, fair and We reach out to a diverse group of in accordance with the requirement of transparent manner. GAIL also believes beneficiaries including people affected Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 and in equal opportunity for suppliers and by natural calamities, people with CSR Rules thereof, wherein the CSR does not discriminate between them. disabilities, women and children, Expenditure incurred has been We host our tenders on our website tribal communities, affirmative action 2.3% (i.e., Rs.118.64 Crore) of the which is available in the public domain. groups, disadvantaged youth, senior average of net profit before tax of More information on our relationship citizens, HIV afflicted people and preceding 3 financial years. victims of violence. All CSR projects at Sustainability Report 2015-16 Communicating for Effective Synergies and Partnerships Impact Assessment 7200 people; the major components of the project being capacity building, the underprivileged community in Plastic industry related skills through G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO1 livelihood sustenance, infrastructure/ CIPET. asset creation, disaster management GAIL has conducted three Independent and mitigation. The project with In a significant move towards fulfilling Impact Assessment Studies for its various components has provided Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra CSR Projects in the last decade from Disaster Resistant Households to 10 Modi’s commitment towards providing Institutes and Consultancies of repute families who lost everything in the hygienic sanitation facilities, GAIL which include Tata Institute of Social floods. Community Resource and has constructed 3614 toilets under Sciences (Mumbai, Maharashtra), Soul Training Centres are being established ‘Swachh Bharat, Swachh Vidyalaya’. Ace Consultants (Gurgaon, Haryana), in 3 blocks of District Rudraprayag. As Further, GAIL has approved setting up Delhi School of Social Work and an immediate measure, psychological of two ‘waste plastic to fuel oil’ plants Jamia Millia Islamia (Delhi). The CSR counselling was also extended to of 10 TPD capacity each at Haridwar projects are evaluated on milestones bereaved individuals. Livelihood and Ujjain. achieved by the Cross Functional generation opportunities have been CSR Committee formulated at every In order to develop talent in sports, extended in the form of training in work centre of GAIL. At the end GAIL, as part of its CSR initiatives, has pickles/condiments making, juice of the project, a report pertaining launched a nation-wide programme, making (local fruits and flowers), to the impact of the programme, ‘GAIL Indian Speed Star’, which aims handicraft design etc., leading to an is submitted by the implementing at identifying potential athletes from overall increase in per capita annual partner specifically highlighting the various corners and rural belts of the income by almost INR 9,000. project milestones achieved and the country and training the qualifying quantitative and qualitative benefits The four Skill Schools run by GAIL athletes to qualify and participate in generated. in collaboration with IL&FS have National and International Athletic imparted job linked skills training in events. In the 1st phase, young athletes 92 Overview of GAIL’s CSR service sector trades such as retail, have been identified from 53 districts sales, hospitality management, basic across 10 states of India. Finally, Initiatives engineering etc., to more than 3200 9 candidates have been selected, rural and semi urban youth. Training who will be trained nationally and The GAIL Board of Directors has was given to 240 beneficiaries from internationally. constituted a CSR Committee (SubCommittee of the Board) with our CMD as Chairman of the committee, Director (HR), Joint Secretary (MoPNG), and two Independent Directors as members. Our annual report on CSR policy and programmes implemented are included in the Board of Directors’ report and information on GAIL CSR committee is presented in the company’s Annual Report as well as on the website. Some of the major CSR initiatives taken in FY 2015-16 are mentioned below. Special initiatives undertaken In the aftermath of the devastating flash floods that took place in state of Uttarakhand, Project Srijan, which means creation, was initiated in January 2014 for the rehabilitation and long term rebuilding of the community covering 10 villages in 3 blocks of district Rudraprayag benefitting over Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem GAIL’s Chairman Shri B. C. Tripathi handed over a cheque to Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri Chandra Babu Naidu for CSR activities in Andhra Pradesh. Project Jaldhar Project Jaldhar is a hugely successful Integrated Watershed Development and Management Programme, implemented in the tribal area of Jhabua, Madhya Pradesh. It has resulted in formation of over 50 Self Help Groups which have in turn facilitated 93 income generation and promoted monetary saving among tribal women through the creation of 11 watershed structures and plantation of 10,000 trees/saplings with investment of INR 307.62 Lakh. Stakeholder complaint redressal We communicate with our stakeholders through various modes as has been detailed in the earlier sections, and also have suitable complaint receiving and redressal mechanisms in place to address them. The below table details the complaint statistics for various stakeholders in the current FY. Stakeholders Complaints Received Complaints Pending % Resolved Shareholders/ Investors 22 0 100 Customers 48 0 100 Employees 9 0 100 Vigilance 104 79 75.96 Contractors & Suppliers (Relating to 3 0 100 Integrity Pact) Public at Large 229 06 97.4 Total 415 85 79.51% Engagement with other stakeholders GAIL actively engages in constructive dialogue process with several Government agencies and regulatory authorities to protect business interests and contribute in a gas based economy for the nation. GAIL engages with industry bodies and is a member of many trade and chamber/associations which allow it to highlight the concerns of the sector, thus enabling inclusive policy development. We continue to work with industry associations like FICCI, CII, International Gas Union, PetroFed, World Energy Council, TERI, on various issues in the energy sector. GAIL also initiated its association with US EPA under the Global Methane Initiative, so as to address the challenge of fugitive emission in Natural Gas transportation. Further information has been provided in the chapter on regulatory affairs. Some of the major ones are mentioned on next page.G4-15, G4-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Communicating for Effective Synergies and Partnerships Felicitation of young talent in sports as part of GAIL’s Speed Star initiative Broad category of engagement Trade and chamber/ associations Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative India Private Limited 94 Global Compact Network India (UNGC’s India Chapter) TERI – BCSD (The Energy and Resources Institute -Business Council for Sustainable Development) India GHG Program World Environment Foundation Other business related engagement Project Management Associates International Market Assessment CEO Forum The India CFO Forum IMA India Private Ltd. Institute of Internal Auditors, USA Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD) Petroleum Federation of India (Petrofed) International Gas Union (IGU) National Institute of Corrosion Engineers International, USA (NACE) British Safety Council (BSC) International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers (GIIGNL) United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Gas Centre World Energy Council India Chemical & Petrochemicals Manufacturer’s Association (CPMA) International Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Standing Conference of Public Enterprises (SCOPE) Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) PHD Chamber of Commerce & Industry Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Unlocking Opportunities in the Regulatory Landscape Unlocking Opportunities in the Regulatory Landscape An effective, fair and enabling regulatory environment is imperative to developing a competitive and effective gas market in the country as well as attracting large investments in infrastructure development. The governance and regulatory mechanisms focus on protecting interests of all stakeholders, ensuring greater competition and creating a more efficient business environment. In the current context, pertaining to the state of the oil and gas sector, the role played by policymakers and regulatory authorities is key for continuous development of the gas sector. Regulatory & Policy LandscapeG4-DMA The oil and gas sector is highly regulated and largely state controlled in India. At present, the Government’s focus on oil and gas sector regulation is on reducing the country’s import dependence, incentivizing infrastructure development to increase domestic production and recalibrating product prices in line with global prices. These 96 objectives are driven by relevant policy announcements and regulatory reforms. NITI Aayog and Ministry of GAIL’s Chairman Shri B. C. Tripathi in conversation with Hon’ble Finance are responsible for developing Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar policy guidelines for MoPNG and all other regulatory authorities. Given the backdrop of the challenging prevailing business conditions for the oil and gas sector, during the last twelve months, the Government announced multiple reforms for the oil and gas sector. Some of the major policy announcements include new formula based gas pricing, gas pooling for supplying R-LNG to power and fertilizer sectors, priority allocation for City Gas Distribution and auction of marginal oil and gas fields. These measures were announced to address key issues holding back the development of the sector, such as the low gas prices, non-affordability of gas by Power and Fertilizer sectors, slow roll out of CGD sector and subdued exploratory activities. These policy reforms helped GAIL’s natural gas business gain some initial traction against the prevailing business situation at GAIL. The key regulatory authorities at each level are depicted in the following chart: Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem The Directorate General of GAIL complies with the notified Right of Use (RoU) and statutory Hydrocarbons (DGH) has been PNGRB regulatory framework with clearances are critical to ensuring entrusted with the responsibility of respect to activities pertaining to stakeholder consent and minimizing promoting exploration and sound petroleum products and natural associated risks in natural gas management of petroleum and gas. The regulations/amendments/ infrastructure development. Pipeline natural gas resources as well as nonauthorizations/ orders/ decisions of projects are delayed and at times conventional hydrocarbon energy PNGRB are appealable before PNGRB are scrapped due to RoU and Land resources while balancing regard for Bench/Appellate Tribunal/ Courts. acquisition resistances and delay the environment, safety, technological Some of them pertaining to GAIL are in clearances and permissions. The and economic aspects. GAIL engages at various stages of appeal and cover ambitious Kochi-Koottanad-Bengaluruwith DGH for E&P activities that areas such as pipeline authorization, Mangalore gas pipeline project had contribute to the nation’s energy common carrier, unbundling of gas remained stalled mid construction, for security. For E&P Blocks where transportation and gas marketing nearly three years, primarily due to GAIL is the operator, all compliances activities. Making regular written land acquisition issues and opposition in respect of various statutory submissions to PNGRB in matters by Tamil Nadu farmers and the State regulations related to Mines Act, of public consultation helps GAIL to Government. GAIL challenged the Explosives Act and Rules, Environment anticipate any sudden or unforeseen Tamil Nadu government order directing related acts and rules, Hazardous changes in regulation and minimize the GAIL to lay its pipelines alongside the Waste (Management, Handling & associated risks. National Highways without affecting Transboundary Movement) Act and the agricultural lands of local farmers. Rules and Manufacture, Storage & For pipeline design, construction and In February 2016, the Supreme Court Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules maintenance, apart from national finally gave an order in favor of GAIL were complied with. GAIL fulfilled its standards prescribed by OISD, GAIL and gave the project a ‘go-ahead’. obligations under the different Product practices international standards such The Supreme Court ruled that the Sharing Contracts signed by GAIL as ASME, API, DIN and ISO. Prior to RoU of land is being acquired for initiation of pipeline design, a detailed 97 with Indian and other governments by laying of gas pipeline, after which it maintaining necessary communication Environment Impact Assessment will be restored to the land owners and coordination with DGH. (EIA) is carried out by GAIL, followed in the original condition. Farmers by a series of approvals from the can continue agricultural activities The Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry of Environment and Forests after the restoration of land and only Regulatory Board (PNGRB) has been & Climate Change (MoEF & CC). The construction of permanent structure, established by the Central Government pipeline alignment is selected to plantation of deep rooted trees are for carrying out the various provisions optimize the length while avoiding not allowed in the acquired RoU and as of the PNGRB Act, 2006. The objective ecologically sensitive and protected such there will be no adverse effect to of PNGRB is to regulate the refining, areas; geographically unstable areas; the interest of the farmers. In light of processing, storage, transportation, less number of obstacle crossings the same, compensation will be paid distribution, marketing and sale of including national and state highways, to the land owner as per Petroleum & petroleum, petroleum products and Railways, restricted or reserve forest Minerals Pipelines Act. The Hon’ble natural gas, excluding production area and Coastal Regulation Zones Supreme Court has ordered that the of crude oil and natural gas so as to (CRZ). As per PNGRB guidelines, all RoU compensation against land will be protect the interests of consumers and contractors involved in pipeline laying 10% of market value as on 1.1.2016 in entities engaged in specified activities operations are mandated to limit addition to 30% Solatium. It also ruled relating to petroleum, petroleum activities within the approved right of that laying of cross country pipelines products and natural gas and to ensure way. With respect to Resettlement and along the highway is not technically uninterrupted and adequate supply of Rehabilitation of affected persons due feasible for the reason of security petroleum, petroleum products and to land acquisition for pipeline laying, maintenance of pipeline and disruption natural gas in all parts of the country GAIL adheres strictly to the national of Highways. and to promote competitive markets law. In 2015 -16, no Resettlement and for matters connected therewith and Rehabilitation activities were or incidental thereto. undertaken for any of the GAIL’s projects. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Unlocking Opportunities in the Regulatory Landscape Being a CPSE, GAIL is directly With a strong foundation for regulatory pipeline. Thereafter, under the aegis accountable to the Government compliance, GAIL confidently declares of MoPNG, gas supplier ONGC and the of India for its performance and that there has been no instance of nonpipeline owner/operator (GAIL) jointly fulfillment of business objectives. compliance with any stock exchange, agreed to adopt a Standard Operating GAIL is committed to responsible SEBI on any matter relating to capital Procedure (SOP) provided by the business growth and strives to market over the last 3 years. GAIL design, engineering consultant EIL for ensure compliance to all national and has also developed a framework to ensuring pipeline integrity measures. relevant international regulations. The ensure legal and regulatory compliance The committee constituted by PNGRB regulatory compliance requirements with respect to technical and safety has verified and confirmed that since across various segments are standards, as well as, effectiveness of resumption of gas intake in the KG mapped systematically by the Legal all its operations. GAIL gives very high Basin pipeline network, the natural Compliance Management System priority to safety of its operations. gas is meeting the requirements (LCMS). The LCMS helps GAIL to Hence, GAIL also follows OISD specified under regulations. Apart ensure compliance with the provisions standards, over and above the PNGRB from cases as reported above, of all applicable laws. Periodic review mandate. in FY 2015-16, no case has been and audit is an integral part of online reported where administrative or LCMS. A legal firm was engaged for There have been no incidents of judicial sanctions have been levied third party independent audit of the non-compliance with respect to against the organization for failure compliances for the period 01.04.2015 regulations and voluntary codes to comply with laws or regulations, to 30.09.2015, to verify the zero nonconcerning health and safety impacts including: international declarations, compliance report submitted by all of products and services during their conventions, treaties, and national, GAIL sites. life cycle, marketing communications, sub-national, regional, and local including advertising, promotion, and regulations and cases brought against GAIL’s Risk Management Policy and sponsorship. G4-SO8, G4-PR7, G4-PR9 the organization through the use of Procedure is also used to fulfill its international dispute mechanisms 98 compliance related obligations. The Anti-Competitive or national dispute mechanisms risk management framework is a supervised by government authorities. strategic tool that identifies potential BehaviourG4-DMA, G4-SO7 risks to GAIL’s business and in this manner, helps protect the company Being a market leader in the gas sector, and all its stakeholders from any GAIL’s committed to ensuring ethical sudden or unforeseen risk. Using an behaviour in its business practices. online risk register, GAIL maps its legal Falling under the purview of the and regulatory risks across all sites. Competition Commission of India, Risks related to gas allocation policy, GAIL ensures that it is not indulging gas pricing policy, and regulations in any form of practices which can related to PNGRB, climate change, potentially restrain any competition in environment and sustainability among the market. There have been five cases other pertinent issues are included in filed against GAIL, before PNGRB the mapping procedure. regarding unfair trade practices, restrictive trade practices and misuse A detailed environment management of monopoly. Out of these five cases, system has been developed by GAIL. three were held against GAIL and two We continuously endeavour to manage were announced in favour of GAIL. In our emissions, effluents and waste in one of the cases, the Board imposed an eco-friendly and efficient manner. a INR 10 lakh fine against GAIL. Three All statutory compliances with respect out of five matters are at present to preventive maintenance schedule pending before the Appellate Tribunal and environmental clearances through for Electricity (APTEL) and one case respective Pollution Control Board are is pending before the Honorable taken in due course, along with creation Supreme Court. During the year, of separate budgets for compliances. PNGRB imposed a civil penalty of INR The hazardous solid waste generated 65 Lakh in regards to the explosion at our facilities is stored and disposed at Tatipaka in 2014 and stated that in compliance with applicable transportation of wet gas was the regulations. principal reason of failure of the Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Performance SnapshotG4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN3, G4-EN6, G4-EN10, G4-EN20, G4-EN21, G4-EN22, G4-EN23, G4-EN29, G4-EN31, G410, OG3,OG6 Material Consumption Unit 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 NG Processed MMSCM 15120 14373 14529 13584 22060 NG to Product MMSCM 1137 1080 1058 1112 966 Lean NG to P/L MMSCM 13419 12944 13203 12044 19515 Associated Material MT 9916 10631 10563 11350 13428 Packaging Material MT 2249 2208 2090 2228 1693 Recycled Material MT 0 0 0 0 0 Energy Consumption (GJ) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Direct Energy 39012486 37359156 35859826 35088263 37900494 Indirect Energy 1166546 1118455 1126035 1233894 1847583 Renewable Energy 12156 27980 88274 95944 80943 Energy from NG Flaring 337453 367375 347921 355781 391379 Energy from LPG Flaring 4923 2472 2889 3035 5240 Energy from NG Venting 133305 444484 490193 626991 663733 Energy from LPG Venting 3739 2619 4744 5626 5468 99 Energy Source (GJ) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Diesel 19666 20093 20330 18628 14467.48 Natural Gas 31033613 30056464 28988285 28163438 32165593.23 Residual Fuel 7956762 7279523 6849248 6906178 5720433.02 LPG 2444 3076 1963 18 0.47 Total Direct Energy 39012486 37359156 35859826 35088264 37900494 Energy Saving (GJ) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Total Energy Saved 1174650 152061 55967 575362 42,987 GHG Saving (MT eCO2) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Total GHG Saved 66159 8805 4225 33253 3,599 Renewable Energy Generation (GJ) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Wind Energy 43414 545124 464398 404929 571230 Solar Energy 75 3262 34621 31553 34790 Total Renewable Energy 43489 548386 499018 436481 606020 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Performance Snapshot Air Emissions (Tons/Annum) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 SPM 1012 912 815 491 360 NOx 695 848 968 1482 1318 CO 0.03 0 668 607 425 SOx 193 178 304 216 133 VOC 0.01 0.02 2.25 18 12 R-134a 169 0 226 226 165 ODS Gas Consumption Unit 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 R22 Kg/Annum 2299 2778 1951 2428 3154 ODP CFC-11 126.44 152.77 107.33 133.54 173.47 Emissions (tCO2eq) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Scope 1 Emissions 2363624 2381898 2285196 2252649 2,549,023 Scope 2 Emissions 256278 256781 258538 280981 420,835 Total GHG Emissions 2619902 2638679 2543735 2533629 2,969,858 100 Water (Million m3) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Total Water Consumption 14.1 13.9 12.9 14.3 17.01 Total Waste Water Generated 2.3 2.4 2 1.7 1.6 Total Waste Water Discharged 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.01 Water Recycled/ Reused 0.9 1.1 0.8 0.6 0.55 Type of disposal Liquid (Litre) Misc (Number) Solid (MT) Incineration 6057.75 0 0 Landfill 8.85 0 20 Onsite storage 217.73 19677 991 Deep Well injection 0.33 0 0 Recycle 3549.46 1394263.6 8461 Reuse 0 0 237 Other 626.83 44113.5 2236 Water Oil & Hexavalent Total Discharge COD BOD TSS Phenol pH Grease Chromium Chromium by quality – (mg/l) (mg/l) (mg/l) (mg/l) (mg/l) (mg/l) (mg/l) Parameters* Standard 6.5-8.5 <=10 <=250 <=30 <=100 <=1 0.1 2 Actual Value 7.26 2 79.2 22.1 11 BDL BDL BDL *This data pertains to major applicable site. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Environmental Fine Unit 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Show Cause Notices Received Numbers 1 0 0 0 0 Environmental Fines INR 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental Expenditure (INR Million ) 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Treatment and Disposal of Waste 7 8 4 10 5.1 Depreciation and Maintenance Cost of Equipment Used In 16 16 16 85 40.8 Pollution Control External Services for Environmental Management 4 5 5 9 10.7 External Certification of Management Systems 1 1 1 2 1.1 Personnel for General Environmental Management Activities 20 18 17 18 30.6 Extra Expenditures for Installing Cleaner Technologies 10 1 0 29 4.6 Insurance for environmental liability 0 0 0 0 52.2 Other Environmental Costs 6 5 3 7 4.9 Total Environmental Expenditures 64 54 46 160 148 Health and Safety of Permanent Unit 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Employees G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA12 Management Representatives in Numbers 245 247 290 301 300 101 Safety Committees Non-Management Representatives Numbers 172 182 189 166 196 in Safety Committees Near Miss Cases Male Numbers 156 156 217 316 342 Near Miss Cases Female Numbers 0 1 2 2 3 Minor Injuries Male Numbers 0 0 0 3 2 Minor Injuries Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 1 Reportable Injuries Male Numbers 0 0 4 0 1 Reportable Injuries Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Days Due to Reportable Numbers 0 0 8 0 6002 Injuries Male Lost Days Due to Reportable Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Injuries Female Fatalities Male Numbers 0 0 0 0 1 Fatalities Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 First Aid Cases Male Numbers 17 11 1 3 0 First Aid Cases Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Man-hours Worked Male Million man-hours 6.6 5.6 7.5 6.3 6.5 Man-hours Worked Female Million man-hours 0 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.25 Occupational Diseases Permanent Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 EmployeesMale Occupational Diseases Permanent Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Employees Female Sustainability Report 2015-16 Performance Snapshot Health and Safety of Permanent Unit 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Employees G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA12 LTIFR Male Reportable 0 0 0.54 0 0.15 Injuries per Million man-hours worked LTIFR Female Reportable 0 0 0 0 Injuries per Million man-hours worked Severity Rate Total Lost Days per 0 0 0 0 889.2 million man-hours worked Fatality Rate Male Fatalities per 0 0 0 0 0.15 million man-hours worked Fatality Rate Female Fatalities per 0 0 0 0 million man-hours worked Health & Safety of Contract Unit 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Employees Near Miss Cases Male Numbers 208 184 229 207 198 102 Near Miss Cases Female Numbers 0 0 0 2 0 Minor Injuries Male Numbers 3 3 4 9 3 Minor Injuries Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Reportable Injuries Male Numbers 0 0 6 8 3 Reportable Injuries Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Days Due to Reportable Numbers 0 0 12 16 6006 Injuries Male Lost Days Due to Reportable Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 InjuriesFemale Fatalities Male Numbers 0 0 0 0 2 Fatalities Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 First Aid Cases Male Numbers 73 57 8 73 55 First Aid Cases – Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Man-hours Worked Male Million man-hours 30.7 16.7 19.7 19.8 28.3 Man-hours Worked Female Million man-hours 0 0.4 1 0.5 0.5 Occupational DiseasesContract Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Employees-Male Occupational DiseasesContract Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Employees-Female LTIFR Male Reportable 0 0 0.31 0.4 0.11 Injuries per million man-hours worked LTIFR Female Reportable 0 0 0 0 Injuries per million man-hours worked Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Health & Safety of Contract Unit 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Employees Severity Rate Total Lost Days Per 0 0 9.29 2.31 208.5 Million man-hours worked Fatality Rate Male Fatalities Per 0 0 0 0 0.07 million man-hours worked Fatality Rate Female Fatalities Per 0 0 0 0 million man-hours worked Contract Employee Distribution (Numbers) 2015-16 Security Staff Male 2599 Security Staff Female 4 Regular Contract Worker Male 15287 Regular Contract Worker Female 362 Permanent Employee Distribution G4-10 2015-16 Senior Management (E7-E9) Male 259 103 Senior Management (E7-E9) Female 7 Middle Management (E4-E6) Male 1416 Middle Management (E4-E6) Female 47 Junior Management (E0-E3) Male 1491 Junior Management (E0-E3) Female 162 Non-Management (S0-S7) Male 899 Non-Management (S0-S7) Female 36 Senior Management (E7-E9): <30 Years Age 0 Senior Management (E7-E9): 30 To 50 Years Age 64 Senior Management (E7-E9): >50 Years Age 202 Middle Management (E4-E6): <30 Years Age 0 Middle Management (E4-E6): 30 To 50 Years Age 1144 Middle Management (E4-E6): >50 Years Age 319 Junior Management (E0-E3): <30 Years Age 545 Junior Management (E0-E3): 30 To 50 Years Age 823 Junior Management (E0-E3): >50 Years Age 285 Non-Management (S0-S7): <30 Years Age 121 Non-Management (S0-S7): 30 To 50 Years Age 687 Non-Management (S0-S7): >50 Years Age 119 Employee Turnover Management 72 Employee Turnover Non-Management 9 Employee Turnover Age<30-Male 17 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Performance Snapshot Permanent Employee Distribution G4-10 2015-16 Employee Turnover Age<30-Female 2 Employee Turnover Age:30-50 Male 13 Employee Turnover Age:30-50 Female 2 Employee Turnover Age>50-Male 45 Employee Turnover Age>50-Female 2 New Employees Hired During FY: Male 134 New Employees Hired During FY: Female 2 New Employees Hired Who Resigned in The Same FY: Male 0 New Employees Hired Who Resigned in The Same FY: Female 0 Training 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Management Employees (Direct) Male 107250 129831 120497 139647 154,468.22 Management Employees (Direct) – Female 5445 7211 6856 9256 9,455.75 Workmen (Direct Employees) Male 29071 26493 25009 26541 9,302.75 Workmen (Direct Employees) Female 1520 1268.6 875 1191 317.25 Contractual Labour (Operations) Male 38944 41835 53878 45767 43,265.55 Contractual Labour (Operations) – Female 0 670 983 7199 1,166.00 Permanent EmployeePhysically Disabled 0 0 1007 2652 1,374.00 104 Contract Worker -Physically Disabled 0 0 0 4 4 Total Training for Direct Employees (Site-Based) 143286 164804 153237 176636 173668 Emission Calculation Methodology Total Scope-1 Emissions have been calculated based on the IPCC Emission Factors and internal Process Calculations. Emissions have been identified from different sources of fuel and direct CO2 emissions. Total Scope-2 Emissions have been calculated by weighted average grid Emission factors given by Central Electricity Authority, Government of India for Unified Grid. The Guidelines used are GHG Protocol, ISO 14064. Direct & Indirect Energy from different fuels, renewables and electricity have been calculated by the corresponding calorific value of the fuel and theoretical thermal equivalence respectively. NOx, SOx, SPM, CO, VOC have been reported by Test Report data and standard calculation formula. Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem Independent Assurance Statement Scope and approach GAIL (India) Limited ( GAIL or ‘the Company’) commissioned by DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited (“DNV GL”) to undertake independent assurance of the Company’s Sustainability Report 2015 -16 in its printed formats (the “Report”) for the Financial year ended 31st March, 2016. Our responsibility in performing this work is regarding verification of Sustainability performance disclosed in the Report and in accordance with the agreed scope of work with the management of the Company. The intended users of this assurance statement are the management of the Company. Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out during June and July, 2016. We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1 , which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised*, along with AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 ((AA1000AS (2008)) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (GRI G4) including the Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures (OGSD). We evaluated the performance data using the reliability principle together with GAIL (India) Limited data protocols for how the data are measured, recorded and reported. The performance data in our scope of work was the verification of the qualitative and quantitative information on sustainability performance disclosed in the Report covering Economic, Environmental and Social performance of the activities undertaken by the Company over the Reporting period 1st April, 2015 to 31st March, 2016 and based on the GRI G4. We understand that the reported financial data and information are based on data from GAIL (India) Limited Annual Report and Account for year ending 31st March, 2016, which are subject to a separate independent audit process. The review of financial data taken from the Annual Report and Accounts is not within the scope of our work. We planned and performed our work to obtain the evidence we considered necessary to provide a basis for our assurance opinion. We are providing a ‘moderate level’ of assurance and no external stakeholders were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. Responsibilities of the Management of GAIL (India) Limited and of the Assurance Providers The Top Management team of GAIL (India) Limited have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report and are responsible for all information provided in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, analysing and reporting the information presented in the printed Report. In performing our assurance work, our responsibility is to the Management of GAIL (India) Limited; however our statement represents our independent opinion and is intended to inform outcome of our assurance to the stakeholders of GAIL (India) Limited. DNV GL provides a range of other services to GAIL (India) Limited, none of which constitutes a conflict of Interest with this assurance work. This is the 3rd year that we have provided assurance of the full Report. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by GAIL to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Basis of our opinion A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed work at Corporate office and Site Levels of GAIL (India) Limited. We undertook the 105 following activities: PP Review of the current sustainability issues that could affect GAIL and are of interest to identified stakeholders; PP Review of GAIL approach to stakeholder engagement and recent outputs although we have no direct engagement with stakeholders; PP Review of information provided to us by GAIL on its reporting and management processes relating to the Principles; PP Interviews with selected Directors, Leadership team, and Senior managers responsible for management of sustainability issues and review of selected evidence to support issues discussed. We were free to choose interviewees and interviewed those with overall responsibility for the programmes to deliver the GAIL’s Sustainability Aspirations 2020 for medium and long term Vision, Mission and milestones; PP Site visits were conducted in GAIL Corporate Office at New Delhi, GAIL Training Institute (GTI) & Jubilee Tower at Noida and five operational sites located in India i.e. Petrochemical Plant at Pata (U.P.), Gas Processing Unit and Compressor Station at Vijaipur (M.P.), LPG Pumping and receiving station at Loni (U.P), Natural Gas Compressor Station at Hazira and Gas Processing Unit at Gandhar (Gujarat) to review process and systems for preparing site level sustainability data and implementation of sustainability strategy. The sites we visited were selected on the basis of their materiality to the group for environmental impacts as well as to give a geographical and divisional spread; PP Review of supporting evidence for key claims and data in the Report. Our checking processes were prioritised according to materiality and we based our prioritisation on the materiality of issues at a consolidated corporate level; PP Review of the processes for gathering and consolidating the specified performance data and, for a sample, checking the data consolidation; and PP An independent assessment of GAIL (India) Limited reporting against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines and the Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures (OGSD). During the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance engagement, except disclosures related to Exploration and Production (E&P) operations, Joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities which are out of scope & boundary as set out in the report. Opinion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe, GAIL (India) Limited adherence to GRI G4 content Principles, General standard disclosure and specific standard disclosures for ‘In accordance’ –Core reporting as below: PP General Standard Disclosures: The reported information on General Standard Disclosure generally meets the disclosure requirements for ‘in accordance’ – Core option. PP Specific Standard Disclosures: The Report describes the generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) and Performance Indicators for identified material Aspects as below: Economic PP Economic Performance – G4-EC1, G4-EC2, G4-EC3 & G4-EC4; PP Indirect Economic Impacts & Community DevelopmentG4EC7 & G4-EC8; PP Procurement PracticesG4-EC9; 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on dnvgl.com. * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental PP Materials – G4-EN1 & G4-EN2; PP Energy – G4-EN3, EN5 & EN6; OG2 & OG3; PP Water – G4EN8, EN9 & EN10; PP Emissions – G4-EN15, EN16, EN18,EN19, EN20 & EN 21; OG6; PP Effluents and Waste – G4-EN22, EN23, EN24 & EN26; PP Compliance – G4-EN29; PP OverallG4-EN31; PP Supplier Environmental Assessment – G4EN32 & 33; PP Environmental Grievance Mechanisms – G4-EN34; Social Labour Practices and Decent Work PP Employment – G4-LA1, LA2 & LA 3; PP Labor and Management Relationship – G4LA4 ; PP Occupational Health and Safety – G4-LA5, LA6, LA7 & LA8; PP Training and Education – G4-LA9, LA10 & LA11; PP Diversity and Equal Opportunity – G4-LA12; PP Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – G4LA13; PP Supplier Assessment of Labour Practices – G4LA14 & LA15; PP Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms – G4-LA16; Human Rights 106 PP InvestmentG4HR1 & HR2; PP Non-discrimination – G4-HR3; PP Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining – G4-HR4; PP Child LaborG4-HR5; PP Forced and Compulsory Labor – G4HR6; PP Security Practices – G4-HR7; PP Indigenous RightsGR-HR8; PP AssessmentG4HR9; PP Supplier Human Rights Assessment – G4-HR10 & HR11; PP Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms – G4-HR12; Society PP Local Communities –G4-SO1 & SO2; PP Anti-corruption – G4-SO3, SO4 & SO5; PP Public PolicyG4-SO6; PP Anti-Competitive BehaviourG4-SO7; PP Compliance – G4-SO8; PP Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society – G4-SO9 & SO10; PP Grievance Mechanisms for Impact on SocietyG4-SO11; PP Asset Integrity and Process SafetyOG13; Product Responsibility PP Customer Health and SafetyG4-PR2; PP Product and Service Labelling – G4-PR3,PR4 & PR5; PP Marketing CommunicationsG4-PR6 & PR7; PP Customer Privacy – G4-PR8; PP Compliance – G4-PR9. Observations Without affecting our assurance opinion we also provide the following observations. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem AA1000AS (2008) Principles Inclusivity The participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to Sustainability. The stakeholder engagement process is well established to identify sustainability challenges and concerns of diverse stakeholder groups considering the GAIL Operations businesses and the Report brings out key concerns of diverse stakeholders like Health and Safety issues, Gas and Petrochemicals Marketing, Transparency and Ethics, Waste Management and Operational Efficiency. The stakeholder concerns are well identified, documented and reported. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Materiality The process of determining the issues that are most relevant to an organization and its stakeholders The materiality determination process was revalidated based on inputs from key stakeholders including employees, customers, suppliers, NGOs, governments, regulatory bodies, local communities and senior management of GAIL and has not missed out key material issues from the Oil & Gas Sector. The management of GAIL (India) Limited has established internal assessment process for monitoring and management on a continual basis for their long term organisational sustainability. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Responsiveness The extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder issues. The Report has brought out key responses to the materiality aspects in a comprehensive manner for stakeholder to make informed decisions and adequately disclosed the strategies and management approach related to identified key sustainability aspects and challenges considering the overall sustainability context of the Oil & gas sector, within the identified aspect boundary. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Reliability The accuracy and comparability of information presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data management systems. The majority of data and information verified at the Corporate Office, Jubilee Tower and GTI, Noida and five operational sites were found to be accurate and nothing came to our attention to suggest that reported data have not been properly collated from information reported at operational level, nor that the assumptions used were inappropriate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been communicated for correction. Hence in accordance with AA1000AS (2008) requirements for a Type 2, moderate level assurance engagement, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and information presented in the Report is generally reliable. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Specific Evaluation of the information on Sustainability Performances We consider the methodology and process for gathering information developed by the Company for its sustainability performance reporting to be appropriate and the qualitative and quantitative data include in the Report was found to be identifiable and traceable; the personnel responsible were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data and its reliability. We observed that the report presents a faithful description of the Company’s sustainability activities. Additional Parameters as per DNVGL’s VeriSustain Protocol 107 Completeness How much of all the information that has been identified as material to the organisation and its stakeholders is reported The Report has fairly attempted to disclose the General and Specific Standard disclosures including the disclosure on management approach and performance indicators for identified material aspects for GRI G4 – ‘In accordance’ – Core option. The reporting of performance and data is comprehensive except for certain material aspects as systems to report the performance indicators are being established and set the internal time lines for disclosure. Hence in our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Neutrality The extent to which a report provides a balanced account of an organization’s performance, delivered in a neutral tone. The disclosures related to sustainability issues and performances are reported in a neutral tone, in terms of content and presentation, however Report could further bring out responses related to the challenges faced during the reporting period at various geographical locations of operations in terms of disclosure of all identified material aspects, sustainability goals and targets etc. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for improvement reported to the management of the Company and are not considered for drawing our conclusions on the Report; however they are generally consistent with the management’s objectives: PP Future reports may further bring out the impacts of material aspects in the value chain, Joint Ventures and Subsidiaries i.e. re-evaluate materiality in the value chain for the reporting boundary related to material, social and environmental impacts of its suppliers, products and services. PP Integrate risk management process with its business sustainability strategy through consistent tracking and reporting of key performance indicators to achieve sustainable performance across geo-locations. PP Sustainability performance may be benchmarked across geo-locations for review and monitoring based on long term Sustainability targets. GAIL (India) could also look at the peers in the industry on sustainability practices in improving the maturity of the practices and its associated business impacts. DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Standard Page External Assurance Disclosures Section: Strategy & Analysis G4-1 6-CMD Message Yes; 105Independent G4-2 6-CMD Message, 17-Corporate Governance and Risk Management Assurance Statement Section: Organizational Profile G4-3 GAIL (India) Limited G4-4 9-About GAIL G4-5 New Delhi, India G4-6 9-About GAIL; 14, 55 GAIL Annual Report FY 15-16 http://www.gailonline.com/final_site/pdf/ANNUAL_REPORT2015-16-FINAL.pdf 108 G4-7 GAIL is a Central Public Sector Enterprise, listed on BSE, NSE and Global depository receipt (GDR) on London Stock Exchange G4-8 9-About GAIL, 18 to 19 GAIL Annual Report FY 15 -16 G4-9 9-About GAIL; 14, 25, 33 GAIL Annual Report FY 15-16; http://www.gailonline. com/final_site/index.html; 62Adapting to new eco-system: Innovating for Yes; 105Independent profitability Assurance Statement G4-10 46Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth; 103 to 104Performance snapshot G4-11 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth G4-12 9-About GAIL; 76 to 77-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain G4-13 4-About the Report G4-14 17-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-15 93-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-16 88, 93-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships (Government & Regulatory Agencies) Section: Identified Material Aspects & Boundaries G4-17 9-About GAIL: 154 GAIL Annual Report FY 15-16 G4-18 4-About the report G4-19 29-Stakeholder engagement & materiality (Materiality Matrix) Yes; 105Independent G4-20 29-Stakeholder engagement & materiality (Materiality Matrix) Assurance Statement G4-21 29-Stakeholder engagement & materiality G4-22 4-About the report; 104-Performance snapshot G4-23 4 to 5-About the report Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem General Standard Page External Assurance Disclosures Section: Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 25-Stakeholder engagement & materiality G4-25 25-Stakeholder engagement & materiality Yes; 105Independent G4-26 25-Stakeholder engagement & materiality Assurance Statement G4-27 25-Stakeholder engagement & materiality Section: Report Profile G4-28 Financial Year 15-16; 4-About the report G4-29 This is GAIL’s 6th Sustainability Report (SR). The 5th SR was released on 16.09.2015 G4-30 Annual Yes; 105Independent G4-31 122-Way Forward Assurance Statement G4-32 4-About the report G4-33 5-About the report Section: Governance G4-34 14-Corporate Governance and Risk Management; 22 GAIL Annual Report FY 15-16 G4-35 14-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-36 14-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-37 20-Corporate Governance and Risk Management 109 G4-38 22, 47 to 48 GAIL Annual Report FY 15-16 G4-39 14-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-40 14-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-41 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-42 14, 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-43 14, 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-44 14-Corporate Governance and Risk Management Yes; 105Independent Assurance Statement G4-45 17-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-46 17-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-47 17-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-48 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-49 20-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-50 20-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-51 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-52 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-53 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-54 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management G4-55 15-Corporate Governance and Risk Management Section: Ethics & Integrity G4-56 18-Corporate Governance and Risk Management Yes; 105Independent G4-57 18-Corporate Governance and Risk Management Assurance Statement G4-58 18-Corporate Governance and Risk Management Sustainability Report 2015-16 Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Material Aspects Page Omissions External Assurance Indicators Disclosure of G4-DMA All chapters Management Approach Category: Economic G4-DMA 62-Adapting to new eco-system: Innovating for profitability G4-EC1 64-Adapting to new eco-system: Innovating for profitability G4-EC2 18-Corporate Governance and Risk Management; Economic 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes Performance through operational excellence; 90-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships; G4-EC3 89-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-EC4 64-Adapting to new eco-system: Innovating for Yes; 105Independent profitability Assurance Statement G4-DMA 90-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships Indirect 110 G4-EC7 91, 92-Communicating for effective synergies and Economic partnerships Impacts G4-EC8 91, 92-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-DMA 78-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Procurement Chain Practices G4-EC9 GAIL considers India as local. 78-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Category: Environmental G4-DMA 32-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence Materials G4-EN1 99-Performance Snapshot G4-EN2 99-Performance Snapshot G4-DMA 32-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence OG2 66-Adapting to new eco-system: Innovating for profitability OG3 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence, 99-Performance Yes; 105Independent Snapshot Assurance Statement Energy G4-EN3 99-Performance Snapshot G4-EN4 41-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence G4-EN5 21-Sustainability Strategy OG5 Not Material G4-EN6 99-Performance Snapshot G4-EN7 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem DMA and Material Aspects Page Omissions External Assurance Indicators G4-DMA 41-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence G4-EN8 41-Ensuring robust systems and processes through Water operational excellence G4-EN9 41-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence G4-EN10 99-Performance Snapshot G4-DMA 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence G4-EN15 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence G4-EN16 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence G4-EN17 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes Emissions through operational excellence G4-EN18 21-Sustainability Strategy G4-EN19 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence; 99-Performance Snapshot G4-EN20 99-Performance Snapshot 111 G4-EN21 99-Performance Snapshot G4-DMA 37-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence Yes; 105Independent G4-EN22 99-Performance Snapshot Assurance Statement G4-EN23 99-Performance Snapshot OG6 99-Performance Snapshot Effluents & Waste G4-EN24 No Significant spills G4-EN25 37-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence G4-EN26 There is no significant impact of our wastewater discharges and run-offs to water bodies located in the vicinity of our operations G4-DMA 14-Corporate Governance & Risk Management; 33-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence; Compliance 97-Unlocking opportunities in the regulatory landscape G4-EN29 99-Performance Snapshot G4-DMA 32-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence G4-EN30 37-Ensuring robust systems and processes through Transport operational excellence; Most of our product distribution is undertaken through pipelines which forms a part of scope 2 emissions. Sustainability Report 2015-16 DMA and Material Aspects Page Omissions External Assurance Indicators G4-DMA 40-Ensuring robust systems and processes Overall through operational excellence G4-EN31 99-Performance Snapshot G4-DMA 79-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Supplier G4-EN32 100% of new suppliers have been screened through Yes; 105Independent Environmental Environmental Criteria Assurance Statement Assessment G4-EN33 81-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Environmental G4-DMA 20-Corporate Governance & Risk Management Grievance G4-EN34 20-Corporate Governance & Risk Management Mechanisms Category: Social Sub-category: Labour Practices & Decent Work G4-DMA 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth G4-LA1 46-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Employment G4-LA2 89-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-LA3 47-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth 112 Labour/ G4-DMA 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Management G4-LA4 49-Notice periods regarding operational changes Relations G4-LA5 101-Performance Snapshot Occupational G4-LA6 101-Performance Snapshot Health & Safety G4-LA7 101-Performance Snapshot G4-LA8 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth G4-DMA 48-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Training & G4-LA9 48-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Education G4-LA10 48-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Yes; 105Independent G4-LA11 45-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Assurance Statement Diversity G4-DMA 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth and Equal G4-LA12 101-Performance Snapshot Opportunity Equal G4-DMA 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Remuneration G4-LA13 48-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth for Women and Men G4-DMA 79-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Supplier G4-LA14 81-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Assessment for Chain Labour Practices G4-LA15 79-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Labour Practices G4-DMA 20-Corporate Governance & Risk Management Grievance G4-LA16 20-Corporate Governance & Risk Management Mechanisms Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem DMA and Material Aspects Page Omissions External Assurance Indicators Category: Social Sub-category: Human Rights G4-DMA 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth G4-HR1 49-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Human Rights Chain; 63-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Investments Supply Chain G4-HR2 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth NonG4-DMA 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth discrimination G4-HR3 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Freedom of G4-DMA 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Association G4-HR4 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth G4-DMA 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Child Labour G4-HR5 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth (Human Rights) Forced or G4-DMA 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Compulsory G4-HR6 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Labour (Human Rights) Security G4-DMA 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Practices G4-HR7 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Yes; 105Independent 113 Assurance Statement G4-DMA 91-Communicating for effective synergies and Indigenous partnerships Rights G4-HR8 91-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-DMA 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth Assessment G4-HR9 49-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth; 79-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-DMA 79-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Supplier G4-HR10 81-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Human Rights Chain Assessments G4-HR11 79-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Human Rights G4-DMA 20-Corporate Governance & Risk Management Grievance G4-HR12 20-Corporate Governance & Risk Management Mechanisms Sustainability Report 2015-16 DMA and Material Aspects Page Omissions External Assurance Indicators Category: Social Sub-category: Society G4-DMA 91-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-SO1 91-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-SO2 59-Ensuring safety of our people & environment; Local 91-Communicating for effective synergies and Communities partnerships OG10 We did not have any incidents of significant disputes with local communities and indigenous people OG11 Nil G4-DMA 19-Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-SO3 19-Corporate Governance & Risk Management Anti-corruption G4-SO4 19-Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-SO5 19-Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-DMA 84-Unlocking opportunities in the regulatory landscape; 62-Adapting to new eco-system: 114 Public Policy Innovating for profitability G4-SO6 64-Adapting to new eco-system: Innovating for profitability G4-DMA 98-Unlocking opportunities in the regulatory Anti-competitive landscape Yes; 105Independent Behaviour G4-SO7 98-Unlocking opportunities in the regulatory Assurance Statement landscape G4-DMA 19-Corporate Governance & Risk Management; 32-Ensuring robust systems and processes through operational excellence; Compliance 95-Unlocking opportunities in the regulatory landscape G4-SO8 98-Unlocking opportunities in the regulatory landscape G4-DMA 79-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Supplier Chain Assessment G4-SO9 81-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply for Impacts on Chain Society G4-SO10 79-Creating Resilient Infrastructure in the Supply Chain Grievance G4-DMA 20-Corporate Governance & Risk Management Mechanisms G4-SO11 20-Corporate Governance & Risk Management for Impacts on Society Asset Integrity G4-DMA 32-Ensuring robust systems and processes through And Process operational excellence Safety OG13 55-Ensuring safety of our people & environment Nurturing Resilient Ecosystem DMA and Material Aspects Page Omissions External Assurance Indicators Category: Social Sub-category: Product Responsibility G4-DMA 44-Human Capital: Nurturing capacities for growth; 90-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships Customer Health G4-PR1 90-Communicating for effective synergies and & Safety partnerships G4-PR2 90-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-DMA 90-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-PR3 90-Communicating for effective synergies and Product & partnerships Service Labelling G4-PR4 90-Communicating for effective synergies and Yes; 105Independent partnerships Assurance Statement G4-PR5 90-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships G4-DMA 90-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships Marketing & G4-PR6 There is no sale of banned or disputed products by 115 Communications the company G4-PR7 98-Communication & Relationship with Customers G4-DMA 90-Communicating for effective synergies and Product partnerships Compliance G4-PR9 98-Communicating for effective synergies and partnerships Sustainability Report 2015-16 Linkages to API/IPIECA, UNGC, ISO 26000 Principles Section API/IPIECA Guidelines UNGC Principles ISO 26000:2010 Clauses Corporate Governance & SE11, SE12 Principle 10, Principle 7 4.4, 6.2, 6.3.6, 6.6.1-6.6.3, Risk Management 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 Sustainability Strategy E1, E2, E6 Principle 7, Principle 8, 4.7, 6.5.4-6.5.5, 7.4.2 Principle 9 Stakeholder Engagement & SE1, SE16 Principle 1 4.5, 5.2-5.3, 7.3.2-7.3.4 Materiality Delivering robust systems E1, E2, E3, E4, E6, E7, E8, E9, Principle 8, Principle 9 6.5.4-6.5.5, 6.6.6 and processes through E10 operational excellence Human Capital: Nurturing SE6, SE8, SE10, SE15, SE16, Principle 1, Principle 2, 4.8, 6.3.1-6.3.8, 6.3.10, 6.4.1, capacities for growth SE17, SE18 Principle 3, Principle 4, 6.4.3-6.4.7, 6.6.6, 6.8.4-6.8.5 Principle 5, Principle 6 Ensuring safety of our HS1, HS2, HS3, HS5 Principle 6 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.8 people and environment Adapting to new ecoSE4, SE5, SE7, SE13 Principle 9 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.4, 6.8.1-6.8.3, system: Innovating for 6.8.7, 6.8.9 profitability Creating Resilient SE5, SE7, SE9 Principle 8, Principle 10 6.3.3-6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.1-6.6.2, Infrastructure in the Supply 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.7, 7.3.1 Chain Communicating for effective SE1, SE2, SE4, SE14, HS4, Principle 6, Principle 7, 4.6, 6.3.4, 6.3.6-6.3.9, 6.4.4, synergies and partnerships SE14, HS1, HS2 Principle 8 6.5.1-6.5.3, 6.5.5, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 117 6.7.1-6.7.6, 6.7.8-6.7.9, 6.8, 6.8.1-6.8.3, 6.8.7-6.8.9, 7.5.3, 7.6.2, 7.8 Unlocking opportunities in SE14 Principle 10 4.6, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 the regulatory landscape Performance Snapshot E1, E2, E3, E4, E6, E7, E8, E10, Principle 7, Principle 8, 4.6, 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, HS3 Principle 9 6.4.6, 6.5.3-6.5.5, 6.8.8 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Way Forward e began our sustainability journey in 2011 and since then it has been our constant endeavour to incorporate the essence of sustainability across the organization. We understand that in order to create a legacy of consistent high performance, our sustainability efforts must align with the needs of all our stakeholders while excelling on financial, environmental, social and regulatory parameters. In order to achieve this, we will continue to innovate on our use of technology, systems, policies and procedures, so as to maximise our output and profitability. This is GAIL’s 2nd sustainability report based on GRI G4 guidelines . In a short span of time, GAIL has made notable progress on the sustainability front. In addition to complying to the mandatory regulatory reporting requirements, GAIL accounts for its performance with respect to several other voluntary initiatives such as the revised Sustainability Aspirations 2020 of GAIL, UNGC Principles and ISO 26000 guidelines. Sustainability reporting has helped us in monitoring our company’s performance and moving beyond the mandatory requirements to integrate sustainability within the organization in letter and spirit. Taking a step forward, GAIL’s sustainability initiatives in the future will examine the impacts of our operations in bio-diversity . The continued integration of technology for improvements in areas such as water consumption and health and safety through satellite based pipeline management systems will ensure the company will be a leader at the forefront of sustainability issues. We are also in process to revise our Sustainability Aspirations 2020. Further, to have a defined roadmap, we are also drafting Sustainability Charter for GAIL to take forward the Sustainability agenda at GAIL in a holistic manner. In addition, the company will continue to diligently monitor the implications of changing global oil prices and make necessary renegotiations in order to provide value for its customers. GAIL will continue to focus on growth which is sustainable for the economy, stakeholders, community and the environment. We are aware that sustainable growth is inextricably linked to our ecosystem. Thus, we are dedicated to creating long-term value for our investors and benefits for the communities in which we operate. GAIL seeks belief and support of all its stakeholders in order to achieve tangible progress on the front of sustainable success. We look forward to your constructive inputs towards this report. Your queries can be directed to: Mr. Narendra Kumar Executive Director (Corporate Planning & Corporate Affairs) nkumar@gail.co.in Mr. Santanu Roy General Manager (Corporate Planning) sroy@gail.co.in Our Participations GOLD Community 2016 GAIL (India) Limited We are a registered (Organizational Stakeholder) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GOLD Community Member and support the mission of the GRI to develop globally GAIL acknowledged among the CDP’s India Leaders accepted sustainability reporting guidelines through a 2015 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). global, multi-stakeholder process. Disclaimer In this report, the words ‘GAIL’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ are also used to refer to GAIL (India) Ltd. and its JVs/subsidiaries in general and where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. The report also contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial scenarios, results of operations and businesses of GAIL (India) Ltd. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Although management believes such statements to be reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove correct. GAIL (India) Ltd. cannot be held responsible for any losses that a party may sustain as a result of reliance of such forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and such future events could differ materially from those set out in the forward looking statements as a result of, among other factors: (i) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (ii) changes in demand for GAIL’s products; (iii) currency fluctuations; (iv) drilling and production results; (v) reserves estimates; (vi) environmental and physical risks; (vii) risks associated with transactions with national and international bodies, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (viii) fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (ix) fluctuations in trading conditions. Except in cases directly regulated under the applicable law, GAIL (India) Ltd. shall not assume any obligation to distribute or publish any updates or adjustments to its forward-looking statements that would reflect any changes of expectation or contain new information, or describe any subsequent events, conditions or circumstances. Designed by: National Advertising Agency
