Communication on Progress Implementing UN global compact principles www.mattaholding.com TRICOM SARL “I am pleased to confirm that TRICOM SARL reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, KARAM Rabih, Managing Director TRICOM SARL. Beirut, LEBANON COP for 2017 About the Company TRICOM SARL part of SAMIR MATTA GROUP holding was established in 2002, in order to increase the group portfolio and to support the two already existing establishments in increasing the chances of winning new project tenders. The company had grown fast and significantly. SAMIR MATTA GROUP holding was established in 1996 by Samir Matta . The establishment has grown significantly since it started and is known to be a major contractor for building electrical distribution networks in Lebanon for various clients such as Electricite Du Liban and Ministry of Power and Water resources and the Lebanese Army , etc (…). The association’s managing director and management oversee the daily activities of the 500 employees and co-ordinate the activities of the latge number of subcomitees and network groups linked to the company. We continue to grow in Lebanon relying on our commitment in providing the best quality of works for our clients while maintaining low costs and minimal expenses. Tricom’s approach to the 10 principles In 2013 Tricom SARL, signed up for the UN global compact program. In that time we decided to implement the 10 principles in our company. TRICOM S.A.R.L supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, Labor, environment and anti-corruption. TRICOM SARL. committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. TRICOM S.A.R.L made a clear statement of the commitment to the stakeholder and the general public. Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption TRICOM SARL & human rights & labour Respecting the human rights assume obligations to the company to respect and protect individual and groups against human rights abuses. This obligation is a positive action to facilitate enjoyment of basic human rights. Tricom’s employees have the right to individual freedom and expression and opinion. This is shown by creating their own syndicate ‘ as Tricom’ EDL employees “ and upholding regular meetings . Tricom is against and forbid child labor. Child labor is work that harms children or keeps them from attending school. Tricom’s employees are divided 50% male and 50% female and around 10% of this ratio are disabled people. TRICOM SARL & environment Tricom’s employees have a good working environment which lies having good health. It is our goal to have a high rate of employees satisfaction and low sickness absences. Tricom’s working construction sites are considered safe sites by implementing all safety elements in order to create a relaxing environment to the employees. TRICOM SARL & Anti-Corruption Realizing the unacceptable levels corruption reached in Lebanon and the need to act against it, Tricom SARL means to fight corruption, improve the quality of life, and encourage civil society to take measures towards transparency and accountability. Future plans and COP In 2017 till 2019 Tricom will focus one getting members register within the global compact framework, and try to turn the company GREEN.
