ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REVIEW Managing Sustainability 94 ¡ Key Performance Indicators 95 ¡ Materiality 96 ¡ Stakeholder Engagement 96 ¡ Reporting Framework and Scope 97 ¡ Our Supply Chain 98 ¡ Sembcorp’s Unique Utilities Business 100 Our Material ESG Issues 102 ¡ Environmental 102 – Climate Change 102 – Local Environmental Protection 102 – Energy and Water Efficiency 102 ¡ Social 109 – Health and Safety 109 – Our People 109 – Community 109 ¡ Governance 122 – Corporate Governance 123 – Risk Management 123 – Compliance 123 – Ethical Business Practices 123 Corporate Governance Statement 130 Sembcorp’s wind power assets in Madhya Pradesh, India Investor Relations 150 94 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 95 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REVIEW Sustainability at Sembcorp is about the creation of value over time for all our stakeholders, through an integrated approach that addresses evolving environmental, social and governance challenges and opportunities. MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY quarterly risk management committee meetings. Key Performance Indicators The Group’s performance in these areas is evaluated 2016 2015 2014 At Sembcorp, we believe in building sustainable against internal targets. Business units also provide Environmental businesses that deliver long-term shareholder value quarterly governance assurance certifications on the Climate Change and growth. We believe that a truly sustainable adequacy of their risk management and internal Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 1 (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 15.4 6.9 5.7 business not only creates economic value, but does control systems in line with Sembcorp’s Governance GHG emissions intensity1 (kilogrammes of CO2 equivalent per megawatt hour) 454.1 277.22 248.82 so in a way that benefits its stakeholders. Assurance Framework. Local Environmental Protection Our board of directors oversees the business We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Water withdrawal (million m3) 1873.9 1823.1 1593.7 Waste generated3 (thousand tonnes) 927.1 39.3 43.8 affairs of the Group and is collectively responsible for Compact, and our key sustainability principles are Hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 11.9 10.4 12.6 our long-term success. The main duties of the board set out in our Sustainability Policy. These principles Non-hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 915.2 28.9 31.2 include providing leadership on Sembcorp’s overall are applied throughout our management systems strategy, which takes into consideration sustainability and processes. We adopt a precautionary approach Social issues. Following our most recent materiality review, to avoid or minimise negative impacts. A list of our Health and Safety 4, 5 our management, with guidance from the board, policies, certified facilities as well as memberships Number of fatalities 3 3 0 Lost time injury rate per million man-hours6 1.2 1.3 3.5 has determined the environmental, social and and participation in external initiatives is available in Accident severity rate per million man-hours7 17.2 12.9 59.4 governance (ESG) issues that are material to the the Sustainability section of our website. Our People Group’s long-term sustainability. These 10 ESG issues Employee turnover (voluntary and involuntary)8 (%) 11.4 11.0 18.4 are presented on page 97 of this annual report. Average training hours per employee9 (hours) 28.2 20.6 22.3 Sembcorp’s Sustainability Steering Committee In 2016, Sembcorp was selected as an index Community component of the Dow Jones Sustainability Community contributions (S$ million) 4.2 3.3 2.4 (SSC) provides strategic direction for managing sustainability-related risks and opportunities. It Asia/Pacific Index, as well as the SGX Sustainability Leaders Index. We were also More performance data, including qualitative data on each of our material issues, is available in this ESG also guides the development and improvement recognised as one of the top three most Review, as well as in the Sustainability section of our website. of frameworks, policies, guidelines and processes to ensure that sustainability issues are effectively sustainable corporations in Singapore in the Notes: managed. The SSC is chaired by our Group Chief Channel NewsAsia Sustainability Ranking. Please refer to the section on Reporting Framework and Scope on page 97 for details on our scope 1 Emissions data covers entities that produce direct GHG emissions from the combustion of fossil fuel. It excludes emissions from anaerobic wastewater treatment Financial Officer, and comprises senior executives plants and maintenance and servicing equipment. Commentary on our performance may be found on page 106 of this report across various functions. Cross-functional 2 GHG emissions intensity figures for 2014 and 2015 are estimated. A small proportion of data on energy attributed to steam production in 2014 and 2015 was not available and was estimated based on data from 2016 subcommittees are also formed to review our risks 3 Data for waste generated excludes waste that is collected and incinerated for our customers. Commentary on our performance may be found on page 107 of this report 4 Health and safety data reflects group-wide performance within the reporting scope stated for each respective year. Data from 2015 onwards covers both assets in and opportunities as well as performance in each of operation and under construction. A detailed breakdown of health and safety data is available in the Sustainability section of our website our focus areas. 5 Data covers employees and contractors engaged to work on our sites. Details of fatalities are reported on page 118 6 The lost time injury rate includes fatalities At the business unit level, economic, 7 The accident severity rate excludes fatalities. The accident severity rate including fatalities is reported as part of detailed performance data, available in the Sustainability section of our website. We record lost time due to one fatality as 6,000 lost work days, in line with guidelines by the US National Institute for operational, as well as health and safety issues and Sustainability contact Occupational Safety and Health 8 Data covers both voluntary and involuntary turnover of permanent employees of Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine other risks are reviewed by the head of operations Sembcorp welcomes feedback on our sustainability 9 A learning management system was launched in 2016 in Singapore, and will be progressively implemented across overseas operations. Consolidated training data at monthly business unit management meetings and issues and reporting at sustainability@sembcorp.com. is based on management’s best estimates and we look to further refine the accuracy and consistency of the data 96 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 97 ESG REVIEW | MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Materiality Electric Utilities Sector Supplement, the Dow Jones Reporting Framework and Scope or more upon the completion of construction or Materiality analysis enables Sembcorp to define Sustainability Asia/Pacific Index and other relevant Our ESG Review is prepared in accordance with agreement to integrate their reporting systems with sustainability issues that are of greatest significance frameworks and peer reviews. We prioritised issues the GRI G4: Core option. It is guided by the SGX that of the Group. Thereafter, their sustainability to our businesses and stakeholders over the using a materiality matrix, taking into account their Sustainability Reporting Guide as well as the Ten data will be reported externally once a full calendar long term. significance to Sembcorp and our stakeholders. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. year of data is collected. Data pertaining to entities We conducted our first materiality analysis in Our previous report was published in March 2015. divested during the year are excluded from our 2012 and invited external stakeholder feedback on Stakeholder Engagement We report on our key ESG indicators in our report. In 2015, we expanded the scope of our our material issues. In 2016, we conducted a review We engage and receive feedback from a diverse annual report. A complete set of information, occupational health and safety reporting to include of our material issues which included a stakeholder range of stakeholders with the intention to including our GRI content index, is available in the assets under construction, with data reported from engagement survey, inviting input from internal improve our performance and drive long-term Sustainability section of our website. the onset of construction activities. and external stakeholders globally. Over 300 sustainability. Stakeholders are identified in Our report provides information on Sembcorp’s This year, data from Thermal Powertech stakeholders were invited to provide feedback accordance with the AA1000 Stakeholder subsidiaries and covers the calendar year. It excludes Corporation India and Sembcorp Green Infra have on our material issues. Following the review, we Engagement Standard and they include customers, joint ventures, partnerships and associates for been included. Data on our procurement spending have streamlined our areas of focus to 10 material employees, financial institutions, governments which Sembcorp does not have management and in our key operations in Singapore, China and India ESG issues. For each material issue, we report and regulators, industry and academic groups, / or operational control. Our Marine business is have also been included. We aim to work towards its importance in the context of sustainability, its the investment community, the local community, excluded from this report as it is separately listed in external assurance of the report. relevance to Sembcorp, as well as our management and suppliers. Our stakeholders are managed by Singapore and reports its activities independently. The table below shows our reporting scope approach and performance. various departments at the corporate as well as New acquisitions and subsidiaries are given one year by business line and material issue. Sustainability issues were identified in line with local business unit level. More information on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. our engagement platforms can be found in the ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE The materiality review took into account GRI’s Sustainability section of our website. Local environmental Risk management Energy and water Climate change Health and safety Ethical business CASE STUDY Engaging with our community early Compliance MATERIAL ISSUES Community Corporate protection efficiency Our people As part of our environmental and social impact concerns were taken into consideration and assessment for our greenfield investment environmental and social management plans were governance practices in Myanmar, Sembcorp held stakeholder created to manage the impact of our construction engagement sessions with the local community and operations. These plans included establishing UTILITIES living within close proximity of our upcoming proper water intake and discharge points along Existing assets gas-fired power plant in the Myingyan district the Ayeyarwady River to ensure no groundwater to understand and address their concerns. was extracted and ensuring air and noise Energy • • • • • • • • • • Since 2015, we have held 27 sessions, emissions follow local regulations and standards Water • • • • • • • • • some with as many as 91 attendees consisting set by the International Finance Corporation and of residents and workers from over 13 villages. / or the World Health Organization. 25% of the Solid waste management • • • • • • • • • We presented the development plan for our headcount for the plant’s construction workforce Assets under construction • • • • • plant, which is expected to be completed in 2018, will be reserved for Myanmar nationals, and MARINE Our Marine business (Sembcorp Marine) is separately listed and reports its activities separately. and gathered feedback from the local community. residents from the Myingyan community will Key issues raised include concerns over water be granted priority for employment during the URBAN DEVELOPMENT • • • • • • • intake and discharge, air and noise emissions plant’s operational phase. OTHER BUSINESSES • • • • • • • as well as employment opportunities. These Information provided in the ESG Review relates to the subsidiaries of Sembcorp, excluding Sembcorp Marine. It excludes joint ventures, partnerships and associates for which Sembcorp does not have management and / or operational control 98 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 99 ESG REVIEW | MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Data measurement and quality Our key operations carry out an annual Distribution of Suppliers by Geography* Payment to Suppliers by Geography* All data measurements are in line with GRI G4 evaluation of vendor performance for our top n Singapore n Singapore recommendations for our chosen indicators. suppliers. Through this process, we rate these n China n China GHG emission factors are based on the 2006 suppliers on health, safety and the environment n India n India Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (HSE), as well as quality assurance and service n Others n Indonesia (IPCC) guidelines, except for those relating to level criteria. We also review their audited n Others our operations on Teesside, UK, which use the financial reports. In addition, for all our EPC 2% stoichometric basis of calculation. Global warming contracts, contractors are assessed based on potential factors used are from the IPCC Fourth their track records with respect to safety, project 20% 19% Assessment Report for the 100-year time horizon. type, size and location experience, among other 34% 40% Occupational health and safety indicators follow evaluation criteria. We value the opportunity standards set out by the US National Institute to positively influence our service providers and Total: Total: for Occupational Safety and Health and the suppliers towards greater HSE awareness and 5,292 S$3.1 billion International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. social responsibility. We believe that securing a While there are inherent limitations to the pool of suppliers that share our commitment to accuracy of data, we seek to minimise any errors and sustainability will mitigate risks to our operations 4% 42% 37% irregularities by strengthening our internal controls. and reputation. 2% Our Supply Chain Supplier diversification We recognise the importance of evaluating our Our efforts to ensure supply chain security include Our suppliers and contractors provide a wide range of products and services including fuel and equipment for suppliers to ensure supply chain risks and negative diversifying supply to mitigate concentration risk. electricity generation, chemicals for water treatment as well as maintenance services in our power plants and impacts are minimised. Coal supply is managed via a portfolio of water treatment plants. Sembcorp’s main suppliers consist of original suppliers and country sources, while in Singapore, In 2016, our key operations in Singapore, China and India procured products and services from 5,292 suppliers, with equipment manufacturers (OEMs), material Sembcorp’s operations maintain at least one a total procurement expenditure of S$3.1 billion. 61% of our total procurement spending went to local suppliers suppliers, and engineering, procurement and primary and one secondary supplier for critical in Singapore, China and India, and helped to support local economies. 37% of total payments to suppliers went to construction (EPC) contractors. spare parts and consumables, where possible. companies in Indonesia. This was mostly due to our natural gas supply for Singapore operations and part of our coal OEMs supply us with large-scale equipment supply for India thermal power operations being from Indonesia. such as gas turbines and desalination units as well as Fuel management * Data from some operations have been aggregated process equipment such as switchgears and control Fuel is a significant cost component for Sembcorp’s systems. Material suppliers supply fuel and chemicals power and steam generation operations. Therefore, needed to run our plants. EPC contractors provide managing our various fuel sources, along with their detailed engineering, procurement and construction supply chains, is a key focus. In view of this, we services for our greenfield plants. have a Group Fuel Management department that Our plants are designed and built to looks into issues such as fuel contract management, international codes and standards and it is with fuel hedging / trading and fuel procurement, as this perspective that we procure our equipment. well as fuel logistics such as transportation and We seek to ensure we procure high-quality and shipping, to ensure the security and reliability of our technologically advanced equipment that is durable. fuel supply. We secure long-term contracts for coal We have stringent requirements for quality and and gas supply with reliable counter­parties who expect our suppliers to abide by our Code of have reserves that can sustain the useful life of our Business Conduct. Our Group Procurement Policy assets. To further diversify our fuel mix and tap on provides guidelines and control principles for various sustainable sources, Sembcorp has increased our stages of the procurement process. use of renewables and alternative fuels. 100 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 101 ESG REVIEW | MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Sembcorp’s Unique Utilities Business Innovative energy and water solutions Energy efficiency and renewables: Total water, wastewater and waste-to-resource water for cooling purposes. In addition, we provide The challenge facing industries and communities High efficiency, low emissions solutions that conserve resources specialised solutions for water-stressed regions today is one of balancing development with We are focused on facilities that have high efficiency Apart from growing our renewable energy business, including large-scale seawater desalination and resource scarcity and environmental concerns. and low emissions. Our balanced portfolio of we also leverage our water capabilities to reduce water reclamation. We also aim to minimise waste At Sembcorp, we believe that we have a part energy assets is able to run on a diverse range of the environmental impact of our thermal energy and its environmental impact through waste-toto play in contributing to a sustainable future. fuels, including renewable sources. Our low-carbon business. For example, we reduce reliance on fresh resource facilities that recover valuable resources. Our Utilities business uniquely offers both energy energy portfolio includes renewable wind and solar water by using desalinated water for our power and water solutions. We leverage group capabilities power assets, as well as biomass and energy-fromgeneration processes, in addition to recirculating and strengths to limit the impact of our activities waste assets. on the environment and to create innovative solutions for our customers. About 1,807MW 154 40% 0m of renewable power and of Singapore’s recycled waste wood converted million m3 energy-from-waste 3 capacity1 installed into renewable energy at our woodchip of groundwater of desalinated water boiler plant2 extracted for power supplied to generation communities annually ENERGY SUPPLY WATER SUPPLY 77 WASTEWATER TREATMENT million m3 of wastewater 1 Gross installed renewable power and energy-from-waste capacity for assets in operation and under construction (subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates) 2 Figure is based on waste wood delivered to our woodchip boiler plant in 2016 against 2015 national waste statistics published by Singapore’s National treated for customers Environment Agency. 2016 national waste statistics were not available at the time of publication of this annual report annually m3: cubic metres, MW: megawatts 102 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 103 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REVIEW OUR MATERIAL ESG ISSUES Our approach actively pursue renewable assets via acquisitions and Climate Change organic growth. In 2016, our total renewable and Environmental We are committed to managing the impact of our low-carbon portfolio grew from 1,546 megawatts businesses on climate and the environment in a to 1,807 megawatts. Currently, we have renewable To responsibly manage and reduce our impact on the environment as well as to effectively responsible manner. At the same time, we believe wind and solar power assets in Singapore, China manage environmental risks to our operations that our businesses, including our power generation and India, and both biomass and energy-from-waste business, support economic development and operations in Singapore and the UK. enhance the standard of living for communities. To mitigate potential regulatory, physical and supply ii. Building and maintaining energy-efficient power HIGHLIGHT Growing our Renewable Energy and Energy-from-Waste Business risks, we are aligned with and support climate and water facilities We are committed in our focus to grow our construction stands at 745 megawatts in China change positions set out by governments in their Sembcorp builds energy-efficient facilities. These renewable energy and energy-from-waste and 971 megawatts in India. We embarked on Intended Nationally Determined Contributions include assets utilising supercritical coal-fired portfolio. We made good progress in Asia on our first Singapore solar project, a 49%-owned in countries where we have significant energy technology, combined cycle gas turbines and this front in 2016. Our total renewable energy rooftop solar photovoltaic system. With operations. We also review the potential impact combined power and desalination technologies. and energy-from-waste capacity (including distributed solar energy likely to play a greater of climate change on our facilities at project In addition, we incorporate energy efficiency capacity under joint ventures and associates) role in future energy solutions, this investment due diligence stage, to inform the design and considerations across the design, operation and increased by 17% to 1,807 megawatts. Our reflects the company’s commitment to providing construction of our assets and ensure we have maintenance phases of our facilities to further renewable power capacity in operation and under diverse and innovative solutions to our customers. the appropriate safeguards. We keep abreast of reduce our indirect carbon emissions. We utilise developments pertinent to climate change through data and predictive analytics to improve plant participation on platforms such as Singapore’s efficiency and performance in our operations. National Climate Change Network. We believe Why this is material Local Environmental Protection we are well-positioned to manage climate change Local Environmental Protection Climate Change As a result of the products and services we provide, risks and opportunities through: Sembcorp’s Statement of Commitment to As an energy player, our power generation our operations have varying direct and indirect Environmental Protection and Environmental activities release greenhouse gas emissions impacts on the environment. These include the i. Growing our renewable energy business as part Protection Management Guidelines set out that impact the climate. Events and actions by release of NOX, SOX and particulate matter, as well as of a balanced portfolio our principles and practices in the area of governments in response to climate change pose the discharge of effluent and the disposal of waste. We maintain a diversified energy generation environmental protection. We aim to comply potential regulatory, physical and supply risks to Improper or non-compliant emission, discharge or portfolio of thermal and renewable energy assets fully with all regulations and requirements, our businesses. The Paris Agreement on climate disposal not only result in harm to the environment, comprising facilities fuelled by gas, coal, wind, solar, and consume resources prudently, focusing on change has been ratified by countries representing but also threaten the long-term viability of energy-from-waste and biomass. We believe that reduction at source. We assess the impact of over 80% of global greenhouse gas emissions. our business, and go against our Statement of thermal energy continues to be relevant. In addition environmental risks and apply appropriate control However, as a provider of energy and water Commitment to Environmental Protection. to gas, we believe that coal, an affordable and measures to manage them. We apply stringent solutions, we recognise that we are also uniquely abundant fuel, will continue to play an important controls in the management of waste generated positioned to leverage opportunities that have Energy and Water Efficiency role in the fuel mix in rapidly developing economies. by our operations, strive at all times to adhere arisen from climate change developments. From Achieving optimal energy and water efficiency is However, cleaner and higher-efficiency coal to discharge and emission limits set by local renewable energy to environmentally-friendly total a business driver for us. Maximising our efficiency technologies will become increasingly important in authorities and implement containment measures water and wastewater solutions, we are actively and optimising our operations reduces our meeting pressing needs for both electrification and to minimise any direct impact to the environment investing in green business lines. consumption of natural resources while enhancing lower emissions. On the other hand, significant focus and the surrounding community. As a wastewater our returns. In the face of rising energy costs and has been placed on expanding our renewable and treatment service provider, our capabilities in water scarcity, energy and water efficiency are low-carbon energy portfolio. We strengthened our treating multiple streams of industrial wastewater becoming increasingly critical to ensure the specialist renewable energy teams at our corporate from our customers allow us to meet effluent long-term sustainability of our business. office as well as in China and India in 2015 to discharge standards. We also have a comprehensive 104 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues water sampling and testing regime that helps us assessments form part of our management of HSE Water availability distillation and reverse osmosis to provide highensure compliance with such standards. risks and these recommendations are incorporated We leverage Sembcorp’s total water management quality water to industries and households in waterWe aim to minimise impacts through into the planning, designing, construction and capabilities for better efficiency and resource scarce areas such as Oman and the UAE. In some of prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling, and commissioning of new plants. conservation for our own operations as well as our our power plants, we employ closed-loop cooling seek innovative ways to adopt a circular economy customers. By integrating wastewater treatment, water systems to further minimise water drawn approach to waste. We actively develop capabilities Energy and Water Efficiency water reclamation and water supply into a from the ocean. to recover energy from waste. For example, at our Where viable, we invest in the latest technologies “closed loop”, we aim to minimise liquid discharge, Our energy and water efficiency efforts also Sembcorp Woodchip Boiler Plant in Singapore, and utilise our capabilities as an industry leader reducing environmental impact while conserving apply to our office and administrative buildings, woodchips processed from waste wood collected to achieve better energy and water efficiency, water resources. and we actively seek to reduce our consumption by our solid waste management operations are including the reduction of water consumption Our energy-efficient large-scale integrated of energy and water through responsible use and used to produce economical renewable steam. Also, through water reuse. Energy and water efficiency power and desalination plants use multi-stage flash equipment upgrades. treated effluent from our wastewater treatment parameters are embedded in our plant operation facilities is further treated to produce demineralised management systems, and are monitored daily. water at our water reclamation facilities. We do not These parameters are reported to management SEMBCORP’S TOTAL WATER MANAGEMENT CAPABILITIES draw groundwater for power generation, but rely on a monthly basis where deviation and on seawater to meet the water needs of our power performance gaps are reviewed, and improvement plants. In addition, our design and construction plans are discussed for implementation. Our business utilises fly ash, a by-product of coal Group Technology department collaborates with Cities Industries combustion in power plants, as a material for academic and research institutions, technology blended cement, mosaic tiles and hollow blocks. suppliers and end users to develop innovative Potable & CUSTOMERS Industrial Wastewater We conduct environmental assessments in solutions and continuously improve our processes, Water & Sewage accordance with national and / or international ensuring the optimal performance of our standards and methodologies. These include facilities. We also utilise the Sembcorp Global environmental and social impact assessments, Asset Management System, a data and predictive SEMBCORP’S environmental baseline studies and pollution control studies. Recommendations from the analytics tool, to help us optimise our operations and improve efficiency. 1 SUPPLY WATER SOLUTIONS 2 TREAT Freshwater Industrial Wastewater / Sources Sewage Treatment Water HIGHLIGHT Optimising Operational Performance with the Global Asset Management System Treatment In 2016, the Sembcorp Global Asset Management best practice sharing across the Group. Locally, System was implemented at our utilities the system supports plant operations by detecting operations in Singapore, India, UK, Oman and anomalies, and through data analytics, provides Seawater Treated the UAE. This system, which enables process optimisation, troubleshooting and predictive a benchmark for best achievable plant performance. This strengthens our predictive Desalination 3 RECYCLE effluent that meets stringent environmental standards analytics consolidates operational data from our maintenance capabilities to pre-empt and solve global operations on a real-time basis. The system issues before they cause further disruptions. The Reclaimed shortens lead time in identifying and resolving system will help us improve efficiency, increase Water Reclamation Water Turning effluent into high-purity water complex issues, leverages digital solutions to our plants’ availability and reliability, and save improve cost-effectiveness and enables effective maintenance costs. 106 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues Our performance In 2016, we embarked on the replacement Construction Authority. The chillers for the building Water Withdrawal (million m3) Waste Generated 1, 2 (thousand tonnes) of the chillers at our corporate headquarters in were replaced with a more energy-efficient system, n Surface water n Non-hazardous waste Singapore. The building was awarded the Singapore resulting in an energy reduction of one million n Groundwater n Hazardous waste n Water utilities (potable and non-potable) Green Mark Gold Standard by the Building and kilowatt hours of electricity per year. 927.1 n Wastewater from another organisation 900 800 Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) and GHG Emissions Intensity 2,000 1,823.1 1,873.9 700 0.2% 0.3% 1,593.7 7.0% 5.8% 0.2% 4.8% 4.7% 600 1,500 7.7% 20 500 8.9% 500 18 454.1 450 1,000 16 400 915.2 15.4 400 14 350 83.2% 88.0% 89.2% 500 300 12 277.2 3 300 10 248.83 250 200 0 8 200 2014 2015 2016 100 43.8 39.3 6.9 6 5.7 150 GHG Emissions 2 89.2% of our total water withdrawn was abstracted 31.2 28.9 Direct GHG1 4 100 Intensity from surface sources. 0 12.6 10.4 11.9 2014 2015 2016 Emissions (kilogrammes of CO2 2 50 (million tonnes of equivalent per In 2016, 90.8% of surface water withdrawn was water The significant increase in non-hazardous waste in 0 0 CO2 equivalent) megawatt hour) abstracted from the ocean. More than half of this was 2016 was largely due to the inclusion of data from our 2014 2015 2016 desalinated into potable water for the community, and first coal-fired power plant in India. The non-hazardous the rest was used as cooling water for Sembcorp’s power waste comprised mainly fly ash, a by-product of coal plant operations and for our customers’ plant processes. combustion in power plants. Our India operations have The increase in direct GHG emissions and GHG emissions 1 Emissions data covers entities that produce direct GHG emissions 8.9% of surface water withdrawn was from rivers memoranda of understanding to sell up to 90% of their from the combustion of fossil fuel. It excludes emissions from intensity was largely due to the inclusion of data from anaerobic wastewater treatment plants and maintenance and and lakes for the production of potable water for the fly ash to be reused as a partial replacement for Portland our first coal-fired power plant in India. servicing equipment. CO2 , CH4 and N2O emissions are included community, and the remaining 0.3% was for internal use. cement in the production of concrete, although the in the calculation of direct GHG emissions. HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 uptake of the ash is dependent on market demand. emissions are excluded. Global warming potential factors used are We report emissions from the combustion of from the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report for the 100-year time horizon Groundwater abstraction remained steady. 100% biomass separately, in accordance with GRI guidelines. 2 GHG emissions intensity refers to direct GHG emissions per megawatt of groundwater abstracted was treated to produce The slight increase in hazardous waste was largely due These emissions amounted to 600,000 tonnes of CO2 hour of thermal and electrical energy produced. This covers energy potable water for the community. to the shutdown of a wastewater treatment plant in assets in Singapore, India, Oman, UAE and the UK equivalent in 2016 compared to 1.0 million tonnes Singapore. Activated sludge that was needed in the 3 GHG emissions intensity figures for 2014 and 2015 are estimated. in 2015. A small proportion of data on energy attributed to steam production 79.4% of water we obtained from water utilities plant as part of the wastewater treatment process had in 2014 and 2015 was not available and was estimated based on was non-potable industrial and domestic wastewater, to be disposed of due to the shutdown of the plant. In data from 2016 which we reclaimed to produce high-grade industrial addition, sludge produced in our wastewater plant in and potable water. The remaining 20.6% of water Silulumanzi, South Africa, was reclassified as hazardous obtained from water utilities was potable water. rather than non-hazardous waste. “Wastewater from another organisation” represents 1 The data excludes waste that is collected and incinerated for our customers wastewater we treated for our customers. 55.3% 2 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste are defined by relevant country of wastewater treated for customers was reclaimed regulations in each market and reused. 108 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues Going forward Social We will continue to monitor global, industry and facilities. Our operations in India will implement flue peer action in relation to climate change closely. gas desulfurisation to reduce emissions while our To be a responsible business that ensures the health and safety of our people, and makes The way forward requires us to balance stakeholder operations in the UAE will use flue gas heat recovery a positive impact on our people and communities interests against climate-related and environmental to increase efficiency. Our energy-from-waste plant risks, and we are committed to building sustainable in Singapore is expected to commence operations businesses that create and deliver long-term value. in 2017. The plant will be fuelled by around 1,000 We are in the process of implementing our tonnes of industrial and commercial waste per day, Why this is material these skill sets are highly sought after across Environmental and Social Policy for New Investments. roughly 14% of the total tonnage of waste bound Health and Safety several industries. In addition, the commercial This policy embeds social and environmental factors for incineration in Singapore every day. Sembcorp develops and operates power and water and regulatory environments we operate in are into our investment approval process to ensure social We will leverage the progressive implementation plants as well as other facilities, where extensive also becoming increasingly complex. Therefore, and environmental risks are accounted for at the of the Sembcorp Global Asset Management System health and safety precautions are required. there is a critical need to retain and develop a onset of an investment. to strengthen in-house digitalisation and predictive The expansion of our business into developing capable and motivated workforce who possess We will continue to invest in technology to analytics capabilities. economies also means we face challenges in a deep understanding of the company and improve the environmental performance of our building a local workforce that is attuned to our its industry sectors. Of the issues relating to global health and safety standards. It is our priority our people, our materiality review process has to ensure that globally, all our employees and identified employee development, employee contractors are competent and equipped to work compensation and benefits, labour standards, Climate Change safely. We recognise our duty of care to provide human rights and diversity, as well as employee To have a business portfolio that balances the economic expectations a safe workplace for those who step into our wellness to be important areas of focus. of our stakeholders and our businesses’ impact on the climate premises, and we work hard to fulfil that duty. The health and safety of our customers is also a key Community Local Environmental Protection priority, especially in our municipal water operations, Sembcorp’s long-term success is premised upon To fulfil our duty to protect the environment and conserve resources, where any lapse in health and safety protocols could being a valued partner to the communities we are while providing competitive and reliable solutions for our stakeholders result in a direct impact on people in the community. in, and we aim to contribute positively to these local communities. While Sembcorp’s businesses play an Energy and Water Efficiency Our People important role in supporting economic development To improve energy and water efficiency through good and economically viable Our employees play a vital role in ensuring we and improving the standard of living in our environmental practices achieve our business strategy and goals. The communities, we recognise that there are social and nature of our business is such that we require environmental impacts on the communities around specialised technical expertise. However, some of us as a result of the development and operation the markets in which we operate lack a qualified of our plants. Therefore, we view our integration labour force with the necessary technical skill sets with, support of and contribution to our host that our business demands. In other markets, communities as part of our licence to operate. 110 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues Our approach HIGHLIGHT Making a SafeStart Commitment Assurance We also conduct regular laboratory tests to meet HSE assurance is supported by an on-site validation regulatory requirements and ensure that the water In 2016, we launched the SafeStart programme, presented. Achievements relating to health and verification process which evaluates the we produce is safe for our customers and end users. which aims to emphasise the importance of and safety were commended while key effectiveness of the plants’ or sites’ HSE controls. health and safety to employees and contractors challenges were brought to the table for On an annual basis, a validation and verification Our People and encourage them to work towards the discussion on the possible ways to improve schedule is formulated using an internal risk-based Our operations span 15 countries across five continents goal of zero injuries at the workplace. The collective and individual health and safety. assessment to ensure that the assurance exercise will where labour laws, regulations, employment codes programme, which was implemented locally in Through strengthening the partnership between focus on higher risk areas. Plants or sites with higher and practices differ widely. All our local human many of our operations, is led by the head of employees and contractors, the programme risk ratings will be given priority in the assurance resource policies comply with the local laws. each business unit. Kick-off sessions were held aims to drive health and safety ownership at exercise. The results of the assurance form the basis Our human resource practices are guided at the start of the year, where a brief overview all working levels and encourage a proactive for the development of improvement plans. by the following: of the site’s health and safety performance was safety culture. ¡¡ Oversight by the board’s Executive Resource Training & Compensation Committee Providing our employees with relevant HSE and ¡¡ Oversight by the Senior Management Committee Health and Safety ¡¡ Oversight by the board’s Risk Committee technical capability development ensures that ¡¡ Talent Development Committees Occupational health and safety ¡¡ Leadership by our Group President & CEO we have competent safety practitioners and ¡¡ Sembcorp Leadership Framework Our vision is to be an organisation with a proactive ¡¡ A Group HSE management system safety-conscious line managers that support safe ¡¡ Our Code of Business Conduct health and safety culture. We are committed to framework comprising operations. Training is specific to the operations’ ¡¡ Our Employee Code of Conduct working towards the goal of zero injuries in our –– A Group HSE Policy; and or sites’ risk profile and local conditions, and is ¡¡ Our Grievance Handling Policy workplace, with a workforce that puts safety first. –– Group HSE management system conducted on an ongoing basis. Examples of We benchmark the health and safety performance guidelines and standards operations-specific training include defensive driving Human capital risk is also monitored as part of of our operations against relevant global industry at our solid waste management unit as well as our key risk indicators and reported bi-annually to safety statistics, such as the International Oil and The Group HSE management system framework project commissioning and construction orientations the board’s Risk Committee. Gas Producers Global Safety Performance Indicators, provides guidelines and standards detailing for project development teams. An annual global and aim for progressive improvement. expectations and principles relating to different HSE workshop is held as a platform for the learning Employee development We have put in place structures and processes aspects and activities that take place at a plant or and sharing of corporate initiatives and best Employee development at Sembcorp is managed to meet our goal including: site. It is further supported by the Sembcorp 10 practices from our different operations. through the Sembcorp Leadership Framework, ¡¡ Board review Elements for Good HSE. which comprises three components with distinct Product responsibility: safety and quality yet interrelated objectives to drive employee Sembcorp is committed to designing, building, development. Workforce Planning supports SEMBCORP’S 10 ELEMENTS FOR GOOD HSE operating and maintaining facilities in a manner that organisational growth and ambition. The Core safeguards people, property and the environment. Competency component assesses employees’ 2 3 4 5 Product safety and compliance is a priority, competencies and identifies capability gaps while 1 Safety System of Document Work Plan 10 as non-compliance can result in serious health, setting performance expectations. Learning and Risk Assessment in Design Control Management safety and operational issues for our customers, Development programmes are then put in place Strong & Controls many of whom depend on us for basic utilities or to close the gaps identified. Ownership of Validation and HSE by Every 6 7 8 9 Verification require our products for their industrial processes. To complement the Sembcorp Leadership Employee Third Party Compliance testing of our products is done during Framework, Talent Development Committees Competent Operations Effective Resources Integrity Communication Selection and various stages, from manufacturing to distribution at both group and business unit levels aim to Qualification and supply. We implement a robust maintenance build a strong pipeline of talent to support our and monitoring regime, which includes stringent organisation. The committees meet at least twice Continual Assessment and Improvement inspections and the installation of meters and a year to review our talent pipeline for succession sensors at both our and our customers’ facilities. management and leadership development. 112 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 113 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues HIGHLIGHT Using Emergenetics to Improve Competency and Teamwork THE SEMBCORP LEADERSHIP FRAMEWORK As part of our Core Competency Framework, the for close to 400 employees in China and Emergenetics assessment enhances employees’ India. Participant feedback indicated that the To develop people with the right capabilities and behaviour self-awareness and encourages empathy among assessment was a useful tool for self-evaluation, needed at present and for the future of the organisation team members. After taking the Emergenetics to aid personal and professional development. questionnaire, the individual receives a detailed In addition, through the sharing of Emergenetics profile describing their thinking and behavioural profiles, the assessment promoted peer attributes. Since 2011, over 600 employees have understanding and provided suggestions on how taken the Emergenetics assessment in Singapore. employees could engage other team members In 2016, Emergenetics workshops were conducted based on their thinking and behavioural attributes. FRAMEWORK WORKFORCE PLANNING SEMBCORP CORE LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK COMPETENCY FRAMEWORK FRAMEWORK To assess individual To equip employees PURPOSE To ensure availability competencies and behaviours with competencies, of human capital and align them with skills and capabilities to drive growth Sembcorp’s Core to drive growth Competency Framework TOOLS USED ¡¡ Performance appraisal Organisational Learning ¡¡ Leadership readiness structure Management assessments review System ¡¡ Psychometric tools ¡¡ Identification of key roles and ¡¡ Identification of skills, ¡¡ Development of learning positions required to inform behaviours and capabilities roadmap for employee OUTCOME training, recruitment and to be developed for development succession planning efforts each individual ¡¡ Greater accessibility ¡¡ Identification of key talent to e-learning tools for succession planning We invest in our people and aim to equip employees with the competencies, skills and capabilities they need to drive growth 114 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues Localisation is an important part of our strategy Labour standards to grow our overseas businesses. When we begin We abide by local laws wherever we operate. operating in a new market, employees who are Examples of regulations our global operations SEMBCORP CORE seconded from Singapore and other locations to comply with include the Broad-based Black COMPETENCY FRAMEWORK start up the operations are given a clear responsibility Economic Empowerment Amendment Act 2013 to develop local talent. As the capabilities of local in South Africa, and localisation requirements as INSIGHT employees grow, the team is gradually localised, and well as local labour laws that do not recognise ¡¡ Monitors and anticipates the number of secondees progressively reduced. the right of workers to organise and form trade industry-specific external unions in the Middle East. Sembcorp employees and internal developments Employee compensation and benefits are entitled to practise freedom of association and ¡¡ Thinks strategically, broadly To attract, motivate and retain employees, to be covered by collective bargaining agreements and deeply Sembcorp’s remuneration and reward system is in the workplace, within the regulatory boundaries ¡¡ Translates insights into decisions, market competitive and performance-based. To of each of the jurisdictions. We hold constructive actions, innovations and results determine salary levels and benefits, regular reviews ongoing engagement with employee unions in and benchmarking are conducted against local our various operations. In countries where our standards and data from global market surveys operations are covered by collective agreements, ROLE MODEL and consultancy firms. In countries where there is we abide by the terms stated in said agreements, ¡¡ Mentors, creates space for and a minimum wage policy, Sembcorp pays above the including those relating to minimum notice periods. empowers people to step up minimum wage. Procedures for grievance handling are also specified ¡¡ Conveys vision, passion and Sembcorp adopts an equal pay policy in the agreements. Our Grievance Handling Policy sense of purpose where rewards are based entirely on merit and seeks to manage employee grievances in a fair and INTEGRAL ¡¡ Embraces alternative and INTEGRITY performance. Salary increases are based on reasonable manner, with an escalation path to the opposing viewpoints ¡¡ Aligns interests of external ¡¡ Takes ownership and individual performance and relative placement Group President & CEO where necessary. Where and internal stakeholders bears responsibility against the external market as well as negotiations collective agreements do not exist, we abide by the ¡¡ Embraces opportunities ¡¡ Has courage to do the with employee unions and guidelines issued by terms stated in employment contracts. outside one’s comfort zone right thing the local government. Annual variable bonuses and takes charge ¡¡ Makes the right trade-offs are based on the Group’s performance as well as Human rights and diversity ¡¡ Builds high-performing crossacross competing objectives employees’ performance against individual targets We are committed to uphold and respect the functional / cross-cultural teams set jointly with their supervisors. spirit of the United Nations Universal Declaration We recognise that managing performance and of Human Rights and the International Labour development is a continuous process. Performance Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles appraisals are done through informal feedback and Rights at Work. We are a signatory to the United sessions and online systems where performance, Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and have made HIGHLIGHT Launch of the Sembcorp Leaders Programme expectations, training needs and targets are a public commitment to respect the Ten Principles As part of our Learning and Development that are in line with Sembcorp’s Core Competency discussed and agreed upon by the employee and of the UNGC, one of which is human rights. We Framework, the Sembcorp Leaders Programme Framework. Training topics include transformational supervisor. As part of the performance appraisal, abide by the Employers’ Pledge of Fair Employment aims to equip executives with the relevant leadership (Role Model), problem-solving and employees will be assessed against Sembcorp’s Practices under Singapore’s Tripartite Alliance for Fair competencies to support the growth of the decision-making skills (Insight), anti-bribery and Core Competency Framework. Going through and Progressive Employment Practices. Our Code of company in an increasingly complex business corruption (Integrity), and managing change and the appraisal process helps inculcate core Business Conduct sets out our stance on fairness, environment. The programme consists of a series innovation (Integral). The pilot programme was values in employees, and clearly articulates the opportunity, non-discrimination, dignity, respect and of training sessions to instil skills in employees launched in 2016 and will be rolled out in 2017. competencies and functional skills needed for harassment. We do not hire forced or child labour in their development. our operations. 116 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues Employee wellness Grievance Policy. Environmental and social We recognise the impact of wellness on our impact studies are carried out in accordance employees’ overall effectiveness, and have set with international and / or national standards for aside a dedicated wellness budget in countries of major new projects and expansions. These studies major operations such as Singapore, China, India, typically include social management plans that are DIRECT VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED BY SEMBCORP Oman and the UAE. The budget is available for implemented by the operations teams through the S$7.9 billion department heads to use towards activities that various stages of the site’s development. TURNOVER encourage employee well-being and team bonding. Sembcorp was a founding member of the iCare Community contribution Mental Health Alliance, which made efforts to Sembcorp’s global corporate social responsibility improve the mental health of workers in Singapore. (CSR) framework provides a strategic and consistent In addition, we specifically include coverage of approach for our charitable contributions and treatment for mental health issues in our employee community investments. We focus on fostering MATERIALS AND EMPLOYEES GOVERNMENTS CAPITAL PROVIDERS COMMUNITIES insurance coverage. Besides mandatory medical environmental stewardship and improving the SERVICES COSTS screenings for employees potentially exposed to quality of life of the communities we are in. S$5.9bn* S$800m* S$119m S$620m S$4.2m occupational health hazards, voluntary annual Our CSR framework aligns the tracking and These include This includes This includes This includes This includes health screenings are available free of charge to all reporting of our community contributions with materials and wages, salaries income taxes paid, dividends, donations and employees in Singapore, China, Oman and the UAE. guidelines set by the London Benchmarking subcontract costs, and benefits net of refunds distributions sponsorships which comprise received on perpetual from our Around the world, employee-led committees Group. This allows us to account for our total purchases securities and businesses’ within our operations organise a range of community giving – or the amount disbursed from suppliers, interest paid engagement recreational activities as well as nutrition and stress through sponsorships or donations – using standard contractor with charitable management programmes to support employees’ definitions and valuations, and helps us ensure costs and other organisations physical and mental well-being. that the contributions recorded are meaningfully operating expenses or activities spent on community investment activities. More DIRECT VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO OTHERS Community information on our key programmes may be found The needs of one community can be very in the Sustainability section of our website. different from another. We believe that our local operations are best placed to not only understand the needs of the community, but also to forge DIRECT VALUE RETAINED BY SEMBCORP partnerships with local stakeholders. Therefore, while the Group provides the strategic framework, tools and guidelines to ensure consistency and ENVIRONMENT We are committed COMMUNITY We are committed S$508 million acceptable standards, community assessments and to fostering to improving the engagements as well as contributions are managed environmental living standards and * On an accrued basis at the local level. stewardship in our quality of life of the community through community, such as Assessment and engagement contributions to through providing sustainability and access to water, The assessment and engagement of the community environmental social welfare is guided by our Group Stakeholder and Community initiatives. and education. Engagement Policy as well as our Group Community 118 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 119 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues Our performance It is with great regret that we report three Lost Time Injury Rate Per Million Man-hours1, 2, 3 Our People Health and Safety fatalities in 2016 which occurred at two of our 5 In 2016, we enhanced our Sembcorp Leadership In 2016, we continued to implement several construction sites. One fatality was due to a Framework with the implementation of initiatives to improve our health and safety vehicular accident involving our contract worker 4 the Sembcorp Leaders Programme and the performance. at a construction site in Singapore. The other two 3.5 Occupational Personality Questionnaire and 3 were due to a fall from height and burn injuries Motivation Questionnaire in Singapore. The key initiatives implemented include: sustained by contract workers constructing 2 Emergenetics workshops were conducted for our second thermal power project in Andhra 1.3 1.2 close to 400 employees in China and India. The 1 assessment is a tool for self-evaluation which aims ¡¡ Nurturing greater health and safety ownership Pradesh, India. We are very saddened by the through the SafeStart programme, which aims loss of these lives. Full support was rendered to aid personal and professional development, as 0 to strengthen the partnership between our to the affected families by our operations and 2014 2015 2016 well as promote peer understanding and empathy. employees and contractors. This programme human resources teams. Every incident was was implemented by the heads of many of thoroughly investigated to identify root causes Accident Severity Rate Per Million Man-hours1, 2, 4 Employee Turnover (%) our operations worldwide. and the necessary corrective actions were taken to 70 ¡¡ Enhancing our project development health prevent recurrence. Comprehensive reviews and 20 and safety management through targeted assessments were also conducted and additional 60 59.4 18.4 focus on the management and surveillance control measures implemented to minimise risk 50 16 of construction and commissioning activities, levels to as low as reasonably practicable. To 40 and increased engagement with contractors ensure that we continually improve risk control, 12 11.0 11.4 30 to ensure adherence to our health and Operational Control and Safe Work Procedures are 20 17.2 8 safety requirements. regularly reviewed to ascertain possible areas for 12.9 10 ¡¡ In 2016, our annual validation and verification improvement. A taskforce was also set up to review 4 assurance programme was conducted, covering our Permit-to-Work systems and evaluate areas for 0 2014 2015 2016 0 operations in Singapore, India, South Africa improvement and standardisation. 2014 2015 2016 and Chile. The programme includes training Our health and safety performance charts reflect The lost time injury rate registered a slight decrease, and peer assistance elements, and serves a group-wide performance and cover both assets in Employee turnover rate was stable, increasing slightly due to improvements in performance across all dual purpose as it reviews the health and operation and under construction. from 11.0% in 2015 to 11.4% in 2016. The voluntary operations, except for projects under construction. We turnover rate was 9.1% in 2016. Employee turnover in safety performance of our operations, while recognise that there are improvements to be made for 2014 was comparatively higher due to restructuring of enabling the sharing of good health and projects under construction, and we are in the process operations in the UK in 2014. safety practices among peers. of further strengthening our health and safety controls. The accident severity rate increased due to longer ¡¡ Conducting root cause analysis training to recuperating times required for minor injuries such enhance the identification of health and safety as sprains and cuts. We will continue to improve our root causes. This two-day training programme performance through enhancing our health and safety was conducted in Singapore involving colleagues risk assessments and management. from our global business units. This training 1 Group figures are based on scope included in the reporting year. aims to sharpen our capabilities in applying root Our scope in 2014 only covered assets in operation, while our scope cause analysis for incident investigation. in 2015 and 2016 were expanded to include assets under construction 2 Occupational health and safety data includes employees and contractors 3 The lost time injury rate includes fatalities 4 Accident severity rate excludes fatalities. Accident severity rate including fatalities is reported in our detailed performance data, available in the Sustainability section of our website. We record lost time due to one fatality as 6,000 lost work days, as per the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 120 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues Average Training Hours Per Employee 1, 2 In 2016, Sembcorp contributed close to Going forward programme for compliance and improvement S$4.2 million in cash and in-kind to charities and Health and Safety in health and safety performance. Visits are community initiatives globally. Over S$500,000 As Sembcorp continues to grow our footprint tailored and prioritised for sites which require 35 comprised mandatory contributions and close to internationally, we will continue to focus on more attention, and the target is to complete all S$13,000 comprised leveraged contributions. These the following areas to align our businesses to scheduled validation and verification visits and 30 28.2 contributions supported causes such as environmental global standards: ensure that the necessary improvements identified 25 and water conservation education, as well as youth have been made in a timely manner. 22.3 development, apprenticeships and job training ¡¡ Strengthening of health and safety ownership 20 20.6 programmes. Total volunteer man-hours amounted to and leadership at all working levels Our People 15 more than 14,000 hours, of which 20% were spent ¡¡ Promotion of health and safety communication Moving forward, we are preparing for the outside of working hours due to event requirements. and engagement global roll-out of programmes under the 10 ¡¡ Strengthening of risk management and control Sembcorp Leadership Framework. We will also Community Contributions (S$ million) measures for both project development and be launching an organisation survey to formally 5 operational activities. assess organisational health. 0 2014 2015 2016 4.5 With the launch of several initiatives in previous Community 4.2 4.0 years targeting health and safety management, We continue to enhance our internal processes The average number of training hours per employee we have seen improvements in health and safety for managing our impact on our communities. 3.5 3.3 was 28.2 hours in 2016, which represented a 37% 3.0 practices and performance. We expect such This includes the implementation and roll-out increase from 20.6 hours in 2015. This was due to the roll-out of various training programmes under improvements to continue. The validation and of our Environmental and Social Policy for New 2.5 2.4 the Sembcorp Leadership Framework, such as an verification programme remains our key assurance Investments to relevant stakeholders. 2.0 Emergenetics assessment which was conducted for our China and India operations. Moving forward, we will 1.5 continue to organise programmes to equip employees 1.0 with skills and capabilities that are in line with our Core Health and Safety 0.5 Competency Framework. To make health and safety management an integral part of everyday business and culture 0 1 Training data covers both permanent and contract employees of 2014 2015 2016 Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine. Other Our People indicators in the People section relate to permanent employees of To offer a compelling employment experience for our people to develop and excel Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine In 2016, our community contributions in cash and 2 A learning management system was launched in 2016 in Singapore, in-kind increased by 26% compared to 2015. This and will be progressively implemented across overseas operations. was mainly due to the inclusion of our new operations Community Consolidated training data is based on management’s best estimates and we look to further refine the accuracy and consistency of the data in India, where a range of CSR activities relating to To be a responsible business that makes a positive impact on our communities infrastructural improvements, education and healthcare were organised to benefit the surrounding community. Community Our operations in South Africa expanded their CSR In line with our commitment to manage our contributions in the areas of drought awareness and impact on the community responsibly, and to prevention in response to the local drought crisis, and better mitigate the environmental and social enhanced their contributions to education through impact of our businesses, we have developed an sponsorships and bursaries at the local universities. In addition, we continued to contribute to the Environmental and Social Investment Policy for New Sembcorp Cool House, a temperature-controlled Investments. The policy embeds the identification of glasshouse within the Singapore Botanic Gardens – key environmental and social related risks into the a UNESCO World Heritage Site. early stages of our investment approval process. 122 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 123 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues Governance Why this is material Our approach Corporate Governance Corporate Governance To maintain high standards of behaviour and integrity and be best in class for We define corporate governance as the structures Sembcorp is led by an effective board mainly governance practices and processes in place for the transparent and comprising independent non-executive directors. accountable control and governance of our The board is collectively responsible for providing organisation. Well-defined corporate governance overall strategic direction and ensuring the long-term processes are essential in enhancing corporate success of the Group. Several board committees have RISK & GOVERNANCE ECOSYSTEM accountability and long-term sustainability to been established with clear terms of reference, both preserve and maximise shareholder value. to assist the board in fulfilling its responsibilities and to provide an independent oversight of management. AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEES GROUP RISK & GOVERNANCE Risk Management Furthermore, the board and management of ¡¡ Oversee risk management and internal controls of ¡¡ Develop the Group’s overall risk management programme Managing risk is an integral part of our business Sembcorp recognises that well-defined corporate the Group, and advise the board on such matters ¡¡ Design and own group-level risk management ¡¡ Determine the Group’s overall risk appetite and tolerance and governance frameworks and policies activities. As we continue to grow and expand governance processes are essential in enhancing ¡¡ Review and approve risk management and governance¡¡ Monitor the status of implementation across globally, we are exposed to diverse risks, including corporate accountability and long-term sustainability, related frameworks and policies entities within the Group strategic, financial, operational, compliance and fraud and are committed to high standards of governance to ¡¡ Adopt industry best practice and communicate risks. Besides helping to preserve our bottom line preserve and maximise shareholder value. We comply this to businesses and employees by reducing the likelihood and impact of potential with the principles and guidelines set out in the losses, risk management provides a common basis to Code of Corporate Governance 2012 issued by the evaluate new business opportunities. It also assures Monetary Authority of Singapore, and our corporate CAPABILITY our board and shareholders that key enterprise and governance practices are set out in the Corporate BUILDING & business risks faced by the organisation have been Governance Statement in this annual report. LEADERSHIP CONTINUOUS & OVERSIGHT MONITORING identified, assessed and managed with appropriate To facilitate the effective execution of both our risk mitigation and controls. internal processes and business needs, we have in place a clearly defined organisational structure Compliance which includes detailed roles and responsibilities for Sembcorp provides essential services which are highly key appointment holders. This is further supported regulated. We are committed to comply with all laws by an established delegation of authority matrix and ADOPTION & and regulations in the countries that we operate in. financial authority limits, which have been approved OWNERSHIP ASSURANCE Non-compliance may subject us to statutory and by the board. A comprehensive set of group-wide regulatory fines and sanctions, including losing our governance and functional policies that ensure licence to operate and material litigation. It may also entity-level controls are also implemented across result in damage to our reputation and credibility, the Group. The Group’s internal controls policy and thereby limiting future growth opportunities. manual, which adopts principles of the Committee INTERNAL AUDIT BUSINESS UNITS of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway ¡¡ Audits the adequacy and effectiveness of our ¡¡ Hold accountability for respective risks and controls Ethical Business Practices Commission, provides a framework for what risk management and internal controls, using ¡¡ Provide source information and assessment of Responsible business conduct and ethical business constitutes an effective and adequate system of a risk-based methodology risks and controls practices ensure the long-term viability of our internal controls. It also provides guidelines on the ¡¡ Provides independent assurance of compliance ¡¡ Develop operating procedures and manuals aligned businesses and build trust and confidence with our appropriate segregation of duties and a checklist to relevant Group policies with the Group’s governance policies, to ensure legal, stakeholders. We are committed to high standards of recommended internal controls for our business regulatory and contractual compliance ¡¡ Provide management assurance of compliance of behaviour and integrity in everything we do. We units to put in place. and adequacy of internal controls, backed by believe in conducting our business legally, fairly, We have also put in place a Governance comprehensive self-review and certification honestly and with integrity, and expect the same of Assurance Framework to provide a holistic and robust those whom we do business with. Sembcorp has basis of assurance for the adequacy and effectiveness zero tolerance for fraud, bribery and corruption. of our risk management and internal control system. 124 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 125 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues SEMBCORP’S GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK HIGHLIGHT Using Technology to Enhance our Risk and Control Processes A new online risk management and business central database of identified risks and internal A B continuity management system has been controls put in place to mitigate these risks. MANAGEMENT ASSURANCE ENHANCED MANAGEMENT ASSURANCE developed to improve our risk and governance We have also leveraged data analytics to process through enabling active management and perform continuous monitoring of transactions in Governance Assurance ‘Deep-Dive’ Risks and Certification Internal Controls Review monitoring, enhanced reporting, and analytics our Enterprise Resource Planning system to detect capabilities. When implemented, this system will non-compliance to Group policies and be alerted promote greater accountability and provide a of any potential fraud. HOLISTIC AND ROBUST ASSURANCE PROCESS a. Economic through our established internal policies and Internal Audit External Audit Sembcorp actively pursues global strategies to processes, we assess the impact of environmental deliver sustainable long-term value and growth. risks and apply appropriate control measures to INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE We will continue to invest in and develop our manage them. Where viable, we also invest in C capabilities and expand our assets in both existing the latest technologies and utilise our capabilities and new markets, with a particular emphasis as an industry leader to achieve better energy on emerging markets. Investing in such markets and water efficiency, including reduction of a. Management assurance Risk Management inevitably carries with it inherent risks; however, water consumption through water reuse. The Governance Assurance Certification is The Group manages risk under an overall strategy, the Group is a disciplined investor with a robust a management certification process that is determined by the board of directors and supported investment approval process that calls for the c. Social submitted quarterly by each business unit to by the board’s Risk Committee and Audit Committee. necessary due diligence and risk management to Sembcorp is committed to being a responsible certify that its risk management and internal The Risk Committee reviews and enhances the be done. The Group has a defined set of country business that ensures the health and safety of controls system is adequate and effective. effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and limits and the limit for investment exposure in our people, and makes a positive impact on our This certification is supported by regular HSE plans, systems, processes and procedures. countries deemed to be of high and medium people and communities. internal risk management processes, including It also regularly reviews group-wide risks including risk has been set at no more than 65% of our In our pursuit of operational excellence and Risk Management Committee meetings and significant risk exposures relating to foreign exchange total investment exposure. In addition, we also business growth, Sembcorp will not compromise review of risk registers. rates, commodity prices and major investment maintain appropriate single-country limits. the health and safety of both its internal and projects as well as corresponding risk mitigation plans. The Group commits to maintaining a external stakeholders. The health and safety of b. Enhanced management assurance HSE policies, guidelines and limits are also regularly strong financial position and targets to achieve all our employees is of paramount importance to Key business units are required to perform a reviewed. Oversight for risk management within the an investment grade equivalent credit rating the Group. We take a serious view of any breach ‘deep-dive’ risks and internal controls review Group’s listed entities lies with their respective boards. to ensure access to funding and protect in health and safety standards and regulations together with a risk control self-assessment shareholder value. The Group will not take across all our operations and facilities. by management. Risk appetite framework part in any form of transaction that is deemed Sembcorp also recognises the need to have The board has determined a risk appetite framework speculative in nature, under any circumstances. in place a strong and competent workforce c. Independent assurance for Sembcorp that forms a common understanding that is committed to our core values and ethical Internal audit provides independent assurance among both our board and management to execute b. Environmental standards. The Group will also continue to with a focus on operational risks and the the Group’s strategy and objectives. Under this Sembcorp is committed to responsibly attract, develop and retain employees with the general control environment. External audit framework, the board has approved risk appetite managing and reducing our impact on the relevant skill sets and competencies to meet our considers internal controls relevant to the statements with respect to the following areas. environment as well as to effectively managing business needs and growth plans and ensure preparation of financial statements to ensure These are aligned with how the Group categorises environmental risks to our operations. leadership continuity. they give a true and fair view. its material issues, for the management and the Besides complying with all prescribed In addition, Sembcorp believes that as an reporting of its overall sustainability performance: environmental standards and requirements integral part of our communities, we should 126 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 127 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues conduct our business in a responsible manner programme, we believe in having the right processes Detective anti-fraud measures Financial and market risk and make a positive contribution to the and tools as well as instilling the right risk awareness ¡¡ Whistle-blowing policy The Group defines and utilises approved communities in which we operate. The Group culture. Our ERM framework specifically sets out ¡¡ Forensic data analysis financial instruments to manage exposure to is therefore committed to high standards of a systematic and structured approach towards risk ¡¡ Compliance and monitoring foreign exchange, commodity prices and interest business conduct, to engaging our stakeholders management through the following activities: ¡¡ Pre-employment screening rate fluctuations arising from operational, and to managing our environmental and social financing and investment activities. Under the impact on local communities responsibly. ¡¡ Awareness trainings and workshops Responsive anti-fraud measures Group’s overall treasury policy, transactions for ¡¡ Risk identification and assessment ¡¡ Fraud reporting procedures speculative purposes are strictly not allowed. d. Governance ¡¡ Formulation of key risk management strategies ¡¡ Fraud investigation procedures As a listed company on the Singapore stock ¡¡ Design and implementation of risk ¡¡ Grievance handling procedures Default and counterparty credit risks exchange that has both responsibility and mitigation controls (preventive, detective A group-wide credit risk policy has been accountability to a wide range of stakeholders, and responsive controls) b. Operational risk management put in place to ensure that we transact with Sembcorp commits to maintain high standards ¡¡ Monitoring and timely reporting of risk The Group’s management of operational risk creditworthy counterparties as much as possible. of behaviour and integrity and be best in management performance and risk is focused on the following areas: We also screen for material concentrations of class for governance practices. The Group will exposure levels credit risk to ensure that no single counterparty comply with all applicable laws and regulatory ¡¡ Continuous improvement of risk management Crisis management and business continuity or group related counterparties has excessive requirements in the countries where it operates. mitigation measures and capabilities A robust and effective crisis management credit exposure that may result in material Further, the Group adopts a zero tolerance framework is put in place with the Group’s impact on the Group in the event of a default. stance towards any form of fraud, bribery or Our ERM framework is supported by the crisis management, emergency response corruption and expects all employees to adhere following key pillars: and business continuity procedures, and plans d. Investment risk management to the guidelines set forth in the Code of are regularly tested and fine-tuned. The The Group has in place an investment approval Business Conduct. a. Fraud risk management Group also addresses crises and emergencies process to ensure a prudent and disciplined Sembcorp has zero tolerance for fraud, which through the implementation of appropriate approach to all investment decisions, including The above risk appetite statements are we take to include corruption and bribery. prevention, preparedness, response and a country risk framework that sets appropriate also supported by key risk indicators, which are Our fraud risk management policy provides a recovery programmes. country risk limits. monitored and reported to the Risk Committee framework and comprehensive guidance on antion an ongoing basis. fraud measures to proactively manage the risk Health, safety and the environment e. Tax risk management of fraud, bribery and corruption. This includes a A group-wide HSE management system which It is our policy to comply with all relevant Enterprise risk management whistle-blowing policy. is aligned with international standards and taxation laws, regulations and regulatory The Group is committed to ensuring that an The following key activities and industry best practice sets the standard for disclosure requirements. effective and practical enterprise risk management complementary policies and procedures are business units to actively manage HSE risks. (ERM) framework is in place. Our framework part of our holistic approach towards fraud risk For more details on our ERM framework and a aims to safeguard our people and assets, protect management and also address the risk of bribery Insurance full description of our approach to managing the shareholders’ interests, facilitate informed decisions and corruption: The Group actively reviews its insurable and above risks, please refer to the Sustainability section for value creation and ultimately enhance our uninsurable risks, and identifies comprehensive of our website. brand and reputation. In designing our ERM Preventive anti-fraud measures and cost-effective risk management tools to framework, the Group has adapted and made ¡¡ Code of Business Conduct manage such risks. Compliance reference to various industry risk management ¡¡ Employee code of conduct Full compliance to all legal and regulatory standards, such as ISO 31000 and the Enterprise ¡¡ Conflict of interest policy c. Financial, market and credit risk management requirements is the minimum expectation Risk Management – Integrated Framework of the ¡¡ Corporate gift policy Sembcorp’s financial, market and credit risk we prescribe for all our businesses. As part of Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the ¡¡ Fraud risk assessments exposure is managed via established policies, our Governance Assurance Framework, our Treadway Commission. This ensures that we are in ¡¡ Employee and third party due diligence including treasury policies, financial authority Governance Assurance Certification process line with best practice. To sustain a successful ERM limits and Governance Assurance Certification. requires all heads of business units to certify that 128 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 129 ESG REVIEW | Our Material ESG Issues they have complied with all relevant legal and contractors who work with Sembcorp are expected psychological and emotional impact of crises. We are During the year, three significant fines amounting regulatory requirements in their respective entities to respect and follow the CBC as well. also developing a psychological resilience framework to S$260,000 were incurred by our operations in and country of operation. Any monetary fines and The CBC also provides for escalation procedures in in line with national resilience frameworks such as SG Chile and China. One of our water treatment plants non-monetary sanctions imposed on the business the event of a breach of the CBC as well as feedback Secure and the National Care Management System. in Chile paid a total penalty of S$156,000 for failure units are also to be reported. channels for employee clarification and queries. In 2016, Sembcorp received the Most to provide continuous water supply and meet the Regular audits are conducted by Group Internal Transparent Company Award in the Industrials required water pressure level on two occasions. Audit and Group HSE departments to ensure Our performance category at the Securities Investors Association New wells have been constructed and enhancements compliance and also to identify gaps and lapses The focus of our governance assurance process (Singapore) Investors’ Choice Awards. Sembcorp have been made to improve the capacity and water in compliance. They will also work closely with this year was to extend the implementation of was also ranked sixth in the 2016 edition of the pressure. A water treatment plant in China was management to develop action plans to prevent the Governance Assurance Framework to new Singapore Governance and Transparency Index, a also fined S$104,000 when samples tested by the future recurrences of gaps and lapses. entities. We also continued to review and update well-respected index assessing the transparency Environmental Protection Bureau exceeded the the risk registers of existing entities to ensure that of 631 Singapore listed companies. The index is a chemical oxygen demand limit as a result of different Ethical Business Practices they remain relevant and up to date. Under a new collaboration between CPA Australia, the Centre for laboratory testing methodologies. We have taken Sembcorp’s core values of Insight, Integrity and requirement of India’s Companies Act, the external Governance, Institutions and Organisations at the action to prevent recurrence of this incident. Integral define our approach to sustainable auditors of our subsidiaries in India have opined National University of Singapore Business School, There was no legal action initiated during the growth and form the foundation of Sembcorp’s that these subsidiaries have, in all material respects, and the Singapore Institute of Directors, and is year in connection with anti-competitive behaviour, Business Principles and Code of Business Conduct an adequate internal financial controls system over supported by The Business Times. anti-trust or monopoly practices. (CBC). Employees are required to comply with financial reporting and that these controls were the requirements of the CBC, which addresses operating effectively as at March 31, 2016. Sembcorp’s stance in the following key areas: As part of our ongoing efforts to build inhouse capabilities, readiness and resilience in ¡¡ Fairness and opportunity, harassment, crisis and emergency response situations, we have Going forward Going forward, our focus will be to further improve information protection and insider trading, continued to conduct and participate in regular We will continue to prescribe to and be guided and refine our risk management and governance protection of company assets crisis simulation exercises and awareness trainings. by the below targets as we continue our journey processes. This includes exploring new e-learning ¡¡ Integrity of information, gifts and entertainment, In 2016, this included simulation exercises in in pursuit of excellence in the areas of corporate training modules and implementing the new conflict of interest, corruption and bribery, Singapore, Oman and the UAE. The exercises were governance, risk management, compliance and online risk management and business continuity facilitation payments, anti-competition and conducted in partnership with customers, local ethical business practices. management system for our key business units. anti-trust laws, money laundering prevention, authorities and external agencies. political contributions With heightened risk of terrorist attacks ¡¡ Contribution to our communities, health, worldwide, we have also engaged an external safety and the environment consultant to review our security framework and Corporate Governance ensure that our organisation and staff are wellTo have an effective governance and decision-making structure The CBC is publicly available on our website. prepared in responding to major security incidents. Requirements of the CBC are communicated to In September 2016, Temasek Foundation Cares Risk Management employees globally through an e-learning course launched the Stay Prepared – Business Psychological To ensure effective identification and management of all material risks delivered in multiple languages. Employees are Resilience Programme (B-PREP) to establish a model required to complete an annual declaration to for psychological resilience, which companies Compliance acknowledge that they have read and understood in Singapore can adopt to help manage the To comply with all legal and regulatory requirements the principles and requirements of the CBC and psychological and emotional impact of emergencies, agree to comply with its principles and requirements threats and crises. As a B-PREP participant, we have Ethical Business Practices and to promptly report any violation through embarked on building a team of trained personnel To ensure we conduct our businesses legally, fairly, honestly and with integrity available reporting channels. Suppliers and equipped to help affected persons cope with the 130 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 131 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT ¡¡ Review management performance and oversee apply their best endeavours to comply with the the Group’s overall performance objectives, requirements of the Singapore Exchange Securities key operational initiatives, financial plans and Trading (SGX-ST), pursuant to or in connection with annual budget, major investments, divestments the SGX-ST Listing Manual from time to time in Sembcorp’s corporate governance principles are built on our core value of integrity and funding proposals, quarterly and full-year force, and use their best endeavours to procure that and reflect our commitment to protect and enhance shareholder value. financial performance reviews, risk management the company shall so comply. and corporate governance practices The Group has adopted internal controls and ¡¡ Provide guidance on sustainability issues such guidelines that set out financial authorisation as environmental, social and governance factors, and approval limits for borrowings, including The board and management of Sembcorp recognise BOARD MATTERS as part of the Group’s overall business strategy off-balance sheet commitments, investments, that well-defined corporate governance processes acquisitions, disposals, capital and operating are essential in enhancing corporate accountability Board’s Conduct of Affairs (Principle 1) To assist the board in the efficient discharge expenditures, requisitions and expenses. Significant and long-term sustainability, and are committed Effective board to lead and effect controls of its responsibilities and provide independent investments and transactions exceeding threshold to high standards of governance to preserve and oversight of management, the board has limits are approved by the board while transactions maximise shareholder value. This report sets out Sembcorp is led by an effective board comprising established the following board committees below the threshold limits are approved by the the company’s corporate governance processes mainly independent non-executive directors. The with written terms of reference: Executive Committee and management to facilitate and activities for the financial year with reference board is headed by Ang Kong Hua. He is joined on operational efficiency, in accordance with applicable to the principles set out in the Singapore Code of the board by Tang Kin Fei, Bobby Chin Yoke Choong, ¡¡ Executive Committee financial authority limits. Corporate Governance 2012 (the Code). The board Margaret Lui, Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican, ¡¡ Audit Committee is pleased to report that the company has complied Tham Kui Seng, Dr Teh Kok Peng, Ajaib Haridass, ¡¡ Risk Committee Executive Committee in all material aspects with the principles and Neil McGregor, Nicky Tan Ng Kuang as well as ¡¡ Executive Resource & Compensation Committee The Executive Committee (ExCo) is chaired by guidelines set out in the Code, and any deviations Yap Chee Keong, who was appointed to the board ¡¡ Nominating Committee Mr Ang and its members include Mr Tang, Mrs Lui are explained in this report. on October 1, 2016. ¡¡ Technology Advisory Panel as well as Mr Tan. The company continually reviews and refines its Within the limits of authority delegated by the processes in light of best practice, consistent with Role of the board Special purpose committees are also established board, the ExCo reviews and approves business the needs and circumstances of the Group. We The board is collectively responsible for the longas dictated by business imperatives. opportunities, strategic investments, divestments, are encouraged that our efforts towards excellent term success of the company. Each director exercises Composition of the board committees is structured and major capital and operating expenditure. governance have been recognised. Sembcorp was his / her independent judgement to act in good to ensure an equitable distribution of responsibilities The ExCo also evaluates and recommends larger ranked sixth in the 2016 edition of the Singapore faith and in the best interest of the company for the among board members, maximise the effectiveness investments, capital and operating expenditure Governance and Transparency Index, a wellcreation of long-term value for shareholders. of the board and foster active participation and and divestments to the board for approval. respected index assessing the transparency of The principal duties of the board are to: contribution. Diversity of experience and appropriate 631 Singapore listed companies. The index is a skills are considered along with the need to maintain Technology Advisory Panel collaboration between CPA Australia, the Centre ¡¡ Provide leadership and guidance to appropriate checks and balances between the The Technology Advisory Panel (TAP) comprises for Governance, Institutions and Organisations at management on the Group’s overall strategy, different committees. Hence, membership of the board members Mr Ang, Mr Tang and Dr Teh, as well NUS Business School, and the Singapore Institute of taking into consideration sustainability issues Executive Committee, with its greater involvement as co-opted members Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng, Directors, supported by The Business Times. At the and the need to ensure necessary financial in key businesses and executive decisions, and Prof Ng How Yong and Prof Lui Pao Chuen. Their SIAS Investors Choice Awards 2016, Sembcorp was and human resources are in place membership of the Audit and Risk Committees, with profiles may be found under the TAP chapter of this also recognised as the Most Transparent Company ¡¡ Ensure the adequacy of the Group’s risk their respective oversight roles, are mutually exclusive. annual report. under the Industrials category. This award honours management and internal controls framework The directors and executive officers of the The TAP provides guidance to the Group on public listed companies that have demonstrated and standards, including ethical standards, company have each given an undertaking that in its vision and strategy in leveraging technology exemplary corporate governance and transparency and that its obligations to shareholders and the exercise of their powers and duties as a director to enhance Sembcorp’s leadership in the energy throughout the year. other key stakeholders are met or executive officer of the company, they shall and water industries. The panel advises on 132 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 133 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT technologies for research and development as the start of each year. Telephonic attendance and regulations, guidelines and accounting standards, ceremony of our Sembcorp Gayatri Power Complex well as investment, and oversees the development conference via audiovisual communication channels as well as other relevant trends or issues. These are in India as well as the groundbreaking ceremony of and application of significant emerging and are allowed under the company’s constitution to done either during board meetings, at board dinners the Nanjing International Water Hub in China. potentially disruptive technologies in the energy enable the participation of directors who are unable or at specially convened sessions, including training and water sectors. It also ensures the appropriate to be present. Decisions made by the board and sessions and seminars conducted by external management of specialised research and board committees may be obtained at meetings or professionals which are funded by the company. Board Composition and Guidance (Principle 2) development projects and systems for intellectual via circular resolution. Should a director be unable to In 2016, the directors participated in the following Strong and independent board exercising property creation and protection. In addition, the attend any board or board committee meeting, he / briefings and updates provided by the company: objective judgement panel advises Sembcorp’s board and management she will still be sent the papers tabled for discussion on technological trends and opportunities in line and have the opportunity to separately convey any ¡¡ Briefings on developments in accounting and Board composition with the company’s growth strategies. views to the chairman for consideration or further governance standards presented by our external The current board comprises 11 directors, eight The other committees’ respective composition, discussion with other directors. If necessary, a auditors at Audit Committee meetings of whom are independent directors. Excluding roles and responsibilities are further explained in this separate session may be organised for management ¡¡ Quarterly updates on the Group’s business the Group President & CEO, all the directors Corporate Governance Statement. Minutes of board to brief that director and obtain his / her comments and strategic developments presented by the are non-executive. The board members include committee meetings are circulated to the board to and / or approval. Group President & CEO to the board business leaders and professionals with strong keep directors updated on each committee’s activities. The directors’ attendance at board and ¡¡ Quarterly overviews presented by the Group experience relevant to the Group’s businesses, from committee meetings held during the financial year Risk and Governance departments to the Risk engineering, petrochemicals, oil and gas and real Meetings and attendance 2016 is set out on page 135. Committee on the Group’s risk and controls estate industries to accountancy, finance and legal The board meets on a quarterly basis to review environment and updates relating to risk sectors. Best efforts have been made to ensure that and approve the release of the company’s quarterly Board orientation and training management, governance initiatives and key in addition to contributing their valuable expertise results, as well as to deliberate on key activities and All new directors receive formal letters of emerging threats such as heightened risk of and insight to board deliberations, directors also business strategies, including significant acquisitions appointment explaining the Group’s governance terrorist attacks bring to the board independent and objective and disposals. At these board meetings, the policies and practices, as well as their duties and ¡¡ Public conferences and forum discussions perspectives to allow balanced and well-considered Group President & CEO updates the board on the obligations as directors. New directors also receive on best practices for boards, cybersecurity decisions to be made. The board is of the view development and prospects of the Group’s businesses an information pack that contains the Group’s and risk management that given that the majority of directors are nonand each board committee provides a report on its organisation structure, the contact details of ¡¡ A series of briefings on relevant topics, such as executive and independent of management in terms activities. An additional board meeting is held at members of senior management, the company’s regional geopolitical developments including of character and judgement, objectivity on issues the end of each financial year to review the Group’s constitution, respective committees’ terms of China’s foreign relations and security issues deliberated is assured. Profiles of the directors may strategy and to consider and approve the Group’s reference, the Group’s policy relating to disclosure in the Asia Pacific, as well as technology be found on pages 28 to 35. budget for the following year. Ad-hoc board meetings of interests in securities and prohibition on dealings developments for large-scale urban systems may also be convened as necessary to consider other in Sembcorp securities, as well as guidelines on Review of directors’ independence specific matters. At quarterly board meetings, time directors’ fees. Besides such briefings, articles and reports The independence of each non-executive director is set aside for the board to discuss management’s The company conducts comprehensive relevant to the Group’s businesses are also circulated is assessed annually. Each director is required to performance. Members of management are not orientation programmes for new directors. These to the directors for information. Furthermore, to complete a Director’s Independence Checklist present at or privy to such discussions. Annually, a include briefings on board policies and processes, enhance understanding of the Group’s businesses drawn up based on the guidelines provided in the strategic review meeting is organised for the board to presentations by senior management about and engagement with its stakeholders, our Code. The checklist also requires each director to have in-depth discussions with management on the Sembcorp, its overall strategic plans and direction, directors regularly visit the Group’s operations in assess whether he / she considers himself / herself Group’s strategy and other key issues. In 2016, this financial performance and business activities in different locations. In 2016, the directors went to independent despite involvement in any of the off-site meeting was held in November. various markets, as well as facility visits. India, China and Myanmar, visiting our facilities relationships identified in the Code. Thereafter, Board and board committee meetings, as well as As part of training and professional development and meeting with government officials as well as the Nominating Committee reviews the completed annual general meetings (AGMs) of the company are for the board, the company ensures that directors key customers and partners. In conjunction with checklists, assesses the independence of the directors scheduled in consultation with the directors before are briefed from time to time on changes to the visits, the directors also attended the opening and presents its recommendations to the board. 134 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 135 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Taking into account the views of the Nominating directorships in Sembcorp Marine have not and will Composition of Board Committees for 2016 Committee, the board determined in 2016 that with not interfere, or be reasonably perceived to interfere, Executive the exception of Mr Tang, Mrs Lui and Mr McGregor, with their ability to exercise independent judgement Resource & Executive Audit Risk Compensation Nominating Technology all of Sembcorp Industries’ directors are independent. and act in the best interest of Sembcorp Industries. Board member Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Advisory Panel Mr Tang is Group President & CEO and an executive A term limit of nine years is set for director. Mrs Lui is Chief Executive Officer of Azalea independent directors of the Group. Should Ang Kong Hua Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Tang Kin Fei Member Member Asset Management, a related company of Temasek the board decide to retain any director beyond Bobby Chin Yoke Choong Chairman Member Member Holdings (Temasek) which holds more than 10% this nine-year term, it will rigorously review the Margaret Lui Member Member Member interest in the Group. As at the time of publication independence of that director and determine if Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican Member Member of this report, Mr McGregor is Head of Temasek he / she should continue to be regarded as an Tham Kui Seng Member Member International’s Energy and Resources Group, Head independent director. None of Sembcorp’s current Dr Teh Kok Peng Member Member Member of Australia and New Zealand and Senior Managing directors have served longer than nine years from Ajaib Haridass Member Chairman Director of its Enterprise Development Group. the date of their appointment. Neil McGregor Member Nicky Tan Ng Kuang1 Member Mr Tang will retire as Group President & CEO on The board has determined that Mr Chin, a Yap Chee Keong 2 Member Member March 31, 2017 and Mr McGregor will be the Group director on the board of Temasek, and Tan Sri Mohd President & CEO with effect from April 1, 2017. Hassan Marican and Mr Tham, who respectively Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican and Mr Haridass hold the positions of Senior International Advisor both sit on the board of Sembcorp Marine, a listed and Corporate Advisor at Temasek International Directors’ Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings in 2016 subsidiary from which the company has received Advisors, a subsidiary of Temasek, are independent. Executive payment in excess of S$200,000 in aggregate All three directors have consistently exercised strong Resource & Technology Executive Audit Risk Compensation Nominating Advisory Annual for consultancy services and provision of utilities independent judgement in their deliberations. The Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Panel general services. The board has assessed this matter and board believes that they have acted and continue to Board member meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting is of the view that the payment received from act in the best interest of the company, as they are Total Number of Meetings Sembcorp Marine is not significant in the context not accustomed or under an obligation, whether Held in 2016 8 6 7 4 5 3 4 1 of the Group’s earnings. The board believes that formal or informal, to act in accordance with the Ang Kong Hua 8/8 6/6 – – 5/5 3/3 4/4 1/1 Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican and Mr Haridass’ directions, instructions or wishes of Temasek. Tang Kin Fei 6/8* 6/6 5/7* 4/4 3/5* 3/3 4/4 1/1 Bobby Chin Yoke Choong 8/8 – 7/7 4/4 – 3/3 – 1/1 Margaret Lui 8/8 6/6 – – 5/5 3/3 – 1/1 Board Members for 2016 Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican 8/8 – – – 5/5 3/3 – 1/1 Date of first Date of last re-election / Tham Kui Seng 8/8 – 7/7 4/4 – – – 1/1 Position held appointment re-appointment Dr Teh Kok Peng 8/8 – 7/7 – 5/5 – 4/4 1/1 Board member on the board to the board as director Nature of appointment Ajaib Haridass 8/8 – 7/7 4/4 – – – 1/1 Neil McGregor 8/8 – – 4/4 – – – 1/1 Ang Kong Hua Chairman Feb 26, 2010 Apr 19, 2016 Non-executive / Independent Nicky Tan Ng Kuang1 7/8** 5/6** – – – – – 1/1 Tang Kin Fei Director May 1, 2005 Apr 19, 2016 Executive / Non-independent Yap Chee Keong2 2/2 – 1/1 1/1 – – – – Bobby Chin Yoke Choong Director Dec 1, 2008 Apr 21, 2015* Non-executive / Independent Margaret Lui Director Jun 1, 2010 Apr 19, 2016 Non-executive / Non-independent Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican Director Jun 16, 2010 Apr 19, 2016 Non-executive / Independent Tham Kui Seng Director Jun 1, 2011 Apr 24, 2014* Non-executive / Independent Dr Teh Kok Peng Director Oct 15, 2012 Apr 21, 2015 Non-executive / Independent 1 Mr Tan was appointed a member of the Executive Committee with effect from January 1, 2016 Ajaib Haridass Director May 1, 2014 Apr 21, 2015* Non-executive / Independent 2 Mr Yap was appointed a director and member of the Audit Committee and Risk Committee with effect from October 1, 2016 Neil McGregor Director May 1, 2014 Apr 21, 2015* Non-executive / Non-independent * As an executive director, Mr Tang was not required to attend the ad-hoc board, Audit Committee and Executive Resource & Compensation Committee meetings that were convened for non-executive directors only Nicky Tan Ng Kuang Director Nov 1, 2015 Apr 19, 2016 Non-executive / Independent ** Although Mr Tan was unable to attend one board meeting and one Executive Committee meeting, he conveyed his views / comments Yap Chee Keong Director Oct 1, 2016 N.A.* Non-executive / Independent to the Board and Executive Committee for consideration prior to the meetings * Up for retirement at the company’s upcoming AGM 136 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 137 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Board Membership (Principle 4) governance practised by the Group. The board also was appointed in December 2008 and has served (Principle 3) Formal and transparent process for the recognises the contributions of directors who have, for more than eight years on the board, is retiring at Clear division of responsibilities between appointment and re-appointment of directors over time, developed deep insight into the Group’s the forthcoming AGM in April 2017. the board and management businesses. It exercises its discretion to retain the Mr Yap, who was newly appointed to the board Nominating Committee services of such directors where appropriate, to on October 1, 2016, will also submit himself for The Chairman and the Group President & CEO The Nominating Committee (NC) comprises avoid an abrupt loss of experienced directors with a retirement and re-election by shareholders at the are not related to each other. Their roles are kept non-executive directors, namely Mr Ang, Mrs Lui, valuable understanding of the Group. forthcoming AGM. separate to ensure a clear division of responsibilities, Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican and Mr Chin. Three With reference to the Group’s strategies and The board does not encourage the appointment increased accountability and a greater capacity of out of four NC members, including its chairman, business plans, the NC reviews the skills mix of of alternate directors. No alternate director has the board for independent decision-making. are independent. They are Mr Ang, Tan Sri board members to ensure that the board has the been or is currently being appointed to the board. The Chairman, who is non-executive, chairs the Mohd Hassan Marican and Mr Chin. required diversity, including gender diversity, as well board, ExCo, Executive Resource & Compensation The NC is responsible for reviewing Sembcorp’s as the competencies to support our growth. When Review of directors’ time commitments Committee, Nominating Committee and the board to ensure strong, independent and sound the need for a new director arises, the NC consults While reviewing the re-appointment and reTAP. He leads and ensures an effective and leadership to drive the continued success of the with management and identifies a list of potential election of directors, the NC also considers the comprehensive discussion on matters brought company and its businesses. candidates. These candidates are sourced through directors’ other board directorship representations to the board, including strategic issues and The key responsibilities of the NC are to: an extensive network of contacts and external and principal commitments to ensure they have business planning. The Chairman promotes an databases where appropriate, based on the skill sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities open environment for deliberation and ensures ¡¡ Ensure that the board has the right balance sets, experience, knowledge and attributes required adequately. Taking into consideration the total that board and board committee meetings are of skills, attributes, knowledge and experience to lead the growth of the company. Thereafter, time commitment required of our directors for conducted in a manner that allows non-executive in business, finance and related industries, as the NC will interview the candidates and make involvement in Sembcorp’s board and board directors to participate in meaningful and active well as management expertise critical to the its recommendation to the board for approval. In committees and for their other appointments discussions. He also provides advice to management company’s businesses accordance with the company’s constitution, the outside our company, the board has determined and monitors all follow-up actions following the ¡¡ Review the composition and size of the new director will hold office until the next AGM that the maximum number of listed company board board’s decisions, ensuring that such decisions are board and its committees and recommend and, if eligible, can stand for re-appointment. representations held by any Sembcorp Industries translated into executive action. In addition, the new appointments, re-appointments The company subscribes to the principle that director should not exceed six. Chairman provides leadership and guidance to and re-elections to the board and board all directors, including the Group President & For 2016, the board is satisfied that all directors management, particularly with regard to global committees as appropriate CEO, should retire and submit themselves for have given sufficient time and attention to the growth strategy and project investments. He also ¡¡ Review the directors’ independence and re-election at regular intervals, subject to their affairs of the company and have discharged their helps to oversee the Group’s talent management, succession plans for the board continued satisfactory performance. The company’s duties adequately. and works with the Group President & CEO to ¡¡ Develop a process to evaluate board and constitution requires a third of its directors to ensure that robust succession plans are in place board committee performance retire and subject themselves for re-election by for key management positions. ¡¡ Review training and professional development shareholders at every AGM (one-third rotation rule). The Group President & CEO makes strategic programmes for the board In addition, all newly-appointed directors submit proposals to the board, develops the Group’s themselves for retirement and re-election at the businesses in accordance with strategies, policies, Succession planning, appointment and AGM immediately following their appointment. budgets and business plans as approved by the re-appointment of directors Thereafter, these directors are subject to the oneboard and provides close oversight, guidance and The NC seeks to refresh board membership third rotation rule. leadership to senior management. progressively and in an orderly manner. All Pursuant to the one-third rotation rule, Mr appointments to the board are made based on merit Chin, Mr Tham, Mr Haridass and Mr McGregor will and measured against objective criteria. Candidates retire at the forthcoming AGM. With the exception must be able to discharge their responsibilities as of Mr Chin, the respective directors will however directors while upholding the highest standards of submit themselves for re-election. Mr Chin, who 138 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 139 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT to make informed decisions, discharge their duties board proceedings. The company secretary assists To this end, it: Board Performance (Principle 5) and keep abreast of the Group’s operational and the board on the Group’s compliance with the Active participation and valuable financial performance, key issues, challenges and company’s constitution and applicable regulations, ¡¡ Assists the board to ensure that competitive contributions are key to overall opportunities. Sembcorp’s management furnishes including requirements of the Companies Act, remuneration policies and practices are effectiveness of the board management and operation reports as well as Securities & Futures Act and SGX-ST Listing Manual. in place and aligned with the prevailing financial statements to the board on a regular basis. Moreover, the company secretary liaises on behalf economic environment Board evaluation process and Financial highlights of the Group’s performance of the company with SGX-ST, the Accounting ¡¡ Reviews the Directors’ Fee Framework performance criteria and key developments are presented on a quarterly and Corporate Regulatory Authority and when periodically and remuneration package of each The board believes that board performance is basis at board meetings and the Group President & necessary, shareholders. The appointment and the member of key management, and endorses ultimately reflected in the long-term performance of CEO, Group Chief Financial Officer and members removal of the company secretary are subject to or makes further recommendations on such the Group. Each year, in consultation with the NC, the of senior management attend board and board the board’s approval. matters to the board for its consideration board assesses its performance to identify key areas committee meetings to provide insight into matters ¡¡ Establishes guidelines on share-based for improvement and requisite follow-up actions. under discussion and address any queries that the Independent professional advice incentives and other long-term incentive plans To provide feedback to aid in this assessment, directors may have. In the furtherance of its duties, the board exercises and approves the grant of such incentives to each director is required to complete a In line with Sembcorp’s strong commitment its discretion to seek independent professional advice key management personnel. These incentives questionnaire on the effectiveness of the board, towards environmental responsibility, directors are at the company’s expense, if deemed necessary. serve to motivate executives to maximise board committees and directors’ contribution and provided with electronic tablets that give them operating and financial performance and performance. The evaluation considers factors such access to board and board committee papers shareholder value. They are aimed at aligning as the size and composition of the board and board prior to and during meetings. As a general rule, REMUNERATION MATTERS the interests of key management personnel committees, board processes and accountability, the board and board committee papers are made with those of shareholders board and board committees’ development and available to directors a week prior to meetings. Procedures for Developing ¡¡ Reviews succession planning for key effectiveness, information management, decisionThis is to give the directors sufficient time to review Remuneration Policies (Principle 7) management personnel and the leadership making processes, risk and crisis management, and consider matters at hand. It also ensures that Remuneration of directors adequate pipeline for the organisation succession planning, communication with senior discussions at the meetings can be focused on any and not excessive management and stakeholder management. The questions arising from these matters. The board In its deliberations, the ERCC takes into evaluation and feedback are then consolidated has ready and independent access to the Group With the assistance of the Executive Resource & consideration industry practices and compensation and presented to the board for discussion on areas President & CEO, senior management, the company Compensation Committee, the board ensures norms. The Group President & CEO does not attend of strengths and weaknesses. The NC periodically secretary and internal and external auditors at all that a formal policy and transparent procedure discussions relating to his own compensation, reviews and improves the directors’ questionnaire times, should it require additional information. for determining remuneration of executives and terms and conditions of service, or the review of his to further enhance assessment of board and directors are in place. performance. In addition, no ERCC member or any board committee effectiveness. The assessment Company Secretary director is involved in deliberations in respect of any helps the directors to maintain focus on their key The company secretary assists the Chairman to Executive Resource & Compensation Committee remuneration, compensation, share-based incentives or responsibilities, while improving board performance. ensure good information flow within the board The Executive Resource & Compensation any form of benefits to be granted to himself / herself. and its committees and between the board and Committee (ERCC) is chaired by Mr Ang, The ERCC has access to expert professional senior management. In addition, the company an independent non-executive director. advice on human resource matters whenever Access to Information (Principle 6) secretary attends to corporate secretarial matters, He is joined on the committee by Mrs Lui, there is a need for such external consultation. In Directors have complete, adequate such as arranging orientations for new directors Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican as well as Dr Teh. 2016, Mercer (Singapore) was engaged as external and timely information and resources and assisting with their professional development The ERCC is responsible for developing, consultants to provide such advice. In engaging as required. In consultation with the Chairman and reviewing and recommending to the board the external consultants, the Group ensures that the Complete, adequate and timely information Group President & CEO, the company secretary framework of remuneration for the board and key relationship, if any, between them and these external The company recognises that directors should assists the board with scheduling of board and management personnel as defined in the Code. consultants will not affect the independence and be provided with complete, adequate and timely board committee meetings, prepares meeting objectivity of the external consultants. In 2016, the information on an ongoing basis that enables them agendas and administers, attends and minutes ERCC undertook a review of the independence and 140 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 141 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT objectivity of Mercer (Singapore) and has confirmed Note 32 in the Notes to the Financial Statements in The directors’ fees payable to non-executive intended to be paid in 2018 after the AGM has that it has no relationship with the company which this annual report. directors are paid in cash and in share awards been held. would affect its independence. under the Sembcorp Industries Restricted Share The company does not have a retirement In reviewing succession planning and the Non-executive directors’ fees Plan 2010. The ERCC has determined that up to remuneration plan for non-executive directors. Group’s leadership pipeline, the ERCC reviews the The framework below adopted by the company is 30% of the aggregate directors’ fees approved by development of senior staff and assesses their based on a scale of fees divided into basic retainer shareholders for a particular financial year may be Remuneration for key management personnel strengths and development needs based on the fees, attendance fees and allowances for travel and paid out in the form of restricted share awards. Sembcorp’s remuneration and reward system for Group’s leadership competencies framework, with service on board committees: Directors’ cash fees and share awards will only be key management personnel is designed to ensure the aim of building talent and maintaining strong and paid and granted upon approval by shareholders at a competitive level of compensation to attract, sound leadership for the Group. On an annual basis, Directors’ Fee Framework for FY2016* the company’s AGM. Directors and their associates retain and motivate employees to deliver high-level S$ the ERCC reviews succession planning for the position also abstain from voting on any resolution(s) performance in accordance with the company’s of Group President & CEO and that of officers Chairman’s fee (all-in)1 750,000 relating to their remuneration. established risk policies. The remuneration of reporting directly to him, as well as for other selected Director’s basic retainer fee 75,000 Share awards granted under the Sembcorp our key management personnel comprises three key positions in the company. Potential internal and Executive Committee Industries Restricted Share Plan 2010 to directors primary components: Chairman’s allowance 50,000 external candidates for succession are reviewed for as part of directors’ fees will consist of the grant Member’s allowance 30,000 different time horizons according to immediate, of fully paid shares outright with no performance ¡ Fixed remuneration Audit Committee medium-term and long-term needs. In addition, the Chairman’s allowance 50,000 and vesting conditions attached, but with a selling Fixed remuneration includes an annual basic ERCC also reviews the company’s obligation arising Member’s allowance 30,000 moratorium. However, this does not apply to Mr Tang, salary, and where applicable, fixed allowances, in the event of termination of the Group President & Executive Resource & as he does not receive directors’ fees given that he an annual wage supplement and other CEO and key management personnel’s contracts of Compensation Committee is Group President & CEO of the company. Nonemoluments. Base salaries of key management service, to ensure that such contracts contain fair and Chairman’s allowance 35,000 executive directors are required to hold shares in the personnel are determined based on the scope, Member’s allowance 20,000 reasonable termination clauses. company (including shares obtained by other means) criticality and complexity of each role, equity Risk Committee worth the value of their annual basic retainer fee against peers with similar responsibilities, Chairman’s allowance 35,000 Member’s allowance 20,000 (currently S$75,000); any excess may be disposed of experience and competencies, individual Level and Mix of Remuneration (Principle 8) Nominating Committee as desired. A non-executive director may only dispose performance and market competitiveness. Competitive reward system to ensure Chairman’s allowance 25,000 of all of his shares one year after leaving the board. highest performance and retention of Member’s allowance 15,000 Subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming ¡ Annual variable bonuses directors and key management personnel Technology Advisory Panel / Others AGM, the cash component of the directors’ fees for The annual variable bonus is intended to Chairman’s allowance 25,000 the financial year 2017 is intended to be paid halfrecognise the performance and contributions of Member’s allowance 15,000 Sembcorp believes that its remuneration and reward yearly in arrears. the individual, while driving the achievement of Attendance fees system is aligned with the long-term interest and Board meeting 5,000 The actual number of shares to be awarded key business results for the company. The annual risk policies of the company. It also recognises that a Committee meeting2 2,500 to each non-executive director will be determined variable bonus includes two components. competitive remuneration and reward system based Teleconference (board meeting) 2,000 by reference to the volume-weighted average The first is the performance target bonus, on individual performance is important to attract, Teleconference (committee meeting) 1,000 price of a share on the SGX-ST over the 14 trading linked to the achievement of pre-agreed retain and incentivise the best talent. Travel allowance for overseas directors days from (and including) the day the shares are financial and non-financial performance targets, ≤ 4 hours (to and fro air travel time) 2,500 The Group President & CEO, as an executive first quoted ex-dividend after the AGM (or, if the comprising strategy, business processes and > 4 to 15 hours (to and fro air travel time) 5,000 director, does not receive director’s fees from resolution to approve the final dividend is not organisation and people development. It is > 15 hours (to and fro air travel time) 10,000 Sembcorp. As a lead member of management, his approved, over the 14 trading days immediately designed to support the Group’s business Notes: compensation consists of his salary, allowances, following the date of the AGM). The number of strategy and the ongoing enhancement of * The directors’ fee framework applies to all directors except the Group President bonuses and share-based incentives conditional & CEO, who is an executive director and does not receive any directors’ fees shares to be awarded will be rounded down to shareholder value through the delivery of annual 1 With effect from January 1, 2014, the Chairman of our board only receives upon meeting certain performance targets. Details the nearest hundred and any residual balance financial strategy and operational objectives. one all-in chairman’s fee. He does not receive the directors’ basic fee, nor on the share-based incentives and performance any further fees or allowances for serving as a chairman or member of any will be settled in cash. The share component of On an individual level, the performance of our board committees targets are available in the Directors’ Statement and the directors’ fees for the financial year 2017 is target bonus will vary according to the actual 2 The attendance fee for committee meetings also applies to attendance at general meetings 142 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 143 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT achievement of the Group, business unit and targets over the performance period. The listed companies with which the Group competes ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT the individual performance. performance conditions and targets are for talent and capital. The second is linked to the creation of approved by the ERCC at the beginning of the The study benchmarked different elements of Accountability (Principle 10) economic value added (EVA) and is designed to performance period and the final number of senior executive pay, namely fixed remuneration, The board is accountable to shareholders ensure alignment with sustainable value creation shares vested to the recipient will depend on total cash remuneration and total compensation for the shareholders over the longer term. An the level of achievement of these targets over including long-term incentives, against that of Sembcorp is committed to open and honest EVA linked “bonus bank” is created for each the performance period, subject to the approval peer companies. It found senior executive’s fixed communication with shareholders at all times. The executive. Typically, one-third of the bonus bank of the ERCC. pay to be positioned competitively vis-à-vis the company presents a balanced and clear assessment balance is paid out in cash each year, while the The restricted share plan has a two-year Group’s relative size and complexity. The total cash of the Group’s performance, position and prospects remaining two-thirds is carried forward to the performance period from January 1, 2016 to component for the year had a robust correlation to shareholders through the timely release of its following year. Such carried-forward balances December 31, 2017. Vesting of shares is dependent to the Group’s profit from operations and EVA. quarterly and annual financial reports. The company of the bonus bank may either be reduced or on the following performance conditions: The performance conditions for short-term and believes that prompt compliance with statutory increased in future, based on the yearly EVA share-based-term incentive plans were generally reporting requirements is imperative to maintaining performance of the Group and its subsidiaries. ¡ 50% based on Sembcorp Industries’ return met, except for total shareholder return conditions, shareholders’ confidence and trust in the company. There are provisions in the EVA incentive plan to on total assets, excluding Sembcorp Marine which were impacted by adverse share price In line with stock exchange requirements, negative allow for forfeiture of the outstanding balances ¡ 50% based on Sembcorp Industries’ profit movement. As a result, the realised value of the assurance statements were issued by the board to in the bonus bank in exceptional circumstances from operations, excluding Sembcorp Marine share-based incentive award was much lower than accompany the company’s quarterly financial results of misstatement of financial results or misconduct the granted value. Overall, the study showed a announcements, confirming that to the best of resulting in financial loss to the company. The Performance Share Plan has a three-year strong correlation between the Group’s executive its knowledge, nothing had come to its attention performance period from January 1, 2016 to pay and its business results and shareholder returns, which would render the company’s quarterly results ¡ Share-based incentives December 31, 2018. Vesting of shares is dependent indicating strong pay-for-performance alignment. false or misleading. The company’s performance share plan and on the following performance conditions: restricted share plan were approved and adopted by shareholders at an extraordinary ¡ 30% based on Sembcorp Industries’ relative Disclosure on Remuneration (Principle 9) Risk Management and Internal Controls general meeting held by the company on total shareholder return – percentile ranking (Principle 11) April 22, 2010. Through our share-based against the component stocks of the MSCI The computation of non-executive directors’ incentives, we motivate key management Asia Pacific ex-Japan Industrial Index fees totalled S$2,365,750 in 2016 (2015: The board has overall responsibility for the personnel to continue to strive for the Group’s ¡ 30% based on Sembcorp Industries’ S$2,182,750). More information on directors and governance of the Group’s risk management long-term shareholder value. In addition, our absolute total shareholder return against key management personnel’s remuneration may be and internal controls. The company’s board and share-based incentive plans aim to align the pre-determined target found under the related item in the Supplementary management are fully committed to maintaining interests of participants with the interests of ¡ 40% based on Sembcorp Industries’ Information section of the financial statements in sound risk management and internal control shareholders, so as to improve performance and earnings per share, excluding contribution this annual report. systems to safeguard shareholders’ interests and achieve sustainable growth for the company. from Sembcorp Marine In 2016, the company had no employees who the Group’s assets. The performance share award is only were immediate family members of a director or The board determines the company’s levels granted to the Group President & CEO and top Pay for performance the Group President & CEO. of risk tolerance and risk policies, and oversees management while the restricted share award As in prior years, a pay-for-performance study was management in the design, implementation and is granted to a broader group of executives. The conducted in 2016 by our external consultants, monitoring of risk management and internal number of performance and restricted shares Mercer (Singapore), to review the alignment control systems. awarded is determined using a valuation of between the Group’s executive pay programme, the shares based on a Monte Carlo simulation. shareholder returns and business results. The Group Risk Committee The share awards are conditional upon the benchmarked itself against established global The Risk Committee (RC) assists the board in achievement of pre-determined performance energy and utilities firms and comparably-sized local overseeing risk management for the Group. 144 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 145 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The RC is headed by Mr Haridass, who is joined on The effectiveness of our internal controls was also Authority and duties of the AC External auditors the committee by Mr Chin, Mr McGregor, Mr Tham assessed and enhanced through a combination of The AC assists the board in fulfilling its fiduciary Each year, the AC reviews the independence and Mr Yap, who was appointed to the RC on management control self-assessments, certifications responsibilities relating to the internal controls, of the company’s external auditors and October 1, 2016. The RC’s principal functions are to: and internal audits, as well as actions taken as a financial accounting and reporting practices of the makes recommendations to the board on follow up to these exercises. For more information Group. Its main responsibilities are to: the re-appointment of the company’s external ¡¡ Review and endorse the risk management on the company’s ERM framework, please refer to auditors. During the year, the AC has reviewed the plans of the Group our website. ¡¡ Review the company’s policies, control performance of the external auditors using audit ¡¡ Review and approve group-wide risk policies, For the financial year under review, the board procedures and accounting practices quality indicators recommended by the Accounting guidelines and limits has been assured by the Group President & CEO with external auditors, internal auditors and Corporate Regulatory Authority as reference. ¡¡ Review the adequacy and effectiveness of and Group Chief Financial Officer that financial and management The AC reviews and approves the external audit the risk management systems, processes and records have been properly maintained, that the ¡¡ Review and act in the interest of the plan to ensure the adequacy of the audit scope. procedures of the Group financial statements give a true and fair view of the shareholders in respect of interested person It also reviews the external auditors’ management ¡¡ Review risk-related reports submitted to it by company’s operations and finances and that the risk transactions, as well as any matters or issues letter and monitors the timely implementation management. These include updates on the management and internal control systems of the that affect the financial performance of of required corrective or improvement measures. Group’s risk portfolio, reports on major risk Group are adequate and effective. the Group The AC meets external and internal auditors at least exposure and any other risk-related issues as The board, with the concurrence of the Audit ¡¡ Review the quarterly, half-year and full-year once a year without the presence of management. well as actions taken to monitor and manage Committee, is of the opinion that the company’s results announcements, accompanying press It has reviewed the nature and extent of non-audit such exposure / issues internal controls are adequate and effective as releases and presentation slides, as well as services provided by the external auditors to the ¡¡ Review infrastructure and resources in place at December 31, 2016 to address the financial, the financial statements of the Group and the Group for the year, excluding services provided to support the management of risk, including operational, compliance and information technology adequacy and accuracy of information disclosed to Sembcorp Marine, a listed subsidiary that has for instance, human resources, information risks of the Group. This assessment is based on prior to submission to the board for approval its own audit committee. The AC is satisfied that technology systems, reporting structure the internal controls established and maintained the independence of the external auditors has and procedures by the Group, work performed by external and The AC has explicit authority to investigate any not been impaired by their provision of non-audit internal auditors and reviews performed by senior matter within its terms of reference. It has full access services. Accordingly, the AC has recommended Adequate and effective system of management. Internal controls, because of their to and co-operation from management and full the re-appointment of the external auditors at internal controls inherent limitations, can provide reasonable but not discretion to invite any director or executive officer to the forthcoming AGM. Details of non-audit fees The Group has implemented a comprehensive absolute assurance regarding the achievement of attend its meetings. It also has reasonable resources payable to the external auditors are found in enterprise risk management (ERM) framework where their intended control objectives. In this regard, the to enable it to discharge its function properly. Note 28(a) in the Notes to the Financial Statements key risks identified are deliberated by management board will ensure that should any significant internal Where relevant, the AC is guided by the in this annual report. with the support of the risk management function, control failings or weaknesses arise, necessary recommended best practice for audit committees, and reported regularly to the RC. Supporting the remedial actions will be swiftly taken. set out in the revised Guidebook for Audit Whistle-blowing policy ERM framework is a system of internal controls, Committees issued by Singapore’s Audit Committee The AC oversees the Group’s whistle-blowing comprising a code of business conduct, group-wide Guidance Committee in August 2014. policy which has been implemented to strengthen governance and internal control policies, procedures Audit Committee (Principle 12) corporate governance and ethical business practices and guidelines dictating the segregation of duties, Key audit matters across all business units. Employees are provided approval authorities and limits, and checks and The Audit Committee (AC) comprises independent, The AC has discussed the key audit matters with with accessible channels to report suspected balances embedded in business processes. The non-executive directors. The AC is chaired by management and the external auditors. The AC fraud, corruption, dishonest practices or other Group has also considered the various financial risks, Mr Chin and its members are Mr Tham, Dr Teh, concurs with the basis and conclusions included in the misdemeanours to the Group’s internal auditors and details of which are found on our website. Mr Haridass as well as Mr Yap, who joined the AC auditor’s report with respect to the key audit matters. are protected from reprisal to the extent possible. Our ERM framework is complemented by a on October 1, 2016. The AC does not have any For more information on the key audit matters, This aims to encourage the reporting of such governance assurance framework and a risk-based member who was a former partner or director of the please refer to page 169 to 173 of this annual report. matters in good faith. For more information on our control self-assessment programme. During the year, company’s external auditors, KPMG, within the last 12 whistle-blowing policy, please refer to our website. the Group’s risk profile was reviewed and updated. months, or who holds any financial interest in KPMG. 146 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 147 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS AND is disseminated via SGXNET on a non-selective roadshows, conferences, site visits, group briefings Internal Audit (Principle 13) RESPONSIBILITIES basis and in a timely and consistent manner. The and one-to-one meetings. These platforms offer Independent internal audit function company’s announcements are also uploaded on opportunities for senior management and directors Shareholder Rights (Principle 14) the company website, www.sembcorp.com, after to interact first-hand with shareholders, understand The Group Internal Audit department (GIA) is dissemination on SGXNET. their views, gather feedback and address concerns. an independent function of the Group. The AC Sembcorp treats all shareholders fairly and The quarterly results release date is disclosed at To keep senior management and the board approves the hiring, termination, evaluation and equitably. The company recognises, protects and least two weeks prior to the announcement date abreast of market perception and concerns, the compensation of the Head of GIA, who reports facilitates the exercise of shareholders’ rights and via SGXNET. On the date of announcement, the investor relations team provides regular updates directly to the AC on audit matters and to the continually reviews and updates such governance financial statements as well as the accompanying on analyst consensus estimates and views. On an Group President & CEO on administrative matters. arrangements. press release and presentation slides are released via annual basis, a more comprehensive update is The company is committed to ensuring that all SGXNET and on the company website. Thereafter, a presented, which includes updates and analysis Adequacy of the internal audit function shareholders have easy access to clear, reliable and briefing or teleconference by management is jointly of the shareholder register, highlights of key The AC reviews the effectiveness of the internal meaningful information in order to make informed held for the media and analysts. For first-half and shareholder engagements for the year as well as audit function on an annual basis, including investment decisions. The company regularly full-year results announcements, results briefings are market feedback. the adequacy of audit resources. GIA adopts communicates major developments in its business concurrently broadcasted live via webcast. Investor For further details on Sembcorp’s communications a risk-based methodology in drawing up its operations via SGXNET, press releases, circulars to relations officers are available by email or telephone with its shareholders, please see the Investor Relations annual internal audit plan, which is reviewed shareholders and other appropriate channels. The to answer questions from shareholders, analysts and chapter of this annual report. and approved by the AC. company also encourages shareholder participation the media as long as the information requested does GIA also assists the board and management and voting at general meetings of shareholders. not conflict with SGX-ST’s rules of fair disclosure. Dividend policy in the discharge of their corporate governance The company also maintains a dedicated Sembcorp is committed to achieving sustainable responsibilities, as well as in improving and investor relations section on its company website income and growth to enhance total shareholder promoting effective and efficient business processes Communication with Shareholders to cater to the specific information needs of return. The Group’s policy aims to balance cash within the Group. Internal audit aims to ensure that (Principle 15) shareholders, investors, analysts and the financial return to shareholders and investment for sustaining the Group maintains a sound system of internal Regular, effective and fair communication community. Designed to provide a convenient growth, while maintaining an efficient capital controls and that our operations comply with the with shareholders repository for investors’ information needs, the structure. The company strives to provide consistent internal control framework. Internal audit reports site includes filings on the company’s results and sustainable ordinary dividend payments to its are reviewed by the AC. Sembcorp advocates high standards of corporate announcements since the company’s listing in shareholders on an annual basis. transparency and disclosure. This commitment is 1998, an archive of the company’s results briefing Professional standards and competency embodied in the company’s investor relations policy webcasts, downloadable five-year financial data, a GIA employs qualified staff and provides them which adheres to fair disclosure principles and calendar of upcoming events, as well as pertinent Conduct of Shareholder Meetings with training and development opportunities so emphasises active dialogue and engagement with stock information such as dividend history, share (Principle 16) that their technical knowledge remains current and shareholders, investors and analysts. price charts and analyst coverage. Investor relations Greater shareholder participation at relevant. GIA is guided by, and has met standards contact information is also displayed on the website general meetings for, the professional practice of internal audit Disclosure of information on a timely basis for direct shareholder enquiries. promulgated by the Institute of Internal Auditors Sembcorp makes every effort to ensure that All shareholders are invited to participate in the (IIA). An external assessment of GIA affirmed that shareholders and capital market players have Establishing and maintaining regular company’s general meetings. its internal audit activity conforms on the whole to easy access to clear, meaningful and timely dialogue with shareholders The company disseminates information on the standards set by the IIA. information on the company in order to make Sembcorp employs multiple communication general meetings through notices in its annual informed investment decisions. To do this, various platforms to engage with its shareholders. In reports or circulars. These notices are also released channels including announcements, press releases, addition to its results briefings, the company also via SGXNET, published in local newspapers and shareholder circulars and annual reports are maintains regular dialogue with its shareholders posted on the company website ahead of the utilised. All price-sensitive and material information through investor-targeted events such as AGMs, meetings to give ample time for shareholders to 148 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 149 ESG REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT review the documents. In line with the company’s the voting procedures governing such meetings. An review by the AC. The Group maintains a register Manual. Information on interested person commitment towards environmental responsibility, independent scrutineer is engaged to review the of the company’s interested person transactions transactions for 2016 may be found in the related the company’s annual reports and circulars are sent electronic poll voting system and proxy verification in accordance with the reporting requirements item under the Supplementary Information section to shareholders in the form of a CD-ROM. The process during the meetings to ensure that the stipulated by Chapter 9 of the SGX-ST Listing of the financial statements in this annual report. annual reports and circulars may also be viewed on information is compiled adequately and procedures the company website. However, we are mindful that are carried out effectively. The total number of votes some shareholders may prefer to receive a printed cast for or against each resolution is tallied and copy and this will be provided upon request. displayed live on-screen to shareholders immediately Governance Disclosure Guide The company’s constitution allows all after the vote has been cast. Voting results will also In line with Sembcorp’s commitment towards high standards of corporate governance and disclosure, shareholders the right to appoint up to two proxies be announced after the meetings via SGXNET. the company has completed a questionnaire with reference to the disclosure guide developed by the to attend, speak and vote at general meetings on The company secretary records minutes from Singapore Exchange in 2015. The company’s responses to the disclosure guide may be found on pages their behalf. Under the new multiple proxy regime, these shareholder meetings which includes relevant 348 to 359 of this annual report. “relevant intermediaries”, such as banks, capital comments or queries from shareholders and markets services licence holders which provide responses from the board and management. The custodial services for securities and the Central minutes are available upon request by shareholders. Provident Fund Board (CPF), are allowed to appoint more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote Dealings in securities at general meetings. This will enable indirect The company has adopted a Code of Compliance investors, including CPF investors, to be appointed on Dealing in Securities, which prohibits dealings as proxies to participate at general meetings. Voting in the company’s securities by its directors and in absentia by mail, facsimile or email is currently senior management within two weeks prior to not permitted. Such voting methods would need the announcement of the company’s financial to be cautiously evaluated for feasibility to ensure statements for each of the first three quarters of that there is no compromise to the integrity its financial year and within one month prior to the of the information and the authenticity of the announcement of the company’s full-year financial shareholders’ identity. statements. Directors and employees are advised The Group President & CEO delivers a short to be mindful to observe insider trading laws at presentation at each AGM to shareholders to all times, even when dealing in the company’s update them on the performance of Sembcorp’s securities outside the prohibited trading period. businesses. Every matter requiring approval at They are also reminded not to deal in the company’s a general meeting is proposed as a separate securities on short-term considerations. resolution. Shareholders present are given an opportunity to clarify or direct questions on issues Interested person transactions pertaining to the proposed resolutions before Shareholders have adopted an interested person the resolutions are voted on. The board and transaction (IPT) mandate in respect of interested management are in attendance to address these person transactions of the company. The IPT queries or concerns and obtain feedback from mandate defines the levels and procedures to shareholders. External auditors and legal advisors obtain approval for such transactions. Information are also present to assist the board as necessary. regarding the IPT mandate is available on the The company conducts electronic poll voting at staff intranet. All business units are required to shareholder meetings for greater transparency in be familiar with the IPT mandate and report any the voting process. Shareholders are informed of interested person transactions to the company for 150 EMERGING STRONGER • SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 151 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REVIEW INVESTOR RELATIONS Sembcorp Industries’ total shareholder return Shareholder Information for 2016 stood at negative 3%. This was lower than In 2016, institutional shareholders as a group the Straits Times Index’s positive 4% and the MSCI continued to dominate Sembcorp’s shareholder Asia Pacific ex-Japan Industrials Index’s negative base. Other than our major shareholder Temasek At Sembcorp, we are committed to ensuring that all capital market players 2%. However, this was more favourable than the Holdings, which held 49.5% of our shares at the have easy access to clear, reliable and meaningful information on our company FTSE ST Oil & Gas Index’s negative 9%. During the end of 2016, institutional shareholders accounted in order to make informed investment decisions. year, the weak sentiment towards the oil and gas for 31% of our issued share capital or 60% of free industry continued to weigh on our 60.9%-owned float, while retail shareholders1 and shareholders listed Marine subsidiary. not identified2 held 20% of issued share capital or In the context of constantly evolving disclosure, The visit provided analysts a first-hand look at our Sembcorp remains committed to delivering 40% of free float. In terms of geographical spread, transparency and corporate governance operations in India. shareholder value amidst difficult operating excluding the stake held by Temasek Holdings and requirements, we aim to provide investors with an conditions. For the financial year 2016, an interim shareholders not identified, our largest geographical accurate, coherent and balanced account of the Commitment to Good Corporate Governance dividend of 4 cents per ordinary share was declared shareholding base was Europe with 38%, followed Group’s performance and prospects. Sembcorp Sembcorp continues to rank among the top and paid to shareholders in August 2016. In by shareholders from North America and Asia, has a dedicated investor relations team and companies in Singapore for good corporate addition, a final dividend of 4 cents per ordinary which accounted for 33% and 25% of the communicates with the investing public through governance and transparency. We were the sixthshare has been proposed, subject to approval by shares respectively. multiple platforms and channels. These include highest ranked company in Singapore in the 2016 shareholders at the coming annual general meeting group briefings to analysts, investors and the media; edition of the Singapore Governance & Transparency to be held in April 2017. Together with the interim one-on-one meetings with shareholders and Index. Singapore’s leading index assessing corporate dividend, this would bring our total dividend for potential investors; investor roadshows as well governance practices of listed companies, the 2016 to 8 cents per ordinary share. as the investor relations section of our company Singapore Governance & Transparency Index is website. In addition, we also organise company a collaboration between CPA Australia, National visits and facility tours to help investors gain University of Singapore Business School’s Centre Share Ownership by Investor Category Share Ownership by Geographical Distribution Excluding shares held by the strategic shareholder and shareholders insights into the Group’s operations. for Governance, Institutions and Organisations and n Strategic not identified the Singapore Institute of Directors. It compares the n Institutions Proactive Communication with the transparency of 631 Singapore-listed companies n Retail1 n Europe Financial Community n North America based on their annual financial announcements. n Asia During the year, senior management and the In addition, we were recognised as the Most n Rest of the world investor relations team actively engaged the Transparent Company in the Industrials category financial community. We held nearly 130 oneat the SIAS Investors’ Choice Awards 2016. on-one and group meetings with shareholders, This award honours and recognises public listed analysts and potential investors. These included companies that have demonstrated exemplary 30.5% meetings during non-deal roadshows in Singapore, corporate governance and transparency London, Amsterdam, New York, Los Angeles, throughout the year. 49.5% 38% 33% San Francisco and Toronto. We participated in investor conferences including the Credit Suisse Total Shareholder Return 19th Annual Asian Investment Conference in Sembcorp Industries’ last traded share price in 9.9% Hong Kong, as well as the HSBC ASEAN & India 2016 was S$2.85 and the company ended the year 4% 25% Conference 2016 and the Morgan Stanley 15th with a market capitalisation of S$5.1 billion. The 10.1%2 Annual Asia Pacific Summit in Singapore. We also company’s share price averaged S$2.75 during the As at December 31, 2016 As at December 31, 2016 continued to organise site visits to our facilities. year, registering a low of S$2.19 in January and a In 2016, we organised a plant tour for analysts high of S$3.23 in March. Daily turnover averaged 1 Retail shareholders include private investors, brokers, custodians and corporates to the Sembcorp Gayatri Power Complex in India. 5.8 million shares. 2 Shareholders not identified include mainly shareholders that fall below the threshold of 250,000 shares
