A partnership built on trust Green. Stable. Future-orientated. Berlin Hyp AG Sustainability Report 2016  Finanzgruppe Contents Informative in 3 Open Dialogue two formats 6 Solid Growth This sustainability report of Berlin Hyp provides information on the main topics and activities regarding the sustainable development of the Bank and its products. A 8 Urban Trend new approach to the report design has been adopted for the 2016 reporting year. 11 Firstly, the Bank is reporting for the first time in the form of a GRI balance sheet in accordance with the Core option of the 2016 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GuideSystematic Approach line. The GRI balance sheet also includes an annual progress report on the implementation status of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and is published on the Internet at www.berlinhyp.de/en. 15 Sustainable Core Business Secondly, the balance sheet is complemented by this sustainability report. The 20 combination of a report and balance sheet means that information is provided in two formats aimed at specific target groups. Whereas the report focuses on salient Efficient Sites activities to promote sustainability and reports on them in qualitative terms, the balance sheet provides experts with detailed information on essential management approaches and performance indicators. Cross-references are marked with an icon in the text Ò GRI for those readers who wish to read the report and the balance 22 Partnership as an Employer sheet in parallel. All the data and facts presented in the report relate to the 2016 reporting year. The 24 Social Commitment editorial deadline was 30 April 2017. For sustainability reasons, we are not publishing printed versions. Wherever the concise gender-specific form is used in place of gender-neutral differentiation, it always refers to both sexes. Further information on the topic of sustainability at Berlin Hyp can be found here. 26 Imprint 2 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Offen im Gespräch Open Dialogue “We want to think in terms of the future. Mr Klaus, is Berlin Hyp developing into a green bank? Sascha Klaus: We will remain who we are: one of the biggest We are perceived as one of the best and most commercial real estate financers in Germany. But sustainability is gaining importance – both for banks and for the real estate sustainable real estate financers in our market. According to the German Minister for the Environment, buildings account for around one third of resource consumption strategic markets.” and CO2 emissions in Germany. Sustainable solutions for the construction and renovation of buildings are therefore gaining in importance. Berlin Hyp recognised the opportunities created by this trend many years ago. It has therefore made sustainability an integral part of its corporate strategy and is promoting sustainaSASCHA KLAUS Following a strong upward trend in recent years, the market is bility through its processes and structures. In the past two years, Chairman of the Board of Management of Berlin Hyp becoming increasingly challenging for commercial real estate we have focussed with great success on the sustainable develfinancers. Apart from a plethora of regulatory requirements, the opment of our core business and have created processes and competitive situation on the market has sharpened. Though structures in the Bank to identify and incentivise green building demand remains consistently high, an increasing shortage of financing. At the end of 2016, we already had 1.8 billion euros offers is gradually making itself felt. How can a bank successfully worth of green building financing on our books. When we issued meet demands for responsible corporate management and still the world’s first Green Pfandbrief in April 2015, it caused a furore safeguard its long-term growth in this environment? How is Beron the capital market. By the autumn of last year, we had also lin Hyp positioned between tradition and modernity in a market issued a Green Unsecured Bond, making us the very first bank to environment that is becoming increasingly difficult to negotiate? issue Green Bonds in more than one asset class. Positive feedSascha Klaus, Chairman of the Board of Management of Berlin back in conversations with various stakeholders has convinced Hyp, Georg Fahrenschon, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of me that we are on the right track with our sustainable strategy. Berlin Hyp and President of Deutscher Sparkassenund Giroverband, and Ralf Behnke, Sustainability Officer of the Bank, discuss Georg Fahrenschon: Berlin Hyp is a trailblazer in the financial these questions pertaining to the Bank’s future strategic course. sector when it comes to sustainability and sustainable products. The discussion was moderated by Vanessa Landschoof-SchlichtIn that sense, we can say that Berlin Hyp has developed into a ing, Head of Sustainability Management. green real estate financer. 3 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Open in Dialogue The real estate market is in constant flux and is deeply rooted in society. What social changes, megatrends and political decisions affect the core business most strongly? Sascha Klaus: Our core business is affected by many factors. For example, I think demographic change is a significant and consequential factor. By 2050, Germany is expected to be overtaken by the United Kingdom or France as the most populous country in Europe. Despite immigration, the absolute number of residents in Germany is falling. As a population we are becoming smaller and older and tend to live in single households. The average household size in 2014 was 1.99 people. This has serious consequences for the real estate market in a number of asset classes. For example, the baby boomer generation will ensure sufficient demand for nursing and social housing and is expected to nearly quadruple the number of care homes needed over the next 40 years. At the same time, the shrinking population as well as the increasing importance of online shopping and rising productivity per unit area will cause supermarkets to close in droves, and office buildings will stand empty as more and more workers enter retirement. Georg Fahrenschon: Another clear trend, which has long since From left to right: RALF BEHNKE (Head of Corporate Development), SASCHA KLAUS (Chairman of the Board of Management of Berlin Hyp), become part of our reality, is urbanisation. We see it, for example, GEORG FAHRENSCHON (Supervisory Board of Berlin Hyp) directly on our doorstep in Berlin, but not just here. Germany benefits from young people wanting to embrace an urban lifestyle. Ralf Behnke: As a real estate financer, we have a unique opporof the United Nations: promoting sustainable cities and In addition, immigration and asylum seekers are boosting demand tunity to fill gaps in demand and facilitate life designs for whole communities. for housing in cities. At the same time, however, there is a trend generations. We can offer our customers innovative concepts for young families and the elderly to move outside city boundaries. to increase density and create more housing – especially in highly Sascha Klaus: We create assets, while consuming resources in But regardless of location, financing of housing is a matter of condesirable inner-city locations. Even a high-rise building can the process. The potentials we can unlock by applying this process siderable significance for many people, especially in times of low provide quality housing. By also financing social housing, we are to all aspects of the value-added chain as sustainably as possible interest rates. It is therefore all the more important for our savings making a contribution to social welfare and creating fundamental are equally great. Thus, the ten principles of the Global Compact banks to know that in Berlin Hyp they have a partner with a deep assets for the economy. In so doing, we are providing a sounding of the United Nations are not just a guideline for us but a binding understanding of real estate and real estate markets. board for one of the 17 global sustainable development goals obligation. We are also expressly committed to combating climate 4 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Open in Dialogue change, and we aim to counter its impact with our products. Therement levels below the Board of Management. Some of our manMr Klaus, the final word in this roundtable discussion is fore, by 2020, 20 percent of our real estate portfolio will consist agement teams have already achieved gender parity, and this yours. Could you please venture an opinion as to what the of green financing. We also plan to reduce our CO2 footprint by five shows that we’re on the right track. future has in store. Sascha Klaus: Berlin Hyp has set a clear percent in 2017 in comparison to the previous year. course for the future. We will promote digitisation of processes and future-orientated modernisation of the IT landscape for new Those are ambitious goals that call for a strong impleand existing business. This will allow us to become steadily faster mentation strategy. Sascha Klaus: I’m very confident that we and more efficient. We’re proud of the fact that we’re perceived are well poised to meet those goals with the help of the strateby the market as a green real estate financer. We will therefore gic orientation of our core business towards green financing, the continue to devote ourselves energetically and with firm conissuance of Green Bonds and our comprehensive sustainability viction to making our core business sustainable. And, of course, management. we will always remain obligated to our shareholders and will € 1.8 billion continue to develop our business as a partner within the German Georg Fahrenschon: And we are doing so with considerable Savings Bank Finance Group. In short, when it comes to sustaineconomic success and a huge reputational gain for the Savings ability, Berlin Hyp will remain one of the most proactive banks in Bank Organisation. We depend on our customers’ trust. I thereGermany. Only companies that continue to develop can fare well fore welcome the fact that Berlin Hyp is developing its busiin the market. Sustainability will always be a key element of our in green building financing by the end of 2016 ness as a member of the Savings Bank Organisation while also corporate strategy. achieving intrinsic value by minimising environmental and climate risks. Sascha Klaus: Many of our employees expect us to place the Sascha Klaus: The principle of ethical responsibility lies at the company on an sustainable footing. Our commitment is therefore centre of our corporate management: We don’t finance real estate firmly embedded in our corporate strategy and is an integral part that is directly associated with radioactive materials, genetically of our corporate culture. However, diversity, equality, work-family modified organisms, endangerment of threatened species or balance and equal opportunities are values that we can influillegal child or forced labour. Loss of trust and reputational risks ence only to a limited extent through target quotas. We have to pose the greatest threats to our business. create incentives and embrace an appropriate corporate culture. Commitment at the managerial level is therefore very important. Responsibility and sustainability are, of course, matters of But such developments take time, as we have to contend to some controversy. Ralf Behnke: Dialogue is part of the company’s extent with established customs and a desire to preserve the sustainable approach. Take, for example, gender equality – a status quo. We are on the right path for tackling these complex global development goal that we would also like to contribute to. topics with our future process berlinhyp21 – agil.vernetzt.creativ, To this end, we have agreed a target quota for the two managewhich we launched at the end of 2015. 5 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Offen im Gespräch Solid Growth “Thanks to its innovative capacity and clearly volume real estate financing for professional investors, housing societies, housing cooperatives, building contractors and develdefined profile, Berlin Hyp is now a sustainabilityopers. In geographic terms, our projects focus on urban areas in Germany and selected European markets outside Germany. Berlin promoting financial institute on the German real Hyp offers a diverse range of financial products that include fixed-interest loans, reference-interest loans, cash loans, surety estate market with stable earnings.” credit, interest-rate-hedging products, financial products, business current accounts, working capital loans, day or fixed-term money, evaluations and payment transaction services. A conservative risk strategy and a clear focus on prime real estate are at the heart of all our financial activities. Their mid-term and long-term GEORG FAHRENSCHON Everything centres around real estate at Berlin Hyp. Founded refinancing is achieved through the issuance of mortgage PfandChairman of the Supervisory Board of Berlin Hyp in 1868 as Berliner Pfandbriefinstitut, the long-established bank briefe, public Pfandbriefe and senior unsecured and subordinated underwent several reorganisations, culminating in the foundbonds. Berlin Hyp is a reliable partner on the capital market, maning of today’s joint stock company in 1993. At the time, the only aging its treasury with a high degree of professionalism, diligence shareholder was the state of Berlin. In 2010, Landesbank Berlin AG and transparency. Since the first Green Pfandbrief was issued in acquired the remaining shares of Berlin Hyp that were still in 2015, Berlin Hyp has been perceived within the finance sector as the hands of NordLB, and on 25 January 2011 it became the sole a sustainably operating financial institute. The course-changing shareholder of Berlin Hyp. Since 1 January 2015, Berlin Hyp has decisions in favour of this development were made by the top been an independent subsidiary of Berliner Sparkasse within management in 2013. Since then, corporate development has Landesbank Berlin Holding AG. As part of the restructuring of been coordinated and fostered by the sustainability management. Landesbank Berlin, Berlin Hyp has positioned itself as an independent real estate financer within the German Savings Bank Finance Well positioned Group. The bank’s business is managed by a Board of Management, which bears full responsibility. Sascha Klaus has been Chairman Clear profile of the Board of Management since October 2016. He manages As a specialised finance institute, Berlin Hyp has been active on the Bank’s business together with Gero Bergmann and Roman the real estate market for nearly 150 years. It focuses on largeBerninger. The Supervisory Board consists of 15 members. Be6 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Solid Growth retail and residential real estate are financed through convensavings banks involved in Berlin Hyp financing through ImmoErwerbsgesellschaft der Beteiligungsgesellschaft der tional mortgage loans, sureties, counter sureties and interSchuldschein increased to 90. The volume in the joint S-Finanzgruppe mbH & Co. KG S-Finanzgruppe mbH & Co. KG mediate finance. By structuring club deals, leading consortia consortium business exceeded the billion euros mark for the 89,37 % 10,63 % and making placements, Berlin Hyp acts as an arranger for all first time to reach € 1.1 billion. savings banks. In particular, products such as the backed Landesbank Berlin Holding AG ImmoSchuldschein, which allows savings banks to take advanBerlin Hyp also performed well in the 2016 financial year with tage of the revenue opportunities of commercial real estate regard to the refinancing situation. The bank accepted out 100 % 100 % financing, and the ImmoKonsortial product, which allows savings side capital with a volume of € 2.6 billion for mid-to-long-term Landesbank Berlin AG / banks to participate in regional consortium business in smaller refinancing. Market access was ensured at all times. Berlin Hyp AG Berliner Sparkasse volumes through a simplified loan process, provide added 100 % value for savings banks. The full-service package for saving Berlin Hyp attracted much attention as the first non-governbanks includes the publication of specialist documents such as mental entity to issue a bond with a negative initial return and Berlin Hyp Immobilien GmbH studies, residential reports and trend barometers and provides to issue a green Senior Unsecured Bond, each of which attained outstanding evaluation expertise. a volume of over € 500 million. After the Green Pfandbrief was issued in financial year 2015 and the Green Senior Unsecured Integrated within the corporate structure of Landesbank Berlin Holding Top results Bond was issued the following year, Berlin Hyp became the first In the 2016 financial year, Berlin Hyp achieved a highly gratifying issuer of Green Bonds in more than one asset class. Thirty-five result of € 72.2 million before profit transfer. € 50.0 million new investors were gained with the second issuance. Nineteen sides five members from the group of employees, members was added to the fund for general bank risks. The net interest percent of the Green Senior Unsecured Bonds were placed with of the German Savings Bank Finance Group also have seats on the income and net commission income increased by 17 percent to companies in the Savings Bank Finance Group and 12 percent Supervisory Board. Their work is supported by three committees: € 298.4 million compared to the previous year. Despite a condirectly with savings banks. the Staff and Strategy Committee, the Audit Committee and the tinuing low-interest phase, intensive competition on the comLoan Committee. Berlin Hyp is divided into a total of 15 divisions mercial real estate market and pressure on margins, Berlin Hyp with 46 departments and teams. The Bank has 585 employees once again exceeded the positive result of the previous year and has sales offices in Berlin, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, in the real estate finance business by 11 percent, realising € 6.0 billion Hamburg, Munich and Stuttgart in Germany as well as in Amster€ 6.0 billion (including long-term extensions). dam, Paris and Warsaw. Business developed jointly with savings banks was also Strong in partnership positive in 2016. The network within the German Savings Bank As a partner to savings banks, which act as the principal banks Finance Group was consistently expanded with a total volume in new business in 2016 for many regional housing companies, Berlin Hyp has a wide of € 1.5 billion. € 476 million of this was accounted for by range of approaches for commercial real estate: office, logistic, three ImmoSchuldschein transactions. Hence, the number of 7 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Offen im Gespräch Urban Trend “Cities are the living space of the future. We promote modern building projects and The future of the city energy-efficient solutions to improve the Whether Berlin, Munich, Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Cologne, Hamburg or Düsseldorf, population density is inquality of urban living.” creasing in Germany’s “big seven” cities. For example, Frankfurt’s population grew by 16,000 between 2014 and 2015. Cologne reported a record population size of over one million at the end of 2015, while Berlin is approaching the four-million mark. People are moving into cities for various reasons: immigration, study, GERO BERGMANN Berlin Hyp urban Member of the Board of Management of Berlin Hyp jobs. For many people, living in a city means better It takes innovative ideas and vision to design the city of the education opportunities, a good infrastructure in future, an urban living space that is green and livable in every every meaningful way, cultural participation and an respect. Simply building willy-nilly is no good! The concreteattractive range of services and leisure activities. And grey city does not reflect a sustainability-conscious society, nor everyone wants cities that serve as nexuses of change is it a reasonable answer to urgent social, infrastructural and and innovation. At the same time, however, it is beecological issues. Berlin Hyp has risen to these challenges with coming increasingly difficult to design cities as livable a view to promoting low-emission and resource-efficient buildenvironments. High levels of air pollution, chronic ing, minimising the use of surface area, relieving the infrastructraffic jams, inadequate public transport and growing ture and creating affordable housing. The Bank is making a social inequality tend to diminish the quality of life in concrete and quantifiable contribution to sustainable urbanicities. Modern building projects therefore focus on sation through providing incentives for Green Building Finance urban densification with a complete infrastructure for with a price discount of ten basis points, which was approved by the essential requirements of daily life. There is a trend the Board of Management. The scheme takes various conceptual towards sustainable ecological construction based on approaches to achieve efficient urban development. regenerative energy concepts. 8 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Urban Trend Project name Sahle Wohnen Objektart Project name The Park Type of property Office / business building Type of property Office building Location Jungfernstieg, Hamburg Location Prague Customer Sahle Wohnen Customer DEKA Main lessee Vodafone Rental floor area in m² 116,058 Financing volume Approx. € 25 million Sustainability certificate/ Energy certificate that meets energy certificate the green building criteria Sustainability certificate/ Energy certificate that meets of Berlin Hyp energy certificate the green building criteria of Berlin Hyp € 25 12 Best Approx. million properties financing volume inner city location 116,058 m2 Modernising existing properties Nature at the centre It all begins with modernising existing properties, i.e. renovating Nature must be a key construction element in urban centres, because it properties and building extensions. The main thing is to think high and improves the microclimate and the quality of life of residents. Green facades to create innovative, livable spaces in loft spaces and high-rise buildings. regulate temperature and improve air quality. Smart materials and surThis was achieved with the construction of an office and business faces generate energy. The Park shows how this can be achieved. The real building for Sahle Wohnen, which Berlin Hyp helped to finance. This estate project is located around ten kilometres south of the Czech capital of building is in an exposed location in close proximity to Alsterhaus on Prague and comprises twelve properties featuring a high-quality building Hamburger Jungfernstieg. design. The campus has a rental floor area of approximately 116,000 m², almost all of which has been leased. Links to the local public transport network and the motorway are very good. 9 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Urban Trend Project name Taunusturm Projektname Wohnportfolio Frankfurt (Oder) Type of property Office and business Objektart Wohnportfolio building complex Standort in mehreren Stadtbezirken Location Frankfurt am Main Frankfurt (Oder) Customer Tishman Speyer Properties Kunde Wohnungswirtschaft Frankfurt (Oder) GmbH Year built 2014 Mietfläche in m² rund 82.000 Rental floor area in m 2 65,465 Finanzierungsvolumen 12 Mio. € Sustainability certificate/ LEED Platinum and energy energy certificate certificate that meets the green building criteria of Berlin Hyp 19 € 12 million 44 floors financing volume apartments energy efficiency Energy efficiency Creating housing Worldwide, cities consume 75 percent of all energy generated and proThe growing need for inexpensive housing for low-income households calls duce 80 percent of all greenhouse gases. To drastically reduce the energy for new construction and modernisation of existing social housing. This consumption of cities, the energy systems of properties must be moderis the only way of ensuring that everyone has access to appropriate and nised and, ideally, transformed into small power stations. In expanding its safe housing. Financing such projects for housing cooperatives, non-profit green finance portfolio, Berlin Hyp is increasingly giving preference housing organisations and housing companies is therefore an integral part to energy-efficient commercial properties that have been issued with either of the core business of Berlin Hyp. The fact that an expert is available as a suitable energy certificate or a sustainability certificate. In addition, Berlin a contact at every Berlin Hyp sales office shows just how seriously this goal Hyp issues Green Bonds for refinancing such green building loans. The is being pursued. Bank is also doing everything in its power to invest an amount equivalent to the emissions return on Green Bonds into new suitable assets. The reference property is the Taunus Tower. Located in the middle of Frankfurt’s banking district, it comprises a 40-floor office tower and a 19-floor residential tower housing 44 apartments. The property was built to the latest standards and is certified to the LEED Platinum rating level. 10 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Offen im Gespräch Systematic Approach “Basic convictions and clear guidelines define guideline. In recognition of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, it describes key areas of activity for sustainable us as a sustainable financial institute. They development. determine our position and our clear course in The sustainability principles of Berlin Hyp sustainability matters.” Guiding principle 1: We pursue a long-term, responsible and risk-conscious business policy, thereby reliably contributing to the positive development of the economy and society. RALF BEHNKE Real estate creates value and builds assets. It is the foundation Head of Corporate Development and Sustainability Officer for commercial activity and housing development and benefits Guiding principle 2: We welcome the voluntary incluthe economy. The real estate sector makes an important consion of ecological and social aspects in real estate and tribution to the development of a vibrant, efficient and livable the capital markets. We are constantly improving our infrastructure. Berlin Hyp is committed to putting the economic own ecological and social footprint. contributions of its banking business on a sustainable footing. To this end, it aims to make all financing and business processes Guiding principle 3: We take responsibility for the ecologically and socially sound. Ambitious and comprehensive quality of our work. We conduct ourselves fairly, comply goals, principles and procedures have been defined above and with statutes and adhere to relevant voluntary standards. beyond the wide-ranging ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) criteria and legal requirements. A structured management Guiding principle 4: We offer our staff long-term approach ensures that this commitment is rooted in routine professional prospects in conjunction with an extensive business practices. advanced training programme. We promote social diversity and health in our company and support our Guidelines for sustainable development staff during social crises. As early as 2013, the Board of Management of Berlin Hyp expressed the underlying challenge in the form of a sustainability 11 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Systematic Approach These guidelines incorporate established standards, including the German Sustainability Code, the sustainability guidelines Chairman of the Board of Management of the German Savings Banks’ Finance Group, the Sustainability Code of the German Property Federation (ZIA), the Diversity Supports and reports to Charter and the Green Bond Principles. They serve to cast the guidelines in concrete terms and as an orientation framework Sustainability Officer Responsibilities of the Sustainability Officer and Sustainability Management for responsible business processes. Guidelines on implementand ing the standards complete the regulations of Berlin Hyp. They Sustainability Management – Contact for stakeholders – Development and updating of the sustainability strategy are always formulated along the lines of a specific topic. The – Summoning and chairing of the Sustainability Working Group guidelines for social and ecological product responsibility define – Support for the divisions in identifying and implementing sustainability measures sustainable urbanisation, long-term economic growth and – Preparation of sustainability reports measures to combat climate change and they are established – Monitoring of the development of relevant sustainability standards and topics as goals for the core business. To this end, the guidelines specify the promotion of social housing construction, the issuance of Green Bonds and the definition of ESG criteria, and Expert input exclusion criteria for financing. The guideline on communication with stakeholders addresses and operationalises responsible Sustainability Working Group Responsibilities of the Sustainability Working Group marketing. The Code of Conduct, which was updated by the Sustainability Officer, – Discussion of general sustainability developments Board of Management in 2016, serves as a binding orientation division heads: Treasury, Real Estate – Updating of the sustainability programme framework for all employees and the Board of Management. It Financing, Loans, Human Resources, – Coordination of interdivisional sustainability measures prescribes proper and ethically acceptable conduct towards Organisation/IT, Employee Represen– Validation of materiality analyses and sustainability management tativefrom Supervisory Board colleagues, customers, sales partners, service providers and other market players in everyday business activities. This requirement is also devolved to contractors and suppliers in the form of a sustainability agreement. Other guidelines on Sustainability management at Berlin Hyp sustainable real estate financing and corporate environmental protection are also in place. topic, the organisational structures were set up in such a way as Real Estate Financing, Loans, Human Resources and Organisato ensure that all employees in the company are able to make a tion/IT as well as an employee representative from the SuperFunctional structure and task distribution contribution. This is achieved through coordination between the visory Board. Decisions and findings of the Working Group are Clearly defined responsibilities and procedures ensure impleBoard of Management, the Sustainability Officer, the Sustainareported to the Board of Management through the Sustainability mentation of the guidelines within the organisation and processes bility Management Team and the Sustainability Working Group, Officer. The Chairman of the Board of Management bears overall of the Bank. Because sustainability is a traditional interface which consists of the responsible division heads of Treasury, responsibility for the sustainability strategy. 12 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Systematic Approach The sustainability management maintains an important interexpectations) and the more important it is for Berlin Hyp face to the environmental management, which focuses on (in terms of commercial success), the more relevant it is. company environmental protection and was validated pursuant to EMAS in 2016. Competitors Focus on materiality Customers Employees Society Owners Berlin Hyp seeks to engage in communication with stakeholders and initiators with the aim of refining its strategies. It listens to and discusses their expectations. How can the business model be made future-proof? How can customers be reached Profitable more effectively? Which sustainable products win over custombusiness model ers? How can the business be optimised in terms of the enviCommitted to sustainability: the Sustainability Management Team ronment? What would make Berlin Hyp even more attractive as Responsible an employer? To answer these questions, the Bank makes use business operation of established discussion formats, which it maintains in order to institutionalise dialogue with customers, business partners, Future-orientated customer relationship The Sustainability Officer, who also heads the Corporate employees, political decision-makers, administrations, media, Development Division, and the Sustainability Management environmental and social associations and competitors on the Team are partners of all stakeholders, including customers, capital market. Wishes and expectations expressed in these Binding trust rating agencies, investors and employees. They are responsible dialogues are evaluated against the following relevance criteria. for reporting, supporting the divisions in planning sustainThe more relevant a stakeholder is to the core business of Berlin Attractive ability measures and initiating the updating of the sustainability Hyp and the more professional the stakeholder’s organisational employer strategy. For this purpose, they regularly exchange informalevel is, the more important its demands are for the company’s tion with the Sustainability Working Group. In addition, they sustainability management. Traditionally, customers (owing discuss the current status of individual measures, plan further to their relevance to the core business) and the critical public Very important developments and discuss their implementation. The Working (owing to their watchdog function) are seen as particularly releGroup has precise knowledge of current sustainability trends vant stakeholders. Important and their relevance to the finance and real estate market. It Less important defines the main sustainability topics, updates the sustainability In a second step, the expectations of relevant stakeholders programme, coordinates interdivisional measures and calls the are summarised in a list of topics and are prioritised by the Sussustainability management to account at least once a year with a tainability Working Group. The guiding principle is that the view to reviewing and updating the ongoing process. more important a topic is for the stakeholders (in terms of their Main sustainability topics at Berlin Hyp 13 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Systematic Approach The topics identified in this way are assigned to activity fields. Activity field Measure Deadline Measures are then derived, planned and integrated in a sustainProfitable Development of a concept to achieve the goal of 20 % green financing ability programme with a clear time horizon. In this way, a link 12/2017 business model by 2020 is ensured between the materiality analysis and the operational work in sustainability management. Review and, if required, definition of a concept for extended measurement 12/2017 of the impact of the entire financed real estate portfolio. The sustainability programme for 2016 consisted of 20 measures, all of which were met successfully and in full. The ongoing develReview of the direct influence of the UN Sustainable Development Goals 12/2017 opment programme has been continued in the 2017 sustainabilion the business model of Berlin Hyp ty programme, for which 15 measures were defined. Responsible Development of a concept and review of carbon-neutral events 12/2017 business operation The current environmental programme contains 17 measures CO2 offsetting of employee business trips by air 04/2017 aimed at optimising the ecological use of materials, reducing emissions and saving water. Details can be found in the section Implementation of the switch from company cars to hybrid vehicles as 06/2017 “Efficient at the Sites” on p. 19. old agreements lapse Implementation of the Mission E project 12/2019 Future-orientated Further development and process optimisation of the Green Bond concept 12/2017 customer relationship Preparation of a concept for sustainable loan products 12/2017 Further development of the brand message of Berlin Hyp 12/2017 Binding trust Further development of guidelines, e.g. instruction system 12/2017 Organisation of a Sustainability Day for employees 12/2017 Evaluation of an external review of sustainability tasks 12/2017 Attractive employer Continuation of the Seitenwechsel® project 12/2017 Further development of the cooperation with Kinderhaus Berlin12/2017 Mark Brandenburg e. V. 14 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Offen im Gespräch Sustainable Core Business “We have gained a supporter in Berlin Hyp that has played a strong pioneering role with the issuance of the first Green Pfandbrief.” Social rating C „Prime“ Environmental rating C+ „Prime“ Total contribution C „Prime“ SEAN KIDNEY Berlin has integrated sustainable measures in its core business CEO Climate Bonds Initiative Sustainable bond rating B „good“ with conviction and far-sightedness. Whereas the financing of energy-efficient buildings by Berlin Hyp was more or less Date of information: 31 December 2016 random a few years ago, it is now a strategic objective and was monetarily incentivised for the first time in 2016. The acceleration of the purchase or development of energy-efficient buildings is our contribution to reducing CO2 emissions, given that more than a third of such emissions worldwide is released by buildings. At the same time, we are convinced that modern resource-saving buildings belong to the future and that their value develops more favourably than that of less energyefficient and less sustainable buildings, particularly during Public Pfandbriefe A „very positive“ times of lower dynamic growth on the real estate markets than we have experienced in previous years. The monetary incenMortgage Pfandbriefe CCC „neutral“ tivisation therefore constitutes an investment in the sustainable Unsecured bonds B „positive“ economic success of Berlin Hyp. Date of information: 31 December 2016 15 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainable Core Business ples of the German Property Federation (ZIA) for the financing sector cluster, Berlin Hyp’s Guideline on Sustainable Real Estate Financing focuses not only on the characteristics of comfort and functionality of properties but also on the quality of transSocial Rating 88 out of 100 „Leader“ port links. It takes into consideration the use of persistent and toxic-free building materials, green leases (leases with a Enviromental Rating 84 out of 100 „Leader“ focus on sustainability) and the energy efficiency of a building. Governance 59 out of 100 „Average Performer“ Green buildings are handled in a special way. For Berlin Hyp, these are commercial properties whose energy values are below Total contribution 76 out of 100 „Outperformer“ the reference values of the Energy Saving Directive (EnEV) or, Date of information: 31 December 2016 ideally, for which a relevant sustainability certificate has been issued. Properties therefore have at least LEED gold status, BREEAM very good status, DGNB gold status (silver status for certificates issued up to 30 June 2015) or HQE high level status. Loans for financing such properties are currently being promoted by granting a discount of ten basis points. The up-todate status of the suitability criteria is discussed at regular This office building in Wroclaw, which was financed by Berlin Hyp, received meetings of the Green Building Commission, which consists the BREEAM “very good” seal of approval. Sustainability score 68 out of 100 of one representative each from the Corporate Development, Sales, Loans, Evaluation and Treasury divisions. The Green Economic sustainability Building Commission is headed by the sustainability managethe Evaluation Division then check, applying Bank-defined 1.10 factor ment. The team prepares meetings, records results and criteria, whether green building eligibility exists on the basis of Date of information: 31 December 2016 monitors their implementation. the documents submitted by the customer. This initial decision is stored in digital form in the Bank’s IT system. In this way, the Stringent selection customer advisor receives timely information as to whether Promoting green financing The Bank has defined standardised processes for checking green building eligibility exists and, if so, can take into account To actively promote green financing on the asset-side, Berlin green building eligibility. As with all loan decisions, the a discount of ten basis points in the preliminary calculation of Hyp now systematically checks all loan queries for any relevant double-checking principle applies here. Relevant documents the loan. In a second step, employees in the Treasury Division sustainability aspects immediately after the initial contact as for green building financing are requested early during precheck whether the asset can be used for its Green Bonds. Only part of its credit review process. For this purpose, selection liminary talks with the loan customer. Foremost among such if both divisions, Evaluation and Treasury, confirm green buildand preference procedures have been defined for the financing documents are an energy certificate or, preferably, a sustaining eligibility are the incentivised terms for calculating the loan of energy-efficient commercial buildings. Based on the princiability certificate for the properties to be financed. Experts in definitively taken into account. 16 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainable Core Business This sharpened view on its own assets and consistent promotion Green Bond issuances The issuance caused a furore and paid off. An order book of nearly of sustainable buildings has enabled Berlin Hyp to succeed in Berlin Hyp traditionally refinances itself by issuing mortgage € 2 billion was generated for the € 500 million Pfandbrief with a more than tripling its green building portfolio from € 657 million Pfandbriefe and unsecured bonds. However, the observable trend seven-year term and a 0.125 percent interest coupon, meaning in 2015 to just more than € 2 billion over the past two years. towards more sustainability on the capital market is restrained that the bond was four times oversubscribed. German investors The 2016/2017 annual report identifies more than 11 percent of by the fact that there are a limited number of green investment led the way with 71 percent, followed by Scandinavian investors with 13 percent and investors from Austria and Switzerland Certificate € mio. % February 2016 with eight percent. 48 percent of the issuance went to sustainaLoan discussion and submission of the required documents by the customer February 2017 BREEAM Excellent 109 5 ble investors. Green buildings were refinanced with the revenues from the issuance, and at the same time a promise was given BREEAM Very good 324 16 Documents passed on to the market: during the term of the Green Pfandbrief, the Bank BREEAM Good 89 4 agreed to invest an additional amount equal to the revenues VALUATION DGNB Platinum 164 8 from the issuance in new green building financing. First vote on green building eligibility according to the criteria catalogue DGNB Gold 11 1 Vote stored in digital file DGNB Silver 60 3 The Green Bond Programme The success of the issuance of the Green Pfandbrief was the HQE High Level 167 8 Precalculation of green building financing by the customer advisor reward for diligent preparation. Taking this as a starting point, HQE Basic Level 41 2 (discount of ten basis points) an intensive process of further development was launched after LEED Platinum 175 9 the issuance in order to continue to do justice to the increasing LEED Gold 624 31 need for green buildings on the real estate market and rising EPC A 624 31 demand for Green Bonds on the capital market. In the process, TREASURY Berlin Hyp’s programmatic demand for maximum transparency Second vote and review of whether the property is suitable for Green Bond financing Total result 2,024 100 0 200 400 600 for its investors was met by defining prerequisites for the issuCertificates in the green buildings sub-portfolio ance of Green Bonds, implementing the Green Bond Principles and defining requirements for green buildings. Final specification of terms for green building financing opportunities. Berlin Hyp recognised the opportunities this created at least three years ago and applied its profound experience Today, these demands and standardised processes are summaGreen building identification process and precise knowledge of the real estate market to play a strong rised in Berlin Hyp’s Green Bond Programme, which is published pioneering role. In April 2015, the bank presented an especially at www.gruener-pfandbrief.com. The programme stipulates attractive investment opportunity with the development and that a new Green Bond can only be issued if green building the entire loan portfolio as being energy-efficient and ecoissuance of the world’s first Green Pfandbrief. The Bank expanded financing is posted in the Bank’s balance sheet with a sufficient logically optimised. The bank aims to increase this share to its investor base for refinancing green buildings and integrated total nominal value and that this has not already been used for 20 percent by 2020. the core business in its existing sustainability strategy. previous Green Bonds. 17 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainable Core Business To ensure that this promise is kept, Berlin Hyp has obligated entity to issue Green Bonds in more than one asset class. As with Transparent reporting itself to replace any asset about to mature only with other suitthe Green Pfandbrief, the Bank refinanced green buildings with In accordance with the formal specifications of the Green Bond able assets and to set aside a ten percent safety buffer for each the unsecured Green Bond and at the same time promised to Principles, Berlin Hyp reports on the use of issuance revenues issuance. Thus, the total nominal value of suitable assets on the invest an amount equal to the revenues from the issuance in new in its comprehensive annual reporting. It also has the ecological Bank’s balance sheet exceeds at least 110 percent of the nominal green building financing throughout the term of the bond. The added value of the bond reviewed and confirmed by a second value of all outstanding bonds plus that of a new Green Bond to € 500 million bond has a term of seven years and carries a 0.5 party. This evaluation is performed by the sustainability agency be issued at all times. percent interest coupon. With an order book of over € 1.2 billion, oekom research. This independent entity evaluates the sustainthe bond was oversubscribed by a factor of 2.4. German investors ability of the issuer, the formal agreement of the criteria of the Green Bonds in two asset classes led the way with 53 percent, while Austrian and Swiss investors investment product with the Green Bond Principles and the The development of the Green Bond Programme paved the accounted for a combined total of 13 percent. They were followed sustainability of the product itself. The information in the existway for the next pioneering achievement just one year after the by British and Scandinavian investors with eleven and nine pering stock report is complemented by a report on new business Green Pfandbrief was issued: In September 2016, Berlin Hyp cent, respectively. 41 of the investors were sustainable investors. and an impact report on saved CO2 emissions. Investors can issued the first Green Senior Unsecured Bond, making it the first In addition, 35 investors participated for the first time. use this information to keep abreast of the status of the Green Bond Programme at all times. (www.gruener-pfandbrief.com) On the anniversary of the first issuance, Berlin Hyp published its first report on the development of Green Building financing in its mortgage coverage stock. One year later, on 27 April 2017, the Bank reported for the second time on development of the Assets Liabilities green finance portfolio, and a third status report followed on 29 April 2017. Accordingly, the portfolio currently contains 42 green building financings with a volume of € 2,024 million. FurtherStandard Standard more, more than three quarters of the portfolio is in the cover Mortgage portfolio Financing refinancing funds of Berlin Hyp. Eight loans with a total nominal value of € Refinancing Loan 600 million for financing 18 green properties have been added Interest, payment Interest, payment Financing for to the green finance portfolio since the latest report. Taking Borrower Investor Green Buildings Green Bonds Revenues from into account the € 176 million in new business in the first report Mortgage issuance in 2016, we have invested € 756 million in new loans for green buildings since the Green Pfandbrief was issued. Additional green building financing equal to the revenue from the issuance How Green Bonds of Berlin Hyp work 18 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainable Core Business Impact reporting Saved tonnes 100 percent assignment Pro rata assignment depending on the share Berlin Hyp attempts to quantify and break down the ecological of CO2 / € million to Berlin Hyp financing of Berlin Hyp in the financing added value of the Green Bond Programme with the help of / year impact reports, which form an integral part of the annual reporting. It identifies the CO2 savings achieved through the financing Date of information: 29 April 2017 Date of information: 29 April 2017 of green buildings, thus helping to illustrate the ecological impact of the investment. A number of assumptions exert a sigComparison nificant influence on the estimate. Depending on the choice of with the European 28.7 13.7 the benchmark, assets can be compared either with the energy average efficiency of the average existing European building or with the Comparison current energy reference values stipulated by the Energy Saving with the current 9.6 4.5 Directive (EnEV). Emissions are either assigned to Berlin Hyp in EnEV standard full or on a pro rata basis according to the Bank’s stake in the Results of the impact report financing. Each reporting year, the impact report therefore contains four different estimates. Depending on which benchmark is applied, between 4.5 and 28.7 tonnes of CO2 per year are saved, thus generating a tangible ecological added value. Thanks to this differentiated impact report, Berlin Hyp is the first German commercial bank to publish an estimate quantifying the CO2 savings achieved by loans refinanced through its Green Bonds. Winner of numerous awards: Berlin Hyp Green Bonds 19 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Offen im Gespräch Efficient Sites “Berlin Hyp’s campaign for energy-conscious Systematic environmental protection The Environmental Management Representative, who reports conduct relies on changes in the conduct of directly to the Board of Management, is responsible for reducing direct environmental impact and implementing agreed individuals that can release savings potential measures. He is supported by the Environmental Management Officer, who is responsible for collecting data on quantities and in the collective.” consumption and for monitoring the success of individual measures. He heads the interdisciplinary Environmental Protection Committee, which comprises representatives from the various divisions of the Bank and convenes at least twice a year. TOM KÜSTER The headquarters of Berlin Hyp is located in the centre of Berlin After a total of 111 solar modules with a peak nominal output of Energy Agency NRW in close proximity to Berlin Zoo. The aim is to minimise the direct 26,729 kilowatts were installed on the roofs of the two buildenvironmental impact of the two buildings used by the Bank. ings at the Berlin headquarters in 2011, an energy management To this end, less energy and water should be used, emissions project spanning several years was undertaken in 2013. As part and waste reduced, hazardous substances safely handled and of the project, lifts were fitted with a regenerative drive system, environmental and sustainability aspects considered before refrigeration machines and heat exchangers were replaced, LED procurement. Since 2016, this plan has been operationalised by lighting was installed, environmentally friendly extinguishing a comprehensive management system that complies with the gases were used and the infrastructure of the heating systems EMAS Directive. The system is based on clearly defined, was insulated. In early 2017, the environmental strategy fomeasurable and time-linked targets and the assignment of cussed on raising awareness of energy at the workplace among responsibilities. Its efficacy is ensured with the help of internal the employees. In cooperation with partner organisations, which environmental audits and an assessment of their results by support the project with their expertise, the Environmental means of regular management reviews. Ò GRI Management has launched an information and motivation campaign. Berlin Hyp’s Mission E was born! 20 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Efficient Sites Environmentally conscious use of energy if many individuals are actively involved in saving energy, even 161 The routine is the same every morning: you hang up your coat, seemingly small contributions add up to a considerable amount. quickly air out the room while booting up the computer, turn on The concept of Mission E consists of numerous individual activthe monitor, get a cup of coffee and switch on the printer and ities that promote energy-conscious behaviour on the part of photocopier as you go by. Our office routine is full of automatic employees and motivate them to play their part. It starts with behaviour patterns in the way we deal with electrical equipment, encouraging people to climb stairs and ventilate offices in a realighting, heating and ventilation. Experience has shown that the sonable manner as well as various training measures that cover power of habit is the most common cause of energy wastage. In new technical and organisational regulations. But it all serves a tonnes of CO2 equivalents were offset for business trips by air its Mission E, Berlin Hyp therefore focuses on people as energy single ambitious goal: reducing company-related CO2 emissions users, the aim being to question habits and stimulate more by five percent in 2017 compared to the previous year. Ò GRI energy-conscious behaviour with the help of various methods and activities. The “E” in the name stands for energy, efficiency, Green mobility Targets reliably met economy and emissions as well as the commitment required to Mobility is an essential part of every climate protection strategy, All corporate environmental protection measures in the 2016 reduce electricity and heat consumption. Why is it worth the and Berlin Hyp’s is no exception. The Bank is planning a number sustainability programme were met by increasing the quota for effort? Because the human factor can be a significant compoof measures to reduce travel-associated CO2 emissions through sustainably secured procurement to 60 percent, introducing nent in the energy-saving potential for administrations: up to its Business Travel Directive and Company Car Directive. The an EMAS-based environmental management system, training 15 percent for electricity and up to 20 percent of total consumpmotto for all business trips is: avoid, reduce, offset! According to and sensitising all staff members at a Sustainability Day and tion for heat, according to expert reports. The main point is that this principle, a wide range of technical alternatives, for example restructuring the company car fleet. Seven of 17 measures in the web videoconferencing, should replace expensive and timeongoing environmental programme to reduce direct environconsuming trips. If unavoidable, every business trip should conmental impact were fully met in the reporting period. A further sistently be rendered climate-neutral. Thanks to emission seven are being implemented, and three additional targets are credits acquired through sophisticated climate-protection proplanned for the coming years. The complete updated environjects certified in accordance with the clean development mechamental programme can be found at www.berlinhyp.de/en. All nism based on UN regulations, Berlin Hyp has offset 161 tonnes emissions as well as energy and paper consumption are posted of CO2 equivalents. The planned switch of the Bank’s entire in the GRI balance sheet. Ò GRI motor pool to hybrid vehicles is expected to achieve a further CO2 reduction from 2017. A subsidised job ticket is also offered to all staff at the Berlin sites. And those who want completely neutral mobility can simply make use of the company-owned bicycle pool. Mission E is making the use of energy efficient, empathetic and emotional 21 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Offen im Gespräch Partnership as an Employer “The collaborative support of our employees in appreciative and respectful human resources policy. The aim is to achieve a business operation free of discrimination in which their personal and professional development no advantages or disadvantages arise as a result of race, skin colour, gender or other social, personal, economic or cultural is a matter that is particularly close to our heart. aspects. To make this commitment visible from the outside as well, Berlin Hyp has signed the Diversity Charter, thus proAfter all, they’re our most important capital.” claiming its commitment to equal participation and fairness in the Bank’s everyday business. The furtherance of gender equality plays a key role in this respect. Targets for the minimum number of female managers were defined, and early promotion and targeted identification of women’s potential were specified with a view to achieving fair distribution of managerial SABINE OLEJNIK At the centre of our commitment to our employees is a stable positions at the second and third levels below the Board of Head of Human Resources working environment and long-term career opportunities in Management – with considerable success. As at 31 December conjunction with a comprehensive further training programme. 2016, women accounted for 49.7 percent of the entire workforce. The management culture of Berlin Hyp is characterised by At 27 percent, the 21-percent target share of women at the appreciation, target orientation and sufficient scope for first management level below the Board of Management was decision-making and creativity. The task of managers is to exceeded. The proportion of women in the second management support employees in their development during all work and level fell just short of the 27 percent target by three percentage life phases with the aim of continuously building commitment points. Ò GRI and competence. Promotion of diversity, personal responsibility and motivation form the main pillars of our sustainable Work-life balance human resources management. Flexible and individualised working time models and their continuous development are essential to balance work and life Valuing and protecting diversity commitments. In this spirit, Berlin Hyp formulated the Company Our guidelines for balancing family and work and the Guideline Agreement on Equal Opportunities and Family, which describes on Human Rights, Diversity and Inclusion form the basis of an the options available for flexibly arranging working hours. 22 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Partnership as an Employer motivates employees to work on their personal fitness through environmental protection. The result was a host of creative lectures by health insurance funds, fitness studios and perideas about what individuals can do at their workplace to 27% sonal trainers. Ò GRI promote sustainability. Those ideas are now being incorporated in plans for future programmes. Thinking about the future At the overall company level, the workforce is closely involved Top results in changes and developments. For example, the berlinhyp21 All employee-related aspects of the sustainability programme of managers at the first level below the Board future-orientated process was launched with a kick-off event were met in the reporting period with the organisation of the of Management are women. for all employees in 2016. Under the motto “agile, networked, Sustainability Day to involve all employees in sustainability and creative”, all employees across all hierarchical levels jointly disenvironmental management and the definition of quotas for cussed issues bearing on the future. What will make us fit equal-opportunity employment. With a current workforce of for the future? What do we have to do to remain as successful as 585 employees, the fluctuation rate in the reporting year was we have been in the past? This was the starting point for 2.3 percent. On average, employees have been with the company This is complemented by the company agreement on trustthe process of change in which 20 percent of our employees are for over 16 years. Both figures impressively demonstrate the based working hours and mobile working. These arrangements now actively involved in various capacities. They all contribute high level of satisfaction and loyalty of employees with respect help employees balance work and life commitments during all their ideas to the corporate culture and organisation. In the first to Berlin Hyp. Details on current employment data and workphases of life – whether characterised by child rearing or the step, the collaboration resulted in a concept for establishing related information are posted in the GRI report. care of family members. agile and efficient working methods within meetings. To ensure that good ideas are swiftly and creatively implemented, an inStaying healthy tegrated overview of projects and topics should be established, Berlin Hyp continuously supports and fosters its employees’ bureaucratic formalities dismantled, networked coexistence performance – whether professional qualifications or the develcontinuously strengthened and personal initiatives encouraged opment of personal skills. Health care and preventive measures on an interdepartmental basis. play a key role in this respect. The Health Group, which meets quarterly, analyses anonymised medical data and, on this basis, Sustainability Day 2016 proposes measures for promoting health. These then form The Sustainability Day at the end of 2016, which the Sustainthe framework for health-care management measures, which ability Management Team invited all employees of Berlin Hyp the Human Resources Division develops and assumes responto attend, provided another innovative platform for exchanging sibility for. Various means of promoting health and raising and discussing future-orientated Bank-related topics. Three health awareness are offered – from occupational medical care, lectures by experts provided food for thought to stimulate disthrough reintegration in the company, to a health checkup cussion of various aspects relating to sustainable development, Many of Berlin Hyp’s employees gathered information at the Sustainability every two years. The annual Health Day encourages and future consumption patterns and opportunities for corporate Day 2016. 23 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Offen im Gespräch Social Commitment “Corporate citizenship at Berlin Hyp draws own family. In the spring, colleagues made Easter nests with the children. Among the employees at the training day were on the commitment of its employees. sponsors who had designed and decorated school satchels for the children who were just starting school. Employees of Berlin Such contributions are the hallmark of a Hyp presented a starter pack to those moving into their own place for the first time. The pack included all essential household good corporate citizen.” items from a broom to a kettle to a folding ruler. In the autumn, 300 children and 150 carers were able to go on an all-expensespaid excursion. And at Christmas, the Bank’s employees granted one heartfelt wish to every child. Activities with a total equivalent financial value of at least € 45,000 were supported in 2016. DIETER W. HORST At Berlin Hyp, the concept of sustainable corporate management Expert in Corporate Responsibility at PwC includes wide-ranging social commitment. Donations in kind, monetary donations and voluntary work by employees are part of the Bank’s corporate tradition and culture. To enable employees, stakeholders and customers to see and experience this type of personal responsibility, the Guideline on Corporate Citizenship identifies points of emphasis for charitable work. Activities for socially deprived children and adolescents, company sports and corporate volunteering programmes are all promoted. Through the year with Kinderhaus We have been supporting Kinderhaus Berlin-Mark Brandenburg e.V. and its big and small inhabitants for over a decade. Once again in 2016, we prepared and celebrated notable occurrences during the course of the year together – almost as with one’s Christmas wishes from Kinderhaus Berlin-Mark Brandenburg e. V. 24 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Social Commitment Helping and learning Successful commitment As a further development of the Bank’s voluntary charitable work, All aspects of the sustainability programme relating to corporate Promoting arts – supporting young artists the Human Resources Division teamed up with the sustainability citizenship were fully and successfully met in the reporting year Cooperation with the POSITIONS Art Fair in BERLIN was management to introduce the Social Day and the Seitenwechsel® with the continuation of collaboration with Kinderhaus, volunonce again continued this year. As part of this arts fair, (“Changing Sides”) project, a well-balanced combination of social tary work, financial sponsorship of company sports and activities Berlin Hyp has been awarding an art prize for young commitment, personal development and managerial training. promoting the fine arts. artists and university graduates since 2012. A jury The Social Day gave every employee an opportunity to support consisting of Berlin Hyp employees is looking for newan institution of his or her own choice. Whether for a school, omers whose artistic works are particularly suitable refugee shelter or kindergarten, employees of Berlin Hyp pitch in, for display at the Bank’s premises. The winners in Changing sides and points of view work together and help out. The five-day Seitenwechsel® event 2015 were Franziska Stünkel, Tessa Wolkensdorfer “They’re probably wondering what a banker is doing in for Managers provides an insight into various lifeworlds and and Wolfgang Ganter, whose works were presented in a children’s hospice. And how can I avoid the impression institutions and helps employees who find themselves in difficult individual exhibitions in 2016. Nina Hannah Kornatz that the suffering of others is merely a backdrop for circumstances to meet. Dealing with hardship, disease and death was also among the winners. Her works will be exhibitmy own experience.” A lot of questions ran through the helps develop empathetic and communicative skills and leads ed in 2017. In 2016, it was Peter Ruehle who won mind of Lars Werner, team leader at Berlin Hyp, when to calm, confident behaviour in crisis situations. over the jury. His works will also be exhibited in the he began his Seitenwechsel® assignment at Sonnenhof foyer of Berlin Hyp in 2017. Children’s Hospice. He was somewhat reticent during Promotion of company sports activities the first hours of his mission. However, he soon realThe tight cohesion between employees of Berlin Hyp is the result ised that his efforts could give every child a piece of of numerous joint activities. In this respect, company sports happiness. The aim is to make the children’s tedious play a key role. Running, beach volleyball, cycling, bowling, routine as easy as possible and to relieve their parents. conventional football and peripheral sports such as office table What counts here is loving affection and warmth. The tennis bring people in the Bank together. Tournaments won Over reward is gratitude! Lars Werner quickly overcame 100,000 and lost, joint trips and strenuous training strengthen team the children’s anxiety about being touched. He got cohesion and promote the Bank’s corporate culture. Sport is exinvolved, bathed children, fed babies from bottles and tensively sponsored by subsidising private sports activities of pushed wheelchairs through the city. As for the manner the 300-plus members of the Company Sports Club to the tune in which death is dealt with, “every loss is handled with of € 15 per person per month. dignity and composure. Shared memories become a euros in total were donated by Berlin Hyp source of strength,” he says. “I was glad to be able to for charitable purposes. help and provide comfort through care and attention. It was an enriching experience for me.” 25 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016 Imprint Publisher Berlin Hyp AG Sustainability Management Vanessa Landschoof-Schlichting Budapester Strasse 1 10787 Berlin T +49 30 2599 9122 vanessa.landschoof-schlichting@berlinhyp.de Concept, text and design layout akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH Photos Title, p. 26 NottomanV1/Shutterstock.com; Le Panda/Shutterstock.com, Sharapanovochka/Shutterstock.com; Title, p. 26 bo68 / thinkstock.com, Title p. 3, 6, 11 Ohn Mar/Shutterstock.com; p. 8 olllikeballoon/Shutterstock.com; p. 15 Angeliki Vel/Shutterstock.com; p. 20 Pikovit/Shutterstock.com; p. 22 Tidarat Tiemjai/Shutterstock.com; pp. 3, 4 (left), 13, 19, 20, 22, 23 Berlin Hyp / Elke Jung-Wolff; pp. 4 (right), 10 (left) Tishman Speyer Properties/Klaus Helbig; p. 9 (left) Sahle Wohnen GbR, p. 9 (right) Deka Immobilien Investment GmbH/Lukas Zentel; p. 10 (right) Wohnungswirtschaft Frankfurt (Oder) GmbH/Thomas Ritter; p. 16 Echo Investments S.A./design by Venti 26 Berlin Hyp I Sustainability Report 2016
